Baby Geniuses	This is one of the most stupid films I've ever seen , and that's been made . I hardly remember it , but it is poor entertainment , not remembering it is just part of the reason I don't like it . Peter MacNicol is an idiot in it . Christopher Lloyd is dumb . Loads of the other cast can't act . A load of babies talk and the adults can't believe it . That's pretty much it ! Wow , amazing , NOT ! If I was to see it again it would be a million years from now . Don't bother with it . It's not worth it . If it was meant to be funny , it isn't . Poor , Boring , Trash , Stupid and definitely Missable ! Take my advice . It might send you to sleep . Try it and find out if it does . But if you don't want to , good ! Poor !
Not Another Teen Movie	The title says it all , I just don't whether it means " Oh no , not another teen movie " or that this really isn't another teen movie , but either sounds fine . This isn't really one of the best teen films I have ever seen , it hardly has any decent gags , it picks on other teen movies , e . g . American Pie , Road Trip , and it only has one or two recognisable faces . They obviously take the names of popular film characters , e . g . Oz turned into Ox , and place them into a really bizarre school . They even allow a foreign exchange student to wear no clothes ! The two faces I recognise in this are Melissa Joan Hart also known as Sabrina , The Teenage Witch , and Mr . T . Trust me , you wouldn't like it , apart from some nudity and disgusting behaviour , e . g . an old woman and teenage girl snogging ! Poor !
Tarnation	When I was doing Film Studies , this was the first film me and the class had to watch to start the independent film coursework / topic , and as a whole , I found it one of the worst and most boring documentaries ever . I suppose I can see why so many critics and film festivals liked it , and why the director has created an interesting personal true story , but I don't like it . Unknown director Jonathan Caouette basically tells his own story of being homosexual with a trying - to - understand - and - accept family and friends , including Renee Leblanc , Adolph Davis , Rosemary Davis , David Sanin Paz , Greg Ayres ( as Bam-Bam ) , Dagon James , Cassidy King and Shana King . The only good thing I can say about it is that it has clips from the film Phantasm , all the rest is pointless in my opinion . Plus , I fell asleep in all three lessons of watching it , that is how boring it was . We watched Napoleon Dynamite after , and I would much rather watch that than this piece of ( in my opinion ) crap . Poor !
Escape to Witch Mountain	I saw the original 1950s version of this magical film , and then I saw this TV made movie . This TV movie is just an excuse to show people that films can be remade , but they did a rubbish job . Basically it's nearly the same story again , except the two twins , now called Danny and Anna , do not have flashbacks of the past and can talk to each other . Also , they use their powers to cause mischief mainly . The only good comment I could give this film is the better performance of the nasty Mr . Bolt by Robert Vaughn . Also , there are a couple of other good people in it , like One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest's Brad Dourif as driver Luthor and Ghost's Vincent Schiavelli from as Waldo Fudd , the nice bearded guy . Don't bother seeing this , it's crap ! Poor !
Pluto Nash	I had heard a lot about this film from Razzie nominated director Ron Underwood ( City Slickers , Mighty Joe Young ) , that it is meant to be one of the worst film ever made , in terms of both quality and business , and I'm not surprised . The story is set in 2087 on the Moon , and Pluto Nash ( twice Razzie nominated Eddie Murphy , for actor and couple - I'll get to that in a minute ) is a night club owner who has his club blown up by the mafia when he refused to sell it . Along with his robot buddy Bruno ( Independence Day's Randy Quaid ) and Dina Lake ( Men in Black II's Rosario Dawson ) he is travelling looking for clues as to who is behind the arson . In the end , the villain turns out to be Pluto , a clone made from his appendix after an operation he had , but the real Pluto manages to save the day . Also starring Joe Pantoliano as Mogan , Small Soldiers ' Jay Mohr as Anthony ' Tony ' Francis , The Bone Collector's Luis Guzmán as Felix Laranga , Independence Day's James Rebhorn as Belcher , Young Frankenstein's Peter Boyle as Rowland , Burt Young as Gino , Miguel A . Núñez Jr . as Miguel , Pam Grier as Flura Nash , John Cleese as James , Victor Varnado as Kelp and Illeana Douglas as Dr . Mona Zimmer . No gun shooting , tiny amusing moments or recognisable stars can save this film from being a complete failure . Along with such films as Hudson Hawk , Battlefield Earth , The Postman and Cutthroat Island ; costing an estimated $100 million to make and market , it is one of the most expensive box office bombs . It was nominated the 2005 Razzie for Worst ' Comedy ' of Our First 25 Years , and it was also nominated for Worst Picture and Worst Screenplay . Very , very poor !
Dracula : Dead and Loving It	Three years after Francis Ford Coppola brought out his version of Bram Stoker's classic story , director Mel Brooks ( The Producers , Young Frankenstein ) brought us this terrible spoof of the two or three successful versions . It is the same basic story , R . M . Renfield ( Peter MacNicol ) goes to the castle in Transylvania , to finish the deal with Count Dracula ( Leslie Nielsen ) to buy Carfax Abbey . Dracula turns him into his servant , and they go to London , England , where the dark lord wants to devour all the blood from ( rich ) English women he can . After an attack on Lucy Westenra ( Lysette Anthony ) , Dr . Abraham Van Helsing ( Brooks ) is brought in to try and help solve the mystery of the strange markings on her neck , and he is sure it is a vampire attack . Van Helsing , along with Jonathan Harker ( Steven Weber ) and Dr . Jack Seward ( Harvey Korman ) are determined to make sure Mina Murray ( The Mask's Amy Yasbeck ) doesn't meet the same fate . Obviously they do find out Dracula is the vampire , and that Renfield is his servant , and they are now all brought together in the final showdown . The fact that Brooks fails to create the same quality of horror spoofing he did with Young Frankenstein , is a little embarrassing . Nielsen may have the accent , but no real presence , MacNicol may have a better English accent than Keanu Reeves did , but he is still an idiotic character , and as for the jokes , only the ones involving blood going everywhere gets the tiniest giggle from me , the rest are cheap and boring . Poor !
Carry On England	The critics give this one star out of five , Carry On Abroad was a little sour , and this is worse . Most of the regular actors are out of it : Bernard Bresslaw ( busy ? ) , Charles Hawtrey ( departed the series ) , Sid James ( dead ? ) , Hattie Jacques ( busy ? ) , Kenneth Williams ( busy ) and Barbara Windsor ( refused ) , so you're obviously going to be disappointed . The only regulars still there are Kenneth Connor , Joan Sims and Peter Butterworth . Anyway , basically it is World War II , and Captain S . Melly ( Kenneth Connor ) takes over as the new Commanding Officer at an experimental mixed sex air defence base . The soldiers should be preparing for attacks and stuff , but they are more interested in getting off with each other . Melly has plans to stop this and be a very hateful leader , making the soldiers rebel in whatever way they can think of . Starring Windsor Davies Sergeant-Major ' Tiger ' Bloomer , Patrick Mower as Sergeant Len Able , Judy Geeson as Sergeant Tilly Willing , Jack Douglas as Bombardier Ready , Diane Langton as Private Alice Easy , Melvyn Hayes as Gunner Shorthouse , Joan Sims as Private Jennifer Ffoukes-Sharpe , Peter Jones as Brigadier , Peter Butterworth as Major Carstairs , David Lodge as Captain Bull , Julian Holloway as Major Butcher and Coronation Street's Johnny Briggs as Melly's Driver . I might have giggled ( not laughed ) at the shouting of the Sergeant-Major , and a little innuendo , but that's it , the rest is complete crap , don't bother with it . Poor !
Police Academy 5 : Assignment Miami Beach	As with the previous three sequels , this one is no different , the first is still the best , and there are pretty much no moments that make you laugh . Basically head of the police academy Cmndt . Eric Lassard ( George Gaynes ) has reached retirement age , to the delight of Capt . Thaddeus Harris ( G . W . Bailey ) , planning to take over his job , but not before Lassard receiver a prestigious lifetime award in Miami , Florida . Accompanying Lassard ( and Harris ) are ex-graduates Sgt . Moses Hightower ( Bubba Smith ) , Sgt . Larvelle Jones ( Michael Winslow ) , Sgt . Eugene Tackleberry ( David Graf ) , Lt . Debbie Callahan ( Leslie Easterbrook ) and Sgt . Laverne Hooks ( Marion Ramsey ) . Unfortunately in the arrivals of the airport , Lassard accidentally swapped his bag with some criminals for an identical bag containing a container of diamonds . After a while of trying to find the bag the bad guys eventually kidnap Lassard , and demand the academy help them get away . Also starring Janet Jones as Kate Stratton , Lance Kinsey as Lt . Proctor , Matt McCoy as Sgt . Nick Lassard , René Auberjonois as Tony Stark , George R . Robertson as Commissioner Hurst , Tab Thacker as Officer Thomas ' House ' Conklin , Archie Hahn as Mouse , James Hampton as Mayor of Miami and Jerry Lazarus as Sugar . Steve Guttenberg said a firm " no " to being in this or any other sequels that may ( and did ) follow , good choice , this is probably the worst of the sequels , not even the self-made sound effects of Winslow can save it , nothing to laugh at , lovable characters not doing anything exciting , just a complete waste of time . Poor !
Kids	I don't remember much of this film , apart from that I found it one of the most awful and boring films ever . Also , I do not know any of the actors , apart from Jon Abrahams as Steven ; and I do remember a character called Casper , because they called him the " friendly ghost " . I did have to watch it in College class once , and I remembered the moment of the mother breast feeding . The moment I didn't remember though was probably the only interesting , funny and watchable of the whole film I remember , one of the kids dips a tampon in his drink , and he sucks the liquid out of it , as it isn't dripping . Anyway , I still have not changed my opinion of it , even after the brief viewing in College , and only the critics think it is good , I didn't . The director Larry Clark was nominated the Golden Palm at the Cannes Film Festival . Poor !
FART - The Movie	I can't remember all that happens in this film , but I do remember some okay bits . This film was probably the inspiration for the awful Thunderpants . Basically Artie Wilson was born with a farting problem , he just can't stop when he is nervous , or easily amused , or he can make it happen himself . Seth Walther as Artie , or ' Farty Artie " is quite funny I suppose . The only really good bit I can remember is him depressed and saying that he can pull his finger and fart , with small or big pulls . Also starring Kevin P . Farley as Kevin " Bear " Cutterback , Heather McComb as Emily Miller , Christine Steel as Andre'a Parker , John Farley as Scooter , Rance Howard as Grandpa Morton , Royce D . Applegate as Officer Clemmons , Leslie Easterbrook as Science Teacher , Chris Soldevilla as Donnie , Francine Sama as Noreen and E . T . ' s Dee Wallace-Stone as Sara the Bartender . Poor !
King Kong	From director John Guillermin ( The Towering Inferno ) , this remake is nowhere near as good as the 1933 original masterpiece . For one thing , it changes the whole reason to go to the mysterious island , the guy in charge , Fred Wilson ( Beethoven's Charles Grodin ) , is instead looking for a new source of oil , the male lead Jack Prescott ( Jeff Bridges ) is a stowaway , and the lead girl Dwan ( introducing Golden Globe winning Jessica Lange ) is a castaway actress who escaped a sinking ship . Anyway , they get to the island , surrounded by fog , find the tribe , who offer her for sacrifice , and along comes their god Kong ( played by special effects artist Rick Baker ) , who takes away , and starts falling in love with her . Another change is the battle with a T-Rex , it is instead a giant snake and is over pretty quickly . The oil they find by the way couldn't be used , so they instead caught Kong , and plan to exploit him as a promotional gimmick for the oil company . Kong escapes , after seeing Dwan being mobbed by reporters , there is a little chase , and Dwan lets him take her , and he climbs one of the World Trade Center / Twin Tower buildings , the final big change . Eventually he is attacked by flame throwers and then helicopters , and being fatally injured he falls his death ( although there is a sequel 10 years later , King Kong Lives , where he is just in a coma ) . Oh , and there's no final quote about beauty and the beast ! Also starring John Randolph as Captain Ross , René Auberjonois as Roy Bagley , Ed Lauter as Carnahan , Mario Gallo as Timmons , Jorge Moreno as Garcia , Jack O'Halloran as Joe Perko and Live and Let Die's Julius Harris as Boan . Rick Baker , best known for special effects in An American Werewolf in London , the Thriller video , Ed Wood , The Nutty Professor , The Grinch and Planet of the Apes ( 2001 ) playing Kong is very curious , especially seeing his facial expressions , so sleazy , ridiculous giant hands and giving a " blow job " ( blowing to dry Lange off ) . Bridges is the wrong man , Lange is very cheesy , and you have to remember it was her first film , and she still won a Golden Globe , and the film itself , as soon as Kong arrives , it goes down hill all the way , and to be honest , you are relieved when he finally dies . Bizarrly this won the Special Achievement Award for visual effects at the Oscars , and it was nominated Best Cinematography and Best Sound , and it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Production Design / Art Direction , it should have surely got some Razzies . Poor !
Battle for the Planet of the Apes	I had a feeling before I watched this that I would be confused because I should see the films in order , but to be honest , I don't think it matters either way , it is a rubbish film . Basically Caesar ( Roddy McDowall ) , son of Cornelius and Zira ( they had in Escape from . . . ) has grown up and become leader of the apes , and after surviving the Conquest for . . . , he wants to see his parents . MacDonald ( Austin Stoker ) has the idea to go to the forbidden city , where a bomb hit , where there may be tapes that have survived . They don't realise though that there are survivors , human mutants , and the battle of the film is obviously against them . I saw a couple of the gun fights and explosions , but the make-up is less convincing than it used to be , the dialogue is a bit ridiculous , and none of the big actors or ( cheap ) production by Frank Capra Jr . can save it . Also starring Claude Akins as General Aldo , Natalie Trundy as Lisa , Severn Darden as Governor Kolp , Lew Ayres as Mandemus , introducing Paul Williams as Prof . Virgil , John Huston as The Lawgiver , Noah Keen as Abe the Teacher , Richard Eastham as Mutant Captain , Michael Stearns as Jake and John Landis as Jake's Friend . I did fall asleep a little towards the end , but who cares . I have only seen the first and Escape from . . . , and they are meant to be the best ones , so it is better to just watch them , I haven't see the other two yet ( Beneath . . . and Conquest of . . . ) , and until I do , I won't understand what's going on in this one , and still consider it a complete piece of crap . Well , I'm sure I'll still have that opinion even when I have seen them all in the right order . Poor !
Psycho	If you want an example of a reason remakes to classic films shouldn't always be made , then this is the perfect , almost comedic example . Director Gus Van Sant ( To Die For , Good Will Hunting ) hoped to create a more modern version of Sir Alfred Hitchcock's most celebrated film , and it just doesn't work . It is almost completely word-for-word and scene-for-scene , with the big differences being it is more modern , in colour and well known actors . You know the story , Marion Crane ( Anne Heche ) steals cash , goes to the Bates Motel , meets and gets shaky with Norman Bates ( Dodgeball's Vince Vaughn ) , he murders her in the shower , he dumps her , the car and the cash in the swamp , detective Milton Arbogast ( William H . Macy ) investigates and gets murdered , Marion's sister Lila ( Julianne Moore ) and lover Samuel ' Sam ' Loomis ( The Lord of the Rings ' Viggo Mortensen ) go to the motel , and you find out the mother is dead , and Bates is mother . Also starring Robert Forster as Dr . Fred Simon , Bruce Almighty's Philip Baker Hall as Sheriff Al Chambers , Liar Liar's Anne Haney as Mrs . Eliza Chambers , Roy Brocksmith as Man in Cowboy Hat outside Realty Office ( who was Hitchcock ) and Gus Van Sant as Man Talking to Man in Cowboy Hat . I can think of many reasons why this film is crap : crap acting , Norman Bates seems more kooky , almost camp , he even masturbates when looking through the peep hole ( unlike Anthony Perkins ) , stupid flash-frames during the murders , the shower scene , meant to be the best moment of the film , is the worst ( especially when instead of seeing the shower curtain torn off , you see Heche's ass ) , a less decomposed ( looks like The Mummy or something ) and just a weird remake . I can admit I liked how almost completely like the original it was in places , and it is quite good to see for a laugh , to see just how awful it is , but it is never going to be as good as Hitchcock's . Poor !
Pokémon : The First Movie	This consists of two films , a ridiculous opening film called Pikachu's Vacation , and then the real film . The first part of the film is stupid because of the many ridiculous and hardly cute creatures . The real film , Mewtwo Strikes Back is obviously worse . Basically scientists have captured rare Pokémon , Mew , and copied his DNA to create the most powerful Pokémon in the world . They succeed , but they were expecting this new creature , Mewtwo to obey them , what they created was a monster with his own ideas . Meanwhile , Ash , Misty and Brock are invited to a stadium where they will meet the ultimate Pokémon trainer , what they actually discover is Mewtwo . Filled with battles and struggle does not help it . A movie from a TV show I used to watch as a kid is inescapable , I just wish it could have had a bit more effort put in , to at least improve animation or create something more interesting or creative . The worst moment , that my brother first described to me , is when Ash is turned into stone , all Pokémon cry and the power of their tears wake him up , absolute rubbish . Poor !
Cold Creek Manor	This is one of the most pointless and boring " horror " films I have ever seen in my life . Nothing scary happens at all , and if it did it might of been more interesting . Cooper ( Dennis Quaid ) and Leah ( Sharon Stone ) Tilson are the married couple with two kids looking for a new house . They find one and decide to buy it . But when the kids start to get used to it , Cooper finds out the past events that happened inside the the house . This is when it starts to get even more rubbish . The only thrilling part that was " creepy " was the family being attacked by snakes in the house . But apart from that small scene the entire film is just something to sleep through . Also starring Blade's Stephen Dorff as Dale Massie , Natural Born Killers ' Juliette Lewis as Ruby , Kristen Stewart as Kristen Tilson , Ryan Wilson as Jesse Tilson , Dana Eskelson as Sheriff Ferguson and A Beautiful Mind's Christopher Plummer as Mr . Massie . Surely such big stars as Quaid , Stone , Lewis and Plummer could have been a film that was actually creepy , but's it's absolute crap ! Poor !
Nosferatu , the Vampyre	A stupid film with stupid acting and stupid moments that are meant to be scary , but they aren't . There's nobody I know in it but the guy who plays Count Dracula ( or Nosferatu ) is rubbish and is hardly terrifying at all . All the other actors are just as bad trying to convince you that they are either being stalked , killed or having their blood sucked from them . I have included this on my worst films list because it made me nod off many times when it was meant to be a scary moment . All that happened was that he stuck his " fangs " out , and that's pretty much it . Ooh , scary , NOT ! So trust me , don't bother seeing it unless you have problems sleeping , this is a film that will definitely help you . Poor !
Plan 9 from Outer Space	I mainly knew of this film for two reasons , being re-created in the Tim Burton biography Ed Wood , and for being considered one of the worst films ever made , from possibly the worst ever film director Edward D . Wood , Jr . Basically aliens ( originally coming in peace ) are commencing Plan 9 , resurrecting the dead and attacking to destroy the living / human race . That's it . Starring Gregory Walcott as Jeff Trent , Bela Lugosi ( in archive footage ) as Ghoul Man , Mona McKinnon as Paula Trent , Duke Moore as Lt . John Harper , Tom Keene as Col . Tom Edwards , Vampira as Vampire / Ghoul Girl , Lyle Talbot as General Roberts , and narrated ( along with introduction and end speech ) by Criswell . This film was not deliberately made to be humorous , it was just very , VERY , low budget , and with so many mistakes to see and hear , how can you not giggle ? Wobbly toy flying saucers on visible strings with shadows appearing in backgrounds , camp costumes for the human-looking aliens , Legosi being dead replaced by a lookalike ( eyes only ) always covering his face with a cape , ridiculous dialogue when it's not needed , the list goes on . It may be popular for cult audiences , but I think the only reason to see it is for a bit of humour , and the better choice would be Ed Wood . Poor !
The Pornographer	When I heard the title of this film , I thought that I was definitely going watch it and that there would definitely be a lot of nudity and sex . How wrong I was . This has got to be the worst porn film I have ever seen . Basically a guy who is interested in porn and he decides to help work in it . One day , he meets the perfect girl for his project . Unfortunately this girl does not want to be naked and people seeing her . That's probably one of the main problems , he goes on and on saying " you'll be fine " . There is only one sex scene that I can remember where he is filmed by a porn star . The story is stupid , the sex scene is rubbish , and there's no decent nudity . Poor !
Freddy Got Fingered	I love him in Road Trip , but if I'd realised how sick and horrible this film was , I wouldn't have watched it . Basically Gord Brody ( twice Razzie winning - for acting and directing - Tom Green ) is an unemployed animator , and hopes to get one of his creations made into a show , but rightly so , a Hollywood cartoon creator tells him his ideas are stupid , and he needs to improve them . So back home , he is still living with his not too kind father Jim ( Razzie nominated Rip Torn ) and nice mother Julie ( Razzie winning Julie Hagerty ) , and he also has fallen for paralysed nurse Betty ( Marisa Coughlan ) , who doesn't want real romance , she just wants to suck him off , and get her legs beaten ( for pleasure ) with a bamboo cane . Gord is seen by a shrink , but to get away he lies and tells her that his father has " fingered " ( like the title suggests , I thought it was like a criminal conviction thing ) his brother Freddy ( American Pie's Eddie Kaye Thomas ) . So he has the house to himself for a while , but he manages to come up with a great cartoon idea , called " Zebras in America " , based on his own family , and the cartoon guy is only convinced when Gord's father shows up being rude , and he earns $1 , 000 , 000 . Also starring The Breakfast Club's Anthony Michael Hall as Mr . Davidson , Heroes ' Stephen Tobolowsky as Uncle Neil , Razzie nominated Drew Barrymore as Mr . Davidson's secretary and Shaquille ' Shaq ' O'Neal . The material of this film , supposed to be funny , and obviously deliberately shocking , is some of the sickest I have ever seen in my life , there's jerking off a horse and an elephant ( which does explode its load ) , babies being swung by the umbilical cord , cutting open a dead deer and wearing it and a zebra cartoon where a bottom jaw is ripped off , it's up there with Pluto Nash and the remake of Psycho as one of the worst films I've ever seen , or , in history . It won the Razzie for Worst Picture , Worst Screen Couple for Green and the animals he abuses and Worst Screenplay , and it was nominated the for Worst ' Comedy ' of Our First 25 Years . Very , very poor !
Tom and Jerry : The Movie	They were two of the most watched cartoon characters in the 60s , won 7 Academy Awards , and are still watched , but what is this ! ? Surely Tom the cat and Jerry the mouse deserved more respect than this . The film should have been just loads of new and brilliant moments where they are fighting , chasing and ruining everything , not a stupid story focusing more on the new characters . Basically Tom ( voiced by Richard Kind ) and Jerry ( voiced by Dana Hill ) are homeless after the owner leaves them behind , and on the streets they meet new friend Robin Starling the orphan . She is on the run from her evil Aunt Figg . When they escape again , from finding out that Robin's father is alive , they set out on a journey to find him . The only one good thing about this is the voice of Rip Taylor ( who appeared in Jackass The Movie ) as Captain Kiddie . There is absolutely no good reason to see this film , only the kids will have some interest in it . Poor !
Meet the Spartans	300 was a fantastic film , and from two of the makers of the Scary Movies , Date Movie , Epic Movie and Disaster Movie , comes this extremely disappointing spoof film . The 300 story isn't changed much , Leonidas ( Sean Maguire ) grew to be a warrior , goes to war with the Persians , led by Xerxes ( Borat's Ken Davitian ) , Queen Margo ( Razzie nominated Carmen Electra ) runs the Sparta kingdom in Leonidas's absence , and after many battles in the end they lose . Added into the story are a Hunchbacked Paris Hilton ( Nicole Parker ) , plus spoofs of other recent film , adverts and celebrities , including American Idol , America's Next Top Model , Grand Theft Auto : San Andreas video game , Deal or No Deal , Ugly Betty , Casino Royale , Happy Feet , Rocky Balboa , Ghost Rider , Spider-Man 3 , Shrek the Third and Transformers . Also starring Hercules : The Incredible Journeys ' star Kevin Sorbo as Captain , Diedrich Bader as Traitoro , Method Man as Persian Emissary , Jareb Dauplaise as Dilio , Travis Van Winkle as Sonio , Phil Morris as Messenger , Jim Piddock as Simon Cowell Look-a-Like , Nicole Parker as Paula Abdul Look-a-Like / Britney Spears Look-a-Like / Ellen DeGeneres Look-a-Like , Crista Flanagan as Ugly Betty Look-a-Like , Emily Wilson as Lindsay Lohan Look-a-Like , Thomas McKenna as Tom Cruise Look-a-Like , John Di Domenico as Donald Trump Look-a-Like , Christopher Lett as Randy Look-a-Like , Ryan Fraley as Brad Pitt Look-a-Like , Tiffany Claus as Angelina Jolie Look-a-Like , Jim Nieb as President Bush Look-a-Like and Dean Cochran as Rocky Balboa / Rambo . Only two tiny , tiny bits made me giggle , the rest of it I just sat through , no laughing and very little expression or reaction . Some of the spoofs are really random , the jokes get really repetitive ( people falling in the Death Pit , Spartan break dancing ) , the jokes are really cheap , easy to make and quite obvious , I got the feeling I'd seen a film like this before , and I have , it's almost exactly the same as something like Scary Movie 4 , and it sucks balls ! It was nominated the Razzies for Worst Picture , Worst Director for Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer ; Worst Prequel , Remake , Rip-Off or Sequel and Worst Screenplay . Very , very poor !
Thomas and the Magic Railroad	I used to love the TV series as a kid , I almost never missed it , so I decided to see this film both to see if there was any resemblance , and why the critics hate it , from director Britt Allcroft ( who created the show ) . Basically the supply of gold dust , for travel between Shining Time and the island of Sodor , is running out for Mr . Conductor ( Alec Baldwin ) . It doesn't help when Thomas the Tank Engine ( Edward Glen ) and friends are being attacked by the nasty Diesel 10 ( Neil Crone ) , who also wants to find the missing train Lady ( Allcroft ) and the Magic Railroad it runs on . Trying to help the situation are Mr . C's slacker cousin ( Michael E . Rodgers ) , new friend Lily ( slightly deeper voiced Mara Wilson ) , and her grandpa Burnett Stone ( Peter Fonda ) , who has lost his belief in the magic of Lady . That's about it . Also starring Cody McMains as Patch , Grease's Didi Conn as Stacy Jones , Crone as Gordon , Colm Feore as Toby , Linda Ballantyne as Percy , Kevin Frank as Bertie the Bus , Harold the Helicopter and Henry , Susan Roman as James and Shelley Skinner as Annie and Clarabel . No Fat Controller ! ? Maybe if Ringo Starr or Michael Angelis had returned to do all the characters voice , it could have improved it the tiniest bit . Then again , nothing can improve the ridiculous story , the stupid acting , the dreadful songs , and the feel that it is nothing like the TV series , even if it looks the same , it's just one of the worst TV adaptations ever . Very poor !
Inspector Clouseau	I think you know the main reason why I have rated this film one star , just like the further films after his death , it does not have Peter Sellers in the starring . Instead they have an idiotic Alan Arkin ( Little Miss Sunshine's Oscar winning actor ) as Chief Inspector Jacques Clouseau . He is not funny , he does not have the same clumsiness and slight idiocy , and I think he was pretty rubbish as the accent . If he did the cartoons however , then it should of just been left like that and not make him into live action . Also I can't remember what the mission actually was in the film , so no wonder he is rubbish . Also starring Worzel Gummidge's Geoffrey Bayldon as Gutch , although that doesn't help . Poor !
An American Tail : Fievel Goes West	When I was a kid I used to like the original first American Tail film , but then they started making straight-to-video sequels . This sequel is the only one I have seen , why did they have to make s sequel , at least as rubbish as this . Young Fievel Mousekevitz the mouse gets lost again ( for a little while ) and then decides to try and get rid of all the cats from the West part of America , where the story left off . The only parts I can remember of this film were the parts with Tiger the cat and John Cleese as the voice of the villain . Apparently there was also the voices of Jon Lovitz , and , in his last film before his death , Rear Window and It's a Wonderful star James Stewart . They are meant to be the reason for the film earning a second star . Pretty poor !
Annie	Based on the popular Broadway musical this could have been a much loved film for kids and adults alike , but it just has too many flaws , and I can see what the critics mean about Razzie nominated John Huston ( The African Queen ) was the wrong director . Basically Annie ( introducing twice Golden Globe nominated , and Razzie winning and nominated Aileen Quinn ) is one of the many orphans looked after by the stressed and hateful Miss Hannigan ( Golden Globe nominated Carol Burnett ) . After Annie gets back from another attempted escape , a woman who works for billionaire Daddy Oliver Warbucks ( Albert Finney ) , Grace Farrell ( Ann Reinking ) is hoping to find a child to come and live in his mansion for a week . After arriving , she is not a favourite with the grouchy master , but has quickly charmed the hearts of all the staff , and after a while , the same with Warbucks . But she doesn't want to be adopted by Warbucks , because her parents before leaving her made a promise to return . So to make Annie happy , Warbucks offers a reward to the people who can come and prove their identity . This does become a clever scheme by Hannigan , her brother Rooster ( Tim Curry ) and his girlfriend ( ? ) Lily St . Regis ( Bernadette Peters ) to claim the reward for themselves , and I unfortunately can't remember how the film ended . Also starring Live and Let Die's Geoffrey Holder as Punjab . I'll tell you all the things I don't like about this film : Aileen Quinn is not cute ( she's annoying , naive and ginger ! ) , the songs are too obvious and not even " It's a Hard Knock Life " stands out , all actors are too sloppy , even an okay Carol Burnett , they used quite a bit of footage from the film Camille ( apparently Greta Garbo's most Oscar worthy performance , she was nominated , but she never won any ) and the story is extremely soppy , this film should only appeal to the Teletubby and Tweenie loving audience , i . e . very young kids and mad people . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration and Best Music for Ralph Burns , it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Original Song for " Tomorrow " , and ( I don't normally mention them , but this one deserves their mention ) it was nominated the Razzies for Worst Picture and Worst Screenplay . It was number 26 on The 100 Greatest Musicals ( beating so many other better ones ! ) . Pretty poor !
Batman & Robin	This is one of the worst films I've seen , the other three Batman films ( especially the first one ) were better than this . Arnold Schwarzenegger plays Mr . Freeze , he cares too much about his wife , but that's obviously the point for him being evil . George Clooney plays Batman , when he is Bruce Wayne he is just the tiniest bit corny . Chris O'Donnell plays Robin , he needs to take a chill pill because he gets so stressed out with Batman saying that he can't trust him . Uma Thurman plays Poison Ivy , she is pretty I suppose but she talks too much , and she obviously cares more about her plants and flowers than anything else . Alicia Silverstone plays Batgirl , okay looking I suppose , but could of done a bit more . Also starring Pat Hingle as Comissioner Gordon and Michael Gough as Alfred . The rest is obviously no good action with okay fights . It's just a rubbish superhero film . Batman was number 84 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons . Adequate !
Scooby and Scrappy-Doo	After the success of Scooby-Doo , Where are You , they decided to give Scooby and Shaggy their own show . But unfortunately , they added a new character that spoilt Scooby-Doo success forever . They invented a new show with a new title , Scooby and Scrappy-Doo . It was Scrappy-Doo that made this show a complete failure , probably for both adults and kids together . Scrappy was the stupid brave puppy that always looked ready to beat someone up . Scooby and Shaggy were getting scared of the villain , and they were also trying to stop him . Scooby-Doo doesn't need any little annoying bastard puppy nephews . If they wanted Scooby-Doo to be more successful , they should have either killed or never thought up Scrappy . This was just poor , maybe your kids will prefer it !
Police Story 2	This sequel starring and directed by Jackie Chan again fails to have the same impact as it's predecessor . Basically , with his unorthodox police methods , Jackie is demoted to be a traffic cop . Despite this , the villain from the last film who he put away is now out , and has vowed to make his life a misery . While he is harassing Jackie and his girlfriend May ( Maggie Cheung ) , the police are thinking of bringing Jackie back to help fight a group of bombers who are asking for a $10 million ransom . Also starring Bill Tung as Inspector Bill Wong , Kwok-Hung Lam as Superintendent Raymond Li and Charlie Cho as John Ko . I think the biggest problem is that this film is too chatty , with hardly any comedy , hardly any decent martial arts fights , no relevant thrills , and not enough action or stunt work by Chan , it's no surprise that I dozed off towards the end . Pretty poor !
Ted & Ralph	They took two of the most loved or talked about characters ( three if you count Rowley Birkin ) from The Fast Show and turn it into a TV made film . Unfortunately the result wasn't that great because it makes the actors and characters combined look corny and embarrassing . Basically Ralph ( Charlie Higson ) needs to get married before his birthday , or his house and grounds will go to his terrifying Aunt Cecilia ( Higson again ) . He tries to get ideas and advice from his gardener and very , very close friend Ted ( Paul Whitehouse ) until eventually finds the right girl . Also starring Whitehouse as Rowley Birkin and Kevin Brown , Higson as Ralph's Father , Kathy Burke as Mrs . Ted , Simon Day as Tall Tom , Cliff Carter and Friend of Dorothy , Arabella Weir as Mrs . Jenkins , Ralph's Mother and Henrietta Gladstone , Mark Williams as Confirmed Bachelor , Louise Brill as Lulu , Eryl Maynard as Miss Paxman , Miranda Richardson as Henrietta Blough-Pendleton , Donna Ewin as Girl at Party , Richard Griffiths as Landowner at Party , Richard Wilson as Landowner at Party and John Thomson as the voice of the Vicar . Pretty poor !
Illegal in Blue	Obviously this is one of those films I only wanted to see for some good nudity and sex scenes , but I didn't get what I was expecting . The only two sex scenes that I can actually remember was a very short lesbian scene in the club that the main guy was visiting , they were doing it while he chatted with the owner . The other is the main girl having ice cubes rubbed all over . The main girl is a really good singer , and quite attractive , but she could have done more , if you know what I mean . The main guy is an idiot and is only good for choosing the right girl . Again , there is not enough of what I wanted in a porn like film . Pretty poor !
Spy Kids 3-D : Game Over	I saw this on TV , so I didn't have any 3D glasses ( although I did for a few minutes find a way , the blue and red wrappers in Quality Street , but it got annoying ) , then again , I dunno if I'd want to see a full 84 minutes in 3D , imagine your eye sight for a while . Basically Juni Cortez ( Daryl Sabara ) is alone at home , and realises that his sister Carmen ( Alexa Vega ) has been kidnapped by the new villain , the Toymaker ( a ridiculous Sylvester Stallone , although I hadn't seen him for a little while , he deservedly won a Razzie ) . She is trapped inside a real video game that he has created , and with the help of some technicians , Juni has to go in and get his sister out bu passing the many levels , and be careful not to lose too many lives . He does this with the help of his crippled Grandfather ( Star Trek II : The Wrath of Khan's Ricardo Montalban ) , well , he's not crippled in the game world of course , and some other kids trying to get out with him . He manages to rescue Carmen and the other kids , but there is a brief moment where unseen ( apart from special glasses ) monsters are attacking , and with the help of other characters from the two previous films have to defeat them , and then the Toymaker . Also starring Antonio Banderas as Gregorio Cortez , Carla Gugino as Ingrid Cortez , King of the Hill and Beavis and Butt-Head creator Mike Judge as Donnagon Giggles , Salma Hayek as Cesca Giggles , Richard ' Cheech ' Marin as Felix Gumm , Danny Trejo as Machete , Alan Cumming as Fegan Floop , Men in Black's Tony Shalhoub as Alexander Minion , Steve Buscemi as Romero , Bill Paxton as Dinky Winks , George Clooney as Devlin and Elijah Wood as The Guy . You can tell even without 3D glasses which moments " stick out " ( LOL ) , but this is not an impressive film . Stallone is too kooky as four personalities , there is no real story , the chat is too corny , and only kids will enjoy it , it is just stupid . Pretty poor !
Constantine	Based on a DC comic , a man battling with hell and all it earthly happenings , and starring The Matrix's Keanu Reeves and The Mummy's Rachel Weisz , what could be better . But this isn't a good film in my opinion ! It the most confusing film I have seen for ages . What I could understand was John Constantine ( Reeves ) is a man who has a special gift to see and fight against the powers of hell and the supernatural . The exorcism scene he does at the beginning is quite cool . Angela Dodson ( Weisz ) recently lost her twin sister Isabel who supposedly committed suicide , she doesn't believe it . But after all that lot I can't understand anything . Just a load of battles because of I don't know what , I suppose it's wise to listen to some of the dialogue . Adequate !
The Skeleton Key	This is another one of the apparently " scary movies " that has no good acting , no shocks , no twists and there is just no point seeing it . I can't remember much of what happens , but basically Caroline Ellis ( Kate Hudson ) is going to work for an old woman . While there she is given a skeleton key to open all doors . When looking in the attic Caroline discovers a hidden door , opens it with the skeleton key , and discovers disturbing truths . I think there is something that is meant to be scary about John Hurt as Ben Devereaux , but I'm not sure . I think there might have been some possession or psycho-induced characters , but it's all forgettable . Poor !
Conan the Destroyer	I heard that the original film , Conan the Barbarian , was meant to be a pretty good film , especially for Arnold Schwarzenegger starting his career . I think this was Schwarzenegger's second or third film after the good success of The Terminator , but it is not one that goes in his greatest films list . Conan is on a really weird mission to become king or something . He is accompanied by a load of people to help him " destroy " something . One person includes a boyish looking ( as always ) Grace Jones as Zula . The story is pretty rubbish , I can'r remember seeing any decent fight scenes , and Schwarzenegger is a lot better in The Terminator , being evil . Pretty poor , as far as I remember !
Carry On Girls	I will admit I didn't pay full attention to everything going on in this film , but to be honest , I don't think it would have mattered . Basically local councillor Sidney Fiddler ( Sid James ) persuades the incompetent Mayor Frederick Bumble ( Kenneth Connor ) of Firecombe to hold a beauty contest , to improve the town's image . They face opposition from women's liberationist Augusta Prodworthy ( June Whitfield ) trying to sabotage the contest , but they do have publicity agent Peter Potter ( Bernard Bresslaw ) and Palace Hotel owner Connie Philpotts ( Joan Sims ) . Soon enough the young , beautiful wannabe models show up , including Hope Springs ( Barbara Windsor ) , Paula Perkins ( Valerie Leon ) , Dawn Brakes ( Goldfinger's Margaret Nolan ) , Debra ( Sally Geeson ) and Ida Downs ( EastEnders ' Wendy Richard ) . When the girls have cat fights , it does draw away regular residents , but after quite a while of some plodding not that funny innuendos and William ( Jack Douglas ) having over-active twitches , it does finally reach the competition , and it's just afterwards I couldn't be bothered . Also starring Patsy Rowlands as Mildred Bumble , Peter Butterworth as Admiral , Joan Hickson as Mrs . Dukes , David Lodge as Police inspector , Angela Grant as Miss Bangor , Arnold Ridley as Councillor Pratt , Robin Askwith as Larry , Patricia Franklin as Rosemary , Jimmy Logan as Cecil Gaybody and Dad's Army's Bill Pertwee as Fire brigade chief , Charles Hawtrey had obviously quit the Carry Ons , but where's Kenneth Williams ? I suppose seeing Babs and young , beautiful looking Pauline Fowler in bikinis , but for comedy value , this fails miserably , and the overuse of the swanny whistle just gets on your nerves . Pretty poor !
The Wiz	Forget what you've seen with Judy Garland and The Muppets , this nothing like either of them , in pretty much all aspects , from director Sidney Lumet and writer Joel Schumacher . It has the same basic story of The Wizard of Oz , but it is all black film with new songs ( no " Somewhere Over The Rainbow " here ) and new attitude . You know the story , Dorothy ( Diana Ross ) gets taken by a twister to the land of Oz , wants to go home , meets the Scarecrow ( Michael Jackson ) , Tinman ( Nipsey Russell ) and the Lion , aka Fleetwood Coupe De Ville ( Ted Ross ) , defeats the witch , meets the real " Wiz " , aka Herman Smith ( Richard Pryor ) and goes home clicking her silver shoes ( not ruby slippers ) three times . Also starring Mabel King as Evillene , Theresa Merritt as Aunt Emma , Thelma Carpenter as Miss One , Lena Horne as Glinda the Good and Stanley Greene as Uncle Henry . There is no Technicolor wonderland , what looks more like a Bronx alleyway , the only good song is the replacement of " Follow The Yellow Brick Road " , " Ease On Down The Road " , Jackson isn't too bad , he's just as energetic as Ray Bolger was , this just didn't strike me in any way . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Best Cinematography , Best Costume Design and Best Music for Quincy Jones . Pretty poor !
The Life Aquatic of Steve Zissou	From the director of The Royal Tenenbaums , Wes Anderson , I was expecting a few more giggles , a bit more plot and some good faces doing great performances , but it turned out to be none of those . Basically the story sees a crew lead by Steve Zissou ( a dull performance by Bill Murray ) in his big yellow submarine , searching for the mythical jaguar shark that ate his friend , so it is both a exploration and vengeful mission for Zissou . The crew includes his wife Eleanor ( Anjelica Huston ) and his apparently unknown son Ned Plimpton ( Owen Wilson ) . Others include Jane Winslett-Richardson ( Cate Blanchett ) , Klaus Daimler ( Willem Dafoe ) , Alistair Hennessey ( Jeff Goldblum ) , Oseary Drakoulias ( Sir Michael Gambon ) , Bill Ubell ( Bud Cort ) , Pelé dos Santos ( Seu Jorge ) , Vladimir Wolodarsky ( Noah Taylor ) and Esteban Du Plantier ( Seymour Cassel ) . There may be plenty of A-list stars in it , but Murray is dozy , and the only interesting part is when they actually see the shark near the end , all moments of chat and " action " before that is completely boring . Pretty poor !
Halloween II	Apparently this was meant to be the conclusion to the series , but more sequels do seem inevitable , and maybe it should have been , written by the previous film's director ( and composer ) John Carpenter . Basically the film picks up where it left off , Dr . Sam Loomis ( Donald Pleasence ) shooting Michael Myers six times , he falls out the window , and managed to survive and disappear , and Laurie Strode ( Jamie Lee Curtis ) is taken to hospital . If you remember the first film really well , you would know that the suburban area was sleepy , it must have been like 2 or 3 in the morning , and now all of the sudden there are many people out and about , and that's away from the hospital . Anyway , Michael is obviously trying to find Laurie , and in the process kills some more people , oh , and you find out Laurie is Michael's biological sister , which gives you I suppose a good demented reason to kill her , you know , because he killed his other sister as a kid . Also starring Charles Cyphers as Sheriff Leigh Brackett , Jeffrey Kramer as Graham , Lance Guest as Jimmy Lloyd , Pamela Susan Shoop as Karen Bailey , Hunter Von Leer as Deputy Gary Hunt , Dick Warlock as The Shape ( Michael ) , Leo Rossi as Budd , Ana Alicia as Janet Marshall , Ford Rainey as Dr . Frederick Mixter and Wayne's World star Dana Carvey as WWAR Assistant . I can agree that besides H20 : 20 Years Later , all sequels are rubbish , but what makes them even ridiculous is that Pleasance clearly died in this one , blowing himself and Michael up with gas and a lighter , Michael I can understand surviving , seeing how many hits he took in the first one , but Pleasance I can't understand surviving . As for the film itself , the remade music is completely rubbish ( with the added keyboard ) , the deaths are okay , but you just can't really be shocked or surprised by them , a rubbish sequel , and many more follow . Pretty poor !
Say It Isn't So	Produced by the Farrelly Brother , Andy and Peter ( Dumb and Dumber , There's Something About Mary ) , and directed by J . B . Rogers ( American Pie 2 ) , this is a gross-out comedy gone a bit too far . Basically good-hearted Gilbert ' Gilly ' Noble ( American Pie's Chris Klein ) finds the girl of his dreams with Josephine ' Jo ' Wingfield ( Heather Graham ) , and they quickly become lovers . Gilly is searching for his long lost mother , and unfortunately , the man who is looking for her announces it is Jo's mother Valdine ( Sally Field ) , so Jo may be Gilly's biological sister , which means they break up , and everyone Gilly knows taunts him about his predicament . Things change however when the real son of Valdine and handicapped ( because of a stroke ) husband Walter ( Richard Jenkins ) , Leon Pitofsky ( Jack Plotnick ) shows up , while Gilly travels back to see Jo before marrying Jack Mitchelson ( Eddie Cibrian ) , even thinking of being a sibling , with the help of Dig McCaffrey ( Evolution's Orlando Jones ) . Valdine knows Gilly is trying to get back to Jo , so she reports Gilly as an abuser to the police , so everyone is on the lookout for him , but he gets there in the end , and the brother-sister situation is resolved , they are not . Oh , and Gilly also finds his real biological mother , that being Suzanne Somers , who he apparently used to jerk off to ! Also starring John Rothman as Larry Falwell and Mark Pellegrino as Jimmy Mitchelson . There are some amusing moments , but the idea of possible incest is still on your mind throughout , and I think that's why you can't really give a good reason to like it that much . Pretty poor !
The League of Extraordinary	This film is one of the most ridiculous ideas in film history , and not even Sir Sean Connery or the special effects can rescue it . It one of the worst film choices for Connery , to play Allan Quatermain who has no super powers like the others , I do need to see Connery's version of Ransom though to see if that is worst . Anyway , what is the most stupid thing about this film is that they have taken classic horror villains ( most from the 30s ) and turned them into heroes ! These include Peta Wilson as vampire Mina Harker , Tony Curran as Rodney Skinner ( The Invisible Man ) and Jason Flemyng as Dr . Henry Jekyll / Edward Hyde . Also starring Naseeruddin Shah as Captain Nemo , Stuart Townsend as Dorian Gray , Shane West as Tom Sawyer and Richard Roxburgh as M ( probably inspired by Bond ) who turns out to be the Phantom . Pretty poor !
The Haunted Mansion	Like Pirates of the Caribbean , this is another film based on one of the Disneyland attractions , I think the only reason I wanted to see it was because of the leading actor and some of the co-stars , I didn't really think of the story or anything , from director Rob Minkoff ( The Lion King , Stuart Little ) . Basically Jim Evers ( Eddie Murphy ) is a workaholic real estate salesman , and his wife and business partner Sara ( Marsha Thomason ) is getting annoyed with him working so much , and on the day of their anniversary . So Jim suggests going on a vacation to a lake with their kids , Michael ( Marc John Jefferies ) and Megan ( Aree Davis ) , just after he's stopped off at a mansion Jim got a strange call about from owner Master Edward Gracey ( Nathaniel Parker ) , looking to sell the property . Unfortunately not long after arriving , the mysterious butler Ramsley ( Terence Stamp ) insists they stay the night because of the bad weather , and one by one they realise the mansion is haunted . Jim ends up in a secret passageway , the kids follow a floating ball in the attic , and Gracey is being very obsessive of Sara , the kids find out she looks exactly like Gracey's dead wife from a painting . Jim and the kids discover the dark secrets of the mansion from Madame Leota ( Jennifer Tilly ) , a talking head crystal ball , and they are all now trying to stop the obsessive Gracey from getting Sara , with Ramsley and other nasty dead creatures standing in their way . Also starring Toy Story's Wallace Shawn as Ezra and Dina Waters as Emma . Murphy is good at adding small jokes to the not very scary horror feel , the only bit that really made me giggle a lot was the singing head statues , but other than that , I think the kids will enjoy it more than the adults . Adequate !
Dirty Dancing 2 : Havana Nights	If your going to do a sequel to a successful 1980's film , make sure firstly that it is not straight-to-video , and that it has a similarity to the original . These pointers were obviously not applied . Anyway , basically , it is the 1950's , and young Katey Miller ( Romola Garai ) is moving to Havana with mother Jeannie ( Sela Ward ) , father Bert ( John Slattery ) and younger sister Susie ( Mika Boorem ) . She soon accidentally meets young hotel waiter Javier Suarez ( The Terminal's Diego Luna ) , and discovers his talent for dancing . After being fired from his job , Katey invites Javier to participate in a Latin Ballroom Dancing Contest in the local Palace club and win a cash prize . As time goes , it is obvious they have fallen for each other . Katey's parents do find out seeing her competing on stage , but soon change their opinions , and support them to win , if only the contest wasn't interrupted they probably could of . Oh , the person who helped train Katey to dance , and appeared a couple of times to watch progress is the dance class instructor , played by original star Patrick Swayze . Also starring Jonathan Jackson as James Phelps , American Pie : The Wedding's January Jones as Eve and Mya Harrison as Lola Martinez . The near cameo role for Swayze may be good , but it doesn't help the film in any way . I will admit the dancing is just as erotic looking and fun to watch as the first film , but that is all you can enjoy , it is just a shabby attempt at a sequel . Adequate !
Airplane II : The Sequel	Airplane ! from Jim Abrahams and the Zucker brothers ( David and Jerry ) was a fantastic spoof film , but this sequel ( simply titled " The Sequel " , lousy ) made without their help quite obvious to fail . Basically Ted Striker ( Robert Hays ) , who has recently escaped from a penitentiary is following ex-lover ( again ) Elaine Dickinson ( Julie Hagerty ) as she gets into a plane-like rocket , Mayflower I , going on the first commercial flight to the moon , once again piloted by Capt . Clarence Oveur ( Peter Graves ) . Disaster soon ensues when the computer kills the crew , and it is up to Striker , with the help of Steven McCroskey ( Lloyd Bridges , Jeff's father ) to land the plane / rocket safely on the rock . Also starring William Shatner as Cdr . Buck Murdock , Chad Everett as Simon Kurtz , Stephen Stucker as Controller Jacobs , Poltergeist's Oliver Robins as Jimmy Wilson , Sonny Bono as Joe Seluchi - Bomber , Raymond Burr as Judge D . C . Simonton , Chuck Connors as The Sarge , John Dehner as The Commissioner , Men in Black's Rip Torn as Bud Kruger and Jack Jones as Lounge Singer . I will admit the comedy style is still the same , and I did giggle at bits and pieces , but relying on a few flashes from the original film , and without the original film makers , and Leslie Nielsen ( seen only in archive footage ) , I can't say this is as good as the first . Adequate !
Jack Frost	The trailer that I saw looked pretty good , and obviously I like the star of Beetle Juice and Batman , and seeing it a second time it isn't too bad . Basically Jack Frost ( Michael Keaton ) is a rock singer , and he hardly sees his wife Gabby ( Kelly Preston ) or son Charlie ( Joseph Cross ) . One night he had a terrible car accident , and after a year , Charlie is still very upset by it . Before he died Jack gave his son a " magic " harmonica . One day , after building a snowman , and playing the harmonica , Jack's soul comes back , into the snowman ! Now Charlie and his Dad are together and also trying to get to the top of a cold mountain before Jack melts . Also starring A Knight's Tale's Mark Addy as Mac MacArthur Michael Keaton and Bean's Andrew Lawrence as Tuck Gronic . It may have some cheesy moments , but the snowball fight , and the ending similar to that of Ghost are hard to forget . Adequate !
The Cat in the Hat	I really liked Jim Carrey as the Grinch , so I thought I might as well give another popular Dr . Seuss starring another great comedy actor a chance . Basically brother and sister Sally ( The War of the World's Dakota Fanning ) and Conrad ( Spencer Breslin ) are two bored ( and grounded ) children home alone ( besides the goldfish and Amy Hill as Mrs . Kwan ) , and Mom ( Kelly Preston ) wants them to behave , stay clean , but above all , do not enter the living room , or else ! Soon after she has left , The Cat ( Mike Myers ) shows up to show them that they can have fun . They first sign a contract to ensure that they can have all the fun they want , and no mess ( which obviously there will be ) , and this is when the chaos starts . Also starring Alec Baldwin as Quinn , Sean Hayes as Mr . Humberfloob and the Fish's voice , Frank Welker as Nevins , Clint Howard ( Ron's brother ) as Kate the Caterer , Paris Hilton as Female Club-Goer and narrated by Victor Brandt . Myers may have his funny moments , and the film may be colourful , but the problems I have are : it is a bit too zany at times , the Things ( Danielle Ryan Chuchran , Taylor Rice , Brittany Oaks and Talia-Lynn Prairie , all voiced by Dan Castellaneta ) are slightly irritating doing the opposite of what you say , and it is just too much to take in . Adequate !
The Legend of Zorro	I had a feeling that this sequel from the same director Martin Campbell ( GoldenEye , Casino Royale ) was going to not as good , and it was . To be honest , I wasn't paying the biggest amount of attention to the entire story , but as far as I understood , Alejandro De La Vega ( Antonio Banderas ) , aka Zorro , and his wife Elena ( Catherine Zeta-Jones ) has started to drift apart ( which they shouldn't be ) , and she files for divorce . They have a son , Joaquin ( Adrian Alonso ) who doesn't know Alejandro's secret . Zorro still fights for the freedom of his country , and the new villain to face is Armand ( Rufus Sewell ) , along with his henchmen , including Harrigan ( Lost's Michael Emerson ) . After this I kind of drifted , and was only " woken " by the fights , and that finale on the speeding train . Also starring Julio Oscar Mechoso as Frey Felipe , Licence to Kill's Pedro Armendáriz Jr . as Governor Don Pedro Riley , Raúl Méndez as Ferroq , Giovanna Zacarías as Blanca and Nick Chinlund as Jacob McGivens . All the chatty moments are boring and unnecessary , and it is only worth watching for the fights and chases . Adequate !
The Little Mermaid II : Return to the Sea	When I was younger , I thought the first film was really good in childhood , so I decided to see the sequel . This is an example of why some films shouldn't have sequels , because the first film is usually best , and it is . Basically now that Ariel and Eric are married they have a daughter who isn't allowed outside the house because they are worried about the sister of Ursula ( the octopus legged villain from film one ) , Morgana getting to her . When the kid gets out she asks Ursula's sister to turn her into a mermaid , like her Mum was . This makes Ariel go back to the sea to find her . The same good voice artists , it's just the story that could have had a bit more thought . Adequate !
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles	When I was a kid , Teenage Mutant Hero Turtles ( UK title ) was one of my favourite cartoons , so decided to try this live action film , from director Steve Barron ( The Adventures of Pinocchio ) . Basically New York is becoming more crime filled , that is until the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles , four humanoid turtles mutated by chemical gel and trained by their mentor , the mutated rat Splinter ( Kevin Clash ) , show up to save the day . It is reporter April O'Neil ( Judith Hoag ) that finds the turtles , Raphael ( Josh Pais ) , Michaelangelo ( Michelan Sisti , voiced by Robbie Rist ) , Donatello ( Leif Tilden , voiced by Stand by Me's Corey Feldman ) and Leonardo ( David Forman , voiced by Brian Tochi ) . They are against the masked villain The Shredder ( James Saito , voiced by David McCharen ) and his many other masked thugs . Also starring Elias Koteas as Casey Jones , Michael Turney as Danny Pennington , Jay Patterson as Charles Pennington , Sam Rockwell as Head Thug and Scream's Skeet Ulrich as Thug . There is a very thin storyline , the dialogue is cheesy , and the special effects and make-up for the turtles look pretty cheap , you might enjoy the pizza munching , one or two fights , and the teenage characteristics and one-liners , but besides that , only kids will like it . Adequate !
Kipper	This is a good example of a kids show . To be honest I only watched the theme tune most of the time , I hardly watched the actual show . It is based on some children's books , that's all I knew before I saw it . It is about a dog and his friends , a dog and a pig who have many weird and wonderful adventures . They go on magical roller coasters , they wall paint , they lose a kite , they chat in the playground , Kipper loses his slipper and many other strange but good stories . The only thing that's a bit disturbing to get used to is the fact that the really good comedian Martin Clunes voices a children's icon , but never mind . Very good for kids !
Meet the Fockers	Even though I had no memory of the previous film , besides the obvious moments ( e . g . dropping the mother's ashes ) , I had a feeling this wasn't going to be better . From director Jay Roach ( Austin Powers ) this sequel has it's tiny moments of hilarity , but not enough concentration on a story . Basically Gaylord Greg Focker ( Ben Stiller ) has had to put up with meeting the parents of his fiancée Pam Byrnes ( Teri Polo ) , more prominently the uptight ex-CIA father Jack ( Robert De Niro ) . But now he has to deal with Pam's parents meeting Greg's before any wedding can take place . Greg's father Bernie ( Dustin Hoffman ) is the retired hippie lawyer , and his mother Roz ( Barbra Streisand ) is the open sex therapist . Greg obviously wants to keep his dignity , and make the Byrnes accept them , and the fact that they will have to get along after the wedding , if there's gonna be one ! Also starring Blythe Danner as Dina Byrnes , Tim Blake Nelson as Officer Le Flore and Owen Wilson as Kevin Rawley . As I said , there are some amusing moments , most of them coming from Hoffman and Streisand , but I don't think anyone should bother with this film , apart from seeing the couple get married of course . It's just a question of what's a possible next sequel gonna be about , having kids ? Adequate !
Five Easy Pieces	This for some reason is my book called 1001 Films You Must See Before You Die , why ? In my opinion it is just the tiniest bit of a pointless film . Who thought of the idea for this film , a guy travelling to see his sick Dad , wow , that's it . Anyway , Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Jack Nicholson plays Robert Eroica Dupea . He is some kind of construction worker and he hears that his Dad is sick , and he decides to go on a road trip to see him . Basically his Dad is sick with some kind of problem hearing and understanding . Personally , the only good part for me is when Nicholson tries to order an omelet lunch in a café , but I can't remember it all , and I want to be certain of my opinion . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Supporting Actress for Karen Black as Rayette Dipesto ( she won the Golden Globe ) , Best Writing , Story and Screenplay Based on Factual Material or Material Not Previously Published or Produced and Best Picture , and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Drama , Best Director for Bob Rafelson and Best Screenplay . Jack Nicholson was number 6 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , he was number 71 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons , he was number 63 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols , and he was number 7 on The World's Greatest Actor . Adequate , in my opinion !
Charlie's Angels	I had seen the odd bit of this , and knew the three leading actresses , so I suppose it was necessary to see the film based on the popular 70's TV show in full , from director McG ( Joseph McGinty Nichol ) . Basically a mysterious guy named Charles Townsend , or just Charlie ( who we only hear the voice of , by Dynasty's John Forsythe ) runs a private investigation company , and he has three female agents working for him , Natalie Cook ( gorgeous Cameron Diaz ) , Dylan Sanders ( the beautiful Drew Barrymore , also producing the film ) and Alex Munday ( stunning Lucy Liu ) . Their mission , with a little help from their boss John Bosley ( Bill Murray ) , is to find stolen voice-recognition software , created by Eric Knox ( Sam Rockwell ) , owner of Knox Technologies . The big suspect is Roger Corwin ( Tim Curry ) , and they also keep coming face to face with the Thin Man ( Back to the Future's Crispin Glover ) . Also starring Kelly Lynch as Vivian Wood , Luke Wilson as Pete Komisky , Matt LeBlanc as Jason Gibbons , Road Trip's Tom Green as Chad and LL Cool J as Mr . Jones . The fight scenes can be stupid and too much similar to The Matrix , the special effects don't help much , the story has hardly real point , and the only good reasons to see this film are for the good giggly support by Murray , and the titillation by three beauties , but that's it . Adequate !
Without a Paddle	This is one of the silliest ideas I know for a film , three friends who knew each other as kids going a nightmare trip just to do something pretty small . Basically best childhood friends Dan Mott ( Seth Green ) , Jerry Conlaine ( Matthew Lillard ) and Tom Marshall ( Dax Shepard ) have recently lost their old friend and attended his funeral . They looked through his old stuff and found a treasure map , so they decide to set out on a journey to find this treasure . Along the way they confront a bear , fall down waterfalls , meet sexy girls with hairy legs , get chased by two big guys with a marijuana field , meet a jungle living old guy called Del Knox ( Burt Reynolds ) who knew the guy who kept this treasure , and eventually they find the treasure is cash , but they give it away . Adeqaute in my opinion because of the lack of decent jokes .
It's a Very Merry Muppet Christmas Movie	I once saw a bit of this film , and was interested to see the full thing just to see why the critics give it two stars , the result being that I agree . Basically the film begins with Kermit the Frog ( Steve Whitmire ) telling all his Muppet chums that they have lost everything , and he ends sitting depressed ( and possibly thinking about suicide ) on the bench . Meanwhile , in another world ( Heaven ) angel Daniel ( David Arquette , who had already been in Muppets from Space ) visits the ' Boss ' ( Whoopi Goldberg , another reason I wanted to see the film ) to show that Kermit really needs help . In the flashbacks , it shows Kermit , Miss Piggy ( Eric Jacobson , not the original and better Frank Oz ) , Gonzo ( Dave Goelz ) , Fozzie Bear ( also Jacobson ) , Pepe the Prawn ( Bill Barretta ) and all the other Muppets have prepared a stage show for many people to see in the Christmas holiday , and it all seems to be going well . But the really mean Rachel Bitterman ( Joan Cusack ) is determined to either shut the show or the theatre down , and Kermit is doing everything possible to make sure that doesn't happen . Of course , Kermit fails the last time , and Bitterman tells him that they are finished , and she can officially take the theatre . This is where Daniel is sent as Kermit's guardian angel to try and help him , but Kermit is not in the mood , and eventually ends up saying " I wish I was never born " . Obviously , you can recognise the spoof of It's a Wonderful Life , with Kermit as the George Bailey , and Cusack as the Mr . Potter , and in the end , obviously Kermit realises how much he means to everyone , and goes back to find the theatre saved as historical landmark . Also starring Whitmire as Rizzo the Rat and Beaker ; Goelz as Dr . Bunsen Honeydew and Waldorf ; Barretta as Dr . Teeth , Rowlf the Dog and Swedish Chef ; Jacobson as Animal and Yoda ( the only character who sounds similar to Oz's version ) , William H . Macy as Glenn , Matthew Lillard as Luc Fromage , Carson Daly , Molly Shannon ; Scrubs ' Zach Braff , Sarah Chalke , Neil Flynn , John C . McGinley and Judy Reyes , Mel Brooks as Joe Snow ; Brian Henson as Scooter and Janice ; Jerry Nelson as Robin the Frog , Statler , Pops and Floyd Pepper , and Kevin Clash as Sam the Eagle . The most memorable moment for me is the stage spoof of Moulin Rouge , besides that and the well known faces in it , not fantastic . It was nominated the Emmy for Outstanding Music and Lyrics for the song " Everyone Matters " . The Muppets were number 47 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons . Adequate !
A Goofy Movie	I don't think I've ever seen the beginning of this film , but it doesn't matter , not all of it is that good anyway . I think the only good things about this film are the small bits that make you giggle ( not laugh ) and the relationship between the main star and his son . Basically Max has met a new girl in school and fancies her . She is apparently seeing a band live , and he lies and says he knows them . But then Goofy , his Dad , tells him that they are going on a fishing trip to spend more time together . This is obviously going to turn into a disaster , not just for Goofy , but for Max , being a teenager . Like I said , not all that good . Adequate !
Short Circuit 2	I haven't seen the first film , and I missed some of the beginning of this film , but never the less , I still saw enough of this to know most of the story . Basically the robot from the first film , Number 5 is exploring the city again or something looking for new stuff , trying to make friends or just trying to have fun . He may be a bit nuts , and may need a bit of repair , but he is still a nice robot and has at least two or three real friends . It's just when the rich bastard comes along and acts like a friend and uses him to rob a bank , and then his men smash him up . Quite an interesting ending when he is covered in gold plating , but this film in my opinion is more aimed at kids . Adequate !
Thir13en Ghosts	I had heard of this film and one of it's female stars ( from the popular teen comedies series ) , I guess I wanted to know why the critics give two out of five stars , but it's no surprise if it's from director Steve Beck ( Ghost Ship ) . Basically Arthur Kriticos ( Men in Black's Tony Shalhoub ) and his family , daughter Kathy ( American Pie's Shannon Elizabeth ) and son Robert ' Bobby ' ( Alec Roberts ) , along with nanny Maggie Bess ( singer Rah Digga ) have been left a large by recently killed relative Cyrus Kriticos ( F . Murray Abraham ) . They immediately like what they could be living in , but it only lasts a few minutes as Bobby quickly disappears , and one by one , they see ghosts . Cyrus was not just a collector of beautiful artifacts , but of spirits , twelve to be exact , thirteen being Cyrus himself ( I presume ) . Trying to help the family get out alive , stop the machine " designed by the devil and powered by the dead " and free the spirits , are ghost hunter Dennis Rafkin ( Scream's Matthew Lillard ) and his rival Kalina Oretzia ( Matilda's Embeth Davidtz ) . Also starring J . R . Bourne as Benjamin Moss and Matthew Harrison as Damon . The effects are pretty lame , there is only one reasonable death scene , and the performances are very lousy , well , so is the film . I have to say I recognised much of the footage being spoofed in Scary Movie 2 , and to be honest , I couldn't take the real ( remake ) film too seriously . Adequate !
Rambo III	With the release of the fourth film in 2008 , simply titled " Rambo " ( " John Rambo " in America ) it was right they should show all three of the original films , and this is the third ( duh ! ) . Basically John Rambo ( Razzie winning Sylvester Stallone , also nominated for Worst Screenplay ) is living in Thailand helping to build a monastery temple ( this scene by the way is spoofed in Hot Shots ! Part Deux ) , and also having fights for extra money . His former Vietnam superior Colonel Samuel Trautman ( Razzie nominated Richard Crenna ) has been assigned to lead a mission to help the Mujahedeen rebels who are fighting the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan , and Rambo refuses his request to help , he's had enough of wars . Of course , when the mission goes wrong and Trautman is kidnapped and held captive for torture by Russian Colonel Zaysen ( Marc De Jonge ) , Rambo launches a rescue effort and gets help from some of the Mujahedeen rebels to help invade the Afghan base , and get his friend and some other prisoners out . Also starring Broken Arrow's Kurtwood Smith as Griggs , Spiros Focás as Masoud , Sasson Gabai as Mousa , Doudi Shoua as Hamid , Randy Raney as General Kourov and Marcus Gilbert as Tomask . The film is filled with quite a few inventive deaths , and my favourite is the guy with rope round his neck , Rambo takes out his grenade pin , pushes him down a hole , he's hung , and then he explodes ( and you can see some of the entrails ) . I suppose , compared to the other two films , this is pretty lame , and only the death sequences , gun play and explosions kept me interested . It was nominated the Razzies for Worst Director for Peter MacDonald and Worst Picture . Adequate !
Underworld	I knew this film was about vampires and werewolves , and I knew the lead actress , but that's about it , so I suppose I had to give it a go , from director Len Wiseman ( Die Hard 4 . 0 ) . Basically a war rages between the vampire and Lycan ( werewolves ) races , and Selene ( Van Helsing's Kate Beckinsale ) the beautiful vampire warrior , is entrenched in it . There is a plot to kidnap Michael Corvin ( Scott Speedman ) , after he is proved to hold the key to ending the war ( something to do with his blood ) . Selene also discovers a plot to combine the strengths of both races to create a new invincible species of predator . You find out by the way that the war started because of the death of a vampire's wife , caused by a Lycan . Also starring The Queen's Michael Sheen as Lucian , Bill Nighy as Viktor , Shane Brolly as Kraven , Erwin Leder as Singe , Sophia Myles as Erika , Robbie Gee as Kahn , Kevin Grevioux as Raze and Prison Break's Wentworth Miller as Dr . Adam Lockwood . The special effects aren't bad , but they don't really add much to the story , and it is not really gripping or interesting to be honest , it just seems too much to be copying the gun play and fighting style of The Matrix , so not the most original stuff . Adequate !
Johnny English	Rowan Atkinson really became popular for Mr . Bean , got a British Academy Award and appeared in a couple Richard Curtis films including Four Weddings and a Funeral . This was another chance for a starring role , after Bean , and it is not a bad one . Atkinson plays Johnny English , he appeared in some Barclaycard adverts , he is the only spy left to complete a mission to find out who stole The Crown Jewels . Johnny suspects Pascal Sauvage ( John Malkovich ) of stealing them , he also finds out Sauvage plans to become king . Johnny is joined by Lorna Campbell ( singer Natalie Imbruglia ) to help stop him . Also starring Ben Miller as Bough and Tim Pigott-Smith as Pegasus . Some amusing moments , but not as funny and genius as Bean . It was nominated the British Comedy Award for Best Comedy Film . Adequate !
Reign of Fire	I had heard a couple of people tell me that this film was rubbish , so naturally I wanted to see it for myself , and boy did I agree with the opinions . It isn't the absolute worst film I've seen for a while , but it certainly isn't good enough to see again . Anyway , basically years ago miners opened up a long buried dragon , and as the years pass , Earth has become an incinerated wasteland with who ever's left alive doing everything they can to survive , and find a way to kill the fire breathing beasts . Leader of a Northumberland medieval castle is Quinn Abercromby ( American Psycho's Christian Bale ) , and his whole group of survivors , including friend Creedy ( 300's Gerard Butler ) , are hoping the dragons will die out and go into hibernation , but their running out of food . One day , American dragon slayers arrive , led by Denton Van Zan ( EdTV's Matthew McConaughey ) , with pilot Alex Jensen ( GoldenEye's Izabella Scorupco ) , and they are all now working together to bring down the beasts . That's about it ! Also starring Scott James Moutter as Jared Wilke , David Kennedy as Eddie Stax , Alexander Siddig as Ajay , Ned Dennehy as Barlow , Rory Keenan as Devon , Terence Maynard as Gideon and Alice Krige as Karen Abercromby . The special effects are worth looking at , but the performances are all woody ( not just from McConaughy ) , the story is lame , well , it's just a lame film . Adequate !
Scooby-Doo and the Alien Invaders	This straight to video film when I was young was quite good because it went back to the original style of Scooby-Doo the TV series . The only thing that could put it down a bit was the songs . Scooby and the gang get lost and end up in a desert village outside a alien spotting station . Aliens are starting to appear and the gang decide to investigate . During the process Scooby and Shaggy fall in love with Crystal and Amber ( a golden retriever ) . In the end ( suprise , surprise ) they find out the aliens are three people at the alien spotting station secretly digging for gold . They also find out there are real aliens , Crystal and Amber ! Scooby-Doo was number 8 on The 100 Greatest Kids ' TV Shows , and he was number 49 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons . Worth a look !
Scooby-Doo 2 : Monsters Unleashed	Just like the first live action film this is cheesy , and only good for the familiar faces , well , that's it , still director Raja Gosnell ( Home Alone 3 , Big Momma's House ) . Basically Scooby-Doo ( Neil Fanning ) and best friend Shaggy ( Scream's Matthew Lillard ) are seen as the screw ups of the gang , and for once they want to be the ones that solve the mystery , so behind the others ' backs , they are attempting to solve the mystery of the film . The rest meanwhile , Fred Jones ( I Know What You Did Last Summer's Freddie Prinze Jr . ) , Daphne Blake ( Sarah Michelle Gellar ) and Velma Dinkley ( Linda Cardellini ) are doing their own searching and so forth . The mystery by the way is that something or someone is bringing to life the costumes of old villains they faced , including recognisable ones like the Black Knight , the Zombie and Captain Redbeard , and this green gas thing or whatever is making them into real monsters . Also starring Seth Green as Patrick , Peter Boyle as Old Man Wickles ( in the cartoons , he is the guy that was the Black Knight ) , Tim Blake Nelson as Jonathan Jacobo and Alicia Silverstone as Heather Jasper-How . Thankfully Scrappy doesn't appear ruining everything , and this may be the tiniest , TINIEST bit better than the first film , but if you have sense , like the first , don't bother with it unless you like Scooby-Doo , in which case , just the once is plenty . Scooby-Doo was number 8 on The 100 Greatest Kids ' TV Shows , and he was number 49 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons . Adequate !
Scooby-Doo on Zombie Island	This was the very first of the new animated TV made film adventures of Scooby-Doo , the dog kids grew to love in the 70s . The gang have gone there separate ways . But they are now brought together ( by Fred ) to try and find a real ghost story for Daphne's TV show . They discover a mysterious island away from Louisiana . Moonscar Island is meant to be haunted by an ancient pirate ghost . The gang eventually find out in the end that some zombies are real and the real villains are the two women they live with . These two women are cat creatures , and the zombies are good guys trying to warn them . I admit the content may be too scary for young kids , but it is quite a good cartoon . Scooby-Doo was number 8 on The 100 Greatest Kids ' TV Shows , and he was number 49 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons . Worth a look !
Clockwise	I suppose it is funny in some places , but most of this film is a bit too lacklustre . John Cleese plays a Basil Fawlty type of character called Brian Stimpson who is head teacher of a school . Stimpson has been selected to be a possible winner for the best school head teacher somewhere quite far away . He needs to be there at a certain time , hence the title Clockwise , and he is having a lot of trouble . the reason he is like a Basil Fawlty character is that he is trying to do something right butt he ends up being a buffoon . He gets in mud and goes to a monastery until eventually he gets there . I can't remember if he won , but who cares , he didn't deserve to . Pretty crap !
Tarzan	You've probably seen the many live action films about the king of the jungle and the apes , well this is a cartoon version by Walt Disney Pictures . Basically Kala the female gorilla ( Glenn Close ) always longed for a child , and one day , she finds it . She finds an empty hut in the jungle once belonging to someone , and whoever they were , they left a baby behind . She takes this baby , and after convincing gorilla leader Kerchak ( Lance Henriksen ) says he can stay , but he isn't a son . As he grows up young Tarzan ( the kids name ) ( voiced by Home Alone 3's Alex D . Linz ) wonders why he looks different to the other gorillas . But as he grows he becomes more like on of them . The only problem is that one day Tarzan meets explorer Jane Porter ( Minnie Driver ) and the nasty gorilla hunter Clayton ( Brian Blessed ) who wants Tarzan to tell him where the gorillas are . Also starring Wayne Knight as Tantor . It won the Oscar and Golden Globe for Best Song for Phil Collins ' " You'll Be In My Heart " . Adequate , but kids will like it !
Rosemary's Baby	This is meant to be one of the scariest films ever made , I didn't find it that frightening . In fact , only the sex with the devil and the ending shock me , a bit . Rosemary ( BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Mia Farrow ) and her husband want a baby . One night Rosemary has a dream that she is having sex with a dark creature , the devil . She obviously wakes up , and a few days later she is pregnant ! She believes that this baby belongs to the person in her dream and not her husband . In the end when she has the baby it is obviously ugly , and everyone around her goes insane . That is probably why I don't like it , everyone's reactions to the baby . An interesting idea from director / writer Roman Polanski , I just think they could have done it a bit better , but I'd need to see it again to confirm my opinion . It won the Oscar for Best Supporting Actress for Ruth Gordon as Minnie Castevet ( also won the Golden Globe ) , and it was nominated for Best Writing , Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium , and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Original Score for Krzysztof Komeda and Best Screenplay . It was number 51 on The 100 Greatest Scary Moments , and it was number 9 on 100 Years , 100 Thrills . Adequate , in my opinion !
Toys	When I was a kid , this used to be quite an amusing film with Robin Williams as a joking toy person , and from director Barry Levinson ( Rain Man ) . Basically the father of Zevo Toys has recently died , and he has left the company to General Zevo ( Sir Michael Gambon ) , I think he was his brother . Unfortunately , the General does not have the same taste of toys as Leslie Zevo ( Williams ) . It's not long before the General secretly starts something in a restricted area of the company . Leslie discovers that he is making war toys and computer games where the children help destroy real things ( I think ) because the General believes kids have good eyes . Towards the end it turns into a war to claim back the factory , i . e . humans against the toys , and then wind up toys against the General's toys , accompanied by Frankie Goes To Hollywood's " Welcome to the Pleasuredome " . Also starring Forrest Gump's Robin Wright Penn as Gwen Tyler , LL Cool J as Captain Patrick Zevo , Donald O'Connor as Kenneth Zevo , Arthur Malet as Owen Owens , Jack Warden as Old General Zevo and look out for young Jamie Foxx as Baker . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration and Best Costume Design . Adequate !
Run Fatboy Run	I loved the leading actor in Shaun of the Dead and Hot Fuzz , and then I heard that this was directed by Friends star David Schwimmer . To be honest , though I was a bit disappointed , and completely agree with the critics ' two out of five stars . Basically Dennis ( Simon Pegg ) ran away from marrying his pregnant fiancée Libby ( Crash's Thandie Newton ) , and five years later he has become a slightly overweight security guard . Libby of course allows him access to his son , and Dennis everyday tries to persuade her to take him back , but fails . He finds out she has found a new partner in the form of American showoff Whit ( The Simpsons ' Hank Azaria ) . When Dennis hears about the upcoming London Thames River-run marathon , he vows that for once he will finish something , so he starts training . As you'd probably expect there is a point where Dennis gives up when Libby is proposed to by Whit , but he recovers and the marathon begins . Whit unexpectedly turns on Dennis , by purposely tripping him up , causing him to sprain his ankle , but he is still determined to finish and get Libby and his son to support him , and of course , his plan to get them back succeeds . Also starring Dylan Moran as Gordon , Harish Patel as Mr . Ghoshdashtidar , Matthew Fenton as Jake , The Fast Show's Simon Day as Vincent , EastEnders ' Ameet Chana as Taxi Driver , Chris Hollins , Denise Lewis , David Walliams as Man in Bakery and Peter Serafinowicz as TV Commentator . Thsi rarely made even giggle , so unless you have a crush or obsession with Simon Pegg or some of the co-stars , I wouldn't bother . Adequate !
Salem's Lot	Personally for a Stephen King book based film I would recommend The Shawshank Redmption , Misery or The Shining , because I was expecting this to be more scary , not boring and have only two or three moments of terror or blood . Basically , even though I didn't care about the story much , a writer comes to the town of Salem's Lot to write a new book . Strange things happen in the village both to him and friends of his , well everyone in the village . The moment I most remember from the film is when a friend of the main kid's is floating outside his window , because he is a vampire . There are some okay moments with other vampires , but the rest of the film is just silly . It was nominated the Emmys for Outstanding Graphic Design and Title Sequences , Outstanding Makeup and Outstanding Music Composition for a Limited Series or a Special ( Dramatic Underscore ) for Harry Sukman . It was number 42 on The 100 Greatest Scary Moments . Adequate !
Bugs Bunny's 3rd Movie : 1001 Rabbit Tales	Bugs Bunny's 3rd Movie : 1001 Rabbit Tales is the last Looney Tunes and Merrie Melodies film made up of loads of already made cartoons , concocted into a story . Basically Bugs Bunny and Daffy Duck are working for a book selling company . They split up to sell books in different areas , however Daffy wants to head south to migrate . Bugs meets Daffy after mistakingly being given to gorillas by the Stork and chased by Elmer Fudd , and they both end up in Arabia . Bugs finds a kingdom run by Yosemite Sam . He is told to read his 1001 stories for his prince , or face being boiled in oil . This is obviously an excuse to use many good episodes involving fairy tales . Daffy Duck was number 30 , Looney Tunes / Merrie Melodies number 20 and Bugs Bunny number 10 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons . When I was a kid , good ! Now , adequate !
Rambo	I had a feeling this film would be not all great even before I watched it , but with all the hype being put on it , and apparently lots of violence , I knew I should at least try it . Basically Vietnam veteran John Rambo ( Sylvester Stallone , also directing and writing ) now lives a secluded life in Thailand , where he spends time catching snakes for entertainment , and chauffeurs local people in his small boat . Even though he wants to avoid trouble , trouble finds him , a group of Christian human rights missionaries , led by Sarah Miller ( Julie Benz ) and Michael Burnett ( Paul Schulze ) , want to rent his boat to go to Burma . For over 50 year , Burma has been a war zone , where Karen peasants and farmers are ruled by the brutal , murderous Burmese military , and they struggle to survive each day . Eventually Rambo agrees to take them up the river , and they end up in a raid and most of them taken captive . Rambo escapes , and as you'd expect , numerous deaths occur in his path , most obviously are made by him . Also starring Matthew Marsden as School Boy , Graham McTavish as Lewis , Tim Kang as En-Joo , Reynaldo Gallegos as Diaz and Jake La Botz as Reese . Stallone doesn't have the edge he used to in the three previous films , his age obviously is part of this , the story and dialogue are really lame too . For me , the only good reason to see this film is for the high over-the-top violence and blood spill from severing limbs with high calibre bullets and the old machete blade , that's it . Okay !
We Were Soldiers	Based on a true story , a book called We Were Soldiers Once . . . and Young , this is quite an intriguing war film . Someone in a documentary about the film said that nearly all war films are not accurate , so director Randall Wallace stars as Lt . Col . Hal Moore and leads a bunch of recruits to the battle of Vietnam . You can see in this film why the Vietnam war was not only one of the biggest , but mainly one of the most unpopular , e . g . because of the amount of violence . The moments that mainly stick out are obviously the war , but also the letters to family and deaths of close friends . Also starring Madeleine Stowe as Julie Moore , Greg Kinnear as Maj . Bruce ' Snake ' Crandall , Sam Elliott as Sgt . Maj . Basil Plumley , American Pie's Chris Klein as 2nd Lt . Jack Geoghegan , Keri Russell as Barbara Geoghegan and Saving Private Ryan's Barry Pepper as Joe Galloway . Okay !
Bedazzled	I had seen the Brendan Fraser / Elizabeth Hurley version long before this original from director Stanley Donen ( Singin ' in the Rain ) and written by the two leading actors . It is exactly the same premise , a guy - Stanley Moon ( Dudley Moore ) - wants to be with a girl - Margaret Spencer ( Eleanor Bron ) - and along comes The Devil , aka George Spiggott ( Peter Cook ) , and the guy signs a contract for seven wishes in exchange for his soul . Throughout the film Stanley becomes articulate intellectual , a wealthy industrialist , a brief rock star , has an affair , a fly on the wall and a nun , oh , and gets an ice lolly . In the end though , instead of the Devil demanding he makes a final wish and it isn't for himself , Stanley uses them all , and the Devil simply turns nice to get God to take him back into Heaven . Also starring a pretty brief Raquel Welch as Lilian Lust , Alba as Vanity , Robert Russell as Anger ; Barry Humphries , aka Dame Edna Everage as Envy , Parnell McGarry as Gluttony , Danièle Noël as Avarice , Howard Goorney as Sloth , Michael Bates as Insp . Reg Clarke , Bernard Spear as Irving Moses , Robin Hawdon as Randolph , Michael Trubshawe as Lord Dowdy , Evelyn Moore as Mrs . Wisby , Charles Lloyd Pack as Vicar and Lockwood West as St . Peter . In my opinion , this isn't as good as the much more lively and modern remake , this just feels too 60's , it seems much more chatty , and there was not much to laugh at . Cook is not as fun as the sexy interpretation by Hurley , Moore is not as concerned as Fraser , I think Welch would been a very seductive Devil , probably more so than Hurley , but if you like old fashioned comedy , this is worth seeing , at least once . Okay !
Babar	When I was younger I used to like elephants , especially in cartoons . This was a very simple cartoon with some short and simple stories involving all the characters , but it was still good . Babar in his childhood had his mother shot by hunters , but he was rescued and looked after by an old woman . As he grows up he learns to dress , walk and talk like a gentleman . Soon many elephants are like this and they build their own place out in the country . Because Babar was the one that started it he was soon to be known to these elephants as the King Babar . Throughout the series Babar helps people with problems and runs his elephants well . It's only the rhinos that aren't too keen on the elephants . It was number 81 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons . Okay !
Chickens Come Home	Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy are the most famous comedy duo in history , and deservedly so , so I am happy to see any of their films . Basically Ollie is running for mayor , when old flame ( Mae Busch ) shows up with a photo of him and her together , blackmailing him to give her money to keep quiet . Stan is the one who has to keep her from getting to Mrs . Hardy ( Thelma Todd ) , who is busy at a dinner party . Of course , the old flame and Stan squabble for a while , but she gets away eventually , and reaches Ollie's house , where the photo is brought by Stan , and there is a situation to hide it , but in the end , Ollie and Stan run away , including from Mrs . Laurel ( Norma Drew ) with a small axe . Also starring James Finlayson as the suspicious Butler who will only keep quiet when paid by Ollie . There were the tiniest moments of comedy , but it isn't a great black and white film . Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy were number 7 on The Comedians ' Comedian . Okay !
Bad Santa	I recognised the title and leading actor , but I didn't really know much about the plot or premise , so I was quite surprised to see what I did . Basically drunkard Willie T . Stokes ( Golden Globe nominated Billy Bob Thornton ) and midget partner Marcus ( Date Movie's Tony Cox ) are two con men , posing as Santa and his elf in a shopping mall for the Christmas period , and they plan to rob the establishment on Christmas Eve . Until then Willie is being a very miserable oaf while kids sit on his lap saying the presents they want , and he doesn't care about his foul mouth . Soon enough though his attitude towards Christmas is very slowly changed when he meets a lonely overweight boy ( Brett Kelly ) and bartender Sue ( Lauren Graham ) who has a thing for Santas , well , he still has a potty mouth , but he is cheering up the tiniest bit . Obviously when it comes to the robbery , Willie has become so infatuated by the Christmas spirit ( if that's what you want to call it ) , that he is determined to make sure the kid gets the present he wants , and partner Marcus is just in it for the money . Also starring Lauren Tom as Lois , Bernie Mac as Gin , John Ritter as Bob Chipeska , Family Guy's Alex Borstein as Milwaukee Mom with photo and Cloris Leachman as Grandmother . Thornton might make some giggles being a foul-mouthed bastard , but his constant swearing can get a little hard to handle , especially when he's doing it in front of the kids , but this film is certainly worth a go . Okay !
Funny Bones	I can hardly remember the meaning of the story , apart from the fact that Oliver Platt as Tommy Fawkes wanted to make a comedy show . I think we only wanted to see it for the quite funny performance by Lee Evans as Jack Parker . He is quite a jittery character at first and gets involved in chases , but he soon shows his excellent physical comedy to us and Platt . I can't really say that I enjoyed all of it , but the moments with Evans are the most memorable . Also starring Richard Griffiths as Jim Minty and Oliver Reed as Dolly Hopkins . What I remember of this film is okay , but the rest I think is not too interesting . Adequate , in my opinion !
Elke	This is a mediocre story about a family starting to break a part . The father and husband Jeff ( C . T . Miller ) is bored with life , the mother and wife Linda ( Griffin Drew ) misses her husband's company , and their teenage daughter ( played by young Lisa Boyle ) is disrespectful and always with her boyfriend . Then a beautiful friend of the wife comes to visit and stay , Elke ( Shauna O'Brien ) . She starts to notice the family's problems while staying . Eventually it starts to get interesting as this " friend of the family " starts to seduce them , and it almost helps them get back together . A pretty silly story , but worth a look for the nudity content . There is quite a tender and arousing lesbian scene between Elke and Linda . Okay !
Elizabethtown	When I heard the title , I thought it would be some kind of period drama , I didn't realise it was a real state , but I did know the lead actor and actress , and I was willing to try it , from director Cameron Crowe ( Jerry Maguire ) and produced by Tom Cruise . Basically after causing a loss of nearly a billion dollars at his company , and splitting with girlfriend Ellen Kishmore ( Jessica Biel ) , shoe designer Drew Baylor ( Orlando Bloom ) was about to commit suicide , and at that moment he gets a phone call from his sister Heather ( Judy Greer ) saying that their father Mitch ( Tim Devitt ) has died . So he is heading for Elizabethtown , Kentucky , to bring back the body because his mother Hollie ( Susan Sarandon ) has a problem with Mitch's relatives . On the empty Red Eye plane he meets attendant Claire Colburn ( Kirsten Dunst ) , who comes across as a little annoying at first , but they get to know each other with long phone calls , and eventually seeing each other again . She changes his view and perspective of life , and they ultimately fall for each other . After the funeral , Claire gives Drew a map for the road trip home , she says everyone should do a road trip at least once in their life , and in the end when he gets back , she is there and they hug . Also starring Alec Baldwin as Phil DeVoss , Bruce McGill as Bill Banyon , Paul Schneider as Jessie Baylor , Loudon Wainwright III as Uncle Dale and Paula Deen as Aunt Dora . It has elements that are appealing to watch , and Bloom and Dunst make a good screen couple , but the manipulative schmaltz spoils it a little bit , and to be honest , I didn't pay full attention , but it is worth watching at least once . Okay !
Magicians	From the makers of Peep Show , and director Andrew O'Connor ( who did magic as a kid , and has been executive producer of pretty much all Derren Brown shows ) this isn't too bad . Basically Harry ( David Mitchell ) and Karl ( Robert Webb ) used to be two of the most successful magicians on stage , but it was after Harry discovered Karl and his wife ( the act's assistant ) having an affair , and then accidentally cutting off her head in a guillotine trick they fell apart . 4 years later , they have split and do not speak to each other , Harry is trying to get a job ( possibly that could involve his magic skills ) , and Karl has reinvented himself as a Derren Brown type act , using thought suggestion and medium . When Harry sees an advert for a international magic contest with a cash prize of £20 , 000 , he originally planned for Karl to help him with an audition , but they are obvious not to get on , and request to both be solo acts . Harry has found a new assistant in the ambitious Linda ( Spaced star Jessica Hynes / Stevenson ) , and Karl has attracted a new naive , almost thick and easy-to-fool Danni ( Andrea Riseborough ) . Both acts progress to the finals , but Harry still has his doubts of bringing back his guillotine act ( and he still thinks of what happened last time ) , soon , Linda will feel the same , and Karl is struggling to keep convincing people he can do his thing . In the end , Karl loses his patience and storms of stage , but after Linda walks out , Karl helps Harry win the contest , and they get their fame back . Also starring Darren Boyd as Otto , Karl's agent , Steve Edge as Tony White , a fellow contestant , with his son Dwight ( Rasmus Hardiker ) , Peter Capaldi as Mike Francis , the leading judge , Alexander Kirk as Dietmar and Tim Plester as Malky . The magic tricks are interesting and impressive , there are even some real magicians in the background , there are some good small giggles , but I can see why the critics give it two stars out of five . Okay !
The Haunting	I always wondered which haunted house film was spoofed in Scary Movie 2 , and renamed Hell House , now I know , and I can definitely see why it should be spoofed . From the director of Speed , Jan De Bont , it is a remake of the 1963 film , where a bunch of people are placed in the isolated house to study sleep disorders and problems , and obviously it turns out to be to find ghosts . Basically Eleanor ' Nell ' Vance ( Ransom's Lili Taylor ) is called to meet with Dr . David Marrow ( Liam Neeson ) and three other people at Hill House for a research stay . The people that look after the house , Mr . Dudley ( Bruce Dern , Laura Dern's Dad ) and Mrs . Dudley ( Home Alone 3's Marian Seldes ) say that no-one will be around and no-one can hear them , duh ! These other three people , Theo ( not renamed in SM2 , played by Catherine Zeta-Jones ) , Luke Sanderson ( Owen Wilson ) and that one that gets her eye slashed , obviously settle better , but as more and more bizarre and spooky things happen in the house , mostly to Nell , she finds out the secrets behind the previous people of the house , including Hugh Crane , his wife and their children they never had . I really liked all the sequences that are memorably spoofed in SM2 , e . g . the door knocker , the ghost crawling in the bed , Crane on the stairs , and if you have the SM2 DVD , the deleted scene with more than just eye slashing . Okay !
Failure to Launch	From the short advert I saw for this film , I was something different , but it still turned out okay . Basically 35 year old slacker Tripp ( Matthew McConaughey ) hasn't been able to keep a relationship going , because he is still living with his parents , Sue ( an underused Kathy Bates ) and Al ( Terry Bradshaw ) , along with his friends . Along comes Paula ( Sarah Jessica Parker ) , and instantly finds herself getting close to Tripp , but it actually turns out , she's paid for this by the parents , so he can learn to be independent and move out . She does almost anything to make sure he's going to stick with her , e . g . pretend to have a dog that is being put to sleep ( not for real of course ) , but she has a rule of never having sex with a " client " . It's only when he is planning to break up with Paula that she breaks this rule the one time , and unfortunately , it turns out she might be falling for him for real . It's obvious that he was eventually going to find out about her " work " , but he realises she really does have feeling for him and they obviously close the film with a loving kiss . Oh , there is also a pretty small subplot where Paula's friend Kit ( Elf's Zooey Deschanel ) is trying to shut an annoying mockingbird up , and the guy she got to help she is falling for . Also starring Justin Bartha as Ace , Bradley Cooper as Demo , Adam Alexi-Malle as Mr . Axelrod , Tyrel Jackson Williams as Jeffrey , Katheryn Winnick as Melissa and Heroes ' Stephen Tobolowsky as Bud . McConaughey isn't bad as the slacker , Parker has her moments , Bates doesn't do enough to shine in a small part , and the slapstick jokes , particularly being hit and bitten by things gets repetitive , but I suppose it's not bad . Okay !
Date Movie	From 2 of the 6 writers of Scary Movie , this is quite a good spoof movie picking on many popular romantic comedy and drama films . Basically Julia Jones ( American Pie's Alyson Hannigan ) is a big girl ( probably spoofing Shallow Hal ) and wants a prince charming , she writes about it in her diary ( like Bridget Jones ) . One day at the café she works in , run by her Dad , Frank Jones ( Scary Movie 3's Eddie Griffin ) she meets the handsome Grant Fockyerdoder ( Adam Campbell ) , but he disappears ( well , is knocked out on the floor ) . She gets advice and help from " Hitch " ( Tony Cox ) , and meets him again , after losing all her weight , on a Littlest Groom type TV show . They have dinner and recreate When Harry Met Sally , and then they both " Meet the Parents " , and they also meet Andy ( Sophie Monk ) who might want to ruin the " Big Fat Greek Wedding " ( like My Best Friend's Wedding ) . Also starring Meera Simhan as Linda Jones , American Pie 3's Fred Willard as Bernie Fockyerdoder , American Pie's Jennifer Coolidge as Roz Fockyerdoder , Marie Matiko as Betty , Judah Friedlander as Nicky , a brief Carmen Electra as Anne , Mauricio Sanchez as Eduardo / Housekeeper , Dana Seltzer as the big assed " Wedding Planner " / Receptionist and Jinxers the cat as himself . Also with mickey-takes on Kill Bill , The Lord of the Rings and some quotes from Jerry Maguire and Four Weddings . Okay !
The Wind in the Willows	I have seen many versions of the famous Kenneth Grahame classic story , too many in fact , and this was the very first live action version . You probably already know the story , but this one has had a few changes made so it is a bit more exciting , but not too much . Mole ( Steve Coogan ) is painting his wall when suddenly his home starts to collapse and he runs away to find the river , and Rat ( Eric Idle ) . They go to Toad ( Terry Jones , also directing ) at Toad Hall to find out that Weasels from the Wild Wood have bought the meadow where Mole's home was , it was Toad's father's meadow . They soon meet up with Badger ( Nicol Williamson ) and try to erase Toad's warped mind of motor cars . Later in the film you find out more from the Chief Weasel ( Antony Sher ) that he wants to turn Toad Hall into a slaughter house , and there is a new Dog Food Factory in the meadow . Apart from the small changes made , the story is still the same . Also starring John Cleese as Mr . Toad's Lawyer , Stephen Fry as The Judge , Bernard Hill as The Engine Driver , Michael Palin ( also in the Rik Mayall cartoon version ) as The Sun , Chicken Run's Julia Sawalha as The Jailer's Daughter and Victoria Wood as The Tea Lady . Okay , mainly for the kids !
Van Helsing	I admit I did want to see this when it was at the cinemas , but seeing I'm glad I didn't , but it is okay film from director Stephen Sommers ( The Mummy , The Mummy Returns ) , who I suppose is trying to capture some of the other memorable Universal monsters in one film . The film opens with Dr . Victor Frankenstein ( Samuel West ) creating his monster , but with Count Vladislaus Dracula ( Moulin Rouge's Richard Roxburgh ) , you understand why they were working together later , but of course Frankenstein and his monster ( Shuler Hensley ) are burned by the outside mob , while Dracula escapes . Years later ( stil the 19th Century by the way ) we go to the great Gabriel Van Helsing ( Hugh Jackman ) , a famed monster hunter trying to catch Dr . Jekyll , or rather Mr . Hyde ( Robbie Coltrane ) , and failing . But anyway , the real story comes about when he is given a mission to protect the last two members of the Valerious family in Transylvania . When he and his friar sidekick Carl ( The Lord of the Rings ' David Wenham ) gets there , Van Helsing at first is questionable , especially by Anna Valerious ( Kate Beckinsale , putting on quite a sexy Transylvanian accent ) , but he proves his worth when some vampires start attacking . As the plot develops we find out that Dracula is planning a mass attack on the town for all the blood they lust , by hatching some eggs full of deadly bat-type creatures . To do this though , the need an electrical charge that can only come from either lightning , or with the help of Frankenstein's monster , who is still living . As it continues , Anna's brother Velkan ( Will Kemp ) is turned into a werewolf , Dracula is defeated almost really easily , Van Helsing's werewolf is stopped , but he failed to complete his mission , i . e . Anna dies . Also starring Elena Anaya as Aleera , The Mummy's Kevin J . O'Connor as Igor , The Mummy Returns ' Alun Armstrong as Cardinal Jinette , Silvia Colloca as Verona , Josie Maran as Marishka and Tom Fisher as Top Hat . The special effects are good , the dialogue is really cheesy , the acting isn't much better , it is just lame , and only worth watching at least once . Okay !
Hulk	It was predictable to see the first live action film starring the big green monster on TV , because of the release of the new Edward Norton one at the cinemas . Basically Bruce Banner ( Eric Bana ) is accidentally exposed to gamma rays while working in his lab , and as a result whenever he gets angry he turn into a green monster with great strength , agility and a big roar , the Hulk . His close friend and co-worker Betty Ross ( Jennifer Connelly ) is the only person who can keep him calm , and the people mainly responsible for getting him angry most of the time are Betty's soldier father Ross ( Sam Elliott ) and his attacking troops , or Bruce's father David Banner ( Nick Nolte ) who has given himself abilities as a result of gamma radiation . Also starring Josh Lucas as Talbot , Kevin Rankin as Harper , Stan Lee as Security Guard and Lou Ferrigno as Security Guard . The special effects are good , in particular the Hulk's facial expressions , but Ang Lee ( The Ice Storm , Brokeback Monuntain ) is the wrong choice for director , the acting and dialogue is ridiculously comic-book like , and the editing made like frames of a comic may be innovative , but it's annoying . I think this is a film mainly the kids will like , worth seeing at least once for the rest of us . Okay !
Bicentennial Man	If you like futuristic films with some good special effects , then you might like most of this one . Basically it is the not too distant future , and robots are the new thing of the 21st century and nearly every home has one . ' Sir ' Richard Martin ( Sam Neill ) buys his family one of these robots , it's , or his name is Andrew . After being activated he always does work and tasks for the family . But it turns out Andrew ( Robin Williams ) is unique , he is discovering more about the world he lives in , and develops human qualities , e . g . feelings and emotions . He asks to be free and then travels the world searching for more unique robots , and he eventually finds Galatea ( Kiersten Warren ) , living with robotics expert Rupert Burns ( Oliver Platt . With his help , Andrew becomes essentially a real human , and falls in love with the niece of " Little Miss " Amanda ( Matilda's Embeth Davidtz ) , Portia ( also Davidtz ) . He lives for 200 years before cutting himself off and become a real human being . From director Chris Columbus ( Home Alone , Mrs . Doubtfire ) it is pleasant to watch , but I can see what the critics mean about too much sentimentality , it is almost drenched in it . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Makeup . Okay !
It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World	This was the film that inspired Jerry Zucker's Rat Race , with an all-star cast , all racing to the same place to get to the fortune first , from director Stanley Kramer ( Guess Who's Coming to Dinner ) . Basically somewhere in the desert , a car speeds along the roads , and the driver ( Jack Benny ) loses control sailing off the cliff . Four other vehicles are near , they stop to help , and the driver tells them in his dying moments that he has $350 , 000 below a giant " W " in Santa Rosita , some 200 miles away , and then he dies . For a few minutes they question his claim , then a few seconds later they start the race . They do stop a few minutes to try and come to an agreement if it is true and they do have to divide the cash , but they can't work it out , so they are all against each other trying to get to it first . The only other person that knew about the fortune before they did is Capt . C . G . Culpepper ( Spencer Tracy , in his penultimate film , before Guess Who's Coming to Dinner ) who is keeping track of them all , until eventually he gives in to his greed as well . To be honest , not that many moments stick out in my mind , besides some explosions , chaos in a plane , and of course the all-star cast . I thought it only got interesting when they reached the destination , they are looking for the giant " W " , which turns out to be some palm trees , they do find it , but Culpepper persuades them to hand themselves in ( to jail ) , this is how he nicks it from them . In the end , they are all hanging on fire escape ladders , the money falls into the large crowd below , and all characters go to hospital after falling in various ways . Starring Milton Berle as J . Russell Finch , Sid Caesar as Melville Crump , DDS ; Buddy Hackett as Benjy Benjamin , Ethel Merman as the irritatingly loud and talkative Mrs . Marcus , Mickey Rooney as Ding ' Dingy ' Bell , Dick Shawn as Sylvester Marcus , Phil Silvers as Otto Meyer , Terry-Thomas as Lt . Col . J . Algernon Hawthorne , Golden Globe nominated Jonathan Winters as Lennie Pike , Edie Adams as Monica Crump , Dorothy Provine as Emeline Marcus-Finch , Peter Falk as Third cab driver , Jimmy Durante as Smiler Grogan , Buster Keaton as Jimmy the Crook , Carl Reiner as Tower controller at Rancho Conejo , Jim Backus as Tyler Fitzgerald , Jerry Lewis as Man who runs over hat , Leo Gorcey as First cab driver and Eddie ' Rochester ' Anderson as Second cab driver . Maybe if this was a little shorter , with more memorable gags this could have been a favourite of mine , like Rat Race ( which I prefer to this ) , but plenty of famous faces to keep you interested . It won the Oscar for Best Sound Effects , and it was nominated for Best Cinematography , Best Film Editing , Best Song for the title song , Best Music for Ernest Gold and Best Sound , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Musical / Comedy . Okay !
Untraceable	Obviously inspired by the Saw series , and referencing the phenomenon of video watching ( like YouTube ) , for negative purposes of course , this looked like an interesting horror thriller , from director Gregory Hoblit ( Frequency ) . Basically FBI agent Jennifer Marsh ( Diane Lane ) works in the Cybercrime division , and one day she comes across a suspicious website called KillWithMe . com , where an innocent kitten is to be killed by some torture devise , and basically the more people watch , the faster it dies . It becomes much more serious when the next victim is obviously human , and in a much more deadly trap , and they are trying to access anything that will lead them to the creator and killer , but it is " untraceable " . We the audience obviously see the killer , Owen Reilly ( Joseph Cross ) , and takes a while for them to realise it is him , but when they do , after about one or two more victims , including Jennifer's good friend Griffin Dowd ( Colin Hanks , Tom's son ) , Jennifer finds herself the next , and eventually last victim of the deadly traps . Also starring Billy Burke as Detective Eric Box , Mary Beth Hurt as Stella Marsh , Peter Lewis as Richard Brooks , Tyrone Giordano as Tim Wilks and Perla Haney-Jardine as Annie Haskins . The gore is as good as you can get in the Saws , Lane is a good leading actress , and even if the story does have the tiniest glitches , it is worth a look . Okay !
Striptease	Taking off her clothes was quite a popular thing , so somebody thought , why don't we get Demi Moore to do it throughout a whole film . The result a higher pay for Moore , more flesh than usually shown and a rather silly script / story . Anyway , Erin Grant ( Moore ) needs to get a job that earns a lot of money so she can have proper custody of her little girl , so she decides to become a stripper in a rather popular Las Vegas type club . She earns loads of money from using really good Annie Lennox songs and the power to dance and flash her flesh . Also starring the really stupid Burt Reynolds as Congressman David Dilbeck , Pulp Fiction's Ving Rhames as Shad and Terminator 2's Robert Patrick as Darrell Grant . Personally , it is only worth seeing for the nudity content . Okay !
Mr . Nice Guy	When you see bits of this you expect it to be quite fun , and then when you read the review by critics you can agree with what their saying . Based in Melbourne , Australia , this story sees Jackie Chan as Jackie ( LOL ) , a popular TV cook with great food talents , and knowledge of martial arts . His life is turned upside down when TV Journalist Diana ( Gabrielle Fitzpatrick ) has taped evidence of a drug lord , Giancarlo ' The Saint ' Lucchetti ( Richard Norton ) doing his " business " , and on her way out is spotted , and has to run . She runs into Jackie in the street and they getaway after a little struggle , but it gets worse they accidentally mix up her tape or the crime , and his tape of his cookery show . The bad guys are now after Jackie , who they think has the tape , but what he and they don't realise is that one of Jackie's nephews nicked it . There is also a point where Jackie's girlfriend Miki ( Miki Lee , LOL again ) is kidnapped and threatened for ransom , so this is when we know , " No More Mr . Nice Guy " . Also starring Karen McLymont as Lakeisha , Vince Poletto as Romeo , Barry Otto as Baggio and the director Sammo Hung Kam-Bo as Cyclist . The action , stunt and chase sequences as with most of Chan's films are very fun and quite exciting , including a stunt involving a power saw , but I agree with critics two star ( out of five ) opinion , because the acting is rubbish , and the story could have used a bit of work too , but it is certainly a film for Chan and stunt fans . Jackie Chan was number 41 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars . Okay !
The Tuxedo	The lead star and the concept of the film are what drew me to see it . Basically Jimmy Tong ( Jackie Chan ) gets the job of chauffeuring for millionaire Clark Devlin ( Jason Isaacs ) , who is actually a super spy with many gadgets . It is after Devlin has an accident , ending up in hospital , and unknowingly Jimmy tries on Devlin's tuxedo , discovering it gives extraordinary powers to anyone who wears it . It also thrusts Jimmy into the secret spy world with danger , international intrigue and espionage , and with agent Delilah ' Del ' Blaine ( I Know What You Did Last Summer's Jennifer Love Hewitt ) mistaking him for Devlin . There is a plot to kill everyone on Earth by giving them a specially developed water that will dehydrate all who drink it , and it is up to Jimmy and Del to stop it . Also starring Debi Mazar as Steena , Ritchie Coaster as Dietrich Banning , Peter Stormare as Dr . Simms , Mia Cottet as Cheryl and Romany Malco as Mitch . There are some highlights provided by the special effects for the suit , e . g . dancing and singing like James Brown ( who cameos ) , and a couple of not too bad fight scenes , but this isn't the funniest or most thrilling film ever , but you can't complain too much with Chan involved . Okay !
Bridget Jones : The Edge of Reason	I loved the first film , and from the look of it I expected this to be not as good as the first , and I was right . This sequel picks up four weeks after the first , and clumsy , fat ( she put on quite a bit of weight ) and insecure Bridget Jones ( Golden Globe nominated Renée Zellweger ) has human rights lawyer Mark Darcy ( Colin Firth ) . They do start to squabble after a while , both about small things ( like how Mark folds his pants ) and a possible affair with Rebecca ( Jacinda Barrett ) ( and it turns out she is a lesbian in love with Bridget ) , and they break up . During this break up Mark disappears somewhere , and Bridget has a fling with her past lover who has returned , working on TV , Daniel Cleaver ( Hugh Grant ) , and they go to Thailand to do filming . Bridget on the way home does get involved in a drug smuggling incident which makes her go to prison , but there is a happy ending , after Mark and Daniel's second fight , when Mark asks Bridget for marriage , and she accepts . Also starring Jim Broadbent as Bridget's dad , Gemma Jones as Bridget's mum , Smack the Pony's Sally Phillips as Sharon / Shazzer , Shirley Henderson as Jude , James Callis as Tom , Jessica Stevenson / Hynes as Magda , Neil Pearson as Richard Finch , Ace Ventura 2's Ian McNeice as Quizmaster , Celia Imrie as Una Alconbury and Jeremy Paxman . The sentimentality of the film seems more constant than the laughs , and it does not have much reference to Bridget's diary , but there one or two giggly moments , e . g . Bridget getting soaked twice by puddles . Okay !
Daddy Day Care	Cheaper by the Dozen was out the same year , and this is almost the same type of film . I have given this film the same rating out of 10 as I did for Cheaper ( because it isn't brilliant ) , but I think this is the much better film to watch . Basically two fathers , Charlie Hinton ( Eddie Murphy ) and his friend ( and work pal ) Phil ( Jeff Garlin ) lose their jobs in product development at a large food company , and are forced to become stay-at-home dads . With no jobs in sight , they decide to set up a new day care facility from home , called " Daddy Day Care " . When the parents have been persuaded to give the male day care runners a chance , it catches on , and the kids that turn up include Crispin ( Shane Baumel ) , Becca ( Hailey Noelle Johnson ) , and The Flash / Tony ( Jimmy Bennett ) , oh , and Charlie's kid Ben ( Khamani Griffin ) joins in too . The only thing that could stop them continuing this success is the mean Chapman Academy director Miss Harridan ( Anjelica Huston ) . There some good moments with the two dads playing with the kids and keeping them quiet in various ways , and Murphy makes a more fun dad than Steve Martin did , a good family film . Okay !
Carry On Abroad	I have always liked the Carry On films , with their double-meaning sexual innuendo dialogue and moments of slapstick comedy , but I can see why the critics give this one two stars . Basically , many British people are gathering on a coach to go on a Spanish holiday to an island called Elsbels to the Palace Hotel . What they didn't know is that it is not completely built , plus they have to share bathrooms with their neighbours , they have crap draws , and many other complications and complaints that the owner Pepe ( Peter Butterworth , putting on quite an amusing accent , e . g . peace sounding like the bad P word ) . Starring Sid James as Vic Flange , Kenneth Williams as Stuart Farquhar , Charles Hawtrey as Eustace Tuttle , Joan Sims as Cora Flange , Barbara Windsor as Sadie Tomkins , Kenneth Connor as Stanley Blunt , an apparently crap ( I personally can't remember who he is ) Jimmy Logan as Bert Conway , June Whitfield as Evelyn Blunt , Hattie Jacques as Floella ( a ridiculous hag character , not as memorable as her usual Matron ) , Bernard Bresslaw as Brother Bernard , Sally Geeson as Lily , Carol Hawkins as Marge , Jack Douglas as Harry and Patsy Rowlands as Miss Dobbs . I admit it is not great , but there are just enough dialogue gags , and of course Babs in the shower , and going to to her bum with that iconic whistle , and later a rapid rip off of her bra . Okay !
Biggie and Tupac	I may have heard of the two star rappers focused in this film , but I can't be sure . Anyway , this documentary by Nick Broomfield focuses on ( for a while ) friend rappers Tupac Shakur , murdered in 1997 , and Biggie Smalls ( Christopher Wallace , the Notorious B . I . G . ) , murdered in 1996 . Both murders could have been connected by a shop called Death Row Records , as they were both involved with them . Or it could have been something to do with a rivalry that started after many death threats between the two stars . Nick Broomfield found some footage of the two stars past , but there is still the questions of who really committed the two murders , and were they connected ? I actually went to LA where one of them was a murdered . Adequate !
Weird Science	From writer / director John Hughes ( The Breakfast Club , Ferris Bueller's Day Off ) I had a vague idea of what this film consisted of , and I was pretty close . Basically two nerdy teenage boys , Gary Wallace ( The Breakfast Club's Anthony Michael Hall ) and Wyatt Donnelly ( Ilan Mitchell-Smith ) are desperate to be liked , and of course sex-obsessed , and in their desperation ( inspired by watching - a coloured version of - Frankenstein , 1931 ) they decide to create the perfect woman . They weren't counting on the computer gaining so much power it would actually make their woman a reality , but it happens , and Lisa ( Kelly LeBrock ) is determined to help them have a good time . Lisa , who can get absolutely anything she wants ( e . g . expensive cars , mutant bikers to appear ) has a purpose to turn them into men by putting them in a couple of situations to boost their confidence , and they are on the road to becoming accepted by others . Of course it is at the big party ( they always wanted ) they meet the girls they would have always wanted , and Lisa's job is done . Also starring Bill Paxton as Chet Donnelly , Suzanne Snyder as Deb , Judie Aronson as Hilly , young Robert Downey Jr . as Ian , Robert Rusler as Max , Commando's Vernon Wells as Lord General , Britt Leach as Al Wallace , Barbara Lang as Lucy Wallace , Ivor Barry as Henry Donnelly , Ann Coyle as Carmen Donnelly and the original Hills Have Eyes ' Michael Berryman as Mutant Biker . LeBrock is obviously very attractive , and there are one or two amusing moments , but the comedy is pretty crass , but it was interesting to younger Paxton and especially future star Downey , Jr . in a film of this sort . It was number 42 on The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments . Okay !
Cheaper by the Dozen 2	The first film was a near good return for the lead actor , and this sequel from director Adam Shankman ( The Wedding Planner , A Walk to Remember , Bringing Down the House ) is no different to it's predecessor . Basically Tom Baker ( Steve Martin ) and wife Kate ( Jumanji's Bonnie Hunt ) feel they are losing some of their ( older ) kids as they get ready to leave for their own lives , e . g daughter Nora ( Piper Perabo ) , now married to Bud McNulty ( Jonathan Bennett ) and expecting a baby , Lorraine ( Razzie nominated Hilary Duff ) is getting ready to go to New York for an internship with Vogue , and son Charlie ( Smallville's Tom Welling ) is leaving ( I think for college or whatever ) . So Tom thinks it would be a good idea if he and Kate take all twelve kids on a camping vacation , and would have been perfect if Tom wasn't in an old rivalry with ultra-competitive neighbour Jimmy Murtaugh ( American Pie's Razzie nominated Eugene Levy ) , with wife Sarina ( Carmen Electra ) and their eight kids . It is obviously when trying to make themselves look better , or trying to the make the Murtaugh's look foolish where all the disaster comes from , so Tom and Jimmy decide to settle it once and for all in a family sports day , and thank goodness both families can't beat each other when daughter Nora has her water break . Also starring Sin City's Jaime King as Anne Murtaugh , Taylor Lautner as Eliot Murtaugh , Alyson Stoner as Sarah Baker , Small Soldiers ' Jacob Smith as Jake Baker , Liliana Mumy as Jessica Baker , Morgan York as Kim Baker , Kevin G . Schmidt as Henry Baker , Forrest Landis as Mark Baker , Brent and Shane Kinsman as twins Nigel and Kyle Baker , Blake Woodruff as Mike Baker , Alexander Conti as Kenneth Murtaugh , Melanie Tonello as Becky Murtaugh , Robbie Amell as Daniel Murtaugh , Courtney Fitzpatrick as Lisa Murtaugh , Madison Fitzpatrick as Robin Murtaugh and Shawn Roberts as Calvin Murtaugh . I think this is worth seeing for the funny chaotic events of young children , and Martin and Levy having their disagreements . Okay !
A View to a Kill	This was the last film that we saw Sir Roger Moore play the great James Bond before Timothy Dalton stepped in . He had played him seven times and is still the longest running Bond so far , Sir Sean Connery's Never Say Never Again doesn't count . Anyway , Bond this time is up against American big shot Max Zorin ( Christopher Walken ) who is found to be planning to flood Silicon Valley with his oil wells and a bomb . He has the help of the really fit , but squeamish Stacey Sutton ( Tanya Roberts ) . Also starring Grace Jones as May Day , Patrick Macnee as Sir Godfrey Tibbett , Patrick Bauchau as Scarpine , David Yip as Chuck Lee , Fiona Fullerton as Pola Ivanova , Manning Redwood as Bob Conley , Alison Doody as Jenny Flex , Willoughby Gray as Dr . Carl Mortner , Desmond Llewelyn as Q , Robert Brown as M , Walter Gotell as General Anatol Gogol , Geoffrey Keen as Sir Frederick Gray and Lois Maxwell as Miss Moneypenny , also for the last time . It is filled with some good chases , fights and humour , but seeing it again I can see why the critics give it two out of five stars . James Bond was number 3 on 100 Years , 100 Heroes & Villains , he was also number 21 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols , and he was number 21 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons , the film was was number 10 on James Bond's Greatest Hits for Duran Duran's Golden Globe nominated title song . Okay !
Along Came Auntie	One of the few films I have seen featuring only one member of the most famous comedy duo in history , and it does make for odd viewing . Basically Mrs . Remington Chow ( Vivien Oakland ) is married to Chow ( Glenn Tryon ) , but because of financial difficulties has had to take in her first husband who she divorced , Vincent Belcher ( Oliver Hardy ) as a lodger . The wife us set to receive $100 , 000 and a quart of diamonds from her Aunt Alvira ( Lucy Beaumont ) , who disapproves of divorce , and she is coming over expecting to see Vincent as her husband . So she gets him to pretend their still married , which Remington of course isn't happy with , and it all comes to a head at bedtime , when the Aunt is to see both men . I don't know why Stan Laurel couldn't have had a small part in this film , e . g . butler , as he and Hardy had worked in a film or two before . This film has it's very small moments of humour , but being a very grainy picture and silent doesn't help , so I can't say this is a great film . Okay !
The Patriot	Director Roland Emmerich ( Independence Day , The Day After Tomorrow ) has created an interesting story based on real history , and Mel Gibson has created another good history character nearly like William Wallace , but this isn't exactly the best example of a war film . I think it focuses more on Benjamin Martin's ( Gibson ) family ( or at least mainly children / boys ) in this film , which is quite good for some action , but I want more battle . Basically the British or whoever are troubling Martin and his family , so after one of his son's dies , he decides to help in the war for freedom along with his other sons . Also starring Heath Ledger as Gabriel Martin , Jason Isaacs as Col . William Tavington , Joely Richardson as Charlotte Selton , Chris Cooper as Col . Harry Burwell , Tom Wilkinson as General Lord Charles Cornwallis , Independence Day's Adam Baldwin as Capt . Wilkins and Jurassic Park III's Trevor Morgan as Nathan Martin . It was nominated for the Oscars for Best Cinematography , Best Music and Best Sound . Mel Gibson was number 17 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars . Worth watching , at least once !
Shrooms	I had seen the poster for this film , but I didn't really think about critics opinions or anything before I watched it , maybe I should of . Basically some American teenagers arrive in the Ireland , and are promised by Irish friend Jake ( Jack Huston ) , and expert in mushrooms , the " trip " of a lifetime , knowing their eagerness for adventure . Jake warns about the certain " shrooms " they can't eat , but hardly any of them listen , and horrific visions start happening . Because they are high on these magic mushrooms , they don't know if the ghostly creatures and other things are for real , or part of their hallucinations , to be honest , neither do we ( the audience ) . There are also some really creepy woodsmen , Ernie ( Don Wycherley ) and Bernie ( Sean McGinley ) don't help the panicking teens . As everyone is being bumped off , it becomes clear that it doesn't matter if these visions are real or not , the evidence is there afterwards , the ending however , with last survivor , Tara ( Lindsey Haun ) , isn't great . Also starring Max Kasch as Troy , Maya Hazen as Lisa , Alice Greczyn as Holly and Robert Hoffman as Bluto . The plot is certainly innovative , and the gore amount gives the story a bit of energy , but just like the characters , you don't know what's real and what's not , and it is a little tedious . Okay !
Mary Shelley's Frankenstein	This new version of the classic Mary Shelley monster story is quite an interesting film from actor / director Kenneth Branagh . Victor Frankenstein ( Branagh ) is in the middle of a snowy place , he is on a ship telling some people on a ship his story . Frankenstein is a scientist interested in creating new life . With Professor Waldman's ( John Cleese ) short help he starts to create a form of life in his lab . During the process he falls in love with Elizabeth ( Helena Bonham Carter ) . When he has finished this " thing " , he discovers he has created a monster . This monster ( played by Robert De Niro ) escapes and learns the world around him , because he has Walman's brain . He later sees Frankenstein and asks him to make another creature , for love . Also starring Ian Holm as Baron Frankenstein and Celia Imrie as Mrs . Moritz . The special effects are certainly very good , but some of the story is a little weird , or OTT in places . Okay !
East Is East	This Film Four made film is pretty good drama , I just wasn't that interested in all of it . BAFTA nominated Om Puri plays grumpy and strict George Khan , he wants his family to be really perfect and his kids are starting to dislike his strict behaviour . I can't really remember why it is called East is East , probably something to do with the main characters being Asian . The main reason why I wanted to see this really was for the appearance of EastEnders ' Jim Branning ( John Bardon ) . But there was also the appearances of EastEnders ' Ash Ferraira , Raji James and Coronation Street's Dev Alahan , Jimmi Harkinshin . I think that Dan Ferraira's character was based on Om Puri in this film . It won the BAFTA for the Alexander Korda Award for Best British Film , and it was nominated for Best Film , Best Actress for Linda Bassett as Ella Khan , Best Adapted Screenplay and the Carl Foreman Award for the Most Promising Newcomer for Ayub Khan-Din , and it won the British Comedy Award for Best Comedy Film . Adequate , in my opinion !
Big Fat Liar	I suppose I can see why critics give this film two out five stars , it isn't fantastic , but I think it is worth a look , from director Shawn Levy ( Cheaper by the Dozen , Night at the Museum ) . Basically 14-year-old Jason Shepherd ( Malcolm in the Middle's Frankie Muniz ) is often lying to his parents and teachers , and his teacher warns him that if he doesn't do his creative writing , he will fail his whole semester and have to repeat the grade during summer . So he completes his work , but getting a lift from Hollywood producer Marty Wolf ( Paul Giamatti ) , who hit him on the way to school , he manages to leave his paper with the story " Big Fat Liar " in the car . He finds out from a movie trailer that Marty stole his paper and is turning it into a major movie , so he and his best friend Kaylee ( She's the Man's Amanda Bynes ) are on a mission to prove Jason is for once telling the truth . Marty of course is too nasty and smug to give Jason's father Harry ( Michael Bryan French ) a phone call , and he evens burns the " Big Fat Liar " paper . So now Jason and Kaylee are determined to make Marty's life as hellish as possible , until he agrees to call Jason's Dad . They put blue dye in his swimming pool , and orange hair dye in his shampoo , and much more naughty pranks creating chaos for Marty's career . There is the obvious point when Jason looks like he wants to give up , but don't worry , all characters that despise Marty help out in the final operation , and with Jason's parents coming , he wants to finally prove his truthfulness , and boy does he deliver , big style . Also starring Amanda Detmer as Monty Kirkham , Lee Majors as Vince , Donald Adeosun Faison as Frank Jackson , Sandra Oh as Mrs . Phyllis Caldwell , Russell Hornsby as Marcus Duncan , Christine Tucci as Carol Shepherd and American Pie's John Cho as Dustin ' Dusty ' Wong . Muniz is likable , Byrnes proves a very surprisingly talented support , and even though he is wasting his time and talent a little , Giamatti is great at being nasty . It is a kids film , so if it seems corny , cheesy or predictable , just keep that in mind , and try to enjoy the performances and slapstick . Okay !
Enigma	I was quite interested in the theme of this film , involving one of the biggest parts of World War II , and the actors in it , and the result wasn't too bad . Basically during this war many Nazi U-boats used Enigma Codes to send secret messages , possibly their plans and stuff , and Britain's code-breaking centre didn't have long to crack it . The authorities enlist the help of a brilliant young man , Thomas Jericho ( Dougray Scott ) , who is a genius in the field of puzzle solving , or whatever he normally does . With this code-breaking job , Tom also has the trouble of tracking down the woman he had quite a thing for , Claire ( Saffron Burrows ) , who has disappeared , and he suspects of being allied with the enemy . To help him with the mysteries , he recruits Claire's best friend , Hester Wallace ( Kate Winslet ) , and together they discover quite a few betrayals , more importantly from Wigram ( Jeremy Northam ) . Also starring Nikolaj Coaster-Waldau as " Puck " Pukowski , Tom Hollander as Logie , Donald Sumpter as Leveret , Matthew Macfadyen as Cave and Corin Redgrave as Admiral Trowbridge . You really need to pay attention to this film to understand what is going on , but what I did wasn't too bad . It was number 66 on The 100 Greatest War Films . Okay !
Dad's Dead	Part of the special features on Danny Boyle's Sunshine , this shot film was pretty weird . Narrated by Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone's Ian Hart , it is a very surreal short story mixing live action with some amusing cartoons . The narrator looks back fondly at his Liverpool childhood and the antics of best friend Johnno ( Chris Freeney ) . Well known for being a showman and keen on joking , Johnno starts to change for the worse when he announces his father / Dad ( John Murphy ) has died . Also starring Dallas Messias as Johnno's Mum . The animation as I said is amusing at times , I don't know if I would want to see something like this again , but not a bad film . It was nominated the BAFTA for Best Short Animation . Okay !
The Flintstones	This is the live action film of the popular Hanna Barbera cartoon about the stone age family . There is not that much good comedy , it is more emotion and family based , but it is quite good for some reasons . John Goodman plays Fred Flintstone , husband and father of the famous stone age family . He is exactly as ignorant and fat as the the cartoon version . Elizabeth Perkins plays Wilma Flintstone , she is quite pretty , but she is not as worrying as the cartoon version . Honey , I Shrunk the Kids ' Rick Moranis plays the cartoon's best character Barney Rubble . He is giggly and a bit dumb , not quite as good as the cartoon though . And Rosie O'Donnell as Betty Rubble is just not right , she is meant to be thin and attractive , not fat and quite loud . Also starring Kyle MacLachlan as Cliff Vandercave , Halle Berry as Sharon Stone ( probably meant to be irony , but they did originally want the actress of the same name ) , Elizabeth Taylor as Pearl Slaghoople and Richard Moll as Hoagie . Not all people who loved the cartoon show would bother with this , but it is still quite fun for the family . Halle Berry was number 99 , and Dame Elizabeth Taylor number 77 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , Taylor was also number 11 on The 50 Greatest British Actresses , and she was number 7 on Britain's Finest Actresses . Okay !
The Phantom of the Opera	Based on the stage show by Lord Sir Andrew Lloyd Webber ( creator of Cats , Jesus Christ Superstar and Joseph ) and directed by Joel Schumacher ( Falling Down ) , I was hoping this to be a little better , but it wasn't completely rubbish . Basically at the French Opera Populaire house the manager has left and been replaced . They are having problems though with the leading diva refusing to perform , due to the mysterious Phantom ( 300's Gerard Butler ) . Eventually the new diva Christine ( Golden Globe nominated Emmy Rossum ) meets this man in person , and he is obviously in love with her . The rest of the story is mainly The Phantom demanding an opera for him , trying to get Christine to love him , showing his deformed face behind that white mask , and an ending of despair ( that I can't remember ) . Also starring Patrick Wilson as Vicompte Raoul De Chagny , Miranda Richardson as Madame Giry , Minnie Driver as Carlotta , Ciarán Hinds as Richard Firmin , Simon Callow as Gilles Andre , Victor McGuire as Piangi , Brookside's Jennifer Ellison as Meg Giry , Murray Melvin as Reyer and James Fleet as Lefevre . To be honest , the only memorable song for me was " The Phantom of the Opera " , which before this I saw Rhydian on The X Factor perform ( he was great ) , the rest of the film isn't really my thing . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Art Direction , Best Cinematography and Best Song for " Learn To Be Lonely " ( also nominated the Golden Globe ) , and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Musical or Comedy . Okay !
Rush Hour 3	The first one is best , the second is almost as good , but this one has nowhere near the same wit and charm . The story sees Ambassador Han ( Tzi Ma ) shot in an attempted assassination , and Inspector Lee ( Jackie Chan ) and Detective James Carter ( Chris Tucker ) are assigned to find out who did this , and promise the ambassador's daughter Soo Yung ( Jingchu Zhang ) this . Their search for the triads lead them to journey to Paris , and many chase sequences happen as the continue their search for the main villain , Lee's evil brother Kenji ( Ring's Hiroyuki Sanada ) . During this , Soo Young is kidnapped and held hostage , they find Genevieve ( Noémie Lenoir ) who holds secrets to many triad leaders names , and the final battle on the Eiffle Tower . Also starring Youki Kudoh as Dragon Lady , Max Von Sydow as Varden Reynard , Yvan Attal as George and film director Roman Polanski as Detective Revi . There are some giggly gags , good chase sequences , and the still quite fun mismatched partnership , but there are not enough big scale stunts , and some jokes , particularly from Tucker and his loud-mouth are wearing thin . Okay !
Me , Myself and Irene	An interesting idea for a comedy , a man's constant struggle to struggle with schizophrenia . Basically Officer Charlie Baileygates ( Jim Carrey ) has lived a long while with the loss of his wife sleeping with a midget and lots of other stuff . He has held in a lot of emotions over the years , and now he has had too much put into his head that he has created a new personality in his head . He has created a monster opposite of himself , Hank Evans , who does everything that Charlie couldn't , and wouldn't . Worst thing that happens is that Charlie falls for troubled Irene P . Waters ( Renée Zellweger ) . Soon enough , Hank takes a fancy too . Also starring Chris Cooper as Lt . Gerke , Massena PD , Robert Forster as Colonel Partington and Tony Cox as Shonte Jackson . Two of the most amusing scenes are when Hank is first created , and the battle between him and Charlie , but the rest of the film is just cheese . Adeqaute !
Along Came Polly	From director John Hamburg ( writer of Zoolander and Meet the Parents ) , I had seen the trailer for it , and I knew how many stars the critics gave it , so I just said " what the hell " . Basically risk analyst Reuben Feffer ( Razzie nominated Ben Stiller ) marries who he thinks is his true love , Lisa Kramer ( Debra Messing ) , and he loses her when on their paradise honeymoon she cheats on him with foreign scuba instructor Claude ( The Simpsons ' Hank Azaria ) . When he returns home his friends , including actor Sandy Lyle ( Philip Seymour Hoffman ) , try to cheer him up by meeting new people , and it is doing this that he meets old school classmate Polly Prince ( Jennifer Aniston ) . Reuben and Polly go dating quite a few times after , he is a risk-avoider and she is a free-spirit , and it is when Lisa returns begging him to take her back that trouble is obvious to follow . Towards the end , Reuben tries to determine who would be the perfect partner with a computer earnings thing , which Polly sees , but don't worry , he says no to Lisa and gets Polly in the end . Also starring Bryan Brown as Leland Van Lew , Alec Baldwin as Stan Indursky , Jsu Garcia as Javier , Michele Lee as Vivian Feffer , Bob Dishy as Irving Feffer , Charlie and the Chocolate Factory's Missi Pyle as Roxanne and Heroes ' Masi Oka as Wonsuk . There were the tiniest giggles , but this isn't that funny , and the romance story isn't exactly gripping , so I wouldn't be keen to see it again . Okay !
My Little Eye	I saw this film only once and thought it was rubbish , but when I saw it again , and I could see one or two good things , from director Marc Evans ( Snow Cake ) . Basically five people apply to live in an isolated house together for six months whilst filmed by cameras for the internet , each with their own reasons for being there , but if one leaves , they all lose the chance to win the prize of $1 , 000 , 000 . They are Charlie ( Jennifer Sky ) , Danny ( Stephen O'Reilly ) , Emma ( Laura Regan ) , Matt ( Sean C . W . Johnson ) and Rex ( Final Destination 3's Kris Lemche ) . All of them think the house was creepy even before some loud bumps and stuff started happening , but when a blood covered hammer appears on a pillow , they wonder whether the creators of the show are trying to make them crack . They also get a visitor with Travis Patterson ( Bradley Cooper ) , and it is when one of them is found dead from hanging himself , they investigate the information about the show they are on , which they were never told the name of . It soon becomes obvious that one of them wants the money more than anyone , and is willing to do anything the creators want to get it . It might appeal to the Big Brother-YouTube generation who like both reality shows and internet videos , but I can't really say it is fantastic , see it at least once . Okay !
Disclosure	I had my predictions of this film , but I am glad I gave it a chance , based on the book from Jurassic Park writer Michael Crichton ( Also producing ) and directed by Barry Levinson ( Rain Man ) . Basically Tom Sanders ( Michael Douglas ) is the computer company executive happily married with two children who loses out to a promotion to the woman he once had a thing with , his new boss Meredith Johnson ( Demi Moore ) . One night Maredith invites Tom to her office for a quick " meeting " , and with her new found power she tries to get her way with him , giving him a quick blow-job , even though he keeps saying " no " , and then angrily he tries to do her , but he stops himself and leaves . The next day , Meredith is accusing Tom of sexual harassment , when in fact it was the other way round , and he is determined to sue her for the charge she herself has alleged . They don't have a proper trial , they just have an office discussion , obviously with Tom's wife Susan Hendler ( Caroline Goodall ) now aware of everything to watch , he and his lawyer Catherine Alvarez ( Roma Maffia ) fight his cause . There is some subplot of there being something going on that Tom finds out about with all the Gizmos in the company , but you can't really care about this , and it is a relief when it turns out Meredith's " meeting " with Tom was all caught on tape , she is fired , and Tom wins . Also starring Donald Sutherland as Bob Garvin , Dennis Miller as Mark Lewyn , Rosemary Forsyth as Stephanie Kaplan , Happiness's Dylan Baker as Philip Blackburn , Nicholas Sadler as Don Cherry , Allan Rich as Ben Heller and Suzie Plakson as Mary Anne Hunter . Besides the very erotic " meeting " between Douglas and Moore , a highlight for me was the nightmare where Sutherland flirts with Douglas and is about to kiss him with tongues . I can agree with the critics , this may be an unintentionally thriller , because it is all the dialogue , especially talking of sex , a penis in the mouth and panties , that makes you laugh , it also has it's wittiness , so it's not a completely terrible film . Okay !
White Chicks	From Razzie nominated Keenen Ivory Wayans ( Scary Movie 1 & 2 ) , and with his writing / producer / star brothers ( also part of Scary Movie 1 & 2 ) , comes this cross-dressing , inter-racial and almost risky comedy . Basically disgraced African-American FBI agent brothers Kevin and Marcus Copeland ( played by real brothers Shawn and Marlon Wayans ) have one more chance to prove themselves by protecting cruise line heiress and brattish socialite sisters , Brittany ( Maitland Ward ) and Tiffany Wilson ( Anne Dudek ) - clones of Paris and Nikki Hilton - from possible kidnap . This becomes a disaster when after getting scratches , and overacting , they refuse to go anywhere . So rather than face being fired , Kevin and Marcus decide to disguise themselves as the two white chicks , and doing this get themselves into hilarious girly and nearly revealing situations . After the usual film " things looking bad " stage , they do prove themselves good agents when they thwart the bad guy , Warren Vandergeld ( John Heard ) , and everyone makes up , yawn , it always happens . Also starring Jaime King as Heather Vandergeld , Frankie Faison as Section Chief Elliott Gordon , Scary Movie's Lochlyn Munro as Agent Jake Harper , Busy Philipps as Karen , Everybody Hates Chris's Terry Crews as Latrell Spencer , Brittany Daniel as Megan Vandergeld , Eddie Velez as Agent Vincent Gomez , Jessica Cauffiel as Tori and Rochelle Aytes as Denise Porter . The cross-dressing , toilet and sexual gags are always funny , highlights include the toilet humour sequence , playing with the dildo , dinner between Marcus ( disguised ) and Spencer , and the break dancing sequence . I guess I can see certain reasons the critics give the film one out of five stars , but you can't help but laugh most of the time , and the film also has a surprisingly catchy soundtrack , featuring songs such as Vanessa Carlton's " A Thousand Miles " , Pink's " Trouble " , Maroon 5's " This Love " , Beyoncé feat . Jay-Z - " Crazy In Love " , Benny Benassi pts . The Biz - " Satisfaction " and Black Eyed Pea's " Let's Get It Started " . It was nominated the Razzies for Worst Picture , and the Wayans brothers were nominated Worst Actress , Worst Screen Couple and Worst Screenplay . Okay !
Robinson Crusoe	I am quite fond of desert island films and programmes , two I most enjoy are Tom Hanks in Cast Away , and of course , the brilliant Lost series , and I heard so much about this story that I decided to give this one a go . It is the 18th Century , and the film begins with a guy giving Daniel Defoe ( Ian Hart ) , the writer of the classic novel , the journal a man's true story of survival . Then it obviously moves into the world of this man , in the 17th Century , Robinson Crusoe ( Pierce Brosnan , an Irishman playing a Scotsman ) was the ordinary man who flies Britain after killing his friend over the love of Mary ( Polly Walker ) , and the fierce ocean storm wrecks the ship , leaving him stranded by himself on an uncharted island . He learns to fend for himself , gets a companion with the Captain's dog , Skipper , and he uses all the food and tools that survived in the ship wreckage . After spending more time their , over at least a year , he settles and creates a more home , i . e . house , for himself and the dog to live . But he finds he is not alone though , when he sees a tribe sacrificing a man , who he saves , and over months he teaches his new friend , " Man Friday " ( William Takaku ) , to speak quite good English . They know the tribe will be back , so they plant traps all over the place , but they are still captured , and in the end they have a choice to kill one another , or both die , but sadly the British show up and wrongly kill Friday . Also starring James Frain as Robert , Damian Lewis as Patrick Connor and Dracula : Dead and Loving It's Lysette Anthony as Mrs . Crusoe . A interesting story of survival , religion , teaching , friendship , and ( slightly annoying ) love . I can see why the critics give it two out of five stars . Okay !
Carry On Cruising	I have to be completely honest in saying first that I fell asleep somewhere in the middle , so I cannot give a full opinion about the film until I see it in full . Basically The SS Happy Wanderer is ready to set sail , but Captain Wellington Crowther ( Sid James ) has only just found out that loads of staff members have been replaced at such short notice . New members include First Officer Leonard Marjoribanks ( Kenneth Williams ) , Doctor Arthur Binn ( Kenneth Connor , cook Wilfred Haines ( Lance Percival ) and barman Sam Turner ( Jimmy Thompson ) , so the Captain not only has to put up with their incompetence , but the passengers aboard turn out to have strange qualities too . Also starring Liz Fraser as Glad Trimble , Dilys Laye as Florence ' Flo ' Castle , Esma Cannon as Bridget Madderley , Ronnie Stevens as Drunk Passenger , Vincent Ball as Jenkins and Cyril Chamberlain as steward Tom Tree . That's pretty much all can say about the film until I see it again in full , but I will say it has only three regulars , all male , but where are Charles Hawtrey , Jim Dale , Hattie Jacques , Barbara Windsor and Joans Sims when you want them ? Okay !
Shallow Hal	From the Farrelly brothers ( Dumb and Dumber , There's Something About Mary ) comes another pretty good comedy romance about the real meaning of beauty , inside and out , and the meaning of what it's like to fall for one of them . Basically Hal Larson ( Jack Black ) is a guy who has a very shallow view of women , he always tries for the young attractive ones . Then one day he meets a doctor who gives him a special gift , to see the inner beauty of women . So guess what , he sees many beautiful women in his eyes , but to us they look like old women or just ugly . Then one day , he meets the girl of his dreams , the big outside but beautiful inside Rosemary Shanahan ( Gwyneth Paltrow ) . His best mate knows what he is in love with , but Hal doesn't . He lasts ages with his inner beauty queen , he even has sex with her . Eventually when he is back to normal , he still cares about his love , even if she is fat . A pretty nice story explaining that beauty isn't everything . Worth watching !
American Pie Presents Band Camp	For a straight to video / DVD sequel to American Pie : The Wedding this is an okay attempt to continue the story of one of the characters , or at least their brother . When Steve Stifler's younger brother Matt Stifler ( Tad Hilgenbrinck ) keeps misbehaving at the school , he has to be punished by Chuck ' Sherminator ' Sherman ( Chris Owen ) by being sent to Tall Oaks Band Camp to spend his time . At first he is obviously angry at the idea , but then he decides to buy a spy camera kit to get all the decent girls on camera . He especially wants to get the pretty Elyse ( Arielle Kebbel ) on his video . Also starring a pretty brief Eugene Levy returning as Mr . Levinstein , or as we know him , Jim's Dad , working at Band Camp ? Worth watching !
Collateral Damage	This was apparently not allowed on TV for a while after September 11th because there was a loss of interest , or rather near hate for destructive films , although The Day After Tomorrow was very popular . Anyway , basically Arnold Schwarzenegger plays Gordy Brewer , a firefighter who recently lost his wife Anne and son Matt in a bomb explosion at the department store . He is now on a mission to track down the man responsible , he saw him on the day and he sees him again , Claudio Perrini ( Cliff Curtis ) . On the way he meets a new friend , Selena Perrini ( Francesca Neri ) , unfortunately she turns out to be as bad as Perrini . Also starring Elias Koteas as Peter Brandt , John Turturro as Sean Armstrong and John Leguizamo as Felix Ramirez . Filled with a bit of action , some interesting occurrences and a not bad Arnie , it's worth seeing once . Worth watching !
Return from Witch Mountain	If you remember seeing the original Walt Disney Pictures film about two twin kids called Tony ( Ike Eisenmann ) and Tia ( Kim Richards ) who are witches " escaping " to Witch Mountain , then you'll probably like this sequel . The two twins have come back from Witch Mountain for a short vacation . Tony unfortunately gets caught performing magic by the really good villain Dr . Victor Gannon , played by the excellent Christopher Lee , along with his spinster partner Letha ( Bette Davis ) . He now uses his new mind control device so he can get Tony to obey his every command and perform magic for him , e . g . to rob banks . Tia meanwhile tries to snap him out of his control with the help of a load of kids . Good !
Pandora Peaks	I bought this on DVD because I was expecting to have good moments with a large breasted woman , and it does ! This documentary directed by the late great Russ Meyer basically shows how he thinks , especially about the actress with the boobs of his dreams , Pandora Peaks . I have only ever watched this the once to see what it was like , and to be honest it is a bit repetitive with dialogue . I am just giving it quite a high mark for the amount of great nudity . But when I did watch it , I found Meyer a bit weird , German actress Tundi was a bit obsessive about her image and her large breasts , and the other girls Leasha and Candy Samples hardly did anything . Great for the nudity , okay for the entire film !
Allyson Is Watching	A very silly film but worth seeing for all it's nudity . Jennifer ( Leigh ) Hammon plays Allyson Roper who has moved into a new apartment next door to Bridget ( Caroline Ambrose ) . Allyson is hoping to become a film actress for a company . She is also fascinated when she is peeking through her neighbours door keyhole . She is aroused by what goes on in there and eventually they get together . When Allyson wants advice for her character her and Bridget eventually kiss . Soon they take their clothes off and have a very good and very long lesbian scene . It is definitely worth a look . Like I said a silly story , but it's worth it . Good !
Jumpin ' Jack Flash	In only her second role , Whoopi Golberg is quite good , even if the film isn't too compelling . Nevertheless , it is a good idea to stick with it . Basically Goldberg is Terry Dolittle who works in a bank , and one day she receives a message from someone called Jumpin ' Jack Flash , and as she gets to know him she discovers he is a spy working for the British Secret Service . She helps him with many small jobs in secret espionage , all to help save his life . Many people are killed and she is chased , but she still continues . Also starring Stephen Collins as Marty Phillips , John Wood as Jeremy Talbott , Carol Kane as Cynthia , Annie Potts as Liz Carlson , Jonathan Pryce as Jack , Jon Lovitz . . . . Doug , 1st National Bank , Phil Hartman as Fred , 1st National Bank , James Belushi as Sperry Repairman / Furious Cab Driver / Injured Cop and Tracey Ullman as Fiona . It may be confusing towards the middle , but it is worth a look for some laughs and spy film elements . Worth watching !
Poison Ivy	I looked at the mention of the content , sexual references , and I think Drew Barrymore is quite attractive , but not like this . I mainly see soft core porn films just for the nudity and sex , this isn't exactly a completely " erotic " thriller . Barrymore plays Ivy , a very toxic teenager who has sex with nearly anyone she sees . She could have done it with with her best friend , Sylvie Cooper ( Sara Gilbert ) , but she didn't , she just kept getting with her Dad , Darryl Cooper ( Alien's Tom Skeritt ) . There weren't any good sex scenes at all , no tits , no arse , nothing . This does not matter , it is not the sex that give this , it's the story . Ivy turns into a real bitchy slut . She also turns very evil , thank God she dies . Barrymore is very good at being dramatic , you saw Scream ! Look out for young Leonardo DiCaprio as Guy , just before This Boy's Life . Worth watching !
My Stepmother Is an Alien	I mainly heard of this film because of the leading star , and the fact that this was the first film to feature body double Shelley Michelle , any nudity was cut for pre-watershed TV , but never mind . Anyway , basically slob widower Dr . Steven Mills ( Dan Aykroyd ) accidentally sends a great surge of energy into outer space , threatening the existence and life on another planet . This other planet has dispatched one of the agents , disguised as a human , named Celeste Martin ( Kim Basinger ) , to sort things out , along with her superior , her talking handbag ( voiced by Ann Prentiss ) . Steven is indeed attracted by Celeste , and with her little knowledge of Earth stuff , he , and in secret the bag , teach her everything she should know , Steven obviously finds her funny and fascinating . Eventually they do get to sex , and Celeste over time ( and she was only meant to stay for 24 hours ) grows to like Earth . Then there's the marriage , and until she reveals it herself , Steven's daughter Jessie ( introducing young American Pie's Alyson Hannigan ) was the only person that knew Celeste was an alien , so when Steven does find out , he realises the reason she's there , and helps her . In the end , the bag is destroyed , and instead of Celeste going home and telling about everything Earthy , they take Steven's womanising brother Ron ( Jon Lovitz ) , more specifically because of the alien women taking him , so a happy ending , Ron gets endless women , and Steven , Celeste and Jessie become a proper family . Also starring Joseph Maher as Dr . Lucas Budlong , Seth Green as Fred Glass , Wesley Mann as Grady , Adrian Sparks as Dr . Morosini , Juliette Lewis as Lexie and Harry Shearer as the voice of Carl Sagan . I can agree ( with the critics ) it is not the story that is important , it is Basinger's charming E . T . character , and there are some good giggly moments , my favourite and most hilarious being Celeste learning to kiss using clips from well known media . Worth watching !
The Omen	First thing I should mention about watching this is that I saw on a plane travelling 11 hours to America for what was a brilliant college trip . Second , I knew that this film was never going to beat the original 1976 version , and I was right . When this was released it was not just the 30th Anniversary of the original , but it was out on the 6th of June ( 6th month ) of 2006 ! Anyway , the story has not made any changes , you still have Robert Thorn ( Scream's Liev Schreiber ) taking a lone baby , after his own dies . This kid grows into Damien ( Seamus Davey-Kirkpatrick ) , son of the devil , and many bizarre things happen around and during his time , including the hanging babysitter , the protection evil Mrs . Baylock ( Rosemary's Baby's Mia Farrow ) , deadly dogs , raging monkeys ( now gorillas behind glass ) , the death of crazy Father Brennan ( Brassed Off's Pete Postlethwaite ) , and of course , the famous beheading scene for Jennings ( Harry Potter's David Thewlis ) . There are moments where it can be creepy , including the good opening of distinctive moments mentioned in the bible coming true , and using real footage , but ultimately , it is just another typical " not as good as the original " remake . Also starring a brief Sir Michael Gambon as Bugenhagen . Worth watching !
Heist	There was a good cast of actors , and the critics give it four stars , but to be honest I don't think it was THAT good , from director David Mamet ( writer of The Untouchables script ) . The film opening is quite good with a clever robbery involving leader Joe Moore ( Gene Hackman ) , along with co-criminals Bobby ' Bob ' Blane ( Delroy Lindo ) , his wife Fran Moore ( Rebecca Pidgeon ) and Don ' Pinky ' Pincus ( Tomorrow Never Dies ' Ricky Jay ) . Some time later , ( their boss pretty much ) Mickey Bergman ( Danny DeVito ) forces the gang to go after a Swiss gold shipment , along with his nephew Jimmy Silk ( The Green Mile's Sam Rockwell ) . There is no trust , and every step has the unexpected happen . Also starring Patti LuPone as Betty Croft and Jim Frangione as D . A . Freccia . I think the only good reasons to see it really are the opening , DeVito's great regular gravelly voice and swearing , and the final showdown in the end . Worth watching !
Labyrinth	Directed by the creator of the Muppets , Jim Henson , and with his great puppetry , this is a good fairy tale type story filled with many cute , cuddly and some ugly creatures and some good plot . Basically Sarah ( A Beautiful Mind's , here 15 years old , Jennifer Connelly ) has to look after her little baby brother Toby ( Toby Froud ) , and stressed she wishes that he would be taken away , and he is . The baby is taken to the world of Labyrinth , which is basically a large maze that Sarah has to go through to find the castle with Jareth the Goblin King ( David Bowie ) . Bowie is a good choice for a villain not just for the makeup , but the singing voice . There are tiny giggly moments , some lovable characters , and a pretty mean villain . All combined make a good family film . I really need to see it again . It was nominated the BAFTA for Best Special Visual Effects . Worth watching !
Song of the South	When I was a kid this used to be one of my favourite animated musical films from Walt Disney Pictures . A little boy named Johnny has his Dad go away for a while and he obviously didn't want him to go . Johnny runs away and meets up with a new friend , Uncle Reemus ( Honorary Oscar winning James Baskett ) . He tells Johnny many wonderful stories about a magical place where Br'er Rabbit lives . He tells him all the adventures that Br'er Rabbit has escaping from Br'er Fox and Br'er Bear . Johnny obviously keeps going back to him with his friends . Johnny's Mother obviously doesn't like Uncle Reemus being with Johnny . A good film with some good cartoon sequences and quite a good ending . The guy that plays Uncle Reemus is really good , he also does Br'er Fox pretty well too . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Music for Daniele Amfitheatrof , Paul J . Smith and Charles Wolcott . It was number 47 on 100 Years , 100 Songs for the Oscar winning " Zip-A-Dee-Doo-Dah " . Worth watching !
Cellular	From director David R . Ellis ( Final Destination 2 ) , this may not be the most tense film I've ever seen , but it's got just enough good stuff . Basically science teacher Jessica Martin ( Kim Basinger ) is kidnapped by Ethan Greer ( Jason Statham ) and his thugs , and she has been locked in a room , and Ethan made sure to smash the phone . She manages to get most of the phone back together , and she clicks the wires to find a caller . She finds one in slacker Ryan ( Fantastic Four's Chris Evans ) , who of course thinks it's a joke at first when she mentions kidnap and wanting the police , but when he hears the commotion he's willing to do whatever it takes to help her out . With Jessica on the phone , Ryan goes to try and help Jessica's husband and son , but obviously he is too late for both . The bad guys basically want something from the husband's safe , a video camera with incriminating footage of a robbery or something , with Ethan and other fake cops , including Jack Tanner ( The Truman Show's Noah Emmerich ) . Oh , also after Bryan and / or the bad guys is Sgt . Bob Mooney ( William H . Macy ) , who Bryan gave the phone to for a brief moment . Also starring Eric Christian Olsen as Chad , Jessica Biel as Chloe , Brendan Kelly as Mad Dog and Richard Burgi as Craig Martin . Even in a thriller type film there is room for little giggles , and there are , yes Statham is a bit of a dry villain , and it is quite similar to the " stay on line " aspect as Phone Booth , but the chases , gun play and performances by Basinger , Evans and always reliable Macy are to enjoy . Worth watching !
The Forgotten Toys	If you've seen the mini Christmas movie then you would know what this is , it's basically a TV series about the teddy bear and doll still on the lookout for new kids to be owners . Joanna Lumley is still the okay Annie ( or " Pigtails " to Teddy ) the doll with her ragged skirt , and Bob Hoskins is still the lovable and humorous Teddy . Throughout the series they had many interesting adventures . They tried to be won at a fayre , they caught some burglars , they were stolen by a horrible kid and many more . To be honest I didn't watch it all the time , but when I did it was pretty okay . Bob Hoskins as Teddy is just the best part of the whole show . Worth watching !
Cutthroat Island	This was one of the many failures at the cinema , and critics weren't that impressed , but screw them . This isn't actually that bad , it's a really good pirate movie with a treasure hunt and a good main star . Beetle Juice and Thelma & Louise star Geena Davis stars as Morgan Adams , the female pirate determined to find a buried treasure on a remote island named Cutthroat Island . She travels with a crew that There are some pretty good moments with Davis and a sword , and some good chase sequences too . It's just some of the acting and imagination that was lost in this film . Also starring Frank Langella as Dawg Brown and Harris Yulin as Black Harry . Why is that bad . Geena Davis just makes the film fun for the family . Nearly as good as Treasure Island . Worth watching !
Eddie Izzard : Circle	This was only the second I had seen a stand-up show by Eddie Izzard , and in his transvestite guise . Playing in Town Hall , New York City , he gives his usual abstract and amusing material , including his opinions and theories about Pope John Paul II , the Spanish Inquisition , Jerusalem and Jesus , and the future . Also with some bits about mad cows , the Renaissance period , Leonardo DiVinci and the Mona Lisa , and a good part near the end about Darth Vader on the Death Star . I didn't think this was as funny or fun to watch as Dress to Kill , but it does have it's moments . Eddie Izzard was number 3 on 100 Greatest Stand-Ups , and he was number 19 on The Comedians ' Comedian . Worth watching !
The Borrowers	I like many adventure films , and also the idea of big and small being good and bad , depending on which you are . You've seen how some great filmmakers created a giant world in Honey , I Shrunk the Kids , well this is exactly the same good creation . Basically the Lenders , mother Victoria ( Doon Mackichan ) and father Joe ( Aden Gillett ) have been lied to by mean lawyer Ocious P . Potter ( John Goodman ) that there is no will to keep their house , so that he can build apartments . Meanwhile , in their house also live tiny people that they ( and many others in the world ) never knew about , The Borrowers . They are the Clock family , father Pod ( Jim Broadbent ) , mother Homily ( Celia Imrie ) and the kids Arietty ( Flora Newbigin ) and Peagreen ( Harry Potter's Malfoy , Tom Felton ) . Being caught by the Lender son Pete ' Petey ' ( Jumanji's Bradley Pierce ) , he is kind enough to help them travel secretly to the new house , but they are split up even before they set off . Arietty and Peagreen are now trying to find their parents , and vice versa , while Potter has found this will he said didn't exist . Of course he realises an infestation in the house , and with the help of Exterminator Jeff ( The Fast Show's Mark Williams ) he is trying to catch and kill these " pests " , and along the way , Arietty discovers she and her family are not the only Borrowers in existence . Also starring Hugh Laurie as Police Officer Steady , Raymond Pickard as Spud Spiller and Ruby Wax as Town Hall Clerk . It was nominated the BAFTAs for the Alexander Korda Award for Best British Film and Best Special Effects . Worth watching !
Mystery Men	I think what attracted me to this film more than anything else was the cast list , so obviously I wasn't concerned whether I'd like the film itself or not . Basically a group of wannabe superheroes : Mr . Furious ( Ben Stiller ) who can apparently get aggressive strength , The Shoveller ( William H . Macy ) who wields a shovel , and The Blue Raja ( The Simpsons ' Hank Azaria ) who throws knives , forks and spoons , all no real powers , are ignored for real superhero Captain Amazing , real identity Lance Hunt ( Greg Kinnear ) . But it is when the real superhero is kidnapped by recently released super villain Casanova Frankenstein ( Geoffrey Rush ) that they have the chance to be recognised . Before they do that though , they decide to get more wannabe superheroes , and they find The Bowler ( Ratatouille's Janeane Garofalo ) who has a living bowling ball ( with her superhero dad's head in it ) , The Spleen ( Pee-Wee's Big Adventure's Paul Reubens ) who can create horrible stenches , The Invisible Boy ( Kenan & Kel's Kel Mitchell ) who can become invisible when no-one is watching and with guidance is The Sphinx ( Wes Studi ) . Also starring Eddie Izzard as Tony P . , Lena Olin as Dr . Annabel Leek , Claire Forlani as Monica the Waitress , Tom Waits as Dr . A . Heller , Louise Lasser as Violet ( The Blue Raja's Mom ) and Tomorrow Never Dies ' Ricky Jay as Victor Weems . This is a lame comedy , little made me laugh , but that is probably the point , it might be more aimed at the kids . Worth watching !
Boogie Nights	This is more of an adult film , but the story is okay in places . But really , the only main reason I wanted to see it is for Heather Graham getting naked , it wasn't exactly what I had in mind for picture quality . Basically porn director Jack Horner ( Golden Globe winning , and Oscar and BAFTA nominated Burt Reynolds ) asks Eddie Adams ( Mark Wahlberg ) if he wants to be in his new film project , he accepts . He joins Amber Waves ( Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Julianne Moore ) and Rollergirl ( Graham ) from the bar of the restaurant they met in . Eddie renames himself Dirk Diggler to help hide his identity , and make himself more interesting . The ending is pretty interesting , you see his huge cock . Also starring William H . Macy as Little Bill . An interesting film by Oscar nominated writer and director Paul Thomas Anderson . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Writing , Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen , and it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Original Screenplay . It was number 26 on The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments . Worth watching , in my opinion !
Gogwana	This is not a bad attempt to give the Gogs their own short movie , it just could have been better . Not from Nick Park and the makers of Wallace and Gromit ( Aardman Animations ) , this is quite a funny short film about the Gogs travelling to a new place . In the story Grampa recalls his wife who was kidnapped and left him with a son , who is now the near bearded Father . When they get kidnapped looking for a new place , he sees her again . Also , the young girl makes friends with a young eagle . All the other Gogs do what they do best to make us laugh , e . g . the baby burping . It was nominated the BAFTA for Best Animated Short Film . Worth watching !
Signs	When I saw it in the cinema , I thought it was one of the creepiest films ever , and made me jump quite a lot , that's without the flashbacks of course . From director M . Night Shyamalan ( The Sixth Sense , also appearing in the film as Ray Peddy ) the story revolves around ex-Reverand Graham Hess ( Mel Gibson ) with his farm and family , his brother Merril ( Joaquin Phoenix , brother of River ) , son Morgan ( Rory Culkin , brother of Macaulay ) , daughter Bo ( Abigail Breslin ) . His crops have been taken down , and from a birds-eye-view , they could see that something is making " signs " , or crop circles . As they wonder further about this incident , they later get closer and closer to other life on the farm and in other parts of the Bucks county . Also starring Cherry Jones as Officer Paski and Patricia Kalember as Colleen Hess . The scenes in the basement were the most tense in the cinema , the flashbacks to Graham's wife's death get in the way , and the small moments of comedy fit in okay , a good science fiction thriller . Worth watching !
The Hitcher	This is a road movie , a thriller , and sometimes scary as well . If you have ever stopped and given someone ( a hitcher / hitchhiker ) a ride , you might think twice about it after this film . Basically Jim Halsey ( C . Thomas Howell ) is driving minding his own business , when he stops to pick up a hitcher . This hitcher , John Ryder ( Rutger Hauer ) becomes a little bit hard to deal with , and soon enough he is threatening Jim . It's only when Jim chucks him out that he becomes more mean . Now the hitcher is stalking him until he pays for what he did to him , whether that means killing him or not . Also starring Jennifer Jason Leigh as Nash . Worth watching , in my opinion !
Space Cowboys	This is quite an alright film by actor and director Clint Eastwood . Basically in the beginning it shows Dr . Frank Corvin's ( Eastwood ) past with his of plane pilots . He has been given a mission to go to space to fix a satellite , and he says he won't go unless he can invite his Cowboy pals to help . He reunites with his pals Jerry O'Neill ( Donald Sutherland ) , Tank Sullivan ( James Garner ) and cancer victim Col . William ' Hawk ' Hawkins ( Tommy Lee Jones ) . I can remember some of the training sequence , but it is him meeting up with them one by one that is quite interesting to watch . It is a bit of a shame that Hawk gave his life to save everyone or whatever , but his body did survive to fall onto the moon . Also starring Marcia Gay Harden as Sara Holland , James Cromwell as Bob Gerson , Toby Stephens as Young Frankand and Jay Leno . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Sound Editing . Worth watching !
Hellboy	From director Guillermo del Toro ( Pan's Labyrinth ) , this is another not too bad comic book based hero brought to the screen . The film begins in 1944 , during World War II , and the Nazi Germans are researching the occult , and the villain Grigori Rasputin ( Karel Roden ) has spent 5 years building an huge portal machine which he intends to use to bring out a monstrous God of Chaos . When Rasputin eventually dies from using too much of his power , the machine ( activated ) shoots out a creature of the world intended , a red devil looking creature , and researcher Trevor ' Broom ' Bruttenholm ( John Hurt ) is determined to raise " Hellboy " to do good . Sixty years later , Broom is dying of old age , and FBI agent John Myers ( Rupert Evans ) is sent to pretty much help him , and his two legendary friends , obviously Hellboy ( Alien : Resurrection's Ron Perlman ) and aquatic creature Abe Sapien ( Doug Jones ) . They are defending the city , battling crooks through alleys , streets and subways , while trying also to protect friends , including Hellboy's love interest Liz Sherman ( Selma Blair ) , who is learning to control her power of making fire from her body . Eventually , Rasputin returns from his grave , and threatens the city with his many ugly and almost indestructible creatures . Also starring Jeffrey Tambor as Tom Manning . I can agree the film loses some speed towards the very end , and there are those annoying getting to know each other and stuff like that moments ( sentimentality ) , but it still not a bad film . Worth watching !
Small Soldiers	This is quite an interesting idea , toys that can play back , or rather go completely wrong , not be stopped and create chaos , from director Joe Dante ( Gremlins ) . Basically Irwin Wayfair ( Scary Movie 2's David Cross ) and Larry Benson ( Cherry Falls ' Jay Mohr ) pitch ideas to Hartland / Globotech boss Gil Mars ( Denis Leary ) , and he creates the toys that can play with kids and run forever . These are The Commando Elite and The Gorgonites ( the Small Soldiers ) with the slogan " Everything else is just a toy " . Unfortunately these toys break out and create a war , and only Alan Abernathy ( Gregory Smith ) and his love interest Christy Fimple ( Kirsten Dunst ) , with the help of The Gorgonites , lead by Archer ( Frank Langella ) , can stop the really mean Commando Elite , lead by Chip Hazzard ( Tommy Lee Jones ) . Also starring Ann Magnuson as Irene Abernathy , The Simpsons ' Phil Hartman as Phil Fimple , Ernest Borgnine as Kip Killagin , Jim Brown as Butch Meathook , Bruce Dern as Link Static , George Kennedy as Brick Bazooka , Clint Walker as Nick Nitro , This Is Spinal Tap's : Christopher Guest as Slamfist and Scratch-It , Michael McKean as Insaniac and Freakenstein and Harry Shearer as Punch-It , Sarah Michelle Gellar and Christina Ricci as Gwendy doll , and Scary Movie's Cheri Oteri as Globotech Telephone Operator . Worth watching !
Rambo : First Blood	With the release of the fourth film in 2008 , simply titled " Rambo " ( " John Rambo " in America ) it was right they should show all three of the original films , and this is the first . Basically John J . Rambo ( Sylvester Stallone , also writing ) is a mentally unstable Vietnam war veteran , who has come to a quiet little town to see an old war friend , but he finds out he's dead . When he walks through a not-to-far mountain town , Sheriff Will Teasle ( Brian Dennehy ) gives him a lift to the end of town , and tells him to leave , but Rambo ignores him and is arrested for vagrancy ( being a tramp ) . As the cops try to make him go through the arrest procedures , he eventually breaks out in rage and manages to escape . Teasle and the many officers are now hot on his trail , but they also meet the man that knows Rambo best , Colonel Samuel Trautman ( Richard Crenna ) who personally trained to be the best . There are many explosions and quite a lot of gun fire as loner pushed too far tries to end and get away from this " warfare " , but in the end he gives up and goes to prison . Also starring David Caruso as Deputy Mitch , Jack Starrett as Deputy Sgt . Arthur Galt , Michael Talbott as Deputy Balford , Bill McKinney as State Police Capt . Dave Kern and Chris Mulkey as Deputy Ward . To be honest , this wasn't the film I was expecting or had in mind , I found it just a little random and pointless , even though it is fun to see Stallone bleeding a lot , firing and blowing stuff up , but I don't know who's side to be on , and is Rambo a hero or anti-hero ? Nevertheless , worth watching !
Come Clean	Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy are the most famous comedy duo in history , and deservedly so , so I am happy to see any of their films . Ollie and Mrs . Hardy ( Gertrude Astor ) are hoping for a quiet night alone , but Stan and Mrs . Laurel ( Linda Loredo ) come along spoiling this . To make the best of the evening , Ollie and Stan go out to buy some ice cream , only afterwards to spot Kate ( Mae Busch ) , wanted by the police , jumping into the river . She blackmails them to take her with them , or she'll tell people they tried to kill her . So near misses , amusing methods of disguising noise and a small chase or two follow as they try to hide Kate from their wives , until eventually the police show up . Ollie points Stan out to be responsible , not realising whoever finds her gets $1000 reward , and it ends with Stan going down the drain of the bath , or as Ollie says , " he's gone to the beach " . Filled with good slapstick and all classic comedy you want from a black and white film , it is an enjoyable silent film . Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy were number 7 on The Comedians ' Comedian . Worth watching !
Lords of Dogtown	I recognised the title of the film , but I had no idea what the story was about , or that it is based on true events . Basically it is all about a group of brilliant young skateboarders , known as the Z-Boys , raised in the mean streets of Dogtown in Santa Monica , California . They are perfecting their techniques in empty swimming pools of unsuspecting suburban homeowners , pioneering a thrilling new sport and taking part in skateboard contests . Starring The Girl Next Door's Emile Hirsch as Jay Adams , Victor Rasuk as Tony Alva , John Robinson as Stacy Peralta , Michael Angarano as Sid , Nikki Reed as Kathy Alva , Heath Ledger as Skip , Rebecca De Mornay as Philaine , Johnny Knoxville as Topper Burks , Ugly Betty's America Ferrera as Thunder Monkey , the real Jay Adams as Party Guest , the real Tony Alva as Oregon Man at Party , Charles Napier as Nudie , the real Stacy Peralta as TV Director , Tony Hawk as Astronaut , Alexis Arquette as Tranny , and a special appearance by YouTube star Tillman the skateboarding bulldog . For me the only good reason to see this film is for some familiar faces , the skateboarding tricks and a pretty good soundtrack , that's about it . Worth watching !
Ryan's Daughter	I was unsure if I could survive all three hours of the film , but the good cast list and BAFTA nominated director Sir David Lean ( The Bridge on the River Kwai , Lawrence of Arabia ) , directing his penultimate film , kept me going . To be honest , I was hoping for a film with much more plot , or at least more interesting things going on . Set in a bleak Irish village in 1916 , the main story is basically Rosy Ryan ( Oscar , BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Sarah Miles ) marrying Charles Shaughnessy ( an unusual role for Robert Mitchum ) , after a little while she has an affair with shell-shocked officer Major Randolph Doryan ( Christopher Jones ) . In the story there are also some visits from military officers , and in the end , for some reason I don't know Rosy and Charles decide to leave and go to Dublin . To be honest , the only character I couldn't help but like was an Oscar and Golden Globe winning , and BAFTA nominated performance by an unrecognisable Sir John Mills as the dumb , limping , tatty and rotten toothed village idiot Michael . Also starring Golden Globe nominated Trevor Howard as Father Collins , The Omen's Leo McKern as Thomas Ryan , Barry Foster as Tim O'Leary , Arthur O'Sullivan as Mr . McCardle , Marie Kean as Mrs . McCardle , BAFTA nominated Evin Crowley as Maureen , Gerald Sim as Captain , Philip O'Flynn as Paddy , Niall Toibin as O'Keefe , Niall O'Brien as Bernard , Owen Sullivan as Joseph and Brian O'Higgins as Constable O'Connor . It is just a random film to me with no real meaning , I can't understand why the critics give it five stars , besides the good performances , I would probably need to see again to appreciate it much more , but I doubt that's going to happen , because it was so boring . It won the Oscar for Best Cinematography , and it was nominated for Best Sound , and it was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Art Direction , Best Cinematography , Best Costume Design , Best Film Editing , Best Sound Track and Best Film . Sir John Mills was number 38 on The 50 Greatest British Actors . Worth watching , at least once , in my opinion !
The Polar Express	I saw snippets of Final Fantasy : The Spirits Within , and of course , Beowulf , and thought the computer animation looked brilliantly realistic , and then I got the chance to see this one that I had heard about . This film from director Robert Zemeckis ( Back to the Future , Forrest Gump , Beowulf ) sees the introduction of a new form of CGI that transfers the live actions of actors into a digital format , this is called " Performance Capture " . Anyway , based on the storybook by Chris Van Allsburg , it sees the Hero Boy doubting the existence of Santa Claus , and Christmas Eve night a magical train suddenly appears in the middle of the street . The train's conductor ( Tom Hanks ) invites him on The Polar Express to the North Pole , and at the last minute , the boy jumps on . Many other boys and girls have got on the train hoping to see Santa Claus , who is going to give a special present to a child of his choice . The journey sees tickets almost being lost , blizzard , iced over tracks and many other complications . they eventually reach the North Pole , and after a little turn , Hero Boy , Hero Girl ( Nona Gaye ) , Know-It-All ( Eddie Deezen , I recognised his voice immediately , he plays Mandark from Dexter's Laboratory ) and Lonely Boy ( Peter Scolari ) get to the ceremony just in time , and Santa ( Hanks again ) obviously chooses Hero Boy , probably because of his doubt earlier . I don't understand why he asked Santa for a sleigh bell , but on the other hand I suppose it is to help him remember that Santa does exist . Hanks also plays the Hobo and Scrooge . The animation is immaculate in detail , it must have taken them ages to get it as perfect as it is , it is just a shame the story is really , really cheesy . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Song for " Believe " , which also won a Grammy and was nominated the Golden Globe , Best Sound Editing and Best Sound Mixing , and it was nominated the BAFTA Children's Award for Best Feature Film . Worth watching !
The Cell	When I heard about this I thought it might be quite good , how wrong I was . It isn't rubbish , I just don't know if I want to see it again . The main reason I wanted to see it was because it mentioned sexual references . Also , it had the wonderfully shaped Jennifer Lopez in it . But of course , it didn't have any sex or nudity at all , apart from some woman in a tank . Basically this is only good because some people are doing illegal experiments on people in a tank in The Cell . Lopez is obviously the woman that tries to stop it with the help of the government . There are some moments where she is attractive in a bikini , but that's as far as she will go . Dodgeball's Vince Vaughn as FBI Agent Peter Novak , Full Metal Jacket's Vincent D'Onofrio as Carl Rudolph Stargher , Dawn of the Dead's Jake Weber as FBI Special Agent Gordon Ramsey , Happiness's Dylan Baker as Henry West and Marianne Jean-Baptiste as Dr . Miriam Kent . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Makeup . Worth watching !
Alien Autopsy	Based on a true story of one of the world's biggest hoax , this is a good film with a great duo in their first feature film ( unless you count their brief appearance in Love Actually ) . Declan Donnelly as Ray Santilli , and Anthony McPartlin as friend / partner Gary Shoefield are great . It is all about these two friends / partners and their story of how they recreated a version of Harvey's ( Alien's Harry Dean Stanton ) 1940s film , an alien autopsy ! They tried to sell this original film to gangster Voros ( Tomorrow Never Dies ' Götz Otto ) , but it was wiped clean . So they remade it with family and friends , including Melik ( Omid Djalili ) , Jasmine ( Morwenna Banks ) , Amber Fuentes ( Nichole Hiltz ) , Edgar ( Lee Oakes ) and Nan ( Madeleine Moffat ) . When they fooled the gangster , they decided to make it global for everyone else to watch and hopefully believe , and it worked . We never knew if it was fake or not , until now ! The real Ray Santilli and Gary Shoefield even featured at the end . Also starring Jimmy Carr as Gary's Boss and Orson Bean as Homeless Man . A cool story with some cool and also funny happenings , Ant and Dec fans will love it . Worth watching !
Jesus Christ Superstar	This was another film where I tried not pay attention to the critics , but I can see reasons why it was two out of five stars . This film is based on the popular stage musical by Lord Sir Andrew Lloyd Webber and Tim Rice , so every moment of this film was a song and some dance , probably only two or three seconds was dialogue . It is basically about the last four days that Jesus Christ ( twice Golden Globe nominated Ted Neeley ) , mainly just people following , the hateful or misunderstanding thoughts of a gravelly voiced Pontius Pilate ( Barry Dennen ) , the betrayal of what was a fun , but misunderstanding Judas Iscariot ( twice Golden Globe nominated Carl Anderson ) , the sentence to be crucified , and the quick crucifixion itself . Also starring Golden Globe nominated Yvonne Elliman as Mary Magdalene , Bob Bingham as Caiaphas , Larry T . Marshall as Simon Zealotes and Josh Mostel as King Herod . The music and songs are memorable , but I think it is the fact that the voices are a little over the top , and the fact that it is originally a stage show that makes this film lose its critical interest . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Music for André Previn , Herbert W . Spencer and Lloyd Webber , it won the BAFTA for Best Sound Track , and it was nominated for Best Cinematography , Best Costume Design and the UN Award , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Musical / Comedy . Worth watching , at least once !
Barbershop	I don't get to see a nearly all black actor filled film , and this one wasn't too bad , from director Tim Story ( Fantastic Four ) . Basically it is a day in the life of a barbershop on the south side of Chicago . Calvin Palmer ( Ice Cube ) inherited the struggling business from his deceased father , and with an ambition to do other things , he sells it local loan shark Lester Wallace ( Keith David ) . Slowly though he realises his mistake , and Wallace instead of taking back his money wants double , so Calvin is pretty sure his barbershop will have to close it's doors . He can either convince Wallace to forget the debt , or raise it , Eddie ( Cedric the Entertainer ) who has been there since it opened is determined Calvin can # t and won't sell it . There is also a slapstick filled subplot where J . D . ( Anthony Anderson ) has stolen a cash dispenser and is trying to find a good place to hide it , and before the end it ends up at the barbershop , where Calvin can collect a reward for returning it . Also starring Sean Patrick Thomas as Jimmy James , Eve as Terri Jones , Troy Garity as Isaac Rosenberg , Michael Ealy as Ricky Nash and Leonard Earl Howze as Dinka . The film is filled with black stereotypes , and there are moments where you really have to listen to understand what they are saying , but it amusing . Worth watching !
First Knight	From director Jerry Zucker ( Ghost , Rat Race ) this retelling of the Arthurian myths is quite good . Basically Lancelot ( Richard Gere , not bothering to try an English accent , just Kevin Costner in Robin Hood ) is a skilled swordsman who is not seeking a knighthood or reward , just peace . Lady Guinevere ( Julia Ormond ) is on her way to marry King Arthur ( Sir Sean Connery ) , but is ambushed by the evil Prince Malagant ( Ben Cross ) , but Lancelot rescues her . As they hide and head back to the kingdom , they fall in love , but Guinevere still wants to honour Arthur's wishes . Arthur has no idea of the love ( till later ) , so he knights Lancelot and makes him a new member of the Round Table . Of course , when Arthur does find out he does not hit anyone , he does shout a bit , but he instead sees his life a bit worthless , and when Malagant comes back he is prepared for anything , even death . Also starring Liam Cunningham as Sir Agravaine , Christopher Villiers as Sir Kay , Valentine Pelka as Sir Patrise , Colin McCormack as Sir Mador , Ralph Ineson as Ralf , Sir John Gielgud as Oswald , Tom Lucy as Sir Sagramore , John Blakey as Sir Tor , Robert Gwyn Davin as Sir Gawaine , Sean Blowers as Sir Carados , Alexis Denisof as Sir Gaheris , Daniel Naprous as Sir Amant , Jonathan Cake as Sir Gareth and look out for comedian Rob Brydon as Man in Crowd in the opening sequence . Apparently this film was a box office flop , but then again , besides Connery who steals every scene and does it well , I guess this isn't the greatest of medieval films , but fun to watch . Worth watching !
Airport	From director George Seaton ( the original Miracle on 34th Street ) , you can't really watch this film without thinking about Airplane ! which spoofed moments of it very well . Basically it all takes place in an airport ( duh ! ) , and it sees many characters getting on with whatever they do in airports . These include airport manager Mel Bakersfeld ( Birdman of Alcatraz's Burt Lancaster ) , plane pilot Capt . Vernon Demerest ( Dean Martin ) , and constant plane stowaway Ada Quonsett ( Oscar winning Helen Hayes ) . There is a lot of chat for a while , but the disaster movie element really kicks off after the plane of the film has taken off . Mrs . Quonsett is discovered to be a stowaway , but instead of punishing her , they instead get her to help get a man out of his seat . This man is a bomber , carrying an explosive in a briefcase , and just after trying to be convinced to give it to Demerest , the man locks himself in the toilet , and blows himself up . Luckily , the plane stays in the air after a few seconds of cabin pressure , and all they have to do now is land the plane safely . Also starring Jean Seberg as Tanya Livingston , Jacqueline Bisset as Gwen Meighen , Golden Globe nominated George Kennedy as Joe Patroni , Van Heflin as D . O . Guerrero ; Golden Globe winning , and Oscar and BAFTA nominated Maureen Stapleton as Inez Guerrero , Barry Nelson as Capt . Anson Harris , Dana Wynter as Cindy Bakersfeld , Lloyd Nolan as Harry Standish , Barbara Hale as Sarah Bakersfeld Demerest and Gary Collins as Cy Jordan . The only good bit of the film is the bomber explosion on the plane , the rest of it is just too chatty for it's own good , but I suppose you could try it , but Airplane ! is much more entertaining . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Best Cinematography , Best Costume Design , Best Film Editing , Best Music for Alfred Newman , Sound , Best Writing , Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium for Seaton and Best Picture , and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Drama and Best Original Score . Worth watching , at least once !
Beau Hunks	Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy are the most famous comedy duo in history , and deservedly so , so I am happy to see any of their films . Basically Ollie tells Stan he is to be married , only to find out in a letter that her girl , Jean , or " Jeanie-Weenie " loves another , so they decide to join the Foreign Legion to try and forget about her . , well , not before Ollie gets a spring stuck to him , falls back , bounces and lands in the piano . Ollie notices many men have Jean's picture , so probably loads of men have been fooled by her , and Commandant ( Charles Middleton ) won't let them leave . They are restless , and with the Riff Raff preparing to attack Fort Arid , they hardly get any sleep , and march towards the battle . Stan and Ollie are the first to arrive , only to be put on duty on the wall , and they miss many Riffs that get in . They are the heroes in the end though foiling all Riffs with nails all over the floor ( as they all have bare feet ) , and in the end , Ollie gets the final kick when the Chief of the Riff Raff ( James W . Horne ) also has the picture of Jean . Also starring Broderick O'Farrell as Ft . Arid commander and Harry Schultz as Captain Schultz . Filled with good slapstick and all classic comedy you want from a black and white film , it is an enjoyable film . Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy were number 7 on The Comedians ' Comedian . Worth watching !
The 40 Year Old Virgin	For a romantic comedy , this is actually a pretty good story , and I can relate to the main character , being a virgin I mean . Bruce Almighty's Steve Carell plays Andy Stitzer , a 40 year old computer shop worker who is a virgin . His friends David ( Friends ' Paul Rudd ) , Jay ( Romany Malco ) and Cal ( Seth Rogen ) laugh first , but then they are determined to help Andy end his suffering by helping him lose his virginity before it is too late , aka , before he dies . When Andy meets his perfect woman Trish ( Catherine Keener ) he begins to like her a lot , and doesn't even think about sex . Basically when he gets the opportunity with any woman , something goes wrong , but don't worry , he does catch the boat at the end . Written by Carell , it is a very good comedy . Worth watching !
Nanny McPhee	Obviously this is one for the kids , I guess I was mainly interested in the cast more than much else . Basically the Brown children are very naughty , they have managed to get rid of 17 nannies , and the agency is closed to their dad Mr . Cedric Brown ( Colin Firth ) . Then comes along comically ugly governess Nanny McPhee ( Emma Thompson , also doing the screenplay ) who has a rule that when she's needed not wanted she'll stay , and when she's wanted not needed she'll leave . The children have to learn the five basic rules of behaviour with the help of Nanny McPhee's magic stick , and when they do , she loses a bit of her ugliness . The children should worry that their Aunt Adelaide ( Angela Lansbury ) , who is basically paying for their health and stuff , wants Mr . Brown to marry to keep getting cash , and Mrs . Quickly ( Celia Imrie ) is the wrong choice . In order , the rules : get into bed when told , get out of bed when told , get dressed when told , listen , and do as your told . In the end , Mr . Brown marries his true love , the maid they got to pretend to be his oldest daughter , Evangeline ( Trainspotting's Kelly Macdonald ) , and Nanny McPhee is pretty and can leave . Also starring Derek Jacobi as Mr . Wheen , Patrick Barlow as Mr . Jowls , Imelda Staunton as Mrs . Blatherwick , Love Actually's Thomas Sangster as Simon and Eliza Bennett as Tora . It is a good new twist on Mary Poppins . Worth watching !
The Aristocats	I can remember seeing it only once when I was a kid , it was pretty good . It was the animated Walt Disney Pictures film with cats as the stars . Duchess is a white cat living with a rich woman with her three kittens . One day they are kidnapped by the greedy butler ( for their fortune ) . The butler fails to get to his location and the cats are now lost . Luckily , Omalli ( voiced by Jungle Book's Baloo , Phil Harris ) finds them and starts leading them to a place with food and safety , where his band is living . This band includes the cool Scat Cat , Omalli's best friend . A good film with some adventure and some good cartoon animation . Good !
Jimmy Neutron : Boy Genius	Not long after this film was finished they made a TV series of it , but this is what started it being known . If you think about it the cartoon is kind of copying the idea of Dexter's Laboratory , except the parents actually know he invents . Basically Jimmy Neutron is a boy genius who invents many cool and useful inventions for both himself and others . One day , all the parents of the town disappear and leave a note that they have gone on holiday . The kids at first love the town being empty , but they soon discover they have been kidnapped by aliens . Quite a good cartoon for kids , and some amusing moments , and I did watch some of the TV series . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Animated Feature . Worth watching !
Ice Age	There is similarity to the Shrek , i . e . going somewhere and rescuing , but it is a completely different situation . Basically this film gives us an adventure based in the time of The Ice Age . The only animal who is not going South is Manfred the Mammoth ( Ray Romano ) who lost his family from poachers . Joining him is new " friend " , abandoned Sid the Sloth ( John Leguizamo ) . While walking they find a baby , and decide to find the tribe to look after him . Then they meet their ( at first ) untruthful leader Diego the Sabretooth Tiger ( Denis Leary ) who is on a mission to take the baby to the other tigers . Basically this is loads of cool and cold stuff that happens to them on their journey . Also starring Goran Visnjic as Soto , Jack Black as Zeke , Cedric the Entertainer as Carl and Chris Wedge as the squeaks and screams of Scrat . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Animated Feature . Worth watching !
Britt Allcroft's Magic Adventures of Mumfie	When I was younger I always wanted to know what happened in the next episode . Basically this elephant named Mumfie originally went out for a walk or something . On the way he meets a nice Scarecrow and they decide to travel together . Then they discover an evil thing threatening the Queen of the valley . They now plan to stop this thing from destroying the valley and taking it over . While doing this they meet many other friends , and also make some enemies . But in the end it was obviously a nice happy end , Mumfie got to go to his beloved home with his best friend the Scarecrow . I hardly remember any of it apart from every ending . " What happens next , we'll have to wait until next time ! " Apart from the last one , " What happened next , what do you think ? " Okay !
Save the Last Dance	I had no real information about the film's story , i . e . I didn't realise it was about ballet before hip hop dancing , but it was when I saw the scene spoofed in Scary Movie 2 that I really got into it more . Basically Sara Johnson ( The Bourne Trilogy and 10 Things I Hate About You's Julia Stiles ) was once an aspiring ballet dancer , but her dream to become a professional was cut short by the death of her mother , and since she has moved in with her father Roy ( Terry Kinney ) . He lives in a predominantly Black neighbourhood , and she has to be transferred to a new school where she is one of the few White students . She finds a friend with small-time ghetto girl Chenille Reynolds ( The Last King of Scotland's Kerry Washington ) , and later she gets to see Sara's ballet ability . Later after starting a friendship with Chenille's brother Derek ( Cruel Intentions ' Sean Patrick Thomas ) , he teaches her how her ballet skills can be put to use for an audition ( the one she could have had if not for her mother's death ) . In a really cool scene he teaches some small cool moves , like the spoof in Scary Movie 2 , and as time goes by , she gains more and more hip hop moves till she has a routine for the judges . There is the small quarrel between Sara and Derek before this audition happens , but she sticks it out , they make up , and she makes a very good impression with the judges mixing ballet with a bit of hip hop . Also starring Fredro Starr as Malakai , Bianca Lawson as Nikki , Vince Green as Snookie and Garland Whitt as Kenny . Stiles and Thomas are attractive leads , the dance sequences , especially the all important audition are fun to watch , and the soundtrack ( including songs from Fatman Scoop , Ice Cube and Blaqout ) is very good , and not too much sentimentality to sour the film , a crowd-pleasing dance / music film . Worth watching !
I'm Going to Tell You a Secret	Her songs are really good , examples include Ray of Light , Frozen , Music and Hung Up , but seeing Madonna in a documentary is a little weird . She is a bit of a cow away from the stage and mike , she's stubborn , she swears , and she's a yank . However , she does believe in God and prayed before every show with her dancers . Also starring Madonna's husband , great British director Guy Richie , documentary maker / director Michael Moore and Iggy Pop . An interesting documentary about one of the most well known and loved singers in the world . Personally however I prefer her next to the mike , and possibly on stage . Or just in that cute pink gym kit , even if she was body doubled . Worth watching !
Herbie : Fully Loaded	I don't know why I decided to watch this film , reprising a Disney franchise , but I suppose it is quite a good family film . Basically Herbie , the Voltswagon with a mind of it's own was once a champion racer , but slowly went down hill , but manages to escape being turned into scrap and go to a used car lot . Maggie Peyton ( Lindsay Lohan ) has graduated college , and her dad Ray Peyton Sr . ( Michael Keaton ) is taking her to buy a car , and of course ( eventually ) it is the Bug she chooses . Instead of Maggie taking Herbie for a test drive , it is Herbie that takes her , and she knows he has a mind of his own , and they end up at a car show where they beat all-time racer Trip Murphy ( Matt Dillon ) in a street race . Trip demands a rematch and attempts to discover the secret behind Herbie , while Maggie tries to prove to her dad she can just a good a winner as he used to be . Also starring Breckin Meyer as Ray Peyton Jr . , Justin Long as Kevin , Cheryl Hines as Sally , Jimmi Simpson as Crash , Jill Ritchie as Charisma , Thomas Lennon as Larry Murphy and Jeremy Roberts as Crazy Dave . Besides the well known faces , the car of course is the true star , sure it's cheesy and more for young kids , but quite good none the less , at least once . Worth watching !
The Matador	I mainly knew of this film because the ex-James Bond actor played a bad guy , i . e . hit-man , with a moustache , I didn't really find out the premise or anything , I just tried it and hoped I'd like it . Basically constantly drinking , smoking and woman-chasing private-hire hit-man Julian Noble ( Golden Globe nominated Pierce Brosnan ) is is New Mexico , and so is optimist Danny Wright ( Greg Kinnear ) , who is having a run of bad luck , e . g . his only child died , he's lost his job , his wife Carolyn ' Bean ' Wright ( Hope Davis ) is losing faith , and tree fell through his kitchen . Both men meet each other in the local bar by chance , Julian is the best conversation because he is pretty rude . The next morning Julian wants to make it up to Danny , so he takes him to a bullfight , and it is there Julian tells him his profession , of course , Danny takes it as a joke at first , but he knows he's serious when Julian asks him to help with a job . The last we see of Danny in Mexico City is Julian endlessly knocking on his hotel door , then it skips months later , and Julian turns up on Danny's doorstep one night in Christmas time , and when Carolyn isn't in the room , Julian tells him he needs to do one more job , otherwise he is going to be killed . Danny ( who has grown a moustache I should mention ) does agree to help , Julian lose his cool again when he has the perfect shot , but Danny plucks him up , and after the job is successful ( it was the man who wanted Julian dead ) they head home , and the film ends with Danny and Carolyn beside the grave of the dead son ( for the anniversary of his death ) , and Julian walks away . Also starring Philip Baker Hall as Mr . Randy , Happiness's Dylan Baker as Lovell , Adam Scott as Phil Garrison , Portia Dawson as Genevive and William Raymond as Mr . Stick . It may not have made me laugh a lot , but it is a good black comedy drama with an odd friendship , and Brosnan is good at sending up his most famous role . Worth watching !
The Wrong Arm of the Law	I will admit that I didn't pay full attention , and I did doze off somewhere in the middle , but I suppose it's worth a go . Basically cockney Pearly Gates ( Peter Sellers ) is the leader of a gang of crooks , with no-one carrying guns or resisting arrest . Then along comes another gang , led by Irish Nervous O'Toole ( Bernard Cribbins ) that can apparently do better than them . With the help of turned Insp . Parker ( Lionel Jeffries ) they plan to set a trap for the biggest car robbery with £50 , 000 to be had . Also starring Davy Kaye as Trainer King , Nanette Newman as Valerie , Bill Kerr as Jack Coombes , Ed Devereaux as Bluey May , Reg Lye as Reg Denton , Dad's Army's John Le Mesurier as Assistant Commissioner , Graham Stark as Sid Cooper , Martin Boddey as Supt . Forest , Irene Browne as Dowager , Arthur Mullard as Brassknuckles , Dermot Kelly as Misery Martin and Vanda Godsell as Annette . I think it's because I dozed off and didn't pay full attention that I can't say I laughed a lot , but the ending robbery is quite good viewing . Worth watching !
Cabin Fever	I can agree with the critics that it is similar to the same formula as past horror films , e . g . Night of the Living Dead with the last survivor being shot accidentally ( or on purpose ) , and The Evil Dead with the isolated cabin , but I think it is quite a good . It is a pretty gritty and gross horror film , especially from debuting director Eli Roth ( Hostel ) . The film starts with a guy finding his dog dead with no insides and blood going in his face , and then it moves to the main plot . Five teenagers , Paul ( Rider Strong ) , Karen ( Jordan Ladd ) , Bert ( James DeBello ) , Marcy ( Cerina Vincent ) and Jeff ( Joey Kern ) have graduated school , and have rented a cabin in the woods to spend a short sex and alcohol filled vacation . While there , they see the guy at the beginning who has caught a terrifying flesh-eating disease / virus . When they set him on fire , you see him dead in the lake , and this is where the bigger problem comes , his disease filled fluids drain into the drain pipes of the cabin . Slowly , one by one , the virus spreads in all of them with the water coming from the lake , and it turns into a horrific terror-fest as the friends turn on each other , and try to get help from the situation and the disease . Also starring Arie Verveen as Henry ( The Hermit ) , Robert Harris as Old Man Cadwell and Roth as Justin ( aka Grim ) . The scene where one of the girl shaves herself in the bath , and her skin is pealing to blood is particularly horrific , and many other moments are pretty realistic . Worth watching !
The Butterfly Effect	When I saw the advert for this I thought it was going to be clever and gripping , I was only slightly right . Basically , Evan at 7 ( Logan Lerman ) suffers from memory blackouts , and moments later he finds himself forward in time in a new place and confused , and his Mom believes he is making up the blackouts to get out of trouble . As Evan grows , to age Evan at 13 ( John Patrick Amedori ) he has less blackouts , until apparently recovering . He has written a diary about his blackout moments since age 7 , so he can remember what happens . Now in college , Evan Treborn ( Dude , Where's My Car ? ' s Ashton Kutcher ) starts to read back through his diary , and discovers not only that he can relive the memories that were blacked out , but also that he can change them for the better . Also starring Road Trip's Amy Smart as Kayleigh Miller , Eric Stoltz as George Miller , William Lee Scott as Tommy Miller , Elden Henson as Lenny Kagan , Irene Gorovaia as Kayleigh at 13 , Kevin G . Schmidt as Lenny at 13 , Jesse James as Tommy at 13 , My Name Is Earl's Ethan Suplee as Thumper , Melora Walters as Andrea Treborn and Callum Keith Rennie as Jason Treborn . It is an inventive story in terms of looking back into someone's terrible past experiences that he missed , but it is a bit ridiculous in the places where it goes into another almost perfect world , like a dream or something . Worth watching !
Fun with Dick and Jane	Unfortunately this is not as good as any of the other films that Jim Carrey ( producing and starring ) and Brian Grazer have worked on together , but bits of it are definitely worth a look for laughs . Jim Carrey is Dick Harper , he thinks he is being promoted to a better job . That's until the company of Dynocorpe sinks and closes down . Now Dick and his wife Jane ( Téa Leoni ) , and their son of course , are in trouble with money . No matter what they try , they can't raise the kind of money they really want . So they start robbing a few places . And then they decide to rob the guy that set Dick up , his ex-boss Jack McAllister ( Alec Baldwin ) . I think the most laughable bits are when Carrey's in the elevator singing " I Believe I Can Fly " and the bit when he ties up someone in a robbery , and is speaking with a voice changer ( he sounds like a crap robot ) . Worth watching !
High School Musical 2	I had seen the previous TV made Disney film since I heard a lot about it , so I guess I had to see if the sequel measured up too , from director Kenny Ortega ( Hocus Pocus ) . Basically all the original characters are back and they are out of school for the summer , and Sharpay Evans ( Ashley Tisdale ) is still trying to get Troy Bolton ( Zac Efron ) to leave Gabriella Montez ( Vanessa Anne Hudgens ) for her . So she hires him to work at her country house for the holiday , little realising they would hire all the other Wild Cats too , and Sharpay wants them either fired , or want to quit , to get Troy to herself . Also a talent contest is coming soon , and Sharpay wants to get rid of the competition , and it seems that Troy may be leaning towards either being with her more , and turning into a bit of a jerk towards all the Wild Cats . Luckily all is resolved in the end , and Sharpay's brother Ryan ( Lucas Grabeel ) helps to choreograph a successful talent contest entry for Troy and eventually Gabriella to win with , oh and Sharpay shows she can be nice by giving the trophy to her brother . Also starring Corbin Bleu as Chad Danforth , Monique Coleman as Taylor McKessie , Chris Warren Jr . as Zeke Baylor , Olesya Rulin as Kelsi Nielsen and Bart Johnson as Jack Bolton . Filled with some not bad performances , likable songs , and that real family feel about it , this is another one you can't help but like . It was nominated the Emmys for Outstanding Children's Program and Outstanding Choreography for the routines : " What Time Is It ? " , " Fabulous " , " Work This Out " , " I Don't Dance " , " You Are the Music In Me " and " For One " . Worth watching !
I Like to Play Games	A pretty silly film , but worth watching the nudity . A new secretary has entered a company , and this guy finds her attractive . It's not long before they sleep together . But she doesn't want to " play it easy " . So she starts to do more interesting things . For example , she dresses in a cat-suit and pins him to the bed and says " You just lie back and let me do everything ! " Probably the most arousing and watchable moment of the film is when the girl brings a friend or something round to be with him instead of her . But it's obvious that she doesn't want this " friend " to b with him alone , so they have a very good threesome . As I said , a silly script , but definitely worth it . Good !
The Famous Five	When I was younger , this used to be on CITV ( Children's Intergallactic Television ) quite a bit . When it was on it was quite an interesting show of kids against adults . Basically four kids and one dog ( making five ) solve mysteries even though their parents tell them not to meddle in other people's business . That's the thing , they never listen and the parents never let them . But they always managed to solve the crime in the end , catch the bad guy / girl . I did like some of the story lines , but after a while it started to get a bit boring so I only watched it when I felt like it . The only annoying thing about it was I couldn't tell if George was a boy or a girl . Worth watching !
Cleopatra	I knew two of the lead stars of the film , and I knew it was an expensive film , I just didn't know how expensive , or how long is was , from Golden Globe nominated director Joseph L . Mankiewicz ( All About Eve , Guys and Dolls , the original Sleuth ) . Basically it is the historical epic drama , in the year 48 B . C . where Pharaoh Ptolemy XIII ( Richard O'Sullivan ) is supreme ruler of Egypt , having " desposed " of his Queen sister Cleopatra ( Dame Elizabeth Taylor ) . But along comes Caesar ( Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Rex Harrison ) to restore some order to the kingdom of Egypt , despite being from Rome , he even sees to marrying the Queen and having a son , oh , and Ptolemy was banished . It is when Caesar is murdered that trouble starts again some years later , when his protégé Marc Antony ( Richard Burton , who married Liz the next year ) has become smitten by Cleopatra , and she can't help herself . She is angered when she finds out he is marrying Octavia ( Jean Marsh ) , sister of the ambitious Octavian - Caesar Augustus ( Golden Globe nominated Roddy McDowall ) , and he quickly changes his mind , and marries Cleopatra . There is a war with some battleships shooting at each other , a bit of banter and politics , and the film ends with Antony dying , and Cleopatra following not too long after . Also starring Pamela Brown as High Priestess , George Cole as Flavius , Hume Cronyn as Sosigenes , Cesare Danova as Apollodorus , Kenneth Haigh as Brutus , Andrew Keir as Agrippa , young Martin Landau as Rufio , Robert Stephens as Germanicus , Francesca Annis as Eiras , Grégoire Aslan as Pothinus and Martin Benson as Ramos , I have to say , some of the oddest character names I have ever heard . Apparently , back then it cost around $40 million to make , today that would be around $250 million ( that would beat Titanic's $250 million ) , it could have been because of Taylor getting sick a lot . More obvious reason would be the length of the film , four hours and eight minutes of nearly blah , sexy , blah , politics , blah , battle , blah , death , it was obvious I would doze off at some point . I much preferred the spoof film Carry On Cleo . It won the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Best Cinematography , Best Costume Design and Best Special Visual Effects , and it was nominated for Best Film Editing , Best Music for Alex North , Best Sound and Best Picture , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama . Dame Elizabeth Taylor was number 77 , and Richard Burton number 70 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , Taylor was number 7 on Britain's Finest Actresses , Burton was number 29 on The 50 Greatest British Actors , Taylor was number 11 on The 50 Greatest British Actresses , she was also number 13 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols , and she was number 7 on 100 Years , 100 Stars - Women . Worth watching , at least once !
Baby Looney Tunes	I saw this a couple of times on Cartoon Network , I wasn't too fascinated about it at first with the advert , but when I actually bothered to watch it Baby Looney Tunes is actually pretty good . Basically they've taken the same idea as Tiny Toon Adventures and Baby Muppets , and done it to the Looney Tunes . They are now babies being looked after by Granny in a large house of fun . Baby Bug Bunny is cute and main star , but I don't think he's as popular as the original adult . There's also babies Daffy , Porky , Sylvester , Tweety , Lola Bunny ( from Space Jam ) , Taz and many others . The babies have many weird and wonderful stories , including doing chores to get money for ice cream , tidying the house and toy arguments . The kids will love it . Good !
From Soup to Nuts	Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy are the most famous comedy duo in history , and deservedly so , so I am happy to see any of their films . Basically newly rich Mrs . Culpepper ( A Chump at Oxford's Anita Garvin ) has planned a big dinner party , eager to make a good impression in high society , but her husband ( Tiny Sandford ) is less enthusiastic , as she has learn more society ways . Worse is to come as they have hired short notice waiters , Stan and Ollie of course , and they turn out to be clumsy and pretty inexperienced . Ollie gets his face into a big cream cake not once , but three times , and Stan serves the salad undressed , no , literally , this joke also appeared in A Chump at Oxford . Filled with good slapstick and all classic comedy you want from a black and white film , it is an enjoyable silent film . Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy were number 7 on The Comedians ' Comedian . Worth watching !
Animal Farm	It should be mentioned first that the farm in the programmes does not exist and is fake , but all animal and plants shown from the many laboratories and facilities are real . Basically in three episodes food critic Giles Coren ( he hosted Channel 5's Movie Lounge ) and scientist Olivia Judson take a journey of discovery through the strange world of genetic modification and engineering , and it is all happening now . They meet and see many of the strangest scientifically changed or created creatures and plants , including born featherless chickens , cloned sheep and cows , illness curing plants , regenerating mice , plants that could cure , muscle " Arnie-like " covered cows , glow-in-the-dark rabbits and pigs , grown noses ( including Giles's ) and other body parts , and many other strange things . It all comes down to using cells , DNA and technology , but the big questions are whether this is moral , whether it can help , and will it become more commercial in the future ? Worth watching !
Don't Look Now	I don't exactly understand the title , but I could take it slightly seriously . This film is another film based on a Stephen King , but is sadly ( in my opinion ) not as disturbing as The Shining or Misery were . Basically Laura ( BAFTA nominated Julie Christie ) and John Baxter ( BAFTA nominated Donald Sutherland ) lost their daughter many years when she somehow drowned . They now live in Venice to try and ease the memory , but whatever he does , John is always reminded somehow . Examples of his reminders are the water and red , like the red coat . The beginning sequence and John's scary old woman murder are the ones that really stick out . It won the BAFTA for Best Cinematography , and it was nominated for Best Direction for Nicolas Roeg ( The Witches ) , Best Film Editing , Best Sound Track and Best Film . It was number 55 on The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments , it was number 20 on The 100 Greatest Scary Moments , it was number 40 on The 50 Greatest British Films , and it was number 71 on The 100 Greatest Films . Worth watching , in my opinion , because I don't understand all of it !
Love ' Em and Weep	Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy are the most famous comedy duo in history , and deservedly so , so I am happy to see any of their films . Four years later , this film was remade by Laurel and Hardy into the Chickens Come Home , so it pretty much exactly the same storyline and most of the same comedy moments , only difference being that it's silent . So the old flame ( Mae Busch ) of married businessman Titus Tillsbury ( James Finlayson ) shows up blackmailing him , and his work friend Romaine Ricketts ( Laurel ) to keep her away from Mrs . Aggie Tillsbury ( Charlotte Mineau ) . Hardy only gets a supporting role as Judge Chigger , a guest at the dinner party . Filled with good slapstick and all classic comedy you want from a black and white film , it is an enjoyable silent film . Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy were number 7 on The Comedians ' Comedian . Worth watching !
Vantage Point	When I saw the trailer and the clips on Jonathan Ross , I thought this was a film I could definitely enjoy , but I did wonder why it was only given two out of five stars , now I know . Basically you see the same scene about four-five times , the shooting of President Ashton ( William Hurt ) - although you find out later it is actually a lookalike , and the real President gets kidnapped - and you see it from the point of view , aka Vantage Point , of eight characters . First is TV producer Rex Brooks ( Sigourney Weaver ) who catches an important suspect on film , second agent Thomas Barnes ( Dennis Quaid ) who will spot this suspect , third is a man involved Javier ( Edgar Ramirez ) , fourth is tourist Howard Lewis ( Forest Whitaker ) who sees more than he realises on his video camera , and the last few minutes see a mix of all characters involved , and it turns out there is a traitor in Baren's partner Kent Taylor ( Lost's Matthew Fox ) and a blackmailing . Also starring Ayelet Zurer as Veronica , Saïd Taghmaoui as Suarez and Eduardo Noriega as Enrique . The way this film is put together in the same style as a Japanese film called Rashomon , although I personally have seen it done in Tarantino's Pulp Fiction and Jackie Brown , and quite a clever style it is . Yes , it is a tiny bit annoying seeing the same scene four to five times , but the points of view add some good twists , the cast of well known actors makes for good viewing , and there are some explosions and a chase sequence to keep you interested , oh , and finding out who is involved in the shooting . Worth watching !
Rugrats in Paris : The Movie	This is film sequel to the first film based on the second longest running cartoon on TV ( longest running is obviously The Simpsons ) . Basically best talking baby friends Tommy ( Elizabeth Daily ) , Chuckie ( Christine Cavanaugh ) , twins Phil and Lil , and mean Angelica ( Cheryl Chase ) this time are going to Paris when Tommy's Dad , Stu , is summoned to the region's theme park , Reptarland , to work on his new invention . Along the way the kids see the blossoming romance between Chuckie's Dad , and secretary Kira Watanabe ( Julia Kato ) , who works for the horrible Coco LaBouche ( Susan Sarandon ) . Also starring Casem Kasem as the wedding DJ , Debbie Reynolds as Lulu Pickles , John Lithgow as Jean-Claude , Tim Curry as Sumo Swinger , Billy West as another Sumo Singer and Dan Castellaneta as Priest . Good for kids , and adults will like some of it too . Worth watching !
The Adventures of Mole	When I was a kid , I used to like this cartoon version of the famous Kenneth Grahame story about the river . This was just the first part of a three part bunch of stories . This is the order : The Adventures of Mole , Mole's Christmas and The Adventures of Mr . Toad . Anyway , you probably know the story . Mole's spring cleaning , then goes outside and discovers the river and meets Rat . Then later they meet Mr . Toad ( voiced by Hugh Laurie ) , and finally meet Mr . Badger after a frightful trip in the Wild Wood . This cartoon was pretty good at the time , but not as good as some other versions of the story . I suppose it is alright !
Stripes	From director Ivan Reitman ( Ghostbusters , Twins , Evolution ) is this modest army comedy . Basically John Winger ( Bill Murray ) is a quick-witted cab driver , well mainly ambitious loser , and his friend Russell Ziskey ( alos co-writing , Harold Ramis ) is no different as a foreign people's English teacher . They see an advert for the army , and decide to join more as a joke than a career . They soon start basic training under the hard-nosed , impatient and no nonsense Sgt . Hulka ( Warren Oates ) . Other ' goofballs ' of this platoon include overweight Dewey ' Ox ' Oxberger ( John Candy ) , naive Cruiser ( John Diehl ) , constantly stoned Elmo ( Judge Reinhold ) and appropriately nick-named Francis ' Psycho ' Soyer ( Conrad Dunn ) . After an accident causes Hulka to be unable to lead , Winger takes over , and with a new ( obviously humorous ) demonstration they impress the generals . Winger and Ziskey also find time to romance two pretty female MPs , Stella Hansen ( Halloween's P . J . Soles ) and Louise Cooper ( Sean Young ) . Later , they commandeer a high-tech military vehicle disguised as a camper van fro a weekend away , and doing this stumble into an international incident . Now they are obviously fighting the enemy , and trying to get out alive , and in the end are all obviously praised as heroes , and individually put on magazine covers . Also starring John Larroquette as Capt . Stillman , John Voldstad as Corporal , Stillman's aide , Lance LeGault as Col . Glass , Roberta Leighton as Anita and Antone Pagan as Hector . There may not be many hilarious jokes , but I can see what the critics mean by this being Murray's breakthrough , and the platoon marching and singing Manfred Man's Do Wah Diddy Diddy is fun . Worth watching !
Wrong Turn	I have hardly seen any mutant films , unless you count X-Men , but what I mean is creatures that do not look very nice and are deformed . Basically Chris Flynn ( Desmond Harrington ) is lost somewhere on the road and on the way takes , " the wrong turn " and eventually crashes into a car . They are all lost and looking for help nearby . They include Jessie Burlingame ( True Lies ' beautiful Eliza Dushku ) , Carly ( Emmanuelle Chriqui ) , Scott ( Jeremy Sisto ) , Evan ( Kevin Zegers ) and Francine ( Lindy Booth ) . Basically while looking for help they all get caught in a chase between them and three mutant , maybe human creatures . There is quite a bit of gore , and it is predictable in places , but is worth watching !
A Misummer Night's Dream	I had seen a cartoon version of this William Shalespeare tale , but I had always wanted to see a live action one , and this star filled version is almost perfect . It is the story of a group of four partners , Helena ( Ally McBeal's Calista Flockhart ) , Lysander ( Dominic West ) , Demetrius ( Christian Bale ) and Hermia ( Anna Friel ) , and complications with their love situations . Oberon ( Rupert Everett ) , King of the Fairies was originally getting the love juice flower only to make a fool of Queen Titania ( Michelle Pfeiffer ) , but he also decided to get his servant Puck ( The Terminal's Stanley Tucci ) to put the juice on the eyes of the four people , getting their identities mixed up . But it is the group of performing actors ' " main man " , always fun Kevin Kline that is best as the ass-turned Nick Bottom . Also starring David Strathairn as Theseus and Sophie Marceau as Hippolyta . There are some funny moments , but it is the pantomime type format that is just the slightest bit annoying . Worth watching !
Charlotte's Web	I remember seeing this cartoon based on the book by E . B . White many times as a kid , and I can still remember most of the dialogue and the basic story . From Hanna-Barbera ( animators of cartoons like Tom and Jerry and The Flintstones ) , it may not have the same style of animation , it's pretty similar to that of Animal Farm , but it's certainly a good family film . Basically Wilbur the pig was born a runt , but when little girl Fern Arable ( Pamelyn Ferdin ) pleaded her Dad , Avery ( Danny Bonaduce ) not to kill him , she looked after him till he was big enough to be sold and taken away . At his new farm , Wilbur ( Wedding Crashers ' Henry Gibson ) learns to talk , meets The Goose ( Agnes Moorehead ) , Templeton the rat ( Paul Lynde ) and the Ram ( Dave Madden ) . Eventually he finds out that he is meant to be killed to make bacon or whatever , but he meets new friend Charlotte A . Cavatica ( Singin ' in the Rain's Debbie Reynolds ) a wise and singing spider who catches flies for their blood , and can spin great intricate webs . She plans to fool Wilbur's owner , Mr . Homer Zuckerman ( Bob Holt ) and everyone else to make them believe Wilbur is special , by spinning various words into her web . These words include : " Some Pig " , " Terrific " , " Radiant " and " Humble " . Eventually , with all the popularity of Wilbur , he , Charlotte and also Templeton ( who's only interest is food ) go to a county fair where Zuckerman has a chance to win a prize . Charlotte meanwhile is not only spinning the webs , but has also made her cocoon for some babies to hatch . Wilbur does win a medal , and Zuckerman says he will let him live , but Charlotte dies ( from exhaustion ) and Wilbur has to take her nest back home to hatch . When they do hatch , they all fly away , except three runts who stay with him on the farm . Narrated by Rex Allen , and also starring Joan Gerber as Mrs . Zuckerman and Mrs . Fussy , Don Messick as Jeffrey and William B . White as Henry Fussy . With songs by The Sherman Brothers ( who did songs for The Jungle Book and Mary Poppins ) , and a show stealing rat , his eating night at the fair is his highlight , this is a fun family film , and I wouldn't mind seeing it again . Worth watching !
Taken	I knew this was a kidnap film , I was thinking it might be similar to Ransom , well , it is almost as violent , written by Luc Besson ( director of The Fifth Element ) . Basically Bryan Mills ( Liam Neeson ) is the retired secret agent who is really protective and concerned for his daughter Kim ( Maggie Grace ) , especially when she is travelling to Paris with her friend Amanda ( Katie Cassidy ) . He asked her to call him , but he instead calls her , and not long into the call , Kim is panicking as she sees some criminals intruding , from the bathroom window , and soon after is dragged off . Bryan promises Kim's mother Lenore ( GoldenEye's Famke Janssen ) that he will get her back , and he even told the kidnapper he will kill him . He is following all the clues as to who is behind the kidnapping , and the whereabouts of where she was taken , and it turns out that she was kidnapped for trafficking . Not long after killing the man on the phone , he finds Kim being sold , and he forces a buyer to get her , and there is a final showdown to kill all criminals and get his daughter . Also starring Leland Orser as Sam , Jonathan Gries as Casey , David Warshofsky as Bernie , Holly Valance as Sheerah , Hellraiser's Xander Berkeley as Stuart , Olivier Rabourdin as Jean-Claude and Gérard Watkins as Patrice St . Clair . Neeson is pretty good as the spy Dad who will do anything to get what he wants , there are some small violent moments , and it is quite an engaging story . Worth watching !
Two Brothers	I think the most obvious to reason to see this film is for the tigers , young and old , they are magnificent creatures , and here they are the main focus , from director Jean-Jacques Annaud ( The Name of the Rose , Enemy at the Gates ) . Basically two twin tigers , one shy and gentle , the other bold and fierce , are born in the ruins of a temple in an exotic jungle . However , one day the brothers are separated by fate , the bold tiger , named Kumal is sold to a circus , his homesickness and cage life have taken away his spirit , while his brother , named Sangha , is still with his mother . Kumal is trained to do tricks by cruel ringmaster Zerbino ( Vincent Scarito ) , and soon Sangha is also captured , and they are put in a stage together , meant to be fighting , but thank goodness they recognise each other , all grown up that is , and they escape . Oh , I should mention , the man who has appeared a lot during the tigers ' lives is famous hunter Aidan McRory ( Memento's Guy Pearce ) , who by the way , killed their mother , but he respects the tigers freedom , and in the end gives up hunting . Also starring Jean-Claude Dreyfus as Administrator Eugene Normandin , Finding Neverland's Freddie Highmore as Raoul Normandin , Philippine Leroy-Beaulieu as Mrs . Normandin , Stéphanie Lagarde as Miss Paulette , Maï Anh Le as Naï-Rea , Moussa Maaskri as Saladin and Oanh Nguyen as His Excellency , the Prince . For the cute factor , this film is very entertaining , and the story is quite good too , to be honest , you can't really pay attention to much else besides the tigers . Worth watching !
Frankenweenie	This is another quite confusing but near entertaining film written and directed by genius Tim Burton , however it does show he has a dark side to him . This is a really interesting but highly silly idea for a film , this is basically a kid version of Frankenstein . Young Victor Frankenstein ( The NeverEnding Story's Barret Oliver ) is a 10 year old boy living with his Mum Susan ( The Shining's Shelley Duvall ) and Dad Ben ( Home Alone's Daniel Stern ) . One day while playing with his dog Sparky , Victor sees his dog his by a truck . He one day in science class gets the idea of conducting electricity into his dead dog's body to bring him back . He digs it up , sews it up and put it outside to be hit by lightning . He starts off well , but when he gets outside everyone thinks he is a monster . It does have a near ending tear jerker , but it does end happily . But this is quite silly to watch , it does all the same stuff with the original Boris Karloff Frankenstein , except with a kid and his dog . But never the less , an interesting Tim Burton film . Worth watching !
One Good Turn	Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy are the most famous comedy duo in history , and deservedly so , so I am happy to see any of their films . Basicaly Stan and Ollie are living rough , with only some clothes and their car , and after managing to burn down their tent they see no choice but to go begging for food somewhere . They find the house of Old Lady ( Mary Carr ) , and she agrees to make some sandwiches and coffee for them , while they do a little wood chopping , which of course doesn't last long . While tucking into their food , they overhear the Old Woman begging " villainous landlord " ( James Finlayson ) not to evict her when she can't pay him the $100 she owes . Stan and Ollie decide to try and sell their car and give the Old Woman the money to pay the villain off , and a paying drunk man accidentally puts his wallet in Stan's pocket , spurring Ollie to think he stole it from the Old Woman . So he forces Stan to go back ( their car by the way collapses ) to prove his guilt , but they both didn't realise she was rehearsing with the Community Player for a play , so Stan is very mad , and the film ends with a last squabble . Filled with good slapstick and all classic comedy you want from a black and white film , it is an enjoyable film . Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy were number 7 on The Comedians ' Comedian . Worth watching !
RoboCop 2	I have always thought that Paul Verhoeven's first film has stood out as the best RoboCop film , I can't really remember if this sequel was that good or not . Peter Weller returns as the cybernetic cop in this quite good film where RoboCop both tries to do his job while ( I think ) trying to be controlled and facing his past before being a robot . I think there is a sequence where he starts telling kids to be bad , but I can remember there is a scene where his memory goes for a minute . He still has the very nice car as well . And is it me , or does his girlfriend from the first film die ? Not bad , but the first was better . Worth watching !
Our Wife	Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy are the most famous comedy duo in history , and deservedly so , so I am happy to see any of their films . Ollie is preparing to get married to his beloved Dulcy ( Babe London ) , while Stan is setting the table , and filling a mouth spray squirter with bug spray to kill the flies on the cake , which Ollie puts in his mouth , needing ice , which he slips on and crashes into the table , his face landing in the cake , and causing many room objects to drop . Dulcy's father ( James Finlayson ) has forbidden her to marry Ollie after seeing his picture , so Ollie and Stan go to her house to take her and get eloped ( secretly married ) , which the father manages to find out about from Stan . There is a big fuss trying to get a ladder , get Dulcy's luggage , and especially squeezing into the small limousine , but they eventually get to the Justice of the Peace , only to have a cross-eyed official ( Ben Turpin ) shaking hands with and kissing Stan and Ollie . Filled with good slapstick and all classic comedy you want from a black and white film , it is an enjoyable film . Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy were number 7 on The Comedians ' Comedian . Worth watching !
The Majestic	Three years ( and four films ) after the outstanding act in The Truman Show , the star brought us this second more-serious role . From Frank Darabont , director of The Shawshank Redemption and The Green Mile , this is an alright film that reminds you of Frank Capra's work , and a pretty predictable story . Basically Peter Appleton ( Jim Carrey ) is a Hollywood screenwriter in the 1950s , going to drunken despair , and he accidentally drives his car off a bridge , oh , and he banged his head really hard . He is found washed up on a beach by Harry Trimble ( Ed Wood's Martin Landau ) , who is convinced by the striking resemblance , that he is his son , Luke Trimble . As the story goes on , everyone is pleased that Luke may be back , as he was such a big person to them , and with his amnesia , he believes it all . He even helps Harry's old cinema , The Majestic , get back into business , and falls for the real Luke's girlfriend , Adele Stanton ( Laurie Holden ) . It is when watching one of his films that Peter remembers his true self , but he continues his new identity till Harry dies and he tells the truth . It is a court case where he also gives his opinion of what he did , and eventually wins the hearts of the town he lived for the few months . Also starring David Ogden Stiers as Doc Stanton , James Whitmore as Stan Keller , Rob Reiner as a Studio executive and Matt Damon as the voice of Luke's letter . Worth watching , at least once !
Bernard's Watch	When I was younger I used to love this programme . Now it's just the tiniest bit corny , but still worth a look . It is about a boy named Bernard who is given a magic watch from a postman . It is given with instructions to press it once and then press it again . Bernard discovers that this watch can stop and start time . After that episode he does all sorts with this watch . He stops burglars , tidies the house for his granddad , does well in school and lots more interesting adventures . He basically has all the time in the world . A very interesting and fun show , makes me wish that I had a watch like that . Good in childhood !
Jason and the Argonauts	There are quite a few Greek based stories I like , i . e . Hercules and Clash of the Titans , and this is nearly one of them . Anyway , this is the story of Jason ( Todd Armstrong ) , a man on a mission from both Zeus ( Niall MacGinnis ) and his wife Hera ( Honor Blackman ) . Basically Jason has to find a brave crew and a strong ship to reach the end of the Earth to get to a magic tree . Also starring Nancy Kovack as Medea , Gary Raymond as Acastus , Laurence Naismith as Argos , Michael Gwynn as Hermes , Douglas Wilmer as Pelias , Jack Gwillim as King Aeetes , John Cairney as Hylas , Patrick Troughton as Phineas , Andrew Faulds as Phalerus and Nigel Green as Hercules ( not the strong one ) . Not all sequences were great , e . g . the rock fall with the boat , but you can't help liking the stop-motion action with Hydra , a large metal statue and evil skeletons . It was number 45 on The 100 Greatest Family Films . Worth watching !
Paint Your Wagon	I have to admit two of the only reasons I wanted to see this film was because of the great actor we got to know in the spaghetti westerns singing , and The Simpsons spoofed it . Basically from a cart accident , prospector Ben Rumson ( Golden Globe nominated Lee Marvin ) and Michigan farmer Pardner ( Clint Eastwood ) form a partnership in No-Name Village in the California gold country . They have a couple of adventures as the almost slow plot goes , including buying and sharing a wife , Elizabeth ( Jean Seberg ) , hijacking a stage , kidnapping six prostitutes ( so the village had more women , they originally had none ) , and turning the village into a boomtown . Filled with plenty of gambling , drinking and singing , and some creative gold mining . It was a slow film when there was no singing , but it is still a good film , and both Marvin and Eastwood are great at singing . Lee Marvin in fact was number one for the song " Wandrin ' Star " . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Music for Nelson Riddle , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Musical / Comedy . It was number 57 on The 100 Greatest Musicals . Worth watching !
Fanny Hill	I can't remember seeing the entire film , or the reason for the rather amusing sexual sounding title , but I do remember that there were a couple of good moments of female nudity and sex . Oliver Reed starred in it somewhere , but he obviously wasn't my concern when I saw it . I only cared about it because of the amusing named title , and the mention of quite a few sexual references . There are no scenes I can really remember that well , but I think there was one where two girls are seeing many people have sex through their above windows . I did not see any of Oliver Reed as far as can remember , but I don't think this is his type of film anyway . Okay !
Black Beauty	I had read the reviews for this story of one of the most famous fictional horses in literacy , and this film adaptation is the only one so far that has a decent star rating ( all others are two , this is three ) , from director Caroline Thompson ( scriptwriter of Edward Scissorhands ) . Anyway , basically Black Beauty ( voiced by Alan Cumming ) tells his own stories of all his mini adventures , being given to many different masters , making many friends , doing many services for them , and ultimately his " circle of life " over many years . His mini adventures include being born , learning to stand and run , his name given , given hooves , being sold to new masters , a fire , falling in love , becoming sick , riding people , and much more . Starring Sean Bean as Farmer Grey , Dragonheart's David Thewlis as Jerry Barker , Jim Carter as John Manly , Peter Davison as Squire Gordon , Alun Armstrong as Reuben Smith , John McEnery as Mr . York , Eleanor Bron as Lady Wexmire and Peter Cook as Lord Wexmire . Kids , especially young girls , will adore this film , and there is some interest for the older viewers as well in this heartwarming drama . Worth watching !
Magnificent 7	This is the only TV drama I have actually seen with Helena Bonham Carter away from the big screen , especially with her husband Tim Burton . This is the true story based on the life of Jacqui Jackson and her seven children . Carter plays Maggi Jackson , the troubled mother happy to do nearly anything for her kids , especially because of their problems . The four boys of the family are the main reason why she is quite troubled , they all have social problems , e . g . Asperger's Syndrome , Hyperactivity . You can obviously sympathise with this mother because it is based on a real person . I can also kind of sympathise with the kid with Asperger's Syndrome , not just because I have it , but I know what it's like to be different and sometimes alone . Worth watching !
Stripshow	Another silly script , but worth the watch for nudity . This stripper has left Las Vegas with all her earned cash and she has stopped at a motel run by a cowboy named " Cowboy " , how original . She meets this girl who is interested to know how she earned the money . She is also interested in becoming a stripper herself . When Cowboy won't let Raquel , her name , stay at the motel any longer ( because she won't leave him alone ) he dumps her on a desert road . The woman she met earlier finds her and helps her . Unfortunately when it starts to get dark they get a bit lost . So they find a hut and sleep there for the night . But because the desert is cold at night they sleep together to warm each other , basically they become one-night lesbians , that's the best part . Silly , but definitely worth that one scene . Good !
EuroTrip	This is not a sequel , but a good natured , more offensive and just as funny follow-up to Road Trip . Basically Scott Thomas ( Scott Mechlowicz ) has graduated from high school , and he has a really good pen pal in Berlin named Mieke who he has known for years . This good luck soon changed though when his girlfriend dumps him to be with singer Donny ( Matt Damon ) , and when Mieke suggests they meet and get together , and brokenhearted Scotty sends an email telling Mieke to never talk to him again . Of course he sees the mega mistake he made when he discovers Mieke ( pronounced Mika , like the singer ) is a girl's name , and he has been looking at the wrong person in his photo she gave him . So Scotty's best friend Cooper Harris ( Jacob Pitts ) convinces him to go to Berlin and correct this mistake . They fly to London , and travel with school twins Jenny ( Inspector Gadget's Michelle Trachtenberg ) and Jamie ( Travis Wester ) , through most of Europe , including Paris , Amsterdam and Rome until they eventually get to Berlin . Along the journey through these places , encounters include a Creepy Italian Guy ( Fred Armisen ) , a French robot street performer , Madame Vandersexxx ( Xena : Warrior Princess's Lucy Lawless ) and her " pleasure " ( really it's sexual torture ) , aggressive British football supporters led by Mad Maynard ( Vinnie Jones ) , a nude beach populated by men only , and much more to offend you , whether with stereotyping , racism and blasphemy . Finally they reach Berlin , and Scotty and Mieke ( Jessica Boehrs ) meet in person , and of course they were going to have terrific sex , in a confession box ! Also starring Kristin Kreuk as Fiona , Joanna Lumley as Hostel Clerk , Patrick Rapold as Christoph , The World Is Not Enough's Patrick Malahide as Arthur Frommer , Jeffrey Tambor as Scott's Dad and Mindy Sterling as Old Woman in Confessional . The jokes are crude and rude , and it is nice to know teen films like this can appreciate European culture . Worth watching !
American Pie Presents	Yet another American Pie straight to DVD spin-off follows The Naked Mile , and unlike Band Camp , it continues with the same leading characters , only Ryan Grimm ( Ross Thomas ) is missing . It has been a year since Erik Stifler ( John White ) lost his virginity to girlfriend , Tracy Sterling ( Jessy Schram , also not in the film ) , but she split with him because she copped off with that prick from the previous film , Trent ( Jon Cor ) . Anyway Erik and Mike ' Cooze ' Coozeman ( Jake Siegel ) are heading from Great Falls to the University of Michigan , where the infamous Beta House where they have setting high standards for incredible parties and outrageous antics , pretty much led by Erik's cousin , Dwight ( Steve Talley ) . The only thing stopping Erik , Cooze and some other guys from joining in all the antics is that they have to do 50 listed tasks to become privileged members of the house . But the bigger threat to the house is the rival GEK ( " Geek " ) House , led by power-hungry nerd ( and sheep shagger ) Edgar ( Tyrone Savage ) , who say they can give better parties and all that than Beta . So when Geek and Beta propose a real battle of houses , using the Greek Games , that have been banned for 40 years , past Greek champion for Beta , Noah Levenstein aka Jim's Dad ( Eugene Levy , still the only member from the original film ) they bet each others houses to each other , obviously Beta win . Also starring Flubber and The Iron Giant's Christopher McDonald as Mr . Stifler , Meghan Heffern as Ashley , Dan Petronijevic as Bull , Nic Nac as Bobby , Christine Barger as Margie , Italia Ricci as Laura Johnson , Moshana Halbert as Sara Coleman , Sarah Power as Denise , Andreja Punkris as Stacy and a brief Jordan Prentice returning as Rock . Levy may not be the embarrassing Dad anymore , but he is still fun ; the film has a lot more nudity than the previous film , more disgusting humour , including Russian Roulette using cartridges full of old horse spunk , and a lot more teen spirit , quite fun . Worth watching !
Baby's Day Out	This is a pretty good family comedy film full of cartoon like gags and an okay kind of story from the creators of Home Alone . Basically a little baby has heard a story called Baby's Day Out ( hence the title ) a lot of times . When baby Bink is kidnapped by three greedy crooks , Eddie , Norby and Veeko he is held hostage . Unfortunately baby Bink escapes and now the three crooks are trying to get the baby in order to get their ransom money . Everywhere the baby goes is something like in his book , he keeps crawling to things that are like in his book . Basically the crooks get all the cartoon like punishment trying to get the baby back . Pretty good !
House of Wax	This isn't exactly a scary film , but it is a very good original idea for good gore and creepy goings on . Basically a bunch of teenagers including the beautiful Carly Jones ( Elisha Cuthbert ) , Nick Jones ( Chad Michael Murray ) , the gorgeous Paige Edwards ( the quite thick Simple Life's Paris Hilton ) , Wade ( Jared Padalecki ) and Dalton Chapman ( Scary Movie's Jon Abrahams ) are camping in the wilderness . They can't start their car and get to a game they want to see , so they are stuck in the small town . In this town they notice a building named " House of Wax " . It is a house with wax walls , wax floors , wax statues , pretty much everything is wax . Later , they discover that the statues are too realistic , and one by one , they are killed , or turned into a new exhibition . This film must of cost quite a lot for special effects , make up and wax effects , it really good . Also starring Brian Van Holt as Bo and Vincent . Worth watching !
Just Cause	I will admit I didn't pay full attention to this when it was on , but I did get the gist I needed to , and I suppose it isn't bad . Basically law professor Paul Armstrong ( Sir Sean Connery ) is given a letter by Evangeline ( Ruby Dee ) , grandmother of Bobby Earl ( Blair Underwood ) , and he wants him to prove his innocence . Bobby claims to be wrongly convicted for the kidnap , rape and murder of an 11-year-old girl , committed eight years ago , and he faces the electric chair . So the rest of the film is mainly Paul , with some help from Sheriff Tanny Brown ( Laurence Fishburne ) , questioning the suspects from all those years ago , including imprisoned criminal Blair Sullivan ( Ed Harris ) . It has some red-herrings along the way , and it turns out in the end that Bobby did have something to do with it after all , and he kidnaps Paul's wife Laurie Prentiss Armstrong ( Indiana Jones and the Temple of the Doom's Kate Capshaw ) and daughter Katie ( little and recognisable Scarlett Johansson ) near the end for the final showdown . Also starring Christopher Murray as Detective T . J . Wilcox , Daniel J . Travanti as Warden and Ned Beatty as McNair . Connery is always likable with that Scottish accent , even in a small role Harris adds some needed kick , and the story isn't too bad , from what I paid attention to anyway , not bad . Worth watching !
Alan Carr : Tooth Faity Live	I first saw him on the show FAQ U , then on the panel of 8 Out of 10 Cats , and I was very pleased when he became the co-host ( with Justin Lee Collins , who also introduces him to the stage ) of The Friday Night Project . Anyway , Alan Carr is quite a popular stand-up comedian , and I was looking forward to seeing this live show of his . It wasn't quite what I expected or hoped for if I'm honest , I was hoping for more dirty jokes , it turned there was only one really dirty one about poo on someone , indicating insanity , but that's about it . Never-the-less , it is a funny show with a lovable camp comedian . Alan Carr was number 98 on 100 Greatest Stand-Ups . Good !
Escape to Victory	I really like POW war films , e . g . The Great Escape , The Bridge on the River Kwai , and this one from director John Huston ( The African Queen ) is quite an alright one . It is World War II , and the Nazi officers are sure they could win a football ( soccer for Americans ) against the many prisoners , and they accept the challenge . The prisoners / players in the team include leader English John Colby ( Sir Michael Caine ) , American Robert Hatch ( Sylvester Stallone ) , Trinidad's Luis Fernandez ( Pelé ) , English Terry Brady ( Bobby Moore ) , Argentina's Carlos Rey ( Osvaldo Ardiles ) , Belguim Michel Fileu ( Paul Van Himst ) , Polish Paul Wolchek ( Kazimierz Deyna ) , Norway's Gunnar Hilsson ( Hallvar Thorensen ) , English Sid Harmor ( Mike Summerbee ) , Holland's Pieter Van Beck ( Co Prins ) , English Doug Clure ( Russell Osman ) , Scotland's Arthur Hayes ( John Wark ) , Denmark ' Erik Borge ( Søren Lindsted ) and Irish Tony Lewis ( Kevin O'Calloghan ) . The opposition ( all Germans ) includes Major Karl Von Steiner ( Max Von Sydow ) , Coach Mueller ( Gary Waldhorn ) and Team captain Baumann ( Werner Roth ) . The prisoners see this game as a getaway , i . e . with a hole in the locker / shower room , but in the end they still carry on and defeat the Nazis , and as far as I could make out , escaped in the charging crowd . Also starring Daniel Massey as Colonel Waldron , Tim Pigott-Smith as Rose , Julian Curry as Sherlock , Clive Merrison as Forger , Maurice Roëves as Pyrie and Anton Diffring as the German Commentator . The POW camp moments are good , the one or two escape attempts ( including one by Stallone ) are good , and the game is engaging . Worth watching !
Animal Instincts 2	The sequel to the nudity and sex filled film that sounds more like a nature film is just as good as the first film . Shannon Whirry returns as the very fit housewife , Joanna Cole . This time instead of the husband filming the wife there is no husband ( I don't know why ) and the next door neighbour is watching Whirry being sexual . She knows that he is watching and that he has even set up a secret camera ( I don't know if he knew she knew ) and so she invites many people round to have sex , men and women ( just like the first film ) . Unfortunately , the guy's wife knows what he is doing and gets very angry . Again , I only like this for all the sex and nudity from the heavenly breasted Whirry . Good !
Unanimous	I saw an advert for this programme and decided to give it a go . It was not the same of kind of reality show I am used to , where people live together and do tasks , it is just living together and voting , that's it . The rules : live in the house , get to know the people ready for the vote , all vote for the same person to win ( one vote not the same is okay , but anymore is not ) , but if the same name ism't chosen by everyone the money , original totalling £1 million , will drop £1 every second , and is only stopped at the next vote , oh , and three people have secrets about themselves revealed , and the worst is made an " outvast " , unable to win . The contestants of this one off show ( it's doubtful there will be another series because of low ratings and viewer figures ) were : art dealer Beverley , property developer Kamran , lap dancer Kelly , unemployed Lucifer , law student Alex , nurse Pip , athlete Andy , business woman Anna , and eventual winner of £106 , 562 , young mum and law student Sian . Worth watching ! Worth watching !
Kenneth Williams : Fantabulosa !	I had seen tiny bits of this programme a couple of times , and I recognised the actor who played Tony Blair in The Queen , so I thought I might as well give it a go . It is all about the life of Carry On actor Kenneth Williams ( Michael Sheen ) , based on his diaries . It is interesting to see what interpretations have been made of him from just his diaries , but Sheen does quite an okay job of playing the " Ooh , Matron " gay attitude that many people recognise , but it is also interesting to see what he might have been like in his private life . Also starring Cheryl Campbell as Lou Williams , Peter Wight as Charlie Williams , Beatie Edney as Joan Sims , Kenny Doughty as Joe Orton , Ron Cook as Peter Eade , Martin Trenaman as Tony Hancock , David Charles as Charles Hawtrey , Ewan Bailey as Kenneth Halliwell , Rachel Clarke as Barbara Windsor , Ged McKenna as Sidney James and Nicholas Parsons . I personally preferred the performance of Williams by Charie and the Chocolate Factory's Adam Godley in Cor , Blimey ! , but Sheen does alright , and I suppose it is worth a look . Worth watching , at least once !
Twister	This is quite a simple idea for a film , basically some scientists go somewhere where there are loads of twisters , or tornadoes going on and try to work how they work and stuff . As a kid , Dr . Joanne ' Jo ' Thornton-Harding ( Helen Hunt ) saw her father taken away by a tornado , and now she is working to find the cause of them . He husband , William ' Bill / Billy ' Harding ( Bill Paxton ) is the guy who joins her and her experiments , he has technology of his own . He invented some small microchip balls that can go into a tornado and show the power and size . He called these balls Dorothy ( as in The Wizard of Oz ) , but his not very nice near fellow Dr . Jonas Miller ( Cary Elwes ) stole his idea of the balls , and called them Dot . Anyway , this is pretty good disaster action , with a load of tornadoes . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Visual Effects and Best Sound , and it won the BAFTA for Best Special Visual Effects . Worth watching !
She's the Man	The title speaks for itself , and I had heard of it plenty times , and with the female star of Big Fat Liar , I was certain to try this modernisation of Shakespeare's Twelth Night . Basically Viola Hastings ( Amanda Bynes ) gets her soccer team cancelled , and being passionate for the game wants to join the boys team , but they refuse . So when Viola finds out her twin brother Sebastian ( James Kirk ) is sneaking to London for a music tour , she decides to disguise herself as him to get into the boy's soccer team . It takes a little while for the boys to like " him " and accept " him " into the team , but soon enough " he " is one of the best players . Things get complicated when a girl fellow player Duke ( Channing Tatum ) likes falls for Viola as Sebastian , and out of disguise Viola falls for Duke . It was obvious the real Sebastian was going to come back , and in a big soccer match the confusion ensues , but the game is won , and everything returns to normal with the right people getting together . Also starring Laura Ramsey as Olivia , Vinnie Jones as Coach Dinklage , Airplane ! actress Julie Hagerty as Daphne , David Cross as Principal Gold , Jonathan Sadowski as Paul , Robert Hoffman as Justin , Alexandra Breckenridge as Monique and Amanda Crew as Kia . It may not witty or funny as other cross-dressing comedies , but Byrnes is a great young lead actress , and it is quite a watchable film . Worth watching !
Max Steel	I can remember it was always on just after I got home from school . Now it has moved to another channel and a near-morning afternoon kids show . When I saw it I always liked the computer effects and some of the okay , sometimes corny , but alright characters . There was obviously Max , the most kind-of corny character of the show . The one character that wasn't so corny when I used to watch it was Psycho ( or Smiley to Max ) . He was the robot covered with human skin who almost always took his face off to reveal his smiling robot face , which is why Max called him Smiley . Every episode Psycho was in was a good one . But apart from him , it was pretty much the same thing every episode . Max battles a guy with some power to his arms or something , wow , great . Not ! Yeah , kids will like it . Okay !
The Wild Geese	I had heard of this war film , I even expected it to be on The 100 Greatest War Films , and even though it wasn't , I still wanted to see it for the four lead actors . Basically British multinational Col . Allen Faulkner ( Richard Burton ) wants to overthrow a vicious dictator in central Africa , and also rescue the president who has been captured and imprisoned . So he hires aged mercenaries Lt . Shawn Fynn ( Sir Roger Moore ) , Capt . Rafer Janders ( Richard Harris ) , Lt . Pieter Coetze ( Hardy Krüger ) , and some other men to save the leader from execution . After the perfect rescue , they weren't expecting the vicious dictator to get all his forces and get revenge , so the gang are now on the look out and protecting their politician . Also starring Stewart Granger as Sir Edward Matherson , Jack Watson as RSM Sandy Young , Winston Ntshona as Julius Limbani , John Kani as Sgt . Jesse Blake , Four Weddings and a Funeral's Kenneth Griffith as Medical Orderly Arthur Witty , Frank Finlay as Father Geoghagen , Barry Foster as Thomas Balfour , Jeff Corey as Mr . Martin , Ronald Fraser as Sgt . Jock McTaggart , Percy Herbert as Keith , Patrick Allen as Rushton , David Ladd as Sonny and Rosalind Lloyd as Heather . There are some good action sequences , the four lead actors all get their good moments , especially Moore ( who you have to remember was Bond at the time ) , and I do like the use of bad language . Worth watching !
What Britain Earns	I suppose the main reason I wanted to see this documentary was to find out if they were going to talk about jobs in the entertainment industry , even though they didn't talk about what I'd hoped it was still an interesting programme . Basically Peter Snow and his Dan Snow went around Britain , looking at many types of job and employment to show us the board of pay from lowest to highest . Jobs focused , in a bit of a random order , included ( some brief , but worth mentioning ) : leek pickers , MoneySupermarker . com , sewers ( sewage flusher ) , AA car insurance sales adviser , mortuary ( mortician ) , religions ( Rabbi , Catholic , Islam ) , plumber , underground , shopping channel , sandwich / deli shop / café , stripper / pole dancer , policeman , farmer , fashion designer / wardrobe / organiser , armed services , trading / investment banks and private equity . Worth watching !
It's All Right Jack	There are the moments where I giggled a bit , but not all of the film is that funny in my opinion . I also don't understand the meaning of the title . But one thing I liked about the film was the pretty good performance by BAFTA winning Peter Sellers as Fred Kite and John Kennaway . He pretty much stole the show with his slight stupidity but at the same time his intellect . I don't remember seeing them in it , but there's also Lord Sir Richard Attenborough as Sidney De Vere Cox and Terry-Thomas as Major Hitchcock . One of the most giggly moments that I can remember is the part where someone is thrown on the ground and his finger are run over by a passing truck , I can't really remember any other good bits . It won the BAFTA for Best British Screenplay , and it was nominated for Most Promising Newcomer for Liz Fraser as Cynthia Kite . Peter Sellers was number 57 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , he was number 22 on The 50 Greatest British Actors , he was number 7 on Britain's Finest Actors , and he was number 24 on The World's Greatest Actor , and the film was number 62 on The Ultimate Film . Worth watching , in my opinion ( the critics give it five stars ) !
Brick Lane	I didn't really know what to expect with this film , and to be honest I am a little surprised I stuck with it all the way through . Basically young Bangladeshi Nazneen ( Tannishtha Chatterjee ) has come to 1980's London , England , leaving behind her sister and home , for an arranged marriage and new life with Chanu Ahmed ( Satish Kaushik ) . Trapped in her house on Brick Lane ( hence the title ) and in a loveless marriage , Nazneen only finds comfort writing about her life to her sister , and knitting or something . She has a tiny fling with young hothead Karim ( Christopher Simpson ) , and there are many flashbacks showing Nazneen's childhood back in Bangladesh . That's really all can remember and all I could be bothered to take in . Also starring Harvey Virdi as Razia , Lalita Ahmed as Mrs . Islam , Naeema Begum as Shahana Ahmed , Lana Rahman as Bibi Ahmed and Zafreen as Hasina . Even though I didn't pay full attention to everything going on , I suppose it is good for the performances , and for the debuting director . It was nominated the BAFTA for the Carl Foreman Award for the Most Promising Newcomer for director Sarah Gavron . Worth watching , in my opinion !
Something Wild	From the director of The Silence of the Lambs , Jonathan Demme , this is quite an interesting black comedy drama . Basically business-man Charles Driggs ( Golden Globe nominated Jeff Daniels ) has an uneventful life , and it changes when he accepts a lift to Audrey " Lulu " Hankel ( Golden Globe nominated Melanie Griffith ) to go back to his office . But instead , she takes him out of town , away from his old life , and they pose as a married couple to visit her mother and go to a high school reunion . At this reunion they meet Audrey's violent ex-husband Ray Sinclair ( Golden Globe nominated Ray Liotta ) , and he obviously makes it clear that he wants his girl back , and Charles isn't going to stop him . I cannot remember absolutely everything that happens , but Liotta is a good villain , Griffith is quite sexy , and Daniels is quiet a good wimpy guy that gets a few beatings . Also starring Margaret Colin as Irene , John Waters as Used car guy and Austin Powers ' Charles Napier as Irate chef . Good !
Hitch	This is an interesting idea for a film , a character that can solve men's love problems , or you could call him the love doctor . We can also call him Hitch . Hitch , or Alex Hitchens played by the really cool Will Smith has been solving men's love problems for a long time . One day Hitch meets a girl himself and uses the techniques he has learnt and taught others over his time . Unfortunately , she discovers his secret and accuses him of lying and making other men act different . It has some good giggly moments , but it isn't the funniest thing I have seen , to be honest I thought Men In Black was better for laughs . Anyway , Smith is pretty good and it is an okay film . Worth watching , at least once !
Brilliant Creatures	When I was a bit younger I only watched this show occasionally , but when I did watch it some of the episodes were either interesting , cute , furry or gross . Presenters Stephen Mulhern ( from The Quick Trick Show ) and Gail McKenna showed us many weird and wonderful facts and topics about animals . For example , we saws Ligers , crabs the size of cars , swimming with dolphins , communicating with wolves , feeding great white sharks , racing snails ( with marked shells ) and many other interesting things . It was just one of those shows you only watch when you feel like it , but if you have young kids or you are an animal lover , you'll love this . Worth watching !
Rear Window	I knew this wasn't going be better than the original Sir Alfred Hitchcock / James Stewart version , but it is certainly a good attempt at remaking a classic . Basically architect Jason Kemp ( Golden Globe nominated Christopher Reeve ) has a car accident , ending with him being paralysed , and after getting out of hospital he is placed in a wheelchair , and back in his large apartment . The only thing he can do to entertain himself , with nothing to do , is spy on his neighbours out of his window . He is regularly visited by work colleague Claudia Henderson ( Daryl Hannah ) , and his nurses Antonio Fredericks ( Ruben Santiago-Hudson ) and Leila , Jason's Ex-Wife ( Anne Twomey ) , but mostly alone he suspects neighbour Julian Thorpe ( Ritchie Coaster ) , after seeing many arguments , and hearing a scream , that he has killed his wife Ilene ( Allison Mackie , also playing her sister ) . As time goes by , Jason gets himself great technological spying equipment , contacts people with his voice activated technology , and tries to convince who he can of his suspicions , including Detective Charlie Moore ( Robert Forster ) . Towards the end , Julian confronts Jason and attempts to murder him and the nurses , and the film concludes with an almost happy ending , involving an artwork from Thorpe . In terms of modernising , that is certainly a big factor , and Reeve's true paralysis ( instead of a broken leg like Stewart ) adds more realism and edge to the story , and for one of his last roles before dying in 2004 , this was a good one . It was nominated the Emmy for Outstanding Music Composition for a Miniseries or a Movie ( Dramatic Underscore ) for David Shire . Worth watching !
Beaches	From director Garry Marshall ( Pretty Woman , Runaway Bride ) , this is a nice soppy film about a lifelong friendship . Basically Cecilia ' CC ' Carol Bloom ( Mayim Bialik ) and Hillary Whitney Essex ( Marcie Leeds ) met each other on a beach both aged 11 . CC was an aspiring singer hoping to make the big time , and Hillary enjoyed her friend's talent , and they both made a promise to stay in touch through letters . Years later , CC ( a great Bette Midler ) is a selfish , quite lippy and almost lazy woman still trying to earn a living , and Hillary ( Barbara Hershey ) is a successful lawyer , and they are both delighted to see each other again , almost by chance . They stick by each other for a long time as they try to sort their individual lives out . CC does get to become a successful singer , but with her selfishness she does cause a breakup for a while . When they do forgive each other , and Hillary has her daughter , they stick to each other till the end . As years pass , daughter Victoria Cecilia Essex ( Grace Johnston ) and CC have to face the terrible revelation of Hillary's fatal virus , and CC knows she has to stay till her death , and then look after Victoria . Also starring John Heard as John Pierce , Spalding Gray as Dr . Richard Milstein , Lainie Kazan as Leona Bloom and James Read as Michael Essex . Bette Midler steals the show , not just with her acting , but also for her good singing . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration . Bette Midler's " Wind Beneath My Wings " was number 44 on 100 Years , 100 Songs , and it was number 75 on The 100 Worst Pop Records ( probably cos ' you hear it mentioned so much ) , and the film was number 12 on The 100 Greatest Tearjerkers for Hillary's death . Worth watching !
The Transporter	I saw the advert for this on TV , and I thought it looked quite cool , so I tried it . Basically , The Transporter , or Frank Martin ( Lock , Stock's Jason Statham ) , an ex-special forces man , is now a secretive man who sticks to strict rules ( mainly his own ) . He is basically hired by many people to transport anything they want with no questions asked and no names given , only where to go . One of his delivery's though has a rule broken where his curiosity leads to opening the delivery to someone called Wall Street ( Matt Schulze ) , and he finds a Chinese girl , Lai ( Shu Qi ) . When Street finds out that he broke a rule , he decides that he should be dealt with by many assassins . With his life now in danger , he is both on the run , but also , with Lai's help , going to rescue many Chinese prisoners to be enslaved , being smuggled into France by Lai's villain father . Also starring François Berléand as Tarconi and Ric Young as Mr . Kwai . I must admit there might not have been much of a story to pay attention , but all the action , explosive and chase sequences never disappoint . Worth watching !
The General's Daughter	I had heard one or two people say that this is a really good film , so I tried it for myself , from director Simon West ( Con Air , Lara Croft : Tomb Raider ) . Basically military detective Paul Brenner ( John Travolta ) , with fellow detective Sara Sunhill ( The Last of the Mohicans ' Madeleine Stowe ) is investigating the death of Capt . Elisabeth Campbell ( Leslie Stefanson ) , who Paul coincidently met , but didn't realise wad the daughter of Lt . Gen . Joseph Campbell ( James Cromwell ) . The corpse was found naked with signs of rape , torture and died from being strangled , and the detectives are asking questions to the key suspects who knew her , and her secret dominatrix lifestyle . It turns out there are quite a few cover-ups coming to light , and after the suicide of possible culprit Col . Robert Moore ( James Woods ) , they can only help for more clues to the people truly responsible . In the end , the killers are found , but it also turns out that the General himself may have had some involvement with the horrific crime . Also starring Timothy Hutton as Col . William Kent , Daniel Von Bargen as Police Chief Yardley , Clarence Williams III as Col . George Fowler and film director John Frankenheimer as Gen . Sonnenberg . The film is filled with good performances , Woods in particular added a good bit of zing , as for the story , while it is a slightly weak script , the little twists and turns , and moments of blood and bangs do keep you a little interested . Worth watching !
Kinsey	Based on another true story , Gods and Monsters director Bill Condon brings another interesting character to the screen . This is a pretty good mix of both slight comedy and drama . Golden Globe nominated Liam Neeson plays Professor Alfred Kinsey , the man who was intent on proving loads of theories about sex , what it means to humans and animals , and how it can be good rather than bad . Also starring Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Laura Linney as Clara McMillen ( an Oscar nominated role ) , Chris O'Donnell as Wardell Pomeroy , Shrek's John Lithgow as Alfred Seguine Kinsey , Tim Curry as Thurman Rice and Veronica Cartwright as Sara Kinsey . If you have ever liked a sex comedy , then this is close enough , or you can just see Neeson snog another man . It was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama . Worth watching !
The Looney , Looney , Looney Bugs Bunny Movie	It starts off with a really good Academy Award winning cartoon with Bugs Bunny and Yosemite Sam , and continues being pretty good from there . It is basically a film with three different parts to it . The first is a long story like chase with Yosemite Sam threatened to go to hell by the devil , unless he can bring back someone to replace him , this is obviously Bugs Bunny . The second part is a mickey take of The Untouchables called the Unmentionables starring Rocky and Mugsy . They steal a golden egg laying duck , Daffy , and a priceless bird in this part . And the final part is a special cartoon awards night hosted by Bugs where they give three special awards for certain cartoons . They award The Three Little Pigs and Big Bad Wolf , Sylvester and Tweety and Bugs himself . Well , they eventually give the award to Daffy after a short talent contest between him and Bugs . Daffy Duck was number 30 , Looney Tunes / Merrie Melodies number 20 and Bugs Bunny number 10 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons . Worth watching !
The Mummy Returns	If you liked the original 1999 story of an Egyptian monster brought back to life , then you might like the sequel . The film starts with the story of The Scorpion King ( wrestler The Rock ) who swore an oath and his soul to the god Anubis , and after he had done what he wanted , they all returned to the sands , waiting to be woken again . Then it is 1933 , Rick O'Connell ( Brendan Fraser ) is still exploring Egyptian places , along with wife Evelyn " Evie " ( Rachel Weisz ) and their son Alex ( Freddie Boath ) . Soon after returning to London , the bad guys have brought the body of High Priest Imhotep , and they just need the bracelet of The Scorpion King to help him take over the world . They bring Imhotep ( Arnold Vosloo ) back , and he is reunited with the body ( no soul yet ) of Meela Nais , aka Anck Su Namun ( Patricia Velasquez ) . They do eventually get the bracelet , that is on the arm of Alex , and with his help they navigate their way round Egypt to find the burial of The Scorpion King so Imhotep can kill him . Meanwhile , Rick , Evie , Jonathan ( John Hannah ) , Medjai Ardeth Bay ( Oded Fehr ) and balloonist Izzy Buttons ( Human Traffic's Shaun Parkes ) they are following Alex's trail and trying to help Alex before the sun rises and sucks the life out of him . Eventually they save Alex , and the bracelet is taken by the guy responsible for bringing Imhotep back , but the Madjai still have to fight off the army of Anubis soldiers , aka dog soldiers ( LOL ) , Evie ( or Princess Nefertiri ) is fighting Anck Su Namun , and Rick is fighting now mortal and powerless Imhotep , as well as The Scorpion King , who has turned into a giant scorpion , a lot of fights . Also starring Alun Armstrong as Baltus Hafez and Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje as Lock-Nah ( now in TV's Lost ) . The story is still quite cheesy , but the special effects are much more elaborate . Rachel Weisz was number 18 on The 50 Greatest British Actresses . Worth watching !
Butt-Ugly Martians	When I was a bit younger I used to think this was pretty good , my brothers used to love it , so basically I only watched because they watched it . It's about three aliens from the planet Mars who originally came to our planet to destroy us . They then befriend some kids and change their minds . So now instead of destroying the earth , they save it . With their special transformation powers they can battle other extra-terrestrial life that threatens the planet . When their not battling , their obviously chilling with their friends , usually in a pizza or ice cream restaurant . At the time , quite an amusing and interesting computer animated show . Worth watching !
Snakes on a Plane	Apparently this film was hyped by the internet , possibly because of both the concept and the lead actor , but either way , it was a film I looked forward to trying from director David R . Ellis ( Final Destination 2 , Cellular ) . Basically , while in Hawaii , Sean Jones ( Nathan Phillips ) witnesses powerful mobster Eddie Kim ( Byron Lawson ) murdering of an important American prosecutor . He is found quite quickly , but under protection by FBI agent Neville Flynn ( Samuel L . Jackson ) he escorts him to the Red Eye plane to Los Angeles , where Sean will testify against Kim . However , the FBI didn't think about Kim arranging for hundreds of species of poisonous snakes , sprayed with pheromones to make them more aggressive , being released ( by a timer ) and slithering their way around to bring the plane down . Neville is now on the case to kill and block the path of these dangerous serpents , and get the plane and all surviving passengers safely to Los Angeles . In the end , after saying his iconic " I have had it with these mother fing snakes on this mother fing plane " , with all passengers strapped in , the windows are shot through , with all snakes being sucked by cabin pressure , the plane lands , and all bitten people have antidotes provided by a snake expert , oh , and Kim can be prosecuted for sure . Also starring Julianna Margulies as Claire Miller , Road Trip and Peep Show actress Rachel Blanchard as Mercedes , Bobby Cannavale as Hank Harris , Flex Alexander as Three G's , Kenan & Kel's Kenan Thompson as Troy , Terry Chen as Chen Leong and Sunny Mabrey as Tiffany . I will admit I can see reasons the critics give the film two out of five stars , and it pretty cheesy at times , just get past the first twenty minutes and ignore the final five or so , and just pay attention to the rest . The gimmicky title says it all , snakes all over the plane slithering under chairs , biting women's breasts , men's dicks , a kid and a black man's ass , it is similar to the feel of a B-movie , but Jackson and the CGI reptiles save this film from being a complete failure , it is a fun film . Worth watching !
Farscape	I can hardly remember any of this space thing . Apart from it was on BBC 2 after The Simpsons ( before it moved to Channel 4 ) . The only characters that stick out in my mind from the whole show are John Crichton , the guy trying to get home to Earth , Pilot , the pilot of the ship , Rygel , the short Yoda like character always grumpy or something , and Scorpius , always trying to be a friend to Crichton but was really a bastard . But the only thing I never knew , what is Farscape ? I mean , how am I meant to know what's going on apart from a guy trying to get home if I don't know the meaning of the title . Well , to be honest , I only watched occasionally because my family watched it . So it's basically rubbish for me . Okay !
Shall We Dance	I am really intrigued to see all the great dancing star's films , since I saw Easter Parade , and The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , and this one is quite a good one . Basically ballet star Pete " Pedro " Peters ( Fred Astaire ) is crossing the Atlantic on the same ship a female dance he hardly knows is on , musical star Linda Keene ( Ginger Rogers ) . By the time they get to New York they have created a white lie about being secretly married and it has turned into a hot gossip . That is the story , but obviously the songs and most dance are what most people would pay attention . Also starring Edward Everett Horton as Jeffrey Baird , Eric Blore as Cecil Flintridge , Jerome Cowan as Arthur Miller , Ketti Gallian as Lady Denise Tarrington and William Brisbane as Jim Montgomery . The highlights of the film for me are obviously the concluding show , the agent or whatever that thinks the Linda Keene dummy is her fainting , and Astaire's butler in jail asking for bail , and having to spell the simplest of words when trying to spell the jail name , e . g . billiards , neighbour , insect , etc . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Song for " They Can't Take That Away from Me " . " Let's Call The Whole Thing Off " was number 34 on 100 Years , 100 Songs , and the film was number 74 on The 100 Greatest Musicals . Worth watching !
The Guru	I think the only reason I knew and wanted to see this film was because of the sexy leading actress from Austin Powers : The Spy Who Shagged Me , and I'm glad I tried it , from director Daisy Von Scherler Mayer ( Madeline ) . Basically Ramu Chandra Gupta ( East Is East's Jimi Mistry ) is bored with Bollywood films , but has been fascinated with Hollywood since childhood . So he travels to America , the country where dreams are made , to try and find fame . His first role is not what he expected when accidentally auditioned and won a role in a porn film , along with pron star Sharonna ( Heather Graham ) , who keeps her career secret from fiancée Rusty McGee ( Dash Mihok ) . Somehow Ramu gets himself into a situation where he pretends to be a sex guru , and borrowing the sexual advice of Sharonna , he slowly becomes well known as a rising star sex guru , eventually appearing on television ( for his family home to see ) . There is the obvious point of the film where it seems bad things happen to almost everyone , but it passes , Ramu eventually confesses his fraud act , and Sharonna not only is found out as a porn star , but her groom is gay . So in the end , Ramu gets his girl , I guess a good career , and the ending sees them fly off in a car , just like the end of Grease . Also starring Marisa Tomei as Lexi , The Grinch's Christine Baranski as Chantal , Michael McKean as Dwain , Rob Morrow as Josh Goldstein and Sanjeev Bhaskar as Rasphal the Cook . The comedy is light but effective , the sexuality of the film is slightly more prominent , not a bad film . Worth watching !
Bowfinger	This isn't exactly one of the best films I've seen , it seems like an outside Hollywood film . Directed by The Muppets ' Fozzie Bear and Star Wars ' Yoda , Frank Oz , it tells the story of a director Bobby Bowfinger ( Steve Martin ) in need of a new film . He decides to make a film called Chubby Rain where aliens come in rain to take over Earth . Unfortunately , the actor he wants for the film , Kit Ramsey ( Eddie Murphy ) has said no . So they decide to film him without him knowing , plus , they get a really good lookalike called Jiff ( Murphy again ) . A silly story , kind of like Airplane ! stupidity . Also starring Heather Graham as Daisy , The Grinch's Christine Baranski as Carol , Jamie Kennedy as Dave , Adam Alexi-Malle as Afrim , Terence Stamp as Terry Stricter and Robert Downey Jr . as Jerry Renfro . Pretty good !
The Exorcism of Emily Rose	I thought this might be a bit like The Village , given three out of five stars , and turning out to be rubbish , but actually , not bad . Basically Father Moore ( Tom Wilkinson ) is on trial , charged with negligent homicide , after he performed an exorcism on 19-year-old Emily Rose ( Jennifer Carpenter ) . He has hired successful , ambitious and agnostic lawyer Erin Bruner ( Laura Linney ) , who has no belief in God , to defend , and prove that he was in fact trying to help her , and he did not cause her death ( intentionally ) . The film is obviously told with a court case , and flashbacks to Emily suffering through her possession , apparently by six demons , and obviously Moore trying to help her . For a while , Erin is just doing her job and not sure what to believe , it is only when she encounters small spirit forces herself that she is determined to help him succeed . In the end , it seems that Father Moore is found guilty , but he is released anyway , for the reason that he has already served time . Also starring Campbell Scott as Ethan Thomas , Colm Feore as Karl Gunderson , Mary Beth Hurt as Judge Brewster , Henry Czerny as Dr . Briggs , Shohreh Aghdashloo as Dr . Adani , Joshua Close as Jason , Kenneth Welsh as Dr . Mueller , Duncan Fraser as Dr . Cartwright and J . R . Bourne as Ray . The scenes seeing the evil spirits speaking and acting through Emily is quite chilling , the court case story is interesting , and it is a thought-provoking story , it just isn't as good as The Exorcist , but try it for yourself . Worth watching !
Cursed	The director of Scream , Wes Craven , has created an interesting new idea for a werewolf story , but it isn't as good as Scream is . I mean , he does mix some humorous moments in it to go with the horror , but it isn't great . But it is worth a look for the story and most of the effects . Basically Ellie ( Sleepy Hollow's Christina Ricci ) and her brother have a car accident , along with a girl called Becky ( American Pie's Shannon Elizabeth ) . Becky is taken away by a fierce creature who scratches Ellie and his brother . Ellie's brother is convinced it was a werewolf , and later , Ellie believes him . They are now Cursed and must find the werewolf so they can return to normal . Also starring Mya as Jenny , Jesse Eisenberg as Jimmy and Joshua Jackson as Jake . Worth watching , at least once !
The Interpreter	I knew the female star , and I knew part of the concept , so I decided to give it a go , from director Sydney Pollack ( Tootsie , Out of Africa ) . Basically United Nations translator Silvia Broome ( Nicole Kidman , using her natural Australian accent ) alleges to have overheard a conversation in a language that only she can understand , and not many other people in the world would , and they were discussing an assassination . Even though it takes him a while to believe that she is telling the truth , it is FBI Detective Tobin Keller ( Sean Penn ) to make sure she is protected , and carrying out the investigation . It turns out later though that the politician that may be victim to this plot , Silvia has a hate for , because of an incident he was involved with in her past . Also starring Being John Malkovich's Catherine Keener as Dot Woods , Jesper Christensen as Nils Lud , Yvan Attal as Philippe , Earl Cameron as Zuwanie , Michael Wright as Marcus , George Harris as Kuman-Kuman , Tsai Chin as Luan , Clyde Kusatsu as Police Chief Lee Wu , Hugo Speer as Simon Broome and Sydney Pollack as Jay Pettigrew . The story is missing one or two things to make it more compelling and interesting , but I suppose you could see it at least once . Worth watching !
Coronation Street Pantomime	This is the programme that was quite essential for me at Christmas , especially because every year ITV do a pantomime of some kind . In this case , one the nation's favourite soap's ( and one of mine , as well as EastEnders ) has the well known character actors in a pantomime . Starring Helen Worth ( Gail Platt ) , Elizabeth Dawn ( Vera Duckworth ) , Maggie Jones ( Blanche Hunt ) , William Tarmey ( Jack Duckworth ) , Sally Whittaker ( Sally Webster ) , Malcolm Hebden ( Norris Cole ) , John Savident ( Fred Elliott ) , David Neilson ( Roy Cropper ) , Tina O'Brien ( Sarah Louise Platt ) , Jimmi Harkishin ( Dev Alahan ) , Andrew Whyment ( Kirk Sutherland ) , Ryan Thomas ( Jason Grimshaw ) , Shobna Gulati ( Sunita Alahan ) , Jennie McAlpine ( Fiz Brown ) , Sally Lindsay ( Shelley Unwin ) , Susie Blake ( Bev Unwin ) , Antony Cotton ( Sean Tully ) , Wendi Peters ( Cilla Brown ) , Brooke Vincent ( Sophie Webster ) , Thomas Craig ( Tommy Harris ) , Nikki Snderson ( Candice Stowe ) , Rupert Hill ( Jamie Baldwin ) , Samuel Aston ( Chesney Brown ) and Schmichael the dog . But the main stars were Bradley Walsh ( Danny Baldwin ) and Debra Stephenson ( Frankie Baldwin ) playing Cinderella characters , that's basically what the pantomime is , a street version of Cinderella with great colourful dresses / costumes and lovable TV actors / actresses . This probably part of number 68 on The 100 Greatest Christmas Moments , Celebrity Pantomimes . Worth watching !
Oliver the Eighth	Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy are the most famous comedy duo in history , and deservedly so , so I am happy to see any of their films . Stan and Ollie own a barbershop , and Stan reads the newspaper , a rich widow is wanting to meet and marry a man , and they decide to both answer with a letter , but Ollie only posts his own . The rich widow ( Mae Busch ) reads Ollie's letter , and Jitters the butler ( Jack Barty ) knows that she will want to murder him , like the seven other Oliver's before . So Ollie shows up at her house , and while Jitters plays with invisible cards , Stan soon shows demanding he gets a share of whatever Ollie gets ( he found out that he didn't post his response ) . After Stan has briefly joined the " card game " , Jitters plays the military salute on the trumpet ( blowing Stan's hat off ) to announce dinner is ready , which turns out to be invisible wine and soup , they are both crazy . Jitters tells Ollie he is to have his throat cut by the widow , so when they are given a bedroom , Stan has to help Ollie by staying awake , but don't worry , when she does eventually show up , it turns out to be a bad dream . Filled with good slapstick and all classic comedy you want from a black and white film , at just over an hour , it is an enjoyable film . Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy were number 7 on The Comedians ' Comedian . Worth watching !
Heartbreakers	This is an okay film I suppose , but the thought of a woman and her daughter conning men to love them and then it ends in despair where they get money , it's just a bit terrible . Anyway , Max Conners ( an attractive Sigourney Weaver ) and her daughter Page ( a very fit Jennifer Love Hewitt ) have got away with many cons in the past , and Page is getting tired of it . So they decide to have a final " big " con between them to meet two men and get to them with fake love . Max goes for the rich William B . Tensy ( Gene Hackman ) , and Page goes for bar owner Jack Withrowe ( My Name Is Earl's Jason Lee ) . They do succeed for a while , and they get the help of a previous con , Dean Cumanno ( Ray Liotta ) . They don't succeed though , but don't worry , there is a happy ending . Also starring Anne Bancroft as Gloria Vogal / Barbara , Jeffrey Jones as Mr . Appel and Tomorrow Never Dies ' Ricky Jay as Dawson's Auctioneer . Worth watching , at least once !
Blade II	In the first one who fought against evil , this time he joins them , but don't worry , it's for a good cause . Wesley Snipes returns as Blade / Eric Brooks / ' The Daywalker ' who has looked for Abraham Whistler ( Kris Kristofferson ) for years , and when he finds him he needs his help in fighting with the bad guys . Basically he joins the bad guys because there is a threat to both his side and the bad side , some ugly vampires that have huge side opening mouth ( bigger and uglier than the Predator ) that are immune to silver , but can be killed by sunlight . Also starring Ron Perlman ( from Alien : Resurrection and Hellboy ) as Reinhardt , Leonor Varela as Nyssa and Norman Reedus as Scud . Snipes is still very good , and the special effects are very good , but I don't think this is as worth while as the first . Wesley Snipes was number 96 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars . Worth watching !
Othello	It wasn't actually my choice to watch this film based on the story by William Shakespeare , it was part of a study in Secondary School . It wasn't directed by him , but I really like Kenneth Branagh in this film . Basically in the old days of England , black people weren't liked that much and were mostly slaves , and Othello ( The Matrix's Laurence Fishburne ) was a black man who tried to possibly become hero or king , whichever , of Denmark . At the same time , with his villainous lying skills , the nasty bastard servant Iago ( the very well cast Branagh ) tried to become king himself , and get people against each other . There are some good bloody moments , and good acting , I suppose I would want to see this again for my own purposes . Worth watching !
My Super Ex-Girlfriend	From director Ivan Reitman ( Ghostbusters , Twins , Evolution ) , I knew the lead actress , and I suppose the concept did sound worth a go . Basically shy and lonely project manager Matt Saunders ( Luke Wilson ) meets Jenny Johnson ( Uma Thurman ) on the subway , and he invites her for a date and dinner . She falls immediately in love with him , and they have sex pretty quickly , and not too long after , she reveals her big secret to him . She is city superhero G-Girl , and that doesn't spoil much , until he realises he has more feelings for his co-worker Hannah Lewis ( Anna Faris ) , and he suggests a short break . However , Jenny being needy becomes jealous , controlling and manipulative , and following the advice of his best friend Vaughn Haige ( Rainn Wilson ) , he dumps her . Jenny , with all her super powers , is now making Matt's life a living hell , and he is being persuaded to help G-Girl's arch-enemy Professor Bedlam , formally her boyfriend Barry ( Eddie Izzard ) take her powers away from her . So it leads everyone to the apartment roof , where Matt and Hannah are making out , Jenny turns up , but Matt has the radiated rock to take her powers , only to have them restored to her , and also given to Hannah , and a big power fight with the two girls begins . In the end , Jenny accepts that Matt doesn't love her anymore and that he loves Hannah , and she goes back to old boyfriend Barry . Also starring Monster-in-Law's Wanda Sykes as Carla Dunkirk . Wilson is alright as the weedy boyfriend , and Thurman is pretty good as the superhero turning nasty . But I agree with the critics , you can't have any sympathy for her after the break-up , and she does seem like a caricature of Fatal Attraction . The story is okay , and the special effects do help , but the jokes do wear a little thin after a while , but not bad . Worth watching !
Open Water	I had heard about this when it was out at the cinemas , someone said it was crap , and Jonathan Ross apparently loved it , either way I knew I had to give it a go . I was expecting a normal proper big budget film , but what I didn't know was that it was made with a low budget and inexpensive cameras , so it is like a documentary style , just like The Blair Witch Project . Based on true events , Susan ( Blanchard Ryan ) and Daniel ( Daniel Travis ) are a couple on holiday in the Caribbean , Bahamas . They decide to take the opportunity to go scuba diving in the coral reef , miles from anywhere , and everyone's head is counted at 20 , and the counter accidentally mistakes someone going out twice for two people or something , so they leave Susan and Daniel in the middle of the ocean . When they see the boat is nowhere in sight they do not panic , that is until a couple of sharks and unknown to them jelly fish start showing up and causing them to worry . The scenes of them in the water is mainly all ( probably mostly improvised ) chatting , bickering and one or two shouts and waves for help , until eventually Daniel dies from his sting ( i'm assuming ) and Susan commits suicide , and at the wrong time , the boatman realised he left them and a search team started . It may not have the same impact as Blair Witch or Jaws , but it is quite an interesting film to watch once in a while . Worth watching !
Death Proof	I had heard about something by producer , writer and director Quentin Tarantino called Grindhouse , and then I had heard that along with Robert Rodriguez's Planet Terror , this film originally joined it at US cinemas as a double-bill / feature . Basically the story sees two sets of friends , aka two acts , and both bunches hunted by a psychotic murderous serial killer called Stuntman Mike ( a really good Kurt Russell ) . Act 1 : radio DJ and model Jungle Julia ( Sydney Tamiia Poitier ) , model Arlene aka Butterfly ( Vanessa Ferlito ) , bad-girl Shanna ( Jordan Ladd ) and hippie Pam ( Scream's Rose McGowan ) are hanging out in a bar , Mike recognises them , and after chatting to a couple of them , he takes Pam in his " death proof " car , but he lied about the death proof part , so she is obviously slaughtered from a crash , and the other girls are victims when he crashes the car into them . He survives . Act 2 : Seventeen months later , make-up and stand-in girl Abernathy ( Men in Black II's Rosario Dawson ) , naive B-movie actress Lee ( Final Destination 3 and Die Hard 4 . 0's Mary Elizabeth Winstead ) , tough-minded stunt woman Kim ( Tracie Thoms ) and real stunt woman Zoë Bell ( as herself , she also did stunts in Kill Bill ) are travelling somewhere , and they see an advert for a guy selling a 1970 Dodge Challenger , the one from the film Vanishing Point , and they persuade him to let them have a test drive . That is when Mike shows up , with Zoë gripping some belts on the car bonnet ( for real ) , he comes along and starts bashing into them . After he gets away with only a gunshot to the arm , which he didn't expect , they soon decide to follow and get their revenge on him , so the predator becomes the prey , and they do eventually stop him , and punch him to death . Also starring Michael Parks as Texas Ranger Earl McGraw , Tarantino himself as Warren , Eli Roth ( director of Cabin Fever and Hostel ) as Dov , James Parks as Edgar McGraw , Marley Shelton as Dr . Dakota Block and Monica Staggs as Lanna Frank . It may be very chatty , but some of the dialogue ( written by Tarantino of course ) is quite witty , there's even one bit round a table ( kind of like the beginning of Reservoir Dogs ) that doesn't cut for about ten minutes . Anyway , chatting aside , the deliberate tiny glitches in editing and picture in the first half is an interesting choice for Tarantino , the violence is good , Russell is good as the scar faced villain , all the girls are fit , and I agree the final car chase is worth the wait . Tarantino was nominated the Golden Palm at the Cannes Film Festival . Worth watching !
Batman	When I was younger anything with Batman in it was my favourite , this was one of them ! With a good music and song to start the episode the rest is good . Adam West plays Bruce Wayne and Batman and Burt Ward plays Dick Grayson and Robin . Both had really amusing ( but still good ) costumes , especially Robin with his green knickers . My favourite part of any Batman was The Joker . In this one he was okay , played by Cesar Romero . There was also the likes of The Penguin ( Burgess Meredith ) , The Riddler ( Frank Gorshin ) and The Catwoman ( Julie Newmar ) . Every episode there was a good fight , and every episode these fights had colourful words on the screen ( like a comic book ) . Pow ! Wham ! Holy hell ! It was nominated for 3 Emmys . Batman was number 84 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons , and the programme was number 48 on The 100 Greatest Kids ' TV Shows . Worth watching !
Hot Shots !	I don't know if this is meant to be a spoof of a film , probably Top Gun or something , or just a bunch of action films involving Harriers and troops . But anyway it has some classic Naked Gun or Airplane like moments where the characters get themselves into stupid moments and act like complete idiots . Charlie Sheen as Lt . Topper Harley is the best of all the characters , and one of the most amusing scenes where he cooks food on a woman's " hot " stomach . Cary Elwes as Lt . Kent Gregory is annoying , just like Twister and Liar Liar . And Kevin Dunn as Lt . Cmdr . James Block I can remember for giving some pretty good punchlines . Worth watching !
Ravenous	When I found out that this was a cannibal film , and from the director of Priest , Antonia Bird , I was really looking forward to it , unfortunately it was not what I was expecting . Instead you have a film based in the time of the American Civil War , with not much gore at all , and to honest , I was only interested in it for the stars and gore . Basically Capt . John Boyd ( Memento's Guy Pearce ) gets promoted , but when Gen . Slauson ( John Spencer ) discovers his cowardice , he decides instead to send him to Fort Spencer , where he is third in command of a bunch of men , including Pvt . Cleaves ( Scream's David Arquette ) , Pvt . Toffler ( Secretary's Jeremy Davies ) and Col . Hart ( Beetle Juice's Jeffrey Jones ) . As they travel they come across wounded Scottish stranger F . W . Colqhoun ( Robert Carlyle ) , and after a little while he turns out to be a cannibalistic maniac . Boyd is the only victim left alive escaping him , but when he gets back to the civilisation of the General , he is shocked to see him again , as Col . Ives . But it is not just Carlyle that might be the cannibal , Boyd had temptations ( or possibly did ) to eat people , and Carlyle is trying to tempt him , but in the end they both die together , after a quite long fight , in a giant bear trap . I suppose in some ways it was inventive , but it just isn't the cannibal based horror film I was expecting . Worth watching !
Brats	Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy are the most famous comedy duo in history , and deservedly so , so I am happy to see any of their films . Stan and Ollie are trying to have a quiet evening playing checkers and pool , but they are having to deal with the antics of their mischievous sons ( played by themselves ) as they squabble over building blocks , try to play hide and seek , and break a vase , which obviously gets them sent to bed . Ollie tells them ( for quiet ) the quickest to get dressed for bed gets a nickel , but of course , Ollie falls down the stairs tripping on a roller skate , and Little Ollie manages to swallow the nickel . Then a mouse starts more trouble , and Ollie's backside is shot , and then liniment pours on it , and he ends up falling in the bath water ( used to cool it ) . Finally , the shower is turned on , and door shut , while Ollie sings to the boys to get them to sleep , and they ask for water , it ends with the room flooding from the bathroom door . Filled with good slapstick and all classic comedy you want from a black and white film , at just over an hour , it is an enjoyable film . Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy were number 7 on The Comedians ' Comedian . Worth watching !
Faust	For mainly a Czech film , this is a good surreal film with interesting puppet and stop motion sequences . I can really only work out most of the beginning , where Petr Cepek as Faust is given a map in the street from some guy . He ignores this at first , but eventually he is convinced to go to where the map points out something in red . In this place which seems to be a theatre of some sort , there are many of surrealist events that ( for me ) make hardly any sense . It seems to be Faust has been given some powers and rule over the many puppet and clay characters , or something like that . It ends with him running out ( like the previous visitor ) , and getting run over . All voices by Andrew Sachs . Worth watching !
Captain Caveman and the Teen Angels	When I was younger I used to love this cartoon , nearly more than Scooby-Doo mysteries . That's the thing about the seventies , they were doing a lot of shows with mysteries . Mel Blanc voices as a fluffy caveman thing who was found frozen in ice . He is now a constant hero companion to the Teen Angels , Brenda , Dee Dee and Taffy . Throughout the series they have many hilarious , and sometimes scary missions , or adventures . They involve robberies , ghosts and kidnaps . Every episode " Cavey " uses his fur of tolls or his mallet of gadgets to solve mysteries and catch the villains . At the time , this was quite an amusing and quite fun show to watch . It was number 90 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons . Good !
Harry Hill : First Class Scamp - Live at the London Palladium	I think I have become a fan of Harry Hill since I started watching TV Burp , a year and a half or so after it started , and so I thought I'd see what his career was like before his BAFTA winning success . I have to be honest , this wasn't what I was expecting , there was quite a lot of rambling and random music and sound effect moments , and at times , I'm afraid to say , I found it just the tiniest bit annoying . However , I still enjoyed most of the jokes , including some ones I recognised from another live stand-up show , e . g . the explanation of Joseph the musical , the problem with heroine , and the tiny holes in biscuits . If you are a fan of his , this is certainly one to try , I suppose it has it's moments . Harry Hill was number 26 on The Comedians ' Comedian , and he was number 5 on 100 Greatest Stand-Ups . Worth watching !
24 Hour Party People	A good British film , kind of like a This Is Spinal Tap film , about the music industry mixed with fiction and reality at the same time . Steve Coogan plays Tony Wilson , a music journalist and manager who has a real compassion to give audiences the best performances and bands on stage at the night clubs . Also starring some other really good British performances . These include : The Fast Show's John Thomson as Charles ( Granada TV producer ) , Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets ' Shirley Henderson as Lindsay Wilson , Gollum / Sméagol and King Kong performer Andy Serkis as Martin Hannett , Peter Kay as Don Tonay , Tim Horrocks ( possibly related to Jane Horrocks ) as Steve , Rob Brydon as Ryan Letts , Simon Pegg as Journalist , Martin Coogan ( possibly related to Steve Coogan ) as Chris Nagle , X Factor's Rowetta Satchell , Doctor Who Christopher Eccleston as Boethius , R2-D2 as Kenny Baker as Zookeeper , John " Johnny Rotten " Lydon and Iggy Pop . I admit I did not watch the entire film , but what I did watch was quite good . Worth watching !
In Good Company	I recognised a few of the actors appearing , and I like comedy dramas , so I thought , why not , from director Paul Weitz ( American Pie ) . Basically middle aged Dan Foreman ( Dennis Quaid ) is head of ad sales for a major magazine , but he is to be demoted when he gets a new boss in the form of young ( half Dan's age ) business school hotshot Carter Duryea ( Spider-Man 3's Topher Grace ) , preaching corporate synergy . Dan knows he has to get used to his new boss , and changes to the company , including firing employees he hired . Also he and Carter are having troubles at home , Dan has two daughters , Alex ( Scarlett Johansson ) - 18 , and Jana ( Zena Grey ) - 16 , and he is shocked when his wife Ann ( Species ' Marg Helgenberger ) tells him she is pregnant , Carter meanwhile is being dumped by his wife of seven months as he gets his promotion . Dan and Carter's uneasy friendship gets even worse when Dan discovers Carter has been sleeping with his daughter Alex . In the end , Dan and the wife have another healthy baby girl , and Carter and Alex still talk once in a while . Also starring Mighty Joe Young's David Paymer as Morty Wexler , Philip Baker Hall as Eugene Kalb , Clark Gregg as Mark Steckle , Cruel Intentions ' Selma Blair as Kimberly , Frankie Faison as Corwin , American Pie's John Cho as Petey , and look out for an uncredited Malcolm McDowell as Teddy K - Globecom CEO . I can't remember laughing a lot , but the film is certainly good in the drama department , with good performances from Quaid , Grace and Johansson . Worth watching !
Scary Movie 2	From the success of the first one , it was obvious the Wayans brothers would do a sequel , even if the characters are meant to be dead . brothers . Again , the movie spoofs and quotes many scary and well known films , TV shows , and well known media moments including : The Exorcist , The Amityville Horror , The Haunting , Dirty Harry , The Legend of Hell House , Carrie , Alien and Reserrection , Star Wars Episodes V and VI , The Shining , Raging Bull , Poltergeist , Ghostbusters , A Nightmare on Elm Street and 3 , Child's Play , Pet Semetary , It , The Usual Suspects , Jumanji , Twister ; Sabrina , the Teenage Witch , Titanic , Paulie , The Mummy , Wild Wild West , Final Destination , Gladiator ; Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon , Mission : Impossible II , What Lies Beneath , Hollow Man , Snatch , Charlie's Angels ; Dude , Where's My Car ? , Hannibal , A Knight's Tale , Cats & Dogs , Harry Potter and The Weakest Link , though some are not as obvious as others . Starring Anna Faris as Cindy Campbell , Shawn Wayans as the great gay Ray Jones , Marlon Wayans as the great smashed Shorty Meeks , Regina Hall as Brenda Meeks , Malclolm in the Middle's Chris Masterson as Buddy , great breasted Kathleen Robertson as Theo ( The Haunting's Theo , same name ) , Videodrome's James Woods as Father McFeely , Tim Curry as Professor Oldman ( The Haunting's Liam Neeson ) , Scream 2's brief Tori Spelling as Alex Monday ( The Haunting's Lili Taylor , almost ) , There's Something About Mary's Chris Elliott as Hanson ( The Haunting's Mr . and Mrs . Dudley combined ) ; Alien's Veronica Cartwright as Mrs . Voorhees , Megan's mother , Andy Richter as Father Harris , American Pie's Natasha Lyonne as Megan Voorhees and Batman : The Animated Series ' Richard Moll as Hugh Kane , Hell House Ghost ( The Hauting's Hugh Crane ) . I can agree moments of this are not as good as the original , but The Exorcist spoof is the highlight . Very good !
Patch Adams	Quite a good drama and comedy based on a true story , from director Tom Shadyac ( Liar Liar , The Nutty Professor ) . Golden Globe nominated Robin Williams plays Hunter Adams who attempted suicide and went to a mental hospital voluntarily . There he is called the nickname ' Patch ' and helps a roommate Rudy ( Michael Jeter ) in a hilarious way , and decides that he wants to become a doctor and connect to patients . At medical school , he meets Carin Fisher ( Monica Potter ) who at first doesn't like him too much , but she gets on better with him later . Patch also meets Truman Schiff ( Daniel London ) who assists him in his goal to help cure people by humour and connection . The only person who doesn't like this method is Dean Walcott ( Bob Gunton ) who insists that Patch should be removed from the school . There is a happy ending though , even after a tragic loss for Patch . Also starring Philip Seymour Hoffman as Mitch Roman . There are moments where the film can be a little too sentimental and drift from the main plot , but it is still a nice story . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Music for Marc Shaiman , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Comedy / Musical . Worth watching !
Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events	When I first saw it the cinema I didn't get the complete gist of the story , but seeing it a second time , it is quite a fun film , once in a while . Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events was a really popular children's book , I never read it myself , and this is the adaptation from director Brad Silberling ( Casper ) . Basically the Baudelaire children : the inventor Violet ( Ghost Ship's Emily Browning ) , the reader and knowledgeable Klaus ( Road to Perdition's Liam Aiken ) and the biting toddler Sunny ( twins Kara and Shelby Hoffman ) have been orphaned after the death of their parents , so they are placed in the care of their closest relative , Count Olaf ( Jim Carrey ) . After a little while the children know that he is pretty evil , and after the large fortune the parents left them , so he is doing everything he can to kill them . The children meanwhile are escaping near deaths and passing other carers and " relatives " , including Uncle Monty ( Billy Connolly ) and overly paranoid and superstitious Aunt Josephine ( Meryl Streep ) , till eventually Olaf gets his hands on them , and has discovered marrying Violet with real minister Justice Strauss ( Catherine O'Hara ) ( looking like it's part of a play ) can legally get him the fortune ; obviously though his plan is foiled by the wits of the children . Also starring Timothy Spall as Mr . Poe , American Pie's Jennifer Coolidge as White-faced woman , Cedric the Entertainer as Detective , Dustin Hoffman as Critic and Jude Law narrating as Lemony Snicket . It won the Oscar for Best Makeup , and it was nominated for Best Art Direction , Best Costume Design and Best Music for Thomas Newman . It was number 81 on The 100 Greatest Family Films . Worth watching !
Batman : The Movie	When I was a kid I used to love the TV series , and the movie was no exception . Adam West as Bruce Wayne / Batman and Burt Ward as Dick Grayson / Robin in his short green trunks was good . Basically the caped crusader and boy wonder are out to catch all the villains that have escaped and are working together . These are The Penguin ( Burgess Meredith ) , The Joker ( Cesar Romero ) , The Riddler ( Frank Gorshin ) and Catwoman ( Lee Meriwether ) . The villains are planning to turn the leaders of the United War Organisation into dust with a special ray gun . Batman and Robin take bombs , drive the Batmobile , fly the Batcopter and drive the Batboat to try and catch them . Robin does say the word " holy " quite a lot , but that's the only annoying thing I can see . Batman was number 84 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons . Good !
Unaccustomed As We Are	Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy are the most famous comedy duo in history , and deservedly so , so I am happy to see any of their films . I should say first the sound very grainy , so you might need subtitles on when watching . Ollie is taking Stan home for dinner , but soon after arriving Mrs . Hardy ( Mae Busch ) is complaining about being like a slave , she even does it in time with some jazz music put on . After she storms out Ollie says he'll make a great dinner , only to explode the kitchen twice with the oven gas left on . Neighbour Mrs . Kennedy ( Thelma Todd ) comes in to help them clear up , only to have her dress catch fire , take it off , and have both Mrs . Hardy and Officer Kennedy ( Edgar Kennedy ) coming home . Mr . Kennedy takes Ollie and Stan outside with the trunk - which Mrs . Kennedy is hiding in - talking like he's on their side , and when they get back , Mrs . Hardy has a spaghetti dinner ready . Mr . Kennedy comes back wanting to beat the boys up , after being beaten by his wife , only Ollie gets hit , Stan gets nothing when Mrs . Kennedy bashes her husband over the head with a vase , but he does tumble down the stairs in the end . Filled with good slapstick and all classic comedy you want from a black and white film , it is an enjoyable film . Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy were number 7 on The Comedians ' Comedian . Worth watching !
Mission to Mars	From the great director Brian De Palma ( Carrie , Scarface , The Untouchables ) comes his first , and pretty cheesy , science-fiction / space melodrama . It is the future , and man has now managed to land crafts on the planet Mars , and more importantly walk on it . After a visit to the planet has interference , and a crew lead by Mission Commander Luke Graham ( Crash's Don Cheadle ) disappears , a rescue crew head to help any survivors . The team : Jim McConnell ( Gary Sinise ) , Dr . Terri Fisher ( Gladiator's Connie Nielsen ) , Commander Woody Blake ( The Shawshank Redemption's Tim Robbins ) and Phil Ohlmyer ( Scream 2's Jerry O'Connell ) have a tricky time getting there safely , after malfunctions , escaping the screwed ship , and Woody having to kill himself ( freezing himself in the atmosphere , pretty much to save the others ) , but they get there . It seems Luke is the only survivor , and spending time on the planet has seen many weird going-ons . Eventually they find the reason for the others ' disappearance , a large face , built by aliens , is on the planet , and Jim , Luke and Terri go and explore it , to discover it opens , and inside is a breathable atmosphere where they discover a way to another life . The film concludes with Luke , Terri and Phil going home , and Jim staying to go " home " where he feels it is right . The story is pretty touchy-feely with cheesy dialogue and acting , it is almost similar to Contact , but the special effects are quite cool . Worth watching !
The Wind in the Willows	I have seen many different versions of Kenneth Grahame's famous and popular story of the river and the characters that live in it . This is the clay cartoon version where the characters ( I think ) are made of Plastercine and do not move much , unlike the Aardman Animations clay work . I think you know the story already . Mole gets out of his hole , meets Rat , they meet Toad , go in the wild wood , meet Badger , Toad goes to prison for nicking a motor car and so on and so forth . Toad is the only character I have always liked in and Wind in the Willows . This one is voiced very well by Sir David Jason . It won the BAFTA for Best Children's Programme ( Entertainment / Drama ) in 1984 , and it was nominated the same award in 1985 . A TV series followed this , which was was number 56 on The 100 Greatest Kids ' TV Shows , and it was number 69 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons . Worth watching !
Scary Movie 4	The first Scary Movie by the Wayans brothers was funny , but I am not sure anymore because I have seen it quite a lot , and this third sequel from Airplane ! director David Zucker I might like more . It still spoofs and quotes many scary and well known films , TV shows , and well known media moments including : Saw and Saw II , War of the Worlds , The Grudge , The Village , Million Dollar Baby , Arachnophobia , The Amityville Horror , Brokback Mountain , The 40 Year Old Virgin , George W . Bush finding out about at a school , Michael Jackson and Tom Cruise being an idiot on The Oprah Winfrey Show , though some are not as obvious as others . Starring Anna Faris as Cindy Campbell , Regina Hall as Brenda Meeks , Craig Bierko as Tom Ryan , Leslie Nielsen as President Harris , Baywatch's Carmen Electra back from SM1 as Holly , Michael Madsen as Oliver , Bill Pullman as Henry Hale , Charlie Sheen as Tom Logan , Anthony Anderson as Mahalik , Kevin Hart as CJ , Chris Elliott back from SM2 as Ezekiel , Simon Rex as George ( Million Dollar Baby's Clint Eastwood ) , Shaquille O'Neal / Shaq , Dr . Phil McGraw , ' Lil Jon and James Earl Jones . I can agree moments of this are not original , e . g . bumping and hitting heads too often , but you can't help but laugh at gross and so needed spoofs of great films , some toilet humour and Tom Cruise on Oprah . Worth watching !
Naked Souls	Unfortunately I do not remember finishing this film for some reason , but it's another one of those thriller or drama like films that I basically only wanted to see for the chance of seeing good sex and nudity . The thing I most wanted to see when I heard about this film was obviously the chance that Baywatch's Pamela Anderson may show us her wonderful breasts . I didn't really pay much attention to the story , but I think the story is a Professor Everett Longstreet ( The Omen's David Warner ) has placed some kind of sensors into the stupid main man's body , so that he could feel what he feels , e . g . Pamela's body . Good , as far as I can remember !
Starsky and Hutch	Based on the really popular action TV series with the two pretty known names , this film is based on it , and with two good comedian actors playing the heroes makes it nearly bigger . Basically David Starsky ( Ben Stiller ) and Ken ' Hutch ' Hutchinson ( Owen Wilson ) are partnered up to investigate some robberies or something , all involving the rich bastard like Reese Feldman ( Dodgeball's Vince Vaughn ) . He was voted one of The 100 Greatest TV Characters by Channel 4 , and now Snoop Dogg plays the much loved Huggy Bear . He is pretty good at being cool , but I can't tell whether he likes them or hates the heroes sometimes . Also starring Road Trip's Amy Smart as Holly and Baywatch's Carmen Electra as Staci . Worth watching !
Red Dragon	Apparently this is a remake of the Michael Mann / Hannibal film Manhunter , and it is the prequel to The Silence of the Lambs , from director Brett Ratner ( Rush Hour ) . The film obviously opens with Dr . Hannibal Lecter ( Sir Anthony Hopkins , reprising his Oscar winning role a third time ) attempting a brutal murder after detective Will Graham ( Edward Norton ) realises he is behind some cannibalistic murders . Years later he is brought out of early retirement by detective Jack Crawford ( Harvey Kietel ) to help catch another killer , known to authorities as ' The Tooth Fairy ' . Will tries to get clues to finding this killer from the man he put away and made him retire , Lecter . What the cops don't know is that ' The Tooth Fairy ' , or Francis Dolarhyde ( Ralph Fiennes ) has been getting inside information about Will and his family secretly from Lecter . When we do eventually see who ' The Tooth Fairy ' is , we also see the " Red Dragon " , a large tattoo on his back , based on a piece of art . Also it appears he might be wanting to let go of his evil personality because of blind love interest Reba McClane ( Emily Watson ) . In the end Dolarhyde is killed by Will , and Lecter has got away with his part , and of course , it ends at the moment he is informed a female investigator wants to see him , he asks " what's her name ? " , and that's when it ends ( it's obvious it's Clarice Starling ) . Also starring Mary-Louise Parker as Molly Graham , Philip Seymour Hoffman as Freddy Lounds , The Silence of the Lambs ' Anthony Heald as Dr . Frederick Chilton , Frankie Faison as Barney Matthews , Tyler Patrick Jones as Josh Graham , Lalo Schifrin as the Conductor , Saw's Ken Leung as Lloyd Bowman and Home Alone 3's Christopher Curry as Mr . Fisk . Not much effort has been made with make up to make Hopkins and Heald look the age they do in 1991 , the gore is good , but that's pretty much it , I thought Hannibal was more interesting to watch . Worth watching !
The Sweetest Thing	I recognised the title , and I had an idea of who was in it , so I gave it a go , from director Roger Kumble ( Cruel Intentions ) . Basically Christina Walters ( Cameron Diaz ) has spent years avoiding men , and then she sees Mr . Right while out with best friends Courtney Rockcliffe ( Christina Applegate ) and Jane Burns ( Cruel Intentions ' Selma Blair ) . She met Peter Donahue ( Thomas Jane ) in a club , and soon after , he leaves town , and is to be married , so she is now on a trip to get her man back before he ties the knot . That's really all I can say about the plot . Also starring Jason Bateman as Roger Donahue , Parker Posey as Judy Webb , Lillian Adams as Aunt Frida and Georgia Engel as Vera . There are some small funny moments , including taking a female jizz covered shirt to a cleaners and having all the wrong people show up , and a montage of dressing as popular movie women ( Grease's Sandy , Pretty Woman , etc ) , but I can't really see myself watching this again . Worth watching !
Lose 30 Stone or Die	I have seen quite a few of these documentaries where very large people need to lose a lot of weight , and practically all of them have the triple bypass operation , and here's another one of those programmes . Basically 38-year-old Colin Corfield weighs 48 stone , and doctors have warned him that if he doesn't lose at least 30 stone he will die . He is constant pain , with difficulty breathing at night , needs to be dressed , and has even thought of suicide . He decides that it's time to get an operation to staple his stomach so that his food intake is reduced , but he needs to lose a little weight so there is more chance of his survival , because he has a high body mass index . When he has lost this weight amount , he finally has the operation . Months later he is still shedding the weight dramatically , and slowly getting thinner and thinner , even if he still has excess skin left over . A good documentary with quite an interesting character , and he has many good friends and family supporting him . Worth watching !
Carry On Sergeant	After Carry On Admiral , this is one of the first of the famous British comedy series , and quite a good one . There is no real plot to the story , it is mainly just army training for World War II ( I think ) with the many different male characters , this is where the comedy comes from , the men . One thing to note about this film , it is one of the only ones where someone actually says " Carry On " . Starring William Hartnell as Sergeant Grimshawe , Goldfinger's Shirley Eaton as Mary Sage , Eric Barker as Captain Potts , Bill Owen as Corporal Bill Copping , Charles Hawtrey as Peter Golightly , Kenneth Connor as Horace Strong , Kenneth Williams as James Bailey , Terence Longdon as Miles Heywood , Norman Rossington as Herbert Brown , Gerald Campion as Andy Calloway , Hattie Jacques as Captain Clark , Terry Scott as Sergeant Paddy O'Brien and TV game show host Bob Monkhouse as Charlie Sage . As the second of the Carry On films , you can probably understand why Sid James , Joan Sims and Barbara Windsor aren't in it . Carry On films were number 39 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons . Worth watching !
Forbidden	The title speaks for itself really , all behaviour that goes on during this film is forbidden to others . I only wanted to see this film for the mention of the amount of sexual and nudity references . I didn't realise it was the same director of my favourite porn film , Allyson is Watching ! Anyway , I can't really remember much of the story , but I think it was a girl , Renee Rea with large and desirable breasts , having lots of sex with her work mate whatever his name is . I'm not sure , but there might of been a lesbian scene between Rea and Tracy Ryan . I hope I'm right . A very good film , not as good as Allyson is Watching , but still very watchable . Good !
Banned in the UK	I only really remember seeing one episode of this series , but it is pretty clear of the meaning of the title and the plot of all four episodes . Basically they take a period of time in Britain , I think it was the 60s , 70s , 80s and 90s , and explain all controversial and publicised things that were banned . It doesn't matter if it television , radio or products , there will always be something that not everyone is happy to hear , look at , buy or basically have around . The episode I saw was about all things banned in the 80s . The highlight for me was the ban of many films such as The Evil Dead and Friday the 13th , and releasing them to people on video , they were referred to as the best selling " video nasties " . Anyway , you get the idea of the series from only one programme , and it was quite interesting to see the types of things people want banned . Worth watching !
Vampires	I might have seen a few seconds of the beginning once , and I'm glad I watched the whole film , from director John Carpenter ( Halloween , Starman ) . Basically Jack Crow ( James Woods ) is a vampire slayer on the Vatican payroll , and accompanied by others , including Montoya ( Daniel Baldwin ) , he is obviously on the lookout for the vampires , but the only things that can kill them are stakes in the heart and sunlight , forget garlic , crosses / the crucifix and the bible , they don't help . The big threat of the film is mastermind vampire Valek ( Thomas Ian Griffith ) who needs a black cross or something to be able to walk in sunlight from then on . Also starring Sheryl Lee as Katrina , Maximilian Schell as Cardinal Alba , Tim Guinee as Father Adam Guiteau , Boone Junior as Catlin Mark and Gregory Sierra as Father Giovanni . The main reason to see this film form me , besides a good performance ( with little dialogue ) by Woods , is the gore , some good amounts . Worth watching !
Universal Soldier	From director Roland Emmerich ( Independence Day ) , this is the first film I have seen starring the French action star , and not a bad one . The film starts in the Vietnam war , where U . S . soldiers Luc Devreux ( Jean-Claude Van Damme ) and Andrew Scott ( Dolph Lundgren ) are fighting , and kill each other . In the present day their bodies have been flash-frozen and turned into super soldiers , almost human robots , known as " UniSols " . While carrying out a mission though , both Luc and Andrew are reminded ( have flashbacks ) of their past lives , and soon enough are ignoring the orders of their new " commanders " . After Luc gets away , he teams with TV reporter Veronica Roberts ( Ally Walker ) as they are being chased across the country , and Andrew obviously is trying everything to kill him . The ending looks pretty normal when Luc is taken home to his parents , and you don't completely expect to see Andrew again . Also starring Ed O'Ross as Colonel Perry , Jerry Orbach as Dr . Christopher Gregor , Leon Rippy as Woodward , Tico Wells as Garth , Ralf Moeller as GR76 , Robert Trebor as Motel Owner , Gene Davis as Lieutenant and Drew Snyder as Charles . The action is not too bad , the dialogue is most certainly the cheese you'd expect to see in comic book speech bubbles , but worth at least one try . Apparently the two straight to video sequels without Van Damme are rubbish , but the fourth when he does come back is even worse , don't think I will be bothering with them ( I'd recommend others do the same ) . Worth watching !
Wild Wild West	From director Barry Sonnenfeld ( Men in Black ) this is quite an interesting and more modernised western film . Will Smith as Capt . James West is basically trying to stop a plot to destroy the ( not very big ) United States , they know this because scientists in destructive fields ( fire arms , explosives , etc ) have been kidnapped . He is accompanied by inventor U . S . Marshal Artemus Gordon ( a good Kevin Kline ) to stop the suspected General ' Bloodbath ' McGrath ( Ted Levine ) , and then the real villain , Dr . Arliss Loveless ( Kenneth Branagh ) . Soon enough , the villains kidnap the one person who can surrender the United States , Pres . Ulysses S . Grant ( Kline again ) . Also starring Salma Hayek as Rita Escobar and M . Emmet Walsh as Coleman . Filled with good small jokes , weapons and some more modern things , such as a mechanical spider , this is not a bad film . Worth watching !
Sunshine	There are quite a few great directors that have a go at the sci-fi genre , e . g . Tim Burton , Brian De Palma , and most unfortunately aren't fantastic , and this is the same for this film from director Danny Boyle ( Shallow Grave , Trainspotting , 28 Days Later ) . Basically , it is 2057 , and our ( Earth's ) Sun is dying very slowly ( this unfortunately will really happen , we just don't know when ) . Anyway , a team were sent years ago to restart / reignite the star , in the space station called Icarus 2 ( replacing the failed mission ) , with a talking computer system ( voiced by Chipo Chung ) obeying orders ( like 2001 : A Space Odyssey's HAL 9000 , except it doesn't turn evil ) of the same name . The team includes Robert Capa ( 28 Days Later's Cillian Murphy ) , Corazon ( Tomorrow Never Dies ' Michelle Yeoh ) , Mace ( Fantastic Four's Chris Evans ) , Capt . Kaneda ( Ring's Hiroyuki Sanada ) , Cassie ( 28 Weeks Later's Rose Byrne ) , Dr . Searle ( Training Day's Cliff Curtis ) , Trey ( Benedict Wong ) , Harvey ( Troy Garity ) and Capt . Pinbacker ( Mark Strong ) . There may be a main plot , but there's no real story , all that happens in the film is that they can see the sun without being blinded , the ship breaks down , they find the other Icarus space station , everyone dies , and the mission is successful , oh , and for some reason there is a ridiculous blurry guy from the mission log video trying to kill them . The special effects are obviously very good , and the recognisable people in it have their moments , but this isn't really a film to watch a lot . Worth watching !
Snake Eyes	From director Brian De Palma ( Scarface , The Untouchables ) , I didn't know anything about this film apart from the title ( duh ) and the two lead actors , so I gave it a go . First thing I have to mention is very well put together first five or so minutes , no cutaways or anything , a well rehearsed scene . Anyway , basically flamboyant Atlantic City cop Rick Santoro ( Nicolas Cage ) is right in front of a politician when he is shot , and he is now talking to a couple of suspects as they lead him to the man in cahoots with the shooter . You find out pretty quickly the bad guy is in fact the man who was meant to be helping Rick , Commander Kevin Dunne ( Gary Sinise ) . So there is some bickering , and Rick gets beaten pretty badly by an original suspect , the boxer he supported , but don't worry , the day is saved and the bad guys get what they deserve . Also starring Home Alone's John Heard as Gilbert Powell , Carla Gugino as Julia Costello , Stan Shaw as Lincoln Tyler , Small Soldiers ' Kevin Dunn ( lol , just like Sinise's character ) as Lou Logan , Michael Rispoli as Jimmy George , Joel Fabiani as Charles Kirkland , Luis Guzmán as Cyrus and a slightly brief Dumb and Dumber's Mike Starr as Walt McGahn . Cage and Sinise make the most of the roles , but the story isn't as gripping as I'd have hoped , but not bad . Worth watching !
Maverick	From director Richard Donner ( The Omen , Lethal Weapons 1-4 ) , this did look like quite a fun western , and I noticed some good names in the cast , so I was certainly going to try it . Basically Bret Maverick ( Mel Gibson ) is hoping to save up $25 , 000 to enter the big Winner Takes All poker tournament , and he is $3000 off the amount he needs . While trying to get the rest of the money , and practising his poker skills , Bret meets Annabelle Bransford ( Jodie Foster ) , a cunning con artist , and they seem to be quite a match . Bret is making one or two enemies , including with Angel ( Spider-Man 2's Alfred Molina ) , but after a long while of missing opportunities of money , and some fights , Bret does raise the money for the game . The full prize for the winner is a full $1 , 000 , 000 , and in the end , Bret does win with a royal flush , but Marshal Zane Cooper ( James Garner , played Bret Maverick in the original TV series ) decides to take the money himself , only for us to find out he is Bret's father in the end . Also starring Graham Greene as Joseph , James Coburn as Commodore Duvall , Dub Taylor as Room Clerk , Geoffrey Lewis as Matthew Wicker , Paul L . Smith as The Archduke , Dan Hedaya as Twitchy - Riverboat Poker Player , The Goonies ' Corey Feldman as Bank Robber and Lethal Weapon's Danny Glover as Bank Robber . Gibson is likable as the lead character , Foster has her small moments , and it is mainly the poker games that are most fun to watch . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Costume Design . Worth watching !
Hancock	From director Peter Berg ( Welcome to the Jungle , The Kingdom ) , I will see almost anything with the leading African American star who saved the world many times before . Basically John Hancock ( Will Smith ) should be praised as an all powerful superhero , but he is an alcoholic hated nuisance who saves people in Los Angeles very clumsily . When Hancock saves the life of public relations expert Ray Embrey ( Jason Bateman ) , the executive decides to try and help Hancock get a better public image and be less clumsy . Ray also introduces Hancock to his family , son and fan Aaron ( Jae Head ) and wife Mary ( Charlize Theron ) , who is very moody around the superhero , and it is revealed later that Mary is not only has the same powers as Hancock , but she was apparently his partner . But this is a big problem when it appears that being opposites , they lose their powers getting too close to each other , making them both very vulnerable , but don't worry , all is well in the end . Also starring Eddie Marsan as Kenneth ' Red ' Parker Jr . and Johnny Galecki as Jeremy , also look out for film director Michael Mann as an executive . Smith is sort of likable as the anti-hero , but it is mainly the special effects that stop this film from being boring , and making one or two giggles too . Worth watching !
Help ! It's the Hair Bear Bunch	When I was younger , I only actually saw one episode of Help ! It's the Hair Bear Bunch . It was about three bears , Hair , Square and the little one , with lots of hair , trying to escape from a zoo to have freedom in the National Forest . Mr . Peevley and Botch were the two zoo keepers stopping them from doing this . Mr . Peevley obviously wasn't watching , but Botch , the fat stupid one let them out and they escaped pretty easily . When the bears explore the National Forest they find a ranch house which they enter to try and get food . After eating they find out the ranch is being used by Bank Robbers . When Mr . Peevley and Botch catch up with the bears they are all tied up by the crooks until they decide what to do . They manage to escape and at the end the crooks are captured and the Super Intendant gives the reward to the bears . Quite a good cartoon episode !
The Passion of the Christ	Forget A Clockwork Orange , The Evil Dead , The Exorcist , Monty Python's Life of Brian and many of the other controversial films , this " labour of love " from Braveheart actor / director Mel Gibson is the most controversial film I have ever seen . In Latin and Aramaic it tells the story of the last 12 hours of Jesus Christ ( James Caviezelon ) on Earth , from the betrayal of Judas ( Luca Lionello ) in the Garden of Gethsemane after the Last Supper , till his crucifixion . It starts slow , but when Jesus is sentenced to death for " blasphemy " the controversy picks up . Jesus being scourged ( whipped ) by sticks , and by sharp-ended strings on his back , and his front , are horrifying to watch for the amount of blood and scars , and it is the son of God . Then carrying of the cross to the mountain , and after many falls he getting help from a stranger . Then it ends with the nailing of the Messiah's hands and feet , and propped to die . There is a slight happy ending though with the resurrection before the credits . Also starring Maia Morgenstern as Mary , Christo Jivkov as John , Francesco De Vito as Peter and Giacinto Ferro as Joseph of Arimathea . If you decide to watch this one day , be warned that it is very hard to deal with , and you can see why churches refused it . The fact that the film was re-released with 15 minutes of violence was cut out to make it a 15 didn't help . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Cinematography , Best Makeup and Best Music for the powerful score by John Debney . It was number 94 on The 100 Greatest Tearjerkers for Jesus's carrying of the cross mixed with Mary's flashbacks of him as a child . Worth watching , at least once !
Twice Two	Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy are the most famous comedy duo in history , and deservedly so , so I am happy to see any of their films . Ollie ( brain specialist ) and Stan ( associate adviser ) have married each other's twin sisters ( played by themselves ) , and it has been one year since , so they need to head home for an anniversary meal , and there is apparently a surprise for Ollie , that Stan wasn't meant to tell him about . It should be said that the twin sisters are just as clumsy and argumentative as their brothers . Stan is sent out to buy some strawberry ice cream , but he manages to go into the wrong place ( it was next door ) and spend the 15 cents on the three phone calls to home . There is the final squabble with all arguing about family differences , and it ends with Stan's sister " giving " a new anniversary cake to Ollie's sister . Also starring Charlie Hall as Delivery boy . Filled with good slapstick and all classic comedy you want from a black and white film , at just over an hour , it is an enjoyable film . Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy were number 7 on The Comedians ' Comedian . Worth watching !
The Mirror Has Two Faces	I don't understand the meaning of the title , although the leading actress did look in the mirror quite a bit , anyway , what appealed to me about seeing this film was a good cast , and the fact that produced and directed by Barbra Streisand . Basically college professor Gregory Larkin ( Jeff Bridges ) has been let down with sexual relationships many times , and places a personal advert to find a woman companion , only condition a good knowledge of something , and he has no care of looks and ( although they wouldn't know ) no sex appeal or interest . Then he meets plain English literature professor Rose Morgan ( Golden Globe nominated Streisand ) , after her sister Claire ( Mimi Rogers ) answers the personal ad . For a long while it seems they both have the same opinions of how sex and true love can complicate a good relationship , and they eventually marry not for true love or sex , but just a good companionship . Of course Rose is getting very bored , and starts to get desperate for sex , and even though Gregory might be the same ( slightly ) he backs away from the opportunity . For a while , they split and she tries her chances with a man she once loved ( and probably vice versa ) before he married Claire , Alex ( Pierce Brosnan ) . When that doesn't work she decides to change her image to be more appealing to herself and others , of course when Gregory sees he is quite shocked , but don't worry , he sees he has true feeling for her as well . Also starring Golden Globe winning , and Oscar and BAFTA nominated Lauren Bacall as Hannah Morgan , George Segal as Henry Fine , Brenda Vaccaro as Doris , Austin Pendleton as Barry and Elle Macpherson as Candice . There are a couple of giggly moments , and the cast of a few good stars kept me interested , but it did have it's many moments of pure cheesiness , but still worth watching . The Oscar and Golden Globe nominated song " I Finally Found Someone " by Streisand and Bryan Adams in the end credits is good , if only Streisand and Bridges weren't doing a long dance in the streets . It was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Original Score for Marvin Hamlisch . Worth watching !
Sense and Sensibility	Based on the popular book by Jane Austen , with the Oscar winning screenplay by Emma Thompson , and directed by BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Ang Lee ( Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon ; Brokeback Mountain ) made it sound pretty good . It is a good film , but to be honest , I only wanted to see it for the amount of good British actors and actresses appearing in it . It is mainly a story of class or something with some marriages , a death , and obviously a load of the best of British talents ever . Starring BAFTA winning , and Oscar and Golden Globe nominated ( for actress ) Emma Thompson as Elinor Dashwood , the gorgeous BAFTA winning , and Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Kate Winslet as Marianne Dashwood , BAFTA nominated Alan Rickman as Colonel Brandon , Hugh Grant as Edward Ferrars , Greg Wise as John Willoughby , Bridget Jones ' Gemma Jones as Mrs . Dashwood , Imogen Stubbs as Lucy Steele , BAFTA nominated Elizabeth Spriggs as Mrs . Jennings , Tom Wilkinson as Mr . Dashwood , The Vicar of Dibley's James Fleet as John Dashwood , Imelda Staunton as Charlotte Palmer , Hugh Laurie as Mr . Palmer and Sugar Rush's Richard Lumsden as Robert Ferrars . I couldn't exactly understand the entire story , in fact , I don't think I finished the film . But what I do remember and understand was pretty good . It was nominated for Best Cinematography , Best Costume Design , Best Music for Patrick Doyle and Best Picture , it won the BAFTA for Best Film , and it was nominated for the Anthony Asquith Award for Film Music , Best Cinematography , Best Costume Design , Best Make Up / Hair , Best Production Design , Best Adapted Screenplay , the David Lean Award for Direction , and it won the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Drama and Best Screenplay , and it was nominated for Best Original Score . It was number 70 on 100 Years , 100 Passions . Worth watching !
Fantasia 2000	I saw the trailer for this film back when it was out in cinema ( also released in Imax format ) , and I enjoyed the 1940 original , so I thought I'd give it a go . There are four reasons why this film just isn't as thought out as the original . Firstly , they have to get celebrities , such as Steve Martin , Bette Midler , Quincy Jones , magicians Penn and Teller , James Earl Jones and Angela Lansbury , introducing the numbers before they start . Secondly , all the numbers have a variety of animation styles , and in the original they only stuck to one , the normal broad style . Thirdly , only three of the numbers matched the music and I enjoyed , these were the flamingo with the yo-yo , Donald Duck with Daisy in a Noah's Ark story , and the repeat of The Sorceror's Apprentice with Mickey Mouse - conducted by the late Leopold Stokowski ( that's just lousy ) . Fourth and finally , this film just seems like an excuse to show the animation Disney studios are capable of , whether drawing or CGI , we don't need to be reminded they do great animation , and if your going to do it , make sure it matches the music . I would certainly enjoy seeing the three numbers mentioned again , but the rest just doesn't work . Worth watching !
Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow	I had heard of this starring the leading actress of Lara Croft and from trailers , and when I actually saw it , it wasn't completely what I expected . It is supposed to be 1939 ( I know this because of the costumes , and they were showing The Wizard of Oz in a cinema ) , but is seems more like the distant future . Anyway , basically in New York City , some of the world's leading scientists have disappeared , and the city is being attacked by giant robots . To get more pictures and information for her story , and stop them I guess , reporter Polly Perkins ( Gwyneth Paltrow ) gets the help from ex-boyfriend and Joe ' Sky Captain ' Sullivan ( Jude Law ) . As they escape a couple of other attacks and followings by more robotic creations , they also find out that Joe's genius technician , who created some of the gadgetry on his spitfire ( e . g . submarine technology , like James Bond ) , Dex ( Giovanni Ribisi ) has gone missing , but he managed to leave behind a clue . With aid from Joe's good friend , commander of a flying battle , Franky ( Angelina Jolie , putting on a pretty good English accent , sounding very much like Liz Hurley ) , they set off to find the villain Totenkopf's hideout . But when they get there , they find out Dr . Totenkopf is dead , and has been for years , and the machines themselves have taken over the operation to destroy the planet , and they must stop them . Also starring Sir Michael Gambon as Editor Paley , Bai Ling as Mysterious Woman , Omid Djalili as Kaji , Trevor Baxter as Dr . Jennings , Julian Curry as Dr . Vargas , Peter Law as Dr . Kesslerand archive of Lord Sir Laurence Olivier as Dr . Totenkopf . It may be slightly dark , but the good actors and special effects are enough to keep you interested . Worth watching !
Click	This film kind of reminds me of Bruce Almighty , because the main guy has been given the power of control ( literally ) , but it is almost a better format . Basically Adam Sandler as Michael Newman is a workaholic architect who wants a break from everything time consuming in his life , i . e . his job and some family life . Then one day , while looking for a universal remote control in Bed , Bathroom & Beyond , the guy in " Beyond " , Morty ( Christopher Walken ) gives him the control for his entire life . After finding out that he can control his life he takes the liberties of all controls , e . g . skipping chapters , watching his past with James Earl Jones narrating , language and visual change and much more . Unfortunately , fast forwarding his life so much turns the control into an automatic forwarding device , and he misses so much of his life that is important to him , and along the way he sees the consequences of his ignorance , e . g . turning fat . Don't worry , there is a happy ending , and the comedy takes away some of the sad impact . Also starring Kate Beckinsale as Donna Newman , David Hasselhoff as Mr . Ammer , Scream's Henry Winkler as Ted Newman , The Simpsons ' Julie Kavner as Trudy Newman , The Lord of the Rings ' Sean Astin as Bill Rando and American Pie's Jennifer Coolidge as Janine . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Makeup . Worth watching !
Driving Lessons	When I saw the advert for this I thought it was one of those one-off dramas for TV , like Goodnight Mister Tom , but I didn't realise it was pretty much a proper low-budget independent film . From the writer of Mrs . Brown , directing , this is a really good drama with an unlikely friendship . It is all about a shy teenager boy , Ben Marshall ( Harry Potter's Rupert Grint ) trying to learn how to drive , find a job , and escape from the influence of his domineering mother , Laura ( Love Actually's Laura Linney with a pretty good English accent ) . He starts working for a retired old eccentric actress Evie Walton ( Julie Walters ) , and not only ends up following her around and doing everything she wants , even if it gets him in trouble , but she almost helps him to learn driving . It is a great story where at first you think they don't get on for a long time , and then you realise they are good friends . Also starring Nicholas Farrell as Robert Marshall and Jim Norton as Mr . Fincham . Good !
Patriot Games	This is quite an interesting idea , basically someone ruins a plan and then he and his family are the new targets . When CIA cop Jack Ryan ( Harrison Ford ) ruins an assassination , maybe intentionally , I'm not sure ) he then becomes the new target . These people want to get his family involved as well . These nasty people are lead by Sean Miller ( Sean Bean ) , and there is a really good fight scene near the end between him and Ryan . There are some pretty good chase sequences in the film , but I think it is Ford and Bean that make the film really good . Also starring Samuel L . Jackson as Lt . Cmdr . Robby Jackson , James Earl Jones as Adm . James Greer , Richard Harris as Paddy O'Neil and Bob Gunton as Interviewer . Good !
Rabbit-Proof Fence	This is a good drama about two ( well a third briefly as well ) who go on a tremendous and a nearly fatal journey across a country to reach their homes , based on a true story . Basically three black girls are taken away from their poor ( and to the orphanage unfit ) mother to the far , far away orphanage . They become used to it for a little while , but soon enough they plan and carry out their escape . They are now facing a long journey across the country to return home to their mother . Unfortunately along the way they do leave clues , the biggest one being that they are using the road nearest to the Rabbit-Proof Fence , hence the title . The orphanage do catch one of the girls , but the others get away and make it to their home . I did not know anyone in this ( although that doesn't matter ) , except of course scene stealing Kenneth Branagh as A . O . Neville . Branagh was number 25 on The 50 Greatest British Actors , and he was number 6 on Britain's Finest Actors . It was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Original Score for Peter Gabriel . Good !
Amistad	There were two Steven Spielberg flaws in his very good career , the first was Hook , this is the second . It isn't the worst Spielberg film I've seen , it's just a bit boring in places . It's basically the story about the battle of black slavery and stopping them from continuing it . Morgan Freeman plays Joadson , the one black man who is talking to these black slaves and helping them win the case . Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Anthony Hopkins plays Martin Van Buren , the one lawyer suitable to win the case for blacks to be free . The case does go on through at least half or a quarter of the film , but that is part of the reason why it isn't a rubbish Spielberg . Looknfor an appearance by Pete Postlethwaite in the courtroom . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Cinematography , Best Costume Design and Best Music for John Williams , and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Director , Best Motion Picture - Drama and Best Actor for Djimon Hounsou . Good !
The Da Vinci Code	They say this film may beat the amount of takings of Star Wars , I kind of hope that's not true , because I wouldn't say it was that good . From director Ron Howard ( Splash , Ransom , A Beautiful Mind ) , this is quite an interesting choice of film to direct . Tom Hanks plays Robert Langdon , at first you wonder why he is the centre of attention , but then you discover his knowledge of Leonardo DaVinci could be the death of him . Basically him and Audrey Tautou as Sophie Neveu are the hunt for both clues as to what is going on , past truths ( I'm not sure about that ) behind Jesus ' life , and eventually the search for the real Holy Grail ( not a cup ) . Also starring Sir Ian McKellen as Sir Leigh Teabing , Jean Reno as Captain Fache , Paul Bettany as Silas and Alfred Molina as Bishop Aringarosa . Many people claim this film to have blasphemy and it is provocative , I can see why some people think that , especially the church . It was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Original Score for Hans Zimmer . Good !
Dead Man Walking	The title just tells you what the story is about , a criminal that is going to be executed for something , and it directed and written by The Shawshank Redmption's star , Tim Robbins , nominated the Oscar and Golden Globe for Best Director . In this case the criminal , Matthew Poncelet ( Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Sean Penn ) committed murder a while ago and he is ready to be executed by poisonous fluids going in one by one to his heart . Oscar winning , and Golden Globe nominated Susan Sarandon plays Sister Helen Prejean , the woman who tries to find out the reason why he murdered , and to comfort him . He obviously will not listen to all her reasoning and does not completely fear death . It's only when it gets close that he starts to change his mind . But by the time he does , it's too late and he is up for execution ( injections ) . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Song for Bruce Springsteen's " Dead Man Walking " , and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Screenplay for Robbins . Good !
Austin Powers in Goldmember	This is the third of the Austin Powers spy spoofs . Mike Myers returns Austin Powers , Dr . Evil , Fat Bastard ( from The Spy Who Shagged Me ) and a new character called Goldmember ( hence the title ) . Dr . Evil plans to take over the world with the help of Goldmember's plan . With the help of Foxxy Cleopatra ( introducing ex-Destiny's Child singer Beyoncé Knowles ) from 1975 he attempts to foil his plan . As the film goes on he is accompanied by his father ( like most trilogy's in the third film ) . His Dad is played by the well suited Michael Caine . As the film goes on Dr . Evil's son Scott ( Seth Green ) starts to turn evil too , and Dr . Evil starts to ignore his clone Mini Me ( Verne Troyer ) . So Mini Me decides to help Austin and Foxxy . A very good comedy with many famous faces , including Michael York as Basil Exposition , Tom Cruise , Gwyneth Paltrow , Kevin Spacey , Danny DeVito , Steven Spielberg , Quincy Jones , Britney Spears , Nathan Lane , The Osbournes and John Travolta . Mike Myers was number 46 on The Comedians ' Comedian . Good !
On Moonlight Bay	I wouldn't call this a musical , but it is certainly a great comedy drama . The main reason I wanted to see this is obviously the enchanting Doris Day as Marjorie ' Marjie ' Winfield . Basically she met love interest William ' Bill ' Sherman ( Gordon MacRae ) after only just moving into a house in the small town of Indiana , and they obviously got closer in moments on Moonlight Bay . It is the nice love story almost ruined by inconvenience , including Bill joining the First World War , but more prominently , Marjie's naughty brother Wesley ( Billy Gray ) causing trouble , arguments and almost no happy endings and dysfunction . Also starring Jack Smith as the annoying piano playing and singing Hubert Wakely , Leon Ames as Banker George ' Father ' Winfield ( Mr . Winfield ) , Rosemary DeCamp as Alice ' Mother ' Winfield ( Mrs . Winfield ) , Mary Wickes as Stella ( Winfields ' cook and housekeeper ) and Ellen Corby as Miss Mary Stevens ( Wesley's schoolteacher ) . This is where Daffy Duck and Porky Pig ( and other Looney Tunes characters ) picked up the song . A sequel , By the Light of the Silvery Moon , followed two years later . Doris Day was number 84 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars . Good !
Young at Heart	This isn't meant to be a musical ( there's certainly no dance routines ) , it is a drama featuring some songs . Basically Alex Burke ( Gig Young ) enters the lives of the Tuttle family , led by father Gregory ( Robert Keith ) with his three daughters Fran ( Dorothy Malone ) , Amy ( Elisabeth Fraser ) , and Laurie ( Doris Day ) . Laurie and Alex seem to be made for each other , and become engaged , but things change when his friend , musical arranger Barney Sloan ( Frank Sinatra ) comes along . Laurie realises she has grown to have stronger feelings for Barney , and she also realises the mistake she would be making when she sees one of her sister's crying about the marriage , she loves Alex . So Laurie marries Barney , but he is convinced that his wife may still have feelings for Alex , and towards the end attempts suicide , and this is the night Laurie would announce she is pregnant , thank goodness there is a happy ending when all the family are together . Also starring Ethel Barrymore as Aunt Jessie Tuttle , Alan Hale Jr . as Robert Neary , Lonny Chapman as Ernest Nichols and Frank Ferguson as Bartell . Day offers a warm and sensitive performance with some great singing ( they call her the Warner Brothers goldmine ) , Sinatra ( also worked at Columbia records with Day ) has his moments , even though he said he hated the soppy plot . You can almost agree with Sinatra concerning the ending , but you can't see it going any other way , so this is certainly a film to try and enjoy for songs , including one or two Day and Sinatra duets . Good !
Adulthood	Originally just the writer of the first film , Kidulthood , Doctor Who's Noel Clarke also takes the director's chair for this sequel to the hit teenage social drama film . Basically , it has been six years since he killed Trife , and released from prison , Sam Peel ( Clarke ) can't escape the life he now doesn't want to live anymore . Jay ( Dead Set's Adam Deacon ) , a friend of Trife , wants to get revenge on Sam so much that he is prepared to have him killed . Sam is trying to get the message across to all after him that he no longer wants to create violence , and that he didn't mean to kill Trife . Lexi ( EastEnders ' Scarlett Alice Johnson ) is one of the only people on his side and trying to help him , but at the same time , she is willing to double cross to get what she wants , i . e . drugs . In the end , Sam and Jay confront each other , Jay with a gun and Sam with a baseball bat , and even though Jay can't face killing him , and Sam has tried to give his peace , Jay warns him that it isn't over . Also starring Jacob Anderson as Omen , Ben Drew as Dabs , Danny Dyer as Hayden , Kidulthood's Femi Oyeniran as Moony , Shanika Warren-Markland as Kayla , Kidulthood's Red Madrell as Alisa , Nathan Constance as Ike , Lenny Henry in Pieces ' Cornell John as Uncle Curtis and Don Klass as Blammy . Clarke deservedly won the BAFTA for Best Rising Star , he directs the film with great skill . It is a shame not all the same cast could come back , e . g . Jaime Winstone ( Ray's daughter ) and Rafe Spall ( Timothy's son ) , but it is a great sequel none-the-less . Good !
The Land Before Time	When I was young I used to love this prehistoric cartoon from the makers of An American Tail , and director Don Bluth . A brontosaurus ( or Long Neck ) named Littlefoot is orphaned after Sharp Tooth the Tyranosaurus Rex kills his mother . He travels with a bunch of friends also separated from their parents ( by an earthquake ) to a place called The Great Valley . He travels with Three Horn ( Tricerotops ) , Cera , Big Mouth ( ? ) , Ducky , Flyer ( Terodactal ) , Petrie and Spike Tail ( ? ) , Spike . As they travel they are both trying to escape from Sharp Tooth , and trying to get tree stars ( leaves ) to eat from trees . The kids will love both the good animation , and the fact that the main characters are dinosaurs . I would also recommend this to parents with very young kids who were frightened by Steven Spielberg's Jurassic Park . Narrated by Batman's Pat Hingle . Good !
Police Academy	Many sequels have followed , I do remember seeing one or two of them , but the original is obviously the most loved and successful , all the others only have tiny moments of humour . Anyway , basically with rises in crime , the mayor to open the door of the city's Police Academy to anyone who wants to join ( obviously we see how silly this decision was , but at the same time how fun ) . Chief Henry Hurst ( George R . Robertson ) does not agree with the mayor's decision , and soon enough the academy is overrun with misfits , including parking lot attendant Carey Mahoney ( Steve Guttenberg ) , forced to go there for causing trouble , his only other option is jail . Other cadets include Karen Thompson ( young Sex and the City star Kim Cattrall ) , who Mahoney has his eyes on , tall flower loving Moses Hightower ( Bubba Smith ) , Leslie Barbara ( Donovan Scott ) , George Martín ( Andrew Rubin ) , gun loving Eugene Tackleberry ( David Graf ) , Douglas Fackler ( Bruce Mahler ) , Chad Copeland ( Scott Thomson ) , and of course , my favourite ( the only actor I would to see the sequels for , and who is in all of them ) Larvell Jones ( Michael Winslow ) , with the ability to make literally any noise just from his mouth . Lt . Thaddeus Harris ( G . W . Bailey ) is least impressed with the new recruits , and at first he is making sure Mahoney in particular has the least fun , and then he switches to wanting him out . All the cadets become more determined to make good , especially when a riot starts in the near town . In the end , the riot is stopped , and also some robbers caught , and all of them graduate , it's just a shame the films that follow are not as successful ( or possibly as popular ) . It was number 42 on The 50 Greatest Comedy Films . Good !
Married to the Mob	From director Jonathan Demme ( The Silence of the Lambs , Philadelphia ) , this thriller comedy may not have had much for me to laugh at , but it was a good film none the less . Basically Angela De Marco ( Golden Globe nominated Michelle Pfieffer ) is unhappily married to high Mafia member Frank ' The Cucumber ' De Marco ( Alec Baldwin ) , and it is when he is killed that she wants to break free from the Mafia world entirely and start a new life . But Frank's boss , Tony ' The Tiger ' Russo ( Oscar nominated Dean Stockwell ) manages to find and court her , so the FBI begins surveillance on her , thinking she is his mistress . She forms a close relationship with " neighbour " Mike Downey ( Matthew Modine ) , who is actually an undercover FBI agent , it is just a question of can she get away from the lifestyle she has lived in for so long . Also starring The Fisher King's Mercedes Ruehl as Connie Russo , Trey Wilson as FBI Field / Regional Director Franklin , Joan Cusack as Rose Boyle , Ellen Foley as Theresa , Eraser's Oliver Platt as Ed Benitez , Anthony J . Nici as Joey De Marco , Charles Napier as Ray - Angela's Hairdresser and Mars Attacks ! star O-Lan Jones as Phyllis . There are some good violent moments , the jokes aren't very noticeable , and the performances by Pfieffer , Modine and Stockwell are very good . Good !
Famous Fred	When I was a kid I used to think this was quite a funny and interesting like story about a cat becoming a star of singing . It looks like the same animation as The Snowman , but it doesn't make you cry as much . Basically , a cat named Fred who belonged to Nick and Sophie . They soon find out Ginger and many others cats are holding a tribute and funeral to their star . Kenneth the hamster tells the story of why Fred was so famous . He first started as a present for Mum , then he grew to become the cats favourite singing sensation . He soon became known as Famous Fred . It's such a shame he died , or did he , he had one of nine lives left ! Lenny Henry as Fred is just perfect . It was nominated the Oscar and BAFTA , both for Best Short Film , Animated . Good !
Robin Hood	Before I heard of the Kevin Costner and Errol Flynn versions of the classic legend story of the man who stole from the rich and gave to the poor , there was this cartoon version by Walt Disney Pictures , with the interesting idea of animals playing the characters . I obviously liked it when I was a kid , but I saw it not too long ago , and it is just a bit corny and more aimed at kids . Anyway , it brings back singer Phil Harris from The Aristocats and The Jungle Book , as Little John . It also introduces Brian Bedford as Robin Hood . There are some good moments of cartoon like comedy , but again , more for kids . Also starring Peter Ustinov as Prince John and tom thumb's Terry-Thomas as Sir Hiss . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Song for " Love " . Good !
Cold Blood	To be honest , there isn't exactly a lot of story or plot , maybe even no point for this film , but you know ITV , they'll make any kind of movie like single drama . In this one we have Vanessa Redgrave as a cop investigating a murder where the murderer hasn't tried to hide his identity , and he has purposely left his DNA behind . Matthew Kelly plays the really evil looking villain in this drama , and he is very good choice for looking like a villain , now that he's lost the beard . Someone who knew the victim of the murder , John Hannah's character also knows the murderer and is trying to help with the investigation to find the victim's body , Kelly's top secret . But like I said , not all of it is that great , there are one or two moments that are corny . But apart from that , good !
Of Mice and Men	Based on some book and directed by one of the stars himself , this is a not too bad story about two best friends who find work on a farm near a ranch house . The two main characters , John Malkovich as the big tall child like Lennie Small and Gary Sinise ( also director ) as the small quite intelligent George Milton are the two men , on the run from something , and they want some work so they can have enough money to get a new life . By the way , Lennie's child like because he was kicked by a horse as a kid . Lennie has a love for animals and soft things , and sometimes it ends up him accidentally breaking or killing the person or animal with his uncontrollable strength . Also starring Ray Walston as Candy , Casey Siemaszko as Curley , Sherilyn Fenn as Curley's Wife , Lost's John Terry as Slim and Terminator 2's Joe Morton as Crooks . It is quite a sad moment at the end , and the villain is pretty nasty , but it is still quite good . Good !
Casper	From the director of Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events , this is quite a good live action romp with a cartoon character I used to watch sometimes . Basically the nasty Carrigan Crittenden ( Cathy Moriarty ) inherits a gloomy-looking mansion , but then she and sidekick Paul ' Dibbs ' Plutzker ( Eric Idle ) discover a treasure map to a hidden treasure in the house . What they don't know is that Casper the Friendly Ghost ( played by Malachi Pearson ) is living there . He is the lonely ghost who only wants a friend , but scares anyone and everyone who catches one glimpse of him , this also goes for his mean uncles , Stretch ( Joe Nipote ) , Stinkie ( Joe Alaskey ) and Fatso ( Brad Garrett ) . So Dr . James Harvey ( Bill Pullman ) is hired to exorcise the house , with daughter Kathleen ' Kat ' Harvey ( Christina Ricci ) , but they end up become quite comfortable with having ghosts . Also starring Ben Stein as Mr . Rugg , Rodney Dangerfield , Dan Aykroyd as Dr . Raymond Stantz ( the Ghostbuster ) and cameos by Clint Eastwood and Mel Gibson . A good family film thats on almost every Christmas . Good !
Digimon : Digital Monsters	This is just as bad Japanese animation , voices and overall cartoon as it's rival Pokémon , but at least it was a bit better . It is kind of copying Pokémon with the title " Mon " short for monsters , except it has the " Digi " part short for Digital . What did Poke mean ? The small annoying parts to this cartoon are that it takes ages to get through the dig-evolving processes for each monster , and they have to shout the weapon that they are using in a fight . But the biggest annoying thing is the characters , corniest lines and silly friendships with these monsters . But at the time , this was easy to get used to , just like the crap Japanese animation . Worth watching !
Belle De Jour ( Beautiful of the Day )	I heard of it from many recommendations , and was hoping it would be a really good French film , particularly from the 1960's , but truthfully , I can't see the big deal , from director Luis Buñuel ( Un Chien Andalou ) . Well , I didn't understand all of what was meant to be going on , and I was hoping for an 18 certificate film it would have a lot of sexual material that I thought it would . I can see reasons the critics gave it 5 stars , but it is not as good as bigger foreign films , e . g . Amélie and Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon . Anyway , as far as I remember ( before dozing off ) , Séverine Sérizy ( The Hunger's Catherine Deneuve ) is happily married to handsome young surgeon , Pierre Sérizy ( Jean Sorel ) , and for some reason she becomes a prostitute called Belle De Jour . That is pretty much it , all I can remember after that is her see-through silk dress , her naked back , and a couple of men stroking her , but nothing really much that I think people would be excited over . But like I said , I can see reasons for it being five stars , and why I guess it is essential viewing . It was number 85 on The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments , and it was number 96 on The 100 Greatest Films . Good , in my opinion !
Sooty	This single word title of a new series for Sooty was obvious , but still good for a while . Sooty did have quite a good opening credits with the song , but after a while it started to go down hill . They had Sooty , Sweep , Soo and Scampy from Sooty & Co and Sooty Heights . They also brought Butch back to a permanent member , but then they also invented a new character called Mickey the cat . She was okay , but she just got in the way a bit . I think the person who hogged this show a bit was the presenters ( who I can't remember the names of ) , one male and one female presenter , the male presenter hogged the most . They had absolutely guests that I saw . The main reason it went downhill was the introduction of the old tatty puppets and a new voice for Soo . But the kids will love it . Good !
Stage Beauty	First I liked the look of the stars in it , then I saw a trailer mentioning it is a good period romantic comedy since Shakespeare in Love , so I tried it . Based in the 1660's of London's theatres , this film from director Richard Eyre ( Iris ) , this is basically about the rules of gender roles in theatre production , and means to change them for everyone's benefit . Ned Kynaston ( Big Fish's Billy Crudup ) is the homosexual cross-dressing actor who has been playing female parts in plays for years , particularly Desdemona in Othello , he also has a close relationship with a male co-actor . One day however , the rules of only men playing women could change when aspiring actress Maria ( Romeo + Juliet's Claire Danes ) auditions as Kynaston's praised role , Desdemona , and soon enough , King Charles II ( Rupert Everett ) decides to make the law that all female roles should be played only by women . Maria becomes a star , while Ned finds himself out of work . But after a while , Ned finds it in his nature to forgive Maria's aspiration , they may even fall in love , and Charles may proclaim women will be played by either gender . Also starring Tom Wilkinson as Thomas Betterton , Ben Chaplin as George Villiars , Duke of Buckingham , Notting Hill's Hugh Bonneville as Samuel Pepys , Harry Potter's Richard Griffiths as Sir Charles Sedley , Edward Fox as Sir Edward Hyde , Zoe Tapper as Nell Gwyn , Fenella Woolgar as Lady Meresvale , Pirates of the Caribbean's Tom Hollander as Sir Peter Lely and Hellraiser's Clare Higgins as Mistress Revels . There are some good giggles , especially Rupert Everett dressed as a woman with a moustache , classic . Good !
Love's Labour's Lost	From actor / director Kenneth Branagh comes another William Shakespeare tale , just four years after his four hour version of Hamlet . The story is an update based in the 30s / 40s where the King of Navarre ( Jurassic Park III's Alessandro Nivola ) and three companions , Longaville ( a miscast Scream's Matthew Lillard ) , Dumaine ( Adrian Lester ) and Berowne ( Branagh ) swear an oath to stay away ( and obviously not fall in love ) with women for three years . Unfortunately this plan fails when they are immediately acquainted with The Princess of France ( also miscast Alicia Silverstone ) and her three chums , Rosaline ( The Truman Show's Natascha McElhone ) , Maria ( Carmen Ejogo ) and Jacquanetta ( Stefania Rocca ) . They form close friendships and almost bonds , and they have other people to talk to about their concerns , including an all-star cast : Emily Mortimer as Katherine , Richard Briers as Nathaniel , Nathan Lane as Costard and Timothy Spall as Don Armado . With some fantastic actors and memorable songs mixed in , this is a great almost modern adaption to a Shakespeare tale . Kenneth Branagh was number 25 on The 50 Greatest British Actors , and he was number 6 on Britain's Finest Actors . Good !
Shadows and Fog	I have seen Annie Hall and thought it was really good , and this is second film I have seen from the great actor / director / writer . Basically woken up in the night by his neighbours as a vigilante group , Kleinman ( Woody Allen ) is wanted to help track down a strangler who has been killing people all over town . The town is pretty deserted as it is really late at night , and the vigilante group has disappeared . Meanwhile , Irmy ( Mia Farrow ) has walked away from her career at the circus in town , and her Clown boyfriend , Paul ( John Malkovich ) . Eventually , after going to a brothel , and sleeping with Student Jack ( John Cusack ) for $700 , she meets Kleinman , and is almost the only person that he can rely on or get some sort of help from . Also starring Madonna as Marie , Lilo & Stitch's David Ogden Stiers as Hacker , Michael Kirby as Killer , Independence Day's James Rebhorn as Vigilante , Donald Pleasence as Doctor , Jodie Foster as Prostitute , Kathy Bates as Prostitute , The River Wild's John C . Reilly as Cop at Police Station , Deep Impact's Kurtwood Smith as Vogel's Follower , William H . Macy as Cop with Spiro , The Simpsons ' Julie Kavner as Alma and Toy Story's Wallace Shawn as Simon Carr . Some pretty funny moments , but it's always the nerd-like , wining voice and " I , I , I " from Allen that is the highlight . Worth watching !
Once Upon a Time in Mexico	If you remember Desperado , then you may enjoy this sequel made eight years later , from it's director Robert Rodriguez ( From Dusk Till Dawn , Sin City ) , apparently remaking his low budget debut El Mariachi . El Mariachi ( Antonio Banderas ) lost his wife Carolina ( Salma Hayek ) and daughter when they were killed ( gun shot ) by drug lords , and he has returned not only to stop the new ones , but get revenge on the one who arranged the shooting . Basically , new drug lord Barillo ( Willem Dafoe ) is pretending to overthrow the Mexican president , and meanwhile , using the Mariachi to help him , corrupt CIA agent Sands ( Johnny Depp ) is trying to discover whatever he can about their drug lords ' plans . Marquez ( Gerardo Vigil ) , the man who killed his family , is with the lords as well . Cucuy ( Danny Trujo ) , the muscle for Sands is keeping tabs on the Mariachi . He however has the help of retired-FBI agent Jorge Ramirez ( Rubén Blades ) and Lorenzo ( singer Enrique Iglesias , mole ! ) to help him defeat the villains . Also starring Mickey Rourke as Billy , Eva Mendes as Ajedrez , Marco Leonardi as Fideo and Cheech Marin as Belini . It may not have a great story as such , but there is enough gun shooting , chase and action sequences to please people . Good !
Sneakers	This film is like an early version of , or the template for , Mission : Impossible , and with an all-star cast , quite a good one , from director Phil Alden Robinson ( Field of Dreams ) . Basically Martin ' Marty ' Bishop ( Robert Redford ) heads a group of experts who specialise in testing security systems , and he is now being blackmailed into stealing a top secret black box , to clear his criminal record . Bishop's team includes Mother ( Dan Aykroyd ) , Carl Arbegast ( River Phoenix ) , Donald Crease ( Sidney Poitier ) and blind Erwin ' Whistler ' Emory ( David Strathairn ) , oh , with help from Bishop's partner Liz ( Mary McDonnell ) . They manage to decode many seemingly unbreakable systems to find their way into getting to the box , and they now have their plan to steal it , with many things they have to consider that could set an alarm off , just like Mission : Impossible . They do manage to get the box , but they also find out the agents who hired him are not the Government after all , and Bishop's old " friend " Cosmo ( Sir Ben Kingsley ) is also after the box . Also starring Timothy Busfield as Dick Gordon , Eddie Jones as Buddy Wallace , George Hearn as Gregor , Heroes ' Stephen Tobolowsky as Dr . Werner Brandes and James Earl Jones as NSA Agent Bernard Abbott . The stars all have their moments , the story is quite intriguing and nearly engaging , especially during the technical stealing operation . Good !
The Godfather and the Mob	Channel 4 had three special documentaries explaining truths behind the inspirations and making of some of the most popular gangster films , this was obviously one of them . They also did The Real Goodfellas ! Basically this film explained about Francis Ford Coppola , the cast and crew of the film , and the trouble they went through and could have got into with the real mob ! They didn't want the film to be made , until later when they made an agreement to make changes , including lose the word " mafia " in the film ( which originally only appeared once ! ) , and maybe using someone else instead of Marlon Brando to play Don Vito Corleone . When the film was completed and had been released , the mob were happy and considered the film as a great part of their culture , or something like that . Coppola was obviously frustrated because he was making it for the audience . Good !
The Cramp Twins	This is quite a good cartoon about the relationship between two non-identical twin brothers and their many weird and wonderful episodes of competition , hate and " technical " adventures . Lucien and Wayne Cramp are the non-identical twins . Lucien is the normal skin coloured and sensible child of the house . Wayne is the purple skin coloured and trouble-making child . Wayne is basically the evil twin brother to Lucien . They both hate each other because of their differences , e . g . what they like to do , how good they are at doing stuff , their knowledge . The only thing I don't understand about this cartoon is why do they need extra drawn line around them ? But apart from that , this is a pretty good cartoon , occasionally . It was nominated the BAFTA for Best Animation . Good !
tom thumb	When I was a kid this used to be a really good old fantasy film about a boy the size of a human thumb and the adventures he had . Basically husband and wife Jonathan ( Bernard Miles ) and ( Jessie Matthews ) wish they could have a son , a small one . That is exactly what they get , they get their wish granted by the Forest Queen ( June Thorburn ) . Tom Thumb ( Russ Tamblyn ) is the young thumb sized kid who has many adventures . He befriends the fairy's boyfriend , Woody ( Alan Young , aka DuckTales ' Scrooge McDuck ) , helps two robbers skinny , gap-toothed and moustached Ivan ( BAFTA nominated Terry-Thomas ) and fat , stupid and greedy Antony ( Peter Sellers ) , flies a balloon , uses dancing shoes , and catches the robbers , and lives happily ever after with everyone else . It won the Oscar for Best Special Effects , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Musical . Good !
Angel of Death : The Beverly Allitt Story	When Janine Butcher ( Evans ) left EastEnders ' , I realised how much I would miss her being a complete bitch , in fact , I want her back soon ! Anyway , Charlie Brooks who played her is in this Docu-drama playing one of the most infamous killer nurses in Britain , Beverly Allitt . She was rumoured , but then confirmed , to have killed at least five children and injuring seven others . This Docu-drama features interviews from the real people involved in the story about this vicious 23-year-old woman , and acted reconstruction from Brooks and others . I can understand why they picked a real bitch-playing actress , but I cannot understand the reasons for the real Allitt's intent . Good !
A Trip to the Moon	This is called the most important film in cinema history , in fact , it is the first in the book " 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die " . The story sees a group of astronomers / explorers plan a trip to the moon , getting into a bullet shaped rocket , and being fired from a large cannon . The iconic image of the film is the rocket in the eye of the moon , and when they get out of the rocket they face moon creatures called Celenites who capture them , but they quickly escape , get back in the rocket , and it drops into the ocean ( on Earth I presume ) and get dragged by a boat to face glory ( or whatever ) . This film may be shaky , black and white , have cheap looking effects , and be only 14 minutes long , but it is important for many reasons . It invented the Genre ( in this case , science fiction ) , it invented cutaways and fades , and it was the first film to have a real story , all before were just single moments , e . g . a train pulling into a station ( which of course terrified people back in 1896 ) , so if you can find it , definitely watch it . Good !
Quills	This is a really good example of the British film makers at their best , and a classic story played so well by some talented people . Basically during a certain period , probably early Victorian times , the story is based in a men's prison . Working in the prison is laundry and food person , Madeleine ' Maddy ' LeClerc ( the gorgeous Kate Winslet ) . She is interested in helping one of the prisoners , who used to be a very good writer , finish off his latest work . The Marquis De Sade ( Oscar , BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Geoffrey Rush ) plans to create a really good story , but he is not permitted by the guards , and especially The Abbe Du Coulmier ( Joaquin Phoenix ) and Dr . Royer-Collard ( Sir Michael Caine ) to do this . Contains moments of nudity , one of Winslet , and at least six with Rush . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration and Best Costume Design , it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Costume Design , Best Make Up / Hair and Best Production Design , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Screenplay . Good !
Shrek the Halls	There are quite a few family films that have attempted the short TV special or straight to video Christmas special , and not all are brilliant , and this is the attempt from Shrek and gang . Basically it is near Christmas Eve , Fiona ( Cameron Diaz ) , Donkey ( Eddie Murphy ) and the new ogre kids are obviously excited , but grouchy Shrek ( Mike Myers ) would prefer it if it was just him , with his wife and kids , no-one else . Of course , the disasters he was expecting start happening when all their friends : Puss in Boots ( Antonio Banderas ) , Pinocchio ( Cody Cameron ) , Gingerbread Man ( Conrad Vernon ) and Wolf ( Aron Warner ) come over to join them . Shrek is like a Scrooge that really doesn't like what Christmas is becoming , but he reveals near the end it is because he has never celebrated it , so he has no idea what goes on , e . g . present giving , family get together , decorations , etc , but he and the others get their Happy Christmas ( Eve ) . Good !
A Number	I saw the photo in a magazine of a huge family of clones and the father , and thought this might be quite an interesting one-off drama , it turns out it wasn't what I had in mind at all , based on the play by Caryl Churchill . Basically Rhys Ifans ( presumably the real one ) comes home to his father Tom Wilkinson explaining about " a number ! of clones roaming the streets , and the father insists there was only meant to be one . He reveals Ifans was created from the DNA of his former body , after he was killed somehow , and Wilkinson had him copied for the same son instead of tyring for a new child , he wasn't expecting the experts to make more than one , that wasn't in the deal . This one-hour drama is mainly just lots of chatting between Ifans and Wilkinson , you only see all the clones at the end when they are having a family get together , and then pose for that photo obviously . Not much action or spectacle , but I can imagine that is what is the stage play was like , simple , but with some good dialogue quite effective . Good !
The Vikings	This was meant to be a brilliant film with Michael Douglas's Dad being bad , in reality , it was only okay to me . The Vikings is a film with one or two fights , and good performances by main stars Kirk Douglas as Einar , Tony Curtis as Eric and Janet Leigh as Morgana . Unfortunately though , I found it a bit forgettable as there were hardly any moments that stick in my mind . The only good bit can remember is the final sword fight with Curtis and Douglas , and that is it ! It seems the American film industries and awards didn't take much notice of it either , only Film Festivals . Also starring Ernest Borgnine as Ragnar . I can see some of the reasons it is five stars , but to me it is nothing special . Good !
10 Things I Hate About You	This is quite a good teen comedy with just a hint of drama , but it isn't exactly one of the best teen films . The only thing I can remember watching it ( we watched it in two English lessons for some kind of research ) is Heath Ledger as Patrick ' Pat ' Verona , the main and most attractive guy to the girls . Well , and there's also the appearance of Dean Richmond from The Nutty Professor , Larry Miller as Dr . Walter Stratford . Apart from that , I can't remember any of the so-called jokes that made anybody in my class laugh . Hardly any of the film had a lot of laughter for me , but I'd need to see it again to make sure . Quite good , as far as I can remember .
Mean Streets	This is a bit of a landmark film as it was it was the first time director Martin Scorsese casted Robert De Niro , a collaboration that has continued in numerous films . It was also the second time he casted Harvey Keitel . Anyway , basically , set in the " mean streets " of New York City , the story follows small-time wise-guy community member Charlie ( Keitel ) , with friends Tony ( David Proval ) and Michael ( Richard Romanus ) , and most prominently , unreliable , near psychotic and to-be shunned friend Johnny Boy ( De Niro ) . He also has a secret girlfriend , Teresa ( Amy Robinson ) , Johnny Boy's cousin , who must also be shunned because of epilepsy . Charlie's uncle Giovanni ( Cesare Danova ) offers him a restaurant , and he is forced to choose between gaining power , love for Teresa , or protecting Johnny Boy . Also starring Victor Argo as Mario , Robert Carradine as Assassin , Jeannie Bell as Diane and David Carradine as Drunk , with narration by Scorsese himself . I will admit I did not pay full attention to this film , because it was a bit too chatty for my liking , but when it wasn't , it had great moments of violence , so it is worth watching . Good !
Cherry Falls	After the success of Scream where one of the rules of a horror film is not to have sex , otherwise die , this twists that . The killer of this , in a wig that covers his face , is killing all virgins . Jody Marken ( the beautiful Brittany Murphy ) is a virgin and is worried she may be a victim . Her Dad Sheriff Brent Marken ( Terminator's Michael Biehn ) suggests that she goes to the huge party where everyone who has not " done it " can lose their virginity . Jay Mohr's character is really good , he seems like an okay teacher , but he turns out to be much more than expected ! The reason for the killer doing this is very interesting , and ties in very well with the story . Good !
An Audience with Al Murray	I have seen at least three or four An Audience with . . . programmes , these are Joe Pasquale , Kylie Minogue and Harry Hill . This one however , An Audience with Al Murray is pretty good , but not as funny or entertaining as the others . Al Murray who appeared on Hell's Kitchen with Gordon Ramsay pretends to be a pub land lord in this stage show and does quite a few bar jokes and involves the celebrity audience . He even takes Harry Potter's Ron , Rupert Grint out to get himself alcohol . There are some good audience members watching this okay comedy guy including Shaun Williamson , Billy Boyd , Suranne Jones , Dale Winton , Wendi Peters , Terry Wogan and a couple of others . I don't think I'd want to see this again . This goes along with all other An Audience With programmes as number 26 on ITV's 50 Greatest Shows . Good !
The Karate Kid	I knew bits and pieces of this film , including the ending , so I was definitely going to give this film a go . Basically Daniel Larusso ( Ralph Macchio ) and his mother Lucille ( Randee Heller ) have moved from New Jersey to California because of the mother's new job . At his new school , Daniel gets himself into fights with bullies , mainly because he tries to date Ali Mills ( Elisabeth Shue ) , and he has no fighting experience . The person who may be able to help him defend himself better , or just help him with his little love of karate , is local handyman Mr . Kesuke Miyagi ( Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Noriyuki ' Pat ' Morita ) , who used to be a karate trainer . For a while , he just makes him do cleaning and painting , e . g . " Wax on , wax off " for the car , Daniel then puts these hand and arm movements into use when Miyagi tries to fight . The bullies still bother Daniel though , and a situation arises where Miyagi and other the karate trainer agree to have Daniel and the main bully fight in a karate tournament . Daniel of course does very well , and even with the leg injury towards the end , you knew he had to win , and you had to see Miyagi nodding with a smile . Also starring Martin Kove as John Kreese , William Zabka as Johnny Lawrence , Ron Thomas as Bobby Brown , Rob Garrison as Tommy , Chad McQueen as Dutch , Tony O'Dell as Jimmy , Israel Juarbe as Freddy Fernandez and William Bassett as Mr . Mills . Morita is perfect as the wise tutor , and the fight scenes ( whether training or real combat ) are fun to watch . It was number 98 on 100 Years , 100 Cheers , and it was number 58 on The 100 Greatest Family Films . Good !
Cromwell	I mainly knew of Richard Harris from Harry Potter , so it was really interesting to see him as the younger leading actor , in this historical drama from director Ken Hughes ( Chitty Chitty Bang Bang ) . Basically Oliver Cromwell ( Harris ) is the landowner and former politician , and he gets tangled into the war of and religion and politics resulting in the English Civil War . After refusing to form a constitutional monarchy , King Charles I ( Sir Alec Guinness ) sets out to defeat the Parliament , who are ineffective , and Cromwell is setting up the New Model Army . Charles calls on help from the Catholic nations , but he is finally defeated , and still refuses to give into any demands for a system of government in which Parliament will have as much say in the running of the country as the King . Cromwell discovers ( along with many others ) that Charles raised a Catholic army for the war against Parliament , and he is put on trial for treason , and found guilty , he is sentenced to death by beheading . Charles faces his sentence bravely and with dignity , but after there is no celebration or satisfaction , and after Parliament proves itself just as ineffective to govern , Cromwell says to himself that the country will be governed well , even if he has to do it himself , which he did for five years , till his death . Also starring Robert Morley as The Earl of Manchester , Dorothy Tutin as Queen Henrietta Maria , Frank Finlay as John Carter , young Timothy Dalton as Prince Rupert , Patrick Wymark as The Earl of Strafford , Patrick Magee as Hugh Peters , Nigel Stock as Sir Edward Hyde , Diamonds Are Forever's Charles Gray as The Earl of Essex , Michael Jayston as Henry Ireton and Richard Cornish as Oliver Cromwell II . Wart covered Harris and calm Guinness make a great double act from both sides of the big issues , and the high budget war sequences are well staged , a good old fashioned film . It won the Oscar for Best Costume Design , and it was nominated for Best Music for Frank Cordell , it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Costume Design , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Original Score . Sir Alec Guinness was number 12 on The 50 Greatest British Actors , he was number 2 on Britain's Finest Actors , and he was number 11 on The World's Greatest Actor , and the film was number 83 on The 100 Greatest War Films . Very good !
Bend It Like Beckham	It was number 71 on The 100 Greatest Family Films , and I was keen on seeing it for Keira Knightley , and it was quite good . Basically Jesminder ' Jess ' Kaur Bhamra ( Parminder Nagra ) dreams of being like her football hero , Beckham , and she is obviously really good at football herself . So one day her friend Juliette ' Jules ' Paxton ( Knightley ) helps her get into a girls football team , coached by Joe ( Jonathan Rhys Meyers ) . It seems like everything is going well for the team , and Jess enjoys it , but her parents Mr . Bhamra ( Anupam Kher ) and Mrs . Bhamra ( Shaheen Khan ) are against it . Not just because of their religion , but Jess's sister Pinky ( Archie Panjabi ) is getting , and they want her to be ready . Worst of all , their final match is on the wedding day , but everything turns out alright in the end , eventually . Also starring Shaznay Lewis as Mel , Frank Harper as Alan Paxton , Juliet Stevenson as Paula Paxton , and EastEnders ' Ameet Chana as Tony and Pooja Shah as Meena . It was nominated the BAFTA for the Alexander Korda Award for Best British Film , it won The British Comedy Award for Best Comedy Film , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Musical or Comedy . Good !
Gangs of New York	From Golden Globe winning , and Oscar nominated director Martin Scorsese , this period crime drama is a very stylised film and quite riveting . The film starts with citizens of New York , led by William ' Bill The Butcher ' Cutting ( BAFTA winning , and Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Daniel Day-Lewis ) , fighting a small war against the Irish immigrants , led by Priest Vallon ( a brief Liam Neeson ) , who is killed by Cutting during the battle . Sixteen years later , his son Amsterdam ( Leonardo DiCaprio ) has returned to New York to avenge his father's death , after learning how to fight . He manages to weave his way into Bill's gang , and becomes a trusted assistant , he also finds himself falling for the girl who Bill used to be involved with , beautiful street-smart thief Jenny Everdeane ( Golden Globe nominated Cameron Diaz ) . Of course , before Amsterdam is able to get to killing Bill , his true identity is exposed , but don't worry , he gets back to him eventually , and he gets revenge during another big battle . Also starring Jim Broadbent as William ' Boss ' Tweed , John C . Reilly as Happy Jack , E . T . ' s Henry Thomas as Johnny Sirocco , Brendan Gleeson as Walter ' Monk ' McGinn , Mean Machine's David Hemmings as Mr . Schermerhorn and Tim Pigott-Smith as Calvinist Minister . Scorsese does do well directing , DiCaprio doesn't exactly get to express himself that much , but he proves a good actor after the hype of Titanic , and Day-Lewis as the intoxicating ' Butcher ' is unmissable . The film is bloody and brutal , the costumes are quite innovative for the 1860's , and it is accompanied by great music , including the closing song by U2 , " The Hands That Built America " , I can see though why the critics re-rated it from four stars to a respectable three out of five , it isn't exactly amazing in terms of storyline , but it certainly isn't rubbish . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Best Cinematography , Best Costume Design , Best Editing , Best Song for U2's " The Hands That Built America " ( but it won the Golden Globe ) , Best Sound , Best Writing , Original Screenplay and Best Picture , it was nominated the BAFTAs for the Anthony Asquith Award for Film Music for Howard Shore , Best Visual Effects , Best Cinematography , Best Costume Design , Best Editing , Best Make Up / Hair , Best Production Design , Best Original Screenplay , Best Sound , the David Lean Award for Direction and Best Film , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama . Leonardo DiCaprio was number 94 , Daniel Day-Lewis number 85 , and Cameron Diaz number 65 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , Broadbent was number 23 , and Day-Lewis number 20 on The 50 Greatest British Actors , Day-Lewis was number 9 on Britain's Finest Actors , and he was number 15 on The World's Greatest Actor . Good !
The Hills Have Eyes	Based on his own 1977 film , Wes Craven ( A Nightmare on Elm Street , Scream ) produces this remake film , I admit seeing the original first might have been better , but I don't think it matters . Basically the Suburban Carter family are travelling in their trailer , and a guy at a gas station ( deliberately I guess ) misleads them to pretty much the middle-of-nowhere desert , where the end up getting the car wrecked . Oh , it should be mentioned that the USA did atmospheric nuclear tests between 1945-1962 , and the cause was turning many innocent people into deformed and cannibalistic mutant type creatures . One by one obviously , family members are being taken away , eaten or hacked up by these psychotics , and the remaining are fighting for survival . Starring Aaron Stanford as Doug Bukowski , Kathleen Quinlan as Ethel Carter , Vinessa Shaw as Lynn Carter , Lost's Emilie De Ravin as Brenda Carter , Dan Byrd as Bobby Carter , Robert Joy as Lizard , Ted Levine as Big Bob Carter , Desmond Askew as Big Brain , Billy Drago as Papa Jupiter , Ezra Buzzington as Goggle , Michael Bailey Smith as Pluto and Laura Ortiz as Ruby . The gore is always good to see , the make-up for the mutant people is pretty convincing too , it is a worth while film . Good !
A League of Their Own	I can't remember the entire story , but I do remember that it is based on a true story . Tom Hanks plays Jimmy Dugan , a great baseball player who wants more men on his team , what he actually gets is two women . Golden Globe nominated Geena Davis as Dottie Hinson and Madonna as Mae Mordabito are the two women that could play baseball just as good as any man can . Their personals lives did clash a couple of times ( I think ) but they did continue to play really well and get to a final championship game . Also starring Lori Petty as Kit Keller , Jon Lovitz as Ernie Capadino , Bill Pullman as Bob Hinson and Rosie O'Donnell as Doris Murphy - 3rd Base . It was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Original Song for Madonna and Shep Pettibone's " This Used To Be My Playground " . It was number 54 on 100 Years , 100 Quotes ( " There's no crying in baseball ! " ) . Good !
Holy Smoke	I think the only reason I wanted to see this was because I like Kate Winslet , she's gorgeous , there might be a chance she'd get her clothes off , and this film is the director of The Piano , Jane Campion . Basically religious guru PJ Waters ( Harvey Keitel ) is hired by a low class mother , or something , to try and change her daughter , Ruth Barron's ( Winslet ) behaviour and attitude . This daughter is quite hard to control sometimes , and she does some pretty drastic things . As the treatment continues he starts to feel close connection to her , and also develops a feminine side . I can't remember that much of the entire film , but the most drastic thing I remember Winslet doing was burning the barn ( where she slept ) and coming out of the dark fully naked ! Gorgeous ! Good !
Wimbledon	From the makers of Bridget Jones , Notting Hill and it's similarity , Love Actually , this is a good film , but like it's similarity , could have had more effort put in . Still , there are moments where it is amusing and sentimental . But the big grip is obviously Paul Bettany as Peter Colt with a will-he won't-he win game of tennis in Wimbledon ( duh ! ) . Basically , coming towards the end of his career , Peter is determined to try and get attention again , otherwise retire . As he is doing that , he falls in love with American tennis champion Lizzie Bradbury ( Kirsten Dunst ) . With quite an all-star cast , including Robert Lindsay as Ian Frazier , Celia Imrie as Mrs . Kenwood , James McAvoy as Carl Colt , Bernard Hill as Edward Colt , Sam Neill as Dennis Bradbury , Ali G Indahouse's John Warnaby as Reporter 2 , Danny Baker as Radio London DJ , Chris Moyles as Radio 1 DJ and Little Britain's brief Geoffrey Leesley as Dorchester Doorman . Good !
The Last of the Mohicans	From writer , producer and director Michael Mann ( Heat , Collateral ) I was expecting a bit more , but it wasn't too bad . I must admit the first half an hour to me was pretty boring , and I only woke up ( not literally ) when the bigger battles started when the leading character escapes the death sentence of hanging , and continuing from there . Anyway , from what I gathered , colonial America is the setting of the battle between the British and French troops , and various native American war parties are joining in . In one of the parties , independent man reared as a Mohawk , Nathaniel Poe aka Hawkeye ( BAFTA nominated Daniel Day-Lewis ) starts a romance with the British officer's daughter Cora Munro ( Madeleine Stowe ) complicates things . Hawkeye is somehow caught and as I said , sentenced to be hanged , but he escapes when another battle begins , and he takes Cora and some companions to hide under a waterfall , before a final battle , where all the Mohicans are killed , except one ( that's obviously what the title relates to ) . Also starring Russell Means as Chingachgook , Eric Schweig as Uncas , Jodhi May as Alice Munro , Steven Waddington as Maj . Duncan Heyward , Wes Studi as Magua , Maurice Roëves as Col . Edmund Munro , Patrice Chéreau as Gen . Montcalm , Pete Postlethwaite as Capt . Beams , Colm Meaney as Maj . Ambrose , David Schofield as Sergeant Major and Dylan Baker as Capt . De Bougainville . The war / battle scenes are worth a look , particularly for some small violent moments , and the romance element is okay , this isn't a film I'd see that often , but worth watching . It won the Oscar for Best Sound , it won the BAFTAs for Best Cinematography and Best Make Up Artist , and it was nominated for Best Costume Design , Best Original Film Score for Trevor Jones and Randy Edelman , Best Production Design and Best Sound , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Original Score . Daniel Day-Lewis was number 85 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , he was number 20 on The 50 Greatest British Actors , he was number 9 on Britain's Finest Actors , and he was number 15 on The World's Greatest Actor , and the film was number 35 on The 100 Greatest War Films . Good !
Treasure Island	I have heard of many versions of this famous book by Robert Louis Stevenson turned into a film , the only other one I have seen is the Muppet version . But this only other version I have seen is actually pretty good for action , adventure and actors playing memorable characters . I think you know the story , but I'll explain it anyway . Jim Hawkins ( young Christian Bale ) finds a treasure map and he gets the help of Dr . Livesey ( Julian Glover ) , Squire Trelawney ( Richard Johnson , and of course , Captain Smollet ( Clive Wood ) to take them to the island of treasure . Only the one problem is that one member wants the treasure for himself , one leg short Long John Silver ( Charlton Heston ) . Also starring Oliver Reed as Captain Billy Bones , Christopher Lee as Blind Pew and Pete Postlethwaite as George Merry . Good !
The Secret Policeman's Ball : The Ball in the Hall	This was a great Amnesty International charity show on Channel 4 . It first started back in 1976 with acts from the likes of Rowan Atkinson , the Monty Python team and Victoria Wood , and since then , this one came along . I cannot remember laughing all that much at everything , but I certainly remember many of the faces . These include The Big Impression's Ronni Ancona , Russell Brand , Chevy Chase , Dead Ringers ' Jon Culshaw , Julia Davis , Jimmy Fallon , The Mighty Boosh ( including Julian Barratt and Noel Fielding ) , Richard E . Grant , Stephen Mangan , Austin Powers ' Seth Green , Jeremy Irons , Eddie Izzard , Andrew Maxwell , Al Murray ( The Pub Landlord ) , Graham Norton , EastEnders ' Shaun Williamson , and my favourite act , Dave Armand ( Johan Lippowitz ) doing sign language with Natalie Imbruglia singing her song " Torn " . Good !
Creature Comforts	If you've seen the original made in the 80's , or your a fan of Wallace and Gromit and Chicken Run , then you'll like this . Nick Park and his team have created a TV series of the 80's special where animals give opinions about certain subjects , or rather it is the great British public . Basically they interview real members of the public and turn them into animals with the help of Plasticine animation . There are cats , dogs , hamsters , fish , aliens , horses and many other animals that are interviewed . They talk about many things during the series , e . g . Christmas , Easter , Food , Jobs and many other interesting or necessary subjects . It has been nominated twice at the BAFTAs for Best Comedy Programme or Series . Very good !
Kidulthood	I had heard quite a lot about this film being quite controversial , almost like Larry Clarke's Kids or Bully , and it is a really good teenage drama . Basically it a 48 hour time broken into an hour and a half about the individual and group stories with each of the young adults . These include Trevor / Trife ( Aml Ameen ) who is doing smuggling jobs ( e . g . guns ) for his Uncle Curtis ( Lenny Henry in Pieces ' Cornell John ) , Alisa ( Red Madrell ) who is coping with being pregnant , and lying that hooded thug Sam ( Doctor Who's Noel Clarke , also writer of the film ! ) is the father , when it is actually Trevor , Alisa's friend Becky ( Jaime Winstone , Ray Wanstone's daughter ) who has really strong opinions about things , Jay ( Adam Deacon ) the slick and no-nonsense one and Moony ( Femi Oyeniran ) the really cool and colourful one . The controversy in this film includes a teenage suicide caused by bullying ( from girls and Sam ) , drug use , theft , teenage pregnancy and street crime and bullying . Also starring Timothy Spall's son , Rafe Spall as Lenny , EastEnders ' Ray Panthaki as Mark and Little Britain's Paul Putner . Good !
The Jazz Singer	I obviously heard of this film as the very first talkie film , but also it explains the episode of The Simpsons where Krusty is reunited with his Hebru Dad , it spoofed this film . Anyway , it is all about Jakie Rabinowitz , or Jack Robin ( Al Jolson , and Robert Gordon , when aged 13 ) . As a kid , Jackie had the aspiration to be a jazz singer , but his Dad , Cantor Rabinowitz ( Warner Oland ) forbid him from doing this , and he banished him from his life when he disobeyed him . Years later Jack ' Robin ' has made a successful career of his ambition , and he's made a close relationship with stage act Mary Dale ( May McAvoy ) . Jackie still sees his Mum , Sara Rabinowitz ( Eugenie Besserer ) , but he still wants his Dad's praise or love . It is only towards the end , while dying , that his Dad forgave him . This is a half and half film , half silent and half talking , and it has great music . I'm not sure if I approve of the main character being a minstrel , but he is a good entertainer . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Writing , Adaptation , and the Honorary Award for revolutionizing the film industry . It was number 65 on The 100 Greatest Musicals , it was number 90 on 100 Years , 100 Movies , and it was number 71 on 100 Years , 100 Quotes ( " Wait a minute , wait a minute . You ain't heard nothing ' yet ! " ) . Good !
About a Boy	This is a very peaceful and simple comedy from the makers of American Pie . Based on the best selling book comes a story about a man and About a Boy . Golden Globe nominated Hugh Grant plays Will , basically , a lonely git looking for a girlfriend , or maybe just a friend . He finds one , well , both . He meets Marcus ( Nicholas Hoult ) , a young eight-year old with a mind similar to his . They do quite a lot together when Marcus's mother , Fiona ( BAFTA nominated Toni Collette ) is not busy . Will later meets a relation , or something to do with Marcus . Her name is Rachel ( Rachel Weisz ) . They soon form a very special relationship , and Marcus tries to help him conquer his fears and ask her for a date . Also Quite a good film with some small moments of tenderness and affection , and many moments of pure humour . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Writing , Adapated Screenplay , it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Adapted Screenplay , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Musical or Comedy . Good !
Creep	For a British horror from debut director Christopher Smith , who followed with the good Severance , this is a good attempt to create an original idea for a character , and a horror film . Basically Kate ( Franka Potente ) is apparently going on an underground train to see George Clooney , no , he isn't in it . She falls asleep ( micro sleep ) while waiting for this train , and she wakes up to find she is trapped in the station . As she tries to find her way out , she is attacked by an unknown thing , and she is now on the run and trying to find her way out , along with Guy ( Jeremy Sheffield ) and prisoner George ( Vas Blackwood ) . When we see the Creep , or Craig his name band says ( Sean Harris ) we see that even though he slaughters people , at the end you can feel a tiny bit of sympathy . Filled with some bloody moments , this is a good British horror . Good !
Alice in Wonderland	When I was a kid , this used to be quite a good animated film from Walt Disney Pictures , a bit more aimed at girls and readers of the famous book by Louis Carol , but good . Alice is listening to her boring older sister reading History research and then she is distracted by a white rabbit in clothes with a watch . She follows this rabbit into a rabbit hole which leads to Topsy-turvy world of Wonderland . In this world there are talking locked doors , talking Dodos , twin fat blokes that squeak called Tweedle Dee and Tweedle Dum , a Mad Hatter ( voiced by Mary Poppins Uncle Albert , Ed Wynn ) and a March Hare , a nasty Queen with a deck of cards as guards and many other bizarre things . Alice later gives up wondering about the rabbit and tries to find her way home . Will she get out , or will the Queen have head chopped off for making her lose her temper ? It was number 71 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons . Good !
Dodgeball	Quite a good film with a bit of a silly idea , but still very funny in places . Ben Stiller plays White Goodman , he owns a big and successful multi gym . Vince Vaughn plays Peter La Fleur , his gym next door does not do good business and Whitte wants to buy it . Unless Peter can get $50 , 000 he cannot keep his gym . Luckily Peter and the gang notice a competition to win $50 , 000 in a dodge ball game . Rip Torn as Patches O'Houlihan trains them for a while and they are ready . They beat many teams , but the final game is against White and his team . A very good story with a very good end , Stiller is pretty funny . Also starring Alan Tudyk as Steve the Pirate . Good !
Nurse Betty	This could almost be along the lines of another nut-case film , along the lines of Misery , where the leading female character is so obsessed with a fictional character , but you can sympathise with this one . Basically Betty Sizemore ( Golden Globe winning Renée Zellweger ) is a Kansas city waitress , and her favourite show is " A Reason to Love " , but she doesn't realise it is only a soap opera . In her house , she witnesses the murder of her husband Del ( Aaron Eckhart ) , while watching the show , but instead of telling the truth , she lied and said it was a friend of hers . Her favourite doctor ( character ) is Dr . David Ravell , played by actor George McCord ( Greg Kinnear ) , and delusional with shock she is convinced that he is her former fiancée , so she decides to go to LA and find him . She first tries the hospital and fails , but with the help of Rosa Hernandez ( Tia Texada ) she finds " David " , and he ( George ) is convinced she is a very talented improvising actress that wants to be in the show , so he obviously plans to put her in it . Meanwhile , Betty's husband's murderers , father Charlie ( Morgan Freeman ) and son Wesley ( Chris Rock ) are searching for the drugs stolen by Del , and they happen to be in the trunk of Betty's car , so they obviously set out to find her , and Charlie's sees it as his last " job " before retirement , but he is becoming delusional about her . Also starring Back to the Future's Crispin Glover as Roy Ostery , Pruitt Taylor Vince as Sheriff Eldon Ballard , Allison Janney as Lyla Branch and Harriet Sansom Harris as Ellen . Zellweger is really good as the delusional but sweet wannabe nurse , Freeman is always good , Rock is good in this non-comedic ( but still loudmouth ) role , and Kinnear has his moments as the actor , a good , maybe underrated film . Good !
Night at the Museum	After seeing the film , I thought it was quite good , like the trailer suggested . Basically Larry Daley ( Ben Stiller ) is quite desperate to get a job to get access to and help son Nick ( Jake Cherry ) , and the only reasonable job he can find is being night watchman at the Museum of Natural History , working along with Cecil ( Dick Van Dyke ) , Gus ( Mickey Rooney ) and Reginald ( Bill Cobbs ) , and mainly for manager Dr . McPhee ( Ricky Gervais ) . Anyway , what the three co-workers didn't tell Larry is that everything comes to life at the museum , the only thing they gave him was the keys and some instructions . As he continues to work there though he gets used to the surroundings of figures and animals , and is pretty confident to continue , and hopefully prove the story to his son and love interest , Rebecca ( Carla Gugino ) . They can only come to life at night ( daylight turns them into dust ) and an Egyptian golden plate thing is what bring them to life . Also starring Mizuo Peck as Sacajawea , Robin Williams as Teddy Roosevelt , Kim Raver as Erica Daley , Patrick Gallagher as Attila the Hun , Rami Malek as Ahkmenrah , Steve Coogan as Octavius and Owen Wilson as Jedediah . Good !
On Her Majesty's Secret Service	Golden Globe nominated Australian actor George Lazenby played Commander James Bond 007 in his one and only film , and the result afterwards ( at cinemas ) was that they wanted Sir Sean Connery back , and they got it in a really silly Diamonds Are Forever , and again 12 years later in Never Say Never Again . Anyway , he is quite cool , calm and posh like , but he does not have the same sense of humour or good acting style as Connery , or any of the other Bonds . In this , he basically has to stop SPECTRE boss Ernst Stavro Blofeld ( who he met in You Only Live Twice , here played by Telly Savalas ) from world domination , somehow . During the process he falls in love with Contessa Teresa ' Tracy ' Di Vicenzo ( Diana Rigg ) . He tells her that no other girl has touched him like her , and they marry at the end . Also starring Gabriele Ferzetti as Marc Ange Draco , Ilse Steppat as Irma Bunt , Angela Scoular as Ruby Bartlett , Lois Maxwell as Miss Moneypenny , George Baker as Sir Hilary Bray , Bernard Lee as M , Desmond Llewelyn as Q and a quick appearance by Joanna Lumley . James Bond was number 3 on 100 Years , 100 Heroes & Villains , he was number 21 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols , and he was number 21 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons , and the film was number 12 on James Bond's Greatest Hits for both the title theme music and Louis Armstrong's " We Have All the Time in the World " , and it was number 41 on The 100 Greatest Tearjerkers for the ending because their marriage lasts only five minutes . Good !
Kill Bill : Vol 2	This doesn't have as much violence or thrills as the first film , but Quetin Tarantino's directed and written ( with the female star's help ) part two is still essential for the reason why The Bride ( Golden Globe nominated Uma Thurman ) kills people from the death list . She was basically ( nearly ) killed at her wedding practise by Bill ( Golden Globe nominated David Carradine ) because she never told him she was getting married , or was pregnant , weird . This film tackles the practise day , her training with the mean Pai Mei ( Chia Hui Liu / Gordon Liu ) , and facing the last of her enemies , Buck ( Michael Madsen ) , Elle Driver ( Daryl Hannah ) , and obviously Bill . The first film had the twist with finding out The Bride / Beatrix Kiddo had a kid , but the bigger twist this time is that she is alive , and has been living with father Bill for the four years she was in a coma ! Also starring Michael Parks as Esteban Vihaio and Tarantino regular , Samuel L . Jackson as Rufus , a guest at the wedding . The first film is much more essential viewing , this second part is only good for the chat , and only one or two fights . Bill's death I have to say is rather silly , after the hype to see him die , and he was only given a pound to the chest , not slaughtered like everyone else . Uma Thurman was number 95 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , and she was number 15 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols . Good !
Andy Pandy	This was a very unusual kids show for me , but who cares I still watched it when I was younger . Starring ( I think ) a little doll called Andy Pandy and her friend a lovable teddy bear called Teddy this was quite a bit of fun . Also it starred a very silly secretly alive doll called Looby Loo , she just always froze whenever Teddy or Andy Pandy was about to come on . Was there ever an episode where she doesn't dance or freeze before Andy Pandy or Teddy ? I think Teddy was my favourite part of the show because he always did a little something to make you giggle , like falling off a seesaw . At the time it was very entertaining , but now it is just the tiniest bit of an embarrassment . A very good childhood memory though . It was nominated the BAFTA for Best Pre-School Animation . It was originally black and white programme , and it was number 62 on The 100 Greatest Kids ' TV Shows . Very good , at the time !
Flightplan	If you've seen the Sir Alfred Hitchcock film classic The Lady Vanishes , then this is a reversion of that film , except instead of on a train , it's on a plane . Basically , in Berlin , aircraft propulsion engineer Kyle Pratt ( Jodie Foster ) has recently lost her husband , who supposedly fell off their building roof . She has quit her job and is travelling with her traumatised six year old daughter Julia ( Marlene Lawston ) to New York to bury the body in Long Island . While in flight Kyle falls asleep , and wakes to see her daughter is gone . She has a quick look around , and eventually panic and conspiracy starts as she requests Captain Rich ( Sean Bean ) to have all staff search for her . But the manifest has no evidence of the girl she is describing to them , and with more desperate actions she is becoming a threat to the aircraft , so steps in Air Marshal Gene Carson ( Peter Sarsgaard ) . Kyle is taking drastic actions to get the plane searched from top to bottom , or better yet get it to land , which she succeeds in doing . Eventually we find out who is really responsible for the missing daughter , and has plans to blow the plane up , and you may have thought everyone was in on it , well , it's the person you probably least suspect , Carson , and boy does he get his comeuppance . Also starring Marlene Lawston as Julia , Erika Christensen as Fiona , Kate Beahan as Stephanie , Greta Scacchi as Therapist , Judith Scott as Estella , Michael Irby as Obaid and Brent Sexton as Elias . If you have a fear of flying or suffer claustrophobia , then you'll definitely be affected by this film , this has all the right elements that grip you just enough to believe most of it , the ending I guess is pretty improbable , and a little obvious ( so you feel cheated ) , but Foster is always good , and supporting cast members Sarsgaard and Bean are really good too . Good !
Eastern Promises	I think the main reason I wanted to see this film from director David Cronenberg ( The Fly , A History of Violence ) was because the leading actor was nominated an Oscar , but besides that it is a good film . Basically Russian-born Nikolai Luzhin ( Oscar , BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Viggo Mortensen ) is a driver for one of London's most notorious organised crime families of Eastern European origin and the family is part of the Vory V Zakone criminal brotherhood . The main story sees North London hospital midwife Anna Khitrova ( Naomi Watts ) searching for the relatives of a teenage girl who has recently died giving birth to a baby , obviously the baby needs a home . The girl's diary is all Anna has to help her , and getting help from the head of the crime family Semyon ( Armin Mueller-Stahl ) to translate the Russian language of the diary , she has accidentally released the full fury of the Vory . Nikolai however goes against the crime family and actually tries to help with Anna's enquiries , putting his own life danger . In the end , Anna raises the baby as her own , with her uncle Stepan ( Jerzy Skolimowski ) and aunt , and Nikolai , after a big fight ( in the nude ) and kills , kisses her goodbye , and becomes the new crime boss . Also starring Vincent Cassel as Nikolai's brother , Kirill ; Sinéad Cusack as Helen , Donald Sumpter as Yuri , Mina E . Mina as Azim and Tamer Hassan as Chechen . Mortensen is believable with his anti-hero ways and accent , Watts is compelling in certain moments , and Cronenberg directs rather well , definitely worth seeing . It was nominated the BAFTA for Best British Film , and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Drama and Best Original Score for Howard Shore . Good !
The Girl Next Door	This is a pretty obvious story about a boy who falls in love with his next door neighbour , they become boyfriend and girlfriend and she has a dark like secret that may break them apart . Matthew watches quite a few porn films . He falls in love with his new neighbour , the gorgeous Danielle ( Elisha Cuthbert ) . They get on really well , but nearly all the boys are both jealous and recognise who Matthew is with . They know , but Matthew doesn't know , that Danielle is one of the women they admire in their porn videos . A very amusing film with a few moments of nudity , on the TV , but it is mainly the ' girl ' that I admire , she's gorgeous . Worth watching !
The Twisted Adventures of Felix the Cat	When I was a kid I didn't watch The Twisted Adventures of Felix the Cat that often , but when I did it was quite funny . Basically they took the popular comic book cat Felix ( also from the 30s ) and placed him in a weird and wonderful world with magic ( I think ) and twisted stuff . There were weird creatures an places in this world . But I think it was Felix himself that was the twisted part sometimes . He always used to take off his tail and use it for whatever purpose he wanted , e . g . walking stick was most popular . To be honest I can only remember this for the theme tune and Felix the Cat using his tail . The original cartoon , made in the 1920s and 30s was mentioned as number 89 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons . When I was a kid of course , quite good !
The 39 Steps	As far as I can remember hardly anything happened or made sense in this film . I agree , for it's time it is quite an okay film from the excellent director Alfred Hitchcock . I still don't understand what it is about thought . For example , what are the 39 Steps , and what's that stage scene for ? I didn't recognise anyone in it , and I didn't understand the point or story . So to summarise , I do not think I would want to see it again until I understood what the main story was . It's meant to be some kind of crime drama or something , what crime was there ? A load of people in a theatre is the only scene I can remember . Starring Robert Donat as Richard Hannay , Madeleine Carroll as Pamela , Lucie Mannheim as Miss Annabella Smith and Hitchcock's cameo is a man tossing some litter while Donat and Mannheim run from the theatre . It was number 27 on 50 Greatest British Films . Good , as far as I can remember !
That Thing You Do !	I always thought that the twice Academy Award winning actor was good on screen , and then I saw this and I saw that he could be good behind the camera as well . Tom Hanks wrote , starred in and directed this film , I never knew he had it in him . It basically tells the story of a band trying to rise in fame and popularity , especially to be number one . This unknown college band have created their own song called " That Thing You Do ! " and one day they meet Mr . White ( Hanks ) who works in the music industry , he believes that the band have talent and he wants them to make this song a record and make it number one . Obviously there are moments of despair when the band members complain about stuff to Mr . White , but it ends pretty well . Starring Tom Everett Scott as Guy Patterson , The Lord of the Rings ' Liv Tyler as Faye Dolan , Johnathon Schaech as Jimmy Mattingly , Steve Zahn as Lenny Haise , Ethan Embry as T . B . Player , Monster's Charlize Theron as Tina , Obba Babatundé as Lamarr , Lost in Translation's Giovanni Ribisi as Chad and Chris Ellis as Phil Horace . The song " That Thing You Do " was nominated the Oscar and Golden Globe for Best Song . Good !
Red Heat	Apparently this was the film not long before the ex-bodybuilder movie star became a superstar , and it is quite a good one . Basically Russian policeman Captain Ivan Danko ( Arnold Schwarzenegger ) is sent after a Russian drug dealer , named Viktor Rostavili ( Ed O'Ross ) , who has escaped to the United States . He is paired up with temporary partner , loud-mouthed Det Sgt Art Ridzik ( James Belushi ) to catch this Viktor . There is good support from the co-stars , including Peter Boyle as Lou Donnelly , The Matrix's Laurence Fishburne as Lieutenant Stobbs and Bound's Gina Gershon as Catherine Manzetti . The film might not have the greatest plot , but the disagreeing partnership of Schwarzenegger and Belushi , and many chase sequences make it a very intriguing action thriller , with some small giggles thrown in . Good !
Kingdom of Heaven	The critics give this film from director Sir Ridley Scott ( Gladiator ) four stars out of five , maybe I'd agree if I was paying full attention to everything . As far as I remember , it is 1184 , the Middle Ages , during the time of the Crusades in Jerusalem , and blacksmith Balian De Ibelin ( Orlando Bloom ) has lost his family , including father Godfrey ( Liam Neeson ) , and nearly his faith . He is taken into the war for the Holy Land , falls in love with Sibylla ( Casino Royale's Eva Green ) , and becomes the leader to defend the city . That's the brief summation , I can't really remember much else besides the interesting battles , similar to those in The Lord of the Rings , well , and some of the other good actors . Also starring Jeremy Irons as Tiberias , Harry Potter's David Thewlis as Hospitaler , 28 Days Later's Brendan Gleeson as Reynald , Marton Csokas as Guy De Lusignan , Ghassan Massoud as Saladin , Fight Club's Edward Norton as King Baldwin , Alexander Siddig as Nasir , The Queen's Michael Sheen as Priest , Kevin McKidd as English Sergeant , Jon Finch as Jerusalem and Iain Glen as Richard Coeur De Lion . I would probably watch this again to understand it fully , and appreciate , but I don't think it'll happen anytime soon . Good !
Only Human : The Strangest Village in Britain	This was the third of three special programmes tackling the issues of life threatened by unusual things , i . e . disability , social skills and body problems . This episode told the story of Botton village in Yorkshire , a village populated by special needs people . Many people without social skills or some sorts of disability are likely to live in this village . People sponsor the village to help these people live their lives , and there are some people in the village who interact with the people and try to help them with whatever they are doing . It is mostly a working community , but there are focused places outside of working . For me it was unusual to see a village like this , but that is the meaning of the title . Good !
Top Gun	There are many critics that call this an ultimate gay fantasy film , in some ways I can see why . From the director of Enemy of the State , Tony Scott , this is an air navy based film set almost in a cold war . Pete " Maverick " Mitchell ( Tom Cruise , in his star-making role ) is one of many aspiring fighter pilots to become the best of the best , with the help of the Top Gun Naval Flying School . There he both tries to establish himself as one of the best , has some quarrels with other pilots , particularly Tom " Ice / Iceman " Kazansky ( Val Kilmer ) , and in the process of trying to gain trust and merit , falls for civilian instructor Charlotte " Charlie " Blackwood ( Kelly McGillis ) . There is a point where he quits momentarily when his co-pilot Nick " Goose " Bradshaw ( ER's Anthony Edwards ) , but he does get the great merit at the ending for destroying most of the Russian enemy . Also starring Alien's Tom Skerritt as Commander Mike " Viper " Metcalf , Total Recall's Michael Ironside as Dick " Jester " Wetherly , Tim Robbins as Sam " Merlin " Wills and Meg Ryan as Carole . It won the Oscar Best Song for " Take My Breath Away " ( also won the Golden Globe ) , and it was nominated for Best Sound Effects Editing , Best Film Editing and Best Sound , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Original Score for Harold Faltermeyer . Tom Cruise was number 32 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , he was number 25 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols , and he was number 81 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons , the film was number 94 on 100 Years , 100 Quotes ( " I feel the need - the need for speed ! " ) , and it was number 18 on The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments . Good !
TV's Funniest Music Moments	This was another one-off documentary looking back on all the pop stars and celebrities who have had embarrassing but very amusing faults in their singing performances on TV , whether live or in a music video . Narrated by Sue Perkins , this programme included the Top 5 Funniest Music Videos ( I can only remember that " Save Your Love " by Renee and Renato was one ) , live stage performances from Britney Spears , Soft Cell and some others , Big Brother 5's Michelle Bass ( intreviewed ) and her version of " Pie Jesus " , Coronation Street's Ken Barlow , William Roache ( interterviewed ) and his embarrassing performance on This Morning , kids ' TV remakes of great songs , and much more to make us laugh and cringe . Good !
The Willows in Winter	The first cartoon of Kenneth Grahame's book was pretty good , I didn't actually know he did a second book based in Winter . Basically Toad has completely given up motor cars and now has a very high interest in flying planes . Mole meanwhile goes missing after walking across the frozen river and it cracking . Rat , nephew Mole and Badger are now on the lookout to find their friend . When they believe he is dead he finally turns up at his funeral . Toad unfortunately goes to court for suspected murder , a lot of other bad stuff happens to him when he gets back as well . Again , the voice artists are just perfect . The British actors are still Alan Bennett as Mole , Michael Palin as Rat , Sir Michael Gambon as Badger , and my favourite actor and character of the cartoon , Emmy winning Rik Mayall as Toad . Also starring Vanessa Redgrave as Grandmother . It won the Emmy for Outstanding Achievement in Animation , and it was nominated for Outstanding Animated Program ( For Programming More Than One Hour ) . Good !
Short Circuit	I knew it was about a robot with a mind of it's own , and I had seen it listed in TV times so much , I had to try it one day , and I'm glad I did , from director John Badham ( Saturday Night Fever , WarGames ) . Basically a group of experimental military robots have been created , and one of them , Number 5 , gets a surge of lightning from a strike on a power cable going into his system . He has escaped and is now wanting ( that's right , wanting ) to learn about the world around him , and that is where vegetarian animal lover Stephanie Speck ( The Breakfast Club's Ally Sheedy ) comes in . Number 5 wants " input " , aka information , and he gets all of this from rapidly racing through books and watching TV , until he has become alive . Meanwhile , his creator Newton Crosby ( Steve Guttenberg ) along with fellow robot expert Ben Jabituya ( Fisher Stevens ) are looking for Number 5 , aka Johnny 5 , to see what has happened to him , and they are against the military forces who think it's best to destroy him . Also starring Austin Pendleton as Howard Marner , Police Academy's G . W . Bailey as Skroeder , Brian McNamara as Frank , John Garber as Otis and Tim Blaney as the voice of Number 5 . Guttenberg is always good to see on screen , Sheedy makes the most of her fascinated character , and Stevens makes some good giggles with his Apu from The Simpsons impression . The whole family will love the hip robot with it's whiny voice , cheekiness , mimicry and gadgets , he is obviously what makes this film such fun to watch . Good !
Flushed Away	Aardman Animations , creators of Wallace and Gromit , and Dreamworks computer animation , who created Shrek , bring the two together , might not be as charming as Claymation , but still fun . Basically Roddy St . James ( Hugh Jackman ) is the " society mouse " who lives in a posh Kesington flat . One day , a sewer rat named Sid ( EastEnders ' Shane Richie ) comes up through the sink , and decides he's hit the jackpot , and after trying to fool him to go into the toilet and get flushed , it is Roddy that gets flushed instead . He has now found himself in the sewer city of Ratropolis , and to try and get back home , he meets scavenger rat Rita ( Kate Winslet ) who has the faithful boat , the Jammy Dodger . She is being is chased by Whitey ( Bill Nighy ) and Spike ( The Lord of the Rings ' Andy Serkis ) , who work for villain The Toad ( Sir Ian McKellen ) . Originally they were chasing her for what turns out to be a non-valuable gem , but now she has his cable that controls his machine that opens the flood gates , and he plans to drown all during the World Cup match . Rita does manage to get Roddy home , after more chases , including with Le Frog ( Jean Reno ) , but he realises The Toad's plan , and goes back to both save Rita and the rat city , oh , and in the end , he stays , while Sid stays above , and has a new feline friend . Also starring Kathy Burke as Rita's Mum , Poirot's David Suchet as Rita's Dad and Miriam Margolyes as Rita's Grandma . Filled with some good ( if a little droll ) British humour , most giggles coming from the singing slugs , it is a good film for all the family . It was nominated the BAFTA for Best Animated Feature Film , and it was nominated the National Movie Award for Best Animation . Good !
Build My Gallows High	I would have to see again and pay a lot more attention than I think I did , especially to understand why the critics give it five out of five , but what I can remember was pretty good , from director Jacques Tourneur ( Cat People ) . Basically Jeff Bailey , aka Jeff Markham ( Robert Mitchum ) has his past come back to him when he is ordered to see gambler Whit Sterling ( Kirk Douglas ) . On his way there , he tells his girlfriend Ann Miller ( Virginia Huston ) his story , and obviously a flashback shows this . Jeff was once a private eye hired by Sterling to spy on his mistress Kathie Moffat ( Jane Greer ) , who shot Whit and got away with $40 , 000 . He finds her in Acapulco , and she ( being delectable ) makes him forget about Sterling , and they have a bit of a passion for each other . Back to the present , Whit's new job for Jeff is a trap , but he is cautious . Also Rhonda Fleming as Meta Carson , Richard Webb as Jim ' Jimmy ' , Steve Brodie as Jack Fisher , Paul Valentine as Joe Stephanos , Dickie Moore as The Kid and Ken Niles as Leonard Eels . There were one or two moments of interest , but until I see it again properly , I can't give high praise for it . Worth watching !
Windtalkers	This is another war film that I think the critics got wrong , and they've only given it two stars because it doesn't focus enough on the Sergeant and Private relation that is meant to be the primary reason for the film , so what ! Based on a true story , it is about Sergeant Joe Enders ( Nicolas Cage ) and his band of " Windtalkers " deployed to frontline areas of the Pacific to fight the Japanese , during World War II . I do like war films with some good chat as well as lots of shooting and explosions , but I think director John Woo's ( Face / Off ) film is quite a treat for more action than chat , and honestly I don't really care about the relationship that Cage and Adam Beach as Private Ben Yahzee are meant to have . Also starring Fargo's Peter Stormare as Gunnery Sergeant Hjelmstad , The Truman Show's Noah Emmerich as Private Chick , Mark Ruffalo as Private Pappas , Black Hack Down and House of Wax's Brian Van Holt as Private Harrigan , The Ring's Martin Henderson as Private Nellie , Roger Willie as Private Charlie Whitehorse , Bedazzled's Frances O'Connor as Rita , Christian Slater as Sgt . Pete ' Ox ' Anderson and Jason Isaacs as Major Mellitz . Good !
The Nutty Professor II : The Klumps	If you have seen the first film , then this sequel is a good return for the overweight , good hearted man and his loud-mouthed arrogant alter ego , but in terms of some story , not perfect . Basically Professor Sherman Klump ( Eddie Murphy ) thought he got rid of Buddy Love forever , but his DNA still runs his system , and occasionally takes Sherman over , making him say horrible things . Sherman , after a while of putting up with it , finally decides to link a tube to his veins and extract Buddy out , a very dangerous , almost fatal operation . Not long after doing this , and Buddy is in a beaker , Sherman proposes to the girl he has long loved , Professor Denise Gaines ( Janet Jackson ) , and she accepts . But Sherman's troubles have only just begun , when a hair of dog Buster's falls into Buddy's spilt DNA , and he generates into his own body , and Sherman meanwhile , because of the DNA extraction , is suffering loss of intelligence . The worst part of it is that he has to give a presentation about his youth formula , for $150m , and Buddy plans to steal it for the money . Also starring Larry Miller as Dean Richmond , John Ales as a less jumpy Jason , Bean's Richard Gant as Mr . Gaines , Anna Maria Horsford as Mrs . Gaines , Melinda McGraw as Leanne Guilford , Jamal Mixon as Ernie Klump , Jr . and Terminator's Earl Boen as Dr . Knoll . The difference with this sequel to the first film , it gives more opportunity for the other Klump members ( all played by Murphy ) to have their own bits . Anna ' Mama ' Klump wants more passion from Cletus ' Papa ' Klump , he nicks Sherman's youth formula and fails to impress Anna , Ida Mae ' Granny ' Klump has a moment of falling for Buddy , taking off her clothes , and snogging him , and Ernie Klump , Sr . just appears once in a while snickering , mumbling and making a tit of himself . Again , not a lot of great story parts , but still great fun with great make up and special effects , including a giant hamster ! Good !
The Pursuit of Happiness	Based on a true story , this is quite a good drama showing the traumas of poverty and homelessness , and how it affects family life . Basically it is the 1980's , and Chris Gardner ( Oscar ( the only one ) and Golden Globe nominated Will Smith ) is currently a struggling salesman who once a month sells hospitals little needed medical bone density scanners , and because of failing to make a decent living , his wife Linda ( Crash's Thandie Newton ) leaves him with their son , Christopher ( introducing Smith's real life son , Jaden Smith ) . Chris then has the inspiration to become a stockbroker , where he has a one in twenty chance for a full time ( and paid ) career . Meanwhile , he and Christopher are living as best they can on whatever they can get their hands on , as long as he can keep selling his scanners ( and not have them nicked ) . Their life starts to crumble though when they are forced out of their house , and are now homeless , with only the city shelter to go to . There is also a point when Christopher goes to prison . But their hope grows when he finally sells a scanner , that he had to mend , and he is more recognised at the company . In the end he achieves his dream , because he signed up the most companies ( due to his never hanging up the company phone ) and he is the company's new stockbroker , and a millionaire , the text at the end said he went on to more success . Also starring Brian Howe as Jay Twistle , James Karen as Martin Frohm , The Simpsons ' Dan Castellaneta as Alan Frakesh and Scary Movie's Kurt Fuller as Walter Ribbon . I like Smith's narration , there are some small comedic moments , and the relationship between him and his real son is strong , I can agree the film does focus on more despair , but that is the point for this quite realistic biographical drama . It was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Original Song for " A Father's Way " . Will Smith was number 51 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars . Good !
Kelly's Heroes	I had heard many people say that this was a really good film , so I decided I couldn't give it a miss , and I can see reasons to recommend it . Set in the Second World War , the Americans have captured a German Colonel , but an artillery barrage hits the camp before they can talk to him . Ex-Lieutenant Pvt . Kelly ( Clint Eastwood ) catches the Colonel , and he gets him drunk , this is how he learns of a secret mission he can go on to ship $16 , 000 , 000 worth of gold bullion that is meant to go to France . Kelly invites many of his fellow soldiers that are interested in being part of this mission to slip into enemy territory and get this fortune . As they travel , they encounter one or two small battles , a mine field and a few near misses , before the final bigger battle in a town square , where the gold is , but it was kind of obvious they would get the gold and live richly ever after ( LOL ) . Also starring On Her Majesty's Secret Service's Telly Savalas as MSgt . Big Joe , Toy Story's Don Rickles as SSgt . Crapgame , Carroll O'Connor as Maj . Gen . Colt , Donald Sutherland as Sgt . Oddball ( tank commander ) , Gavin MacLeod as Moriarty ( tank crewman ) , Hal Buckley as Capt . Maitland , Stuart Margolin as Pvt . Little Joe , Jeff Morris as Pvt . Cowboy , Richard Davalos as Pvt . Gutowski , Perry Lopez as Pvt . Petuko , Tom Troupe as Cpl . Job and Harry Dean Stanton as Pvt . Willard . The battle scenes are quite gripping , the actors all have their moments , this is quite a lot of fun for a not very conventional war film . It was number 34 on The 100 Greatest War Films . Good !
Buffalo Soldiers	I may not have understood the entire story , but I can certainly see the black comedy and drama of this ( today ) significant film . It is 1989 , the fall of the Berlin Wall , and the world will be made safe with the new world order , but in Stuttgart , West Germany soldier Ray Elwood ( Joaquin Phoenix ) still sees some battles ahead . He and his battalion make a living and eliminate boredom ( not for ambition ) by making their own smack . The only other thing that also stands out the story is Elwood's love with Robyn Lee ( X-Men's Anna Paquin ) who loves the feeling of falling ( diving into a pool ) , which Elwood doesn't , he has a constant nightmare about it . Also starring Ed Harris as Colonel Berman , Scott Glenn as Sergeant Lee , Elizabeth McGovern as Mrs . Berman and Michael Pena as Garcia . The best sequence for me is the guys drunk driving a tank through a town , creating chaos . Good !
Predator 2	If you have seen the original jungle set alien science fiction film with Arnold Schwarzenegger , then you might like this not bad sequel . Instead of being in the jungle , the deadly alien Predator is in the city hunting more humans for its collection . Danny Glover is Lieutenant Mike Harrigan , the guy assigned to find this mysterious killer . He also has the help of Bill Paxton as Jerry Lambert and Licence to Kill's Robert Davi as Captain Phil Heinemann . Also starring Kevin Peter Hall as The Predator . Danny Glover doesn't have as much snarl as Schwarzenegger , but he is a good star for the film . The sequence near the end with a room of Predators is quite a good scene . Good !
Ghostboat	I'm not sure if this story was true because the war on at the time ended not long after , and there was mention of bodies never recovered in the wreck of the boat , but personally , who cares . This is a very interesting and near creepy story of one man's survival on a boat , and then somehow , the same events happen again on what seems to be the same boat . Sir David Jason as Jack Hardy is the man who survived a terrible storm on a large boat / submarine . Unfortunately , the events that previously happened to him happen again , and the members of the new boat he is on seem to " sink " into the spell of past history . Jack is now trying everyone he can to stop the events that happened to him and the boat 40 years ago . Good !
Pretty Woman	I did know the basic story , and I had seen the two major stars in Runaway Bride , but that was " pretty " much it . Basically rich businessman ( almost twit-like ) Edward Lewis ( Golden Globe nominated Richard Gere ) hires a prostitute , Vivian Ward ( Golden Globe winning , and Oscar and BAFTA nominated Julia Roberts ) for the night ( after being helpful ) , and after a while , he decides that she should be a regular help . She is paid well and enjoys the rich lifestyle , but she feels that she is slipping too deep and either wants to back to her " work " , or wants to start a new life of her own , but don't worry , there's a happy ending when it is true love . Also starring Ralph Bellamy as James Morse , Jason Alexander as Philip Stuckey , Laura San Giacomo as Kit De Luca , Alex Hyde-White as David Morse , Amy Yasbeck as Elizabeth Stuckey , Elinor Donahue as Bridget and Golden Globe nominated Hector Elizondo as Barney Thompson , oh , and look out for director Garry Marshall and Hank Azaria . The highlight of the film is obviously Roy Orbison's title song . It was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Costume Design , Best Original Screenplay and Best Film , it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Comedy / Musical . Richard Gere was number 76 , and Julia Roberts number 29 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , and Gere was number 43 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols . Good !
Watership Down	Many people consider this animated film about the life of some on-the-move rabbits a sad film , but to be honest I didn't cry . Basically Hazel ( voiced by John Hurt ) and Fiver ( voice by Richard Briers ) are convinced that something bad is going to happen to their burrow . So they round up many other rabbits and set of on a journey to find a bigger and better land to live in . One or two rabbits , including Hazel kind of dies , but they do find this land . It's just a problem that the evil General already runs the show their . They are now in a small war with the bad rabbits for the land . Also starring the voice of Indiana Jones's Denholm Elliott as Cowslip . The theme song Bright Eyes by Art Garfunkel spent at least four to six weeks at number 1 . It was number 15 on The 100 Greatest Tearjerkers for Hazel's Death , it was number 44 on The 100 Greatest Family Films , and it number 86 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons . Good !
Laughing Gravy	Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy are the most famous comedy duo in history , and deservedly so , so I am happy to see any of their films . It should be mentioned this film was originally only 20 minutes , but extra footage was found giving it an extra eight minutes . Stan and Ollie are sharing a room together , along with their dog " Laughing Dog " ( how he got that name , I don't know ) , and the Landlord ( Charlie Hall ) has rules about animals in the house . So after Stan's hiccuping , and the bed breaking , Gravy starts barking , and the Landlord puts him outside in the cold snow , and Ollie goes to get him back , falling into a water barrel being a highlight of his attempt . Back in the room , the bed breaks again , and Gravy is put up the chimney , and when the Landlord's gone , Stan and Ollie have to climb onto the roof to get the dog back . Luckily the Landlord is knocked out by falling bricks , while Stan and Ollie have to wash , starting with Gravy , and they can't even do that without something ( funny ) happening , and when the Landlord comes round , he wants them out . In the rediscovered part of the film , Stan and Ollie are about to leave with Gravy , when Stan receives a letter to say he will inherit his uncles ' fortune , as long as he isn't near Ollie . Ollie is curious of this " private " letter , but of course he understands after why Stan refused to let him read it . In the end , Stan decides to tear up the letter and forget the fortune , not for Ollie , but because of Laughing Gravy . Filled with wonderful slapstick and all classic comedy you could want from a silent black and white film , it is an enjoyable film . Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy were number 7 on The Comedians ' Comedian . Good !
Treasure Island	This may be considered as the best film version of Robert Louis Stevenson's best selling book ever , not just as a story but with the actor playing Long John Silver . You probably know the story , but here it is anyway . Jim Hawkins ( Bobby Driscoll , who voiced Peter Pan ) is given a treasure map from Captain Billy Bones ( Finlay Currie ) that used to belong to Captain Flint . He takes this map to Squire Trelawney ( Walter Fitzgerald ) and Dr . Livesey ( Denis O'Dea ) , and this excites them to start a journey towards Treasure Island . Travelling on the Hispanola run by Captain Smollett ( Basil Sydney ) , Jim was trusted to guard the map . Little does everyone know that there is a traitor among them , the best actor for Long John Silver , an almost always drunk Robert Newton . So they find the island , eventually find the treasure and Silver rows away carrying £7000 , 000 in gold coins . Also starring Geoffrey Wilkinson as Ben Gunn , John Laurie as Blind Pew and Francis De Wolff as Black Dog . Good !
A Girl's Guide to 21st Century Sex	Channel 5 when it first started always seemed to be the one with the most pornography ( probably trying to be more naughty than Channel 4 ) , and I always looked forward to the next one , then I saw this . Presented by Dr . Catherine Hood , and featuring interviews with experts and people who have experienced the programme subjects , this show basically shows you the things you should know , the things you didn't know , the things you can do , the things you should be aware of , and basically how to improve your sex life . It has covered pretty much everything from positions , homosexual / lesbian relationship , pregnancy , ejaculation , diseases and infections , and much more . The nudity is interesting , apart from gross bits involving cameras in the vagina , e . g . seeing a cock ejaculate , but it is still an interesting documentary series . Good !
Boys Don't Cry	I recognised the poster , then I watched some of the film in Film Studies class , and I was very interested in seeing the whole thing . Writer / director Kimberley Peirce started this project first with a documentary ( or it might have been her short film ) based on the true story of a young girl from Nebraska who disguised herself as a man , and was raped and murdered , and then Peirce got the go-ahead to make this independent film . Teena Brandon ( then rather unknown , Insomnia and Million Dollar Baby star , Oscar ( her first ) and Golden Globe winning , and BAFTA nominated Hilary Swank ) dressed as a man , mostly to get used to the idea of what it would be like to be one before her operation . She called herself Brandon Teena , and with her new persona made some male friends , including John Lotter ( Peter Sarsgaard ) , Tom Nisson ( Brendan Sexton III ) and Lonny ( Matt McGrath ) , and some female ( the sex was now more attracted to ) including Kate ( Alison Folland ) , Candace ( Alicia Goranson ) , and of course , the girl that she would fall in love with Lana Tisdel ( Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Chloë Sevigny ) . The film basically sees Teena / Brandon making a convincing life as a man , getting a girlfriend that after finding out is pretty much okay with it , and the only person that knew before was her brother Brian ( Rob Campbell ) . Soon enough though , the male characters find out her secret and first exploit it to others , then rape her , and in the end it was John that murdered her , maybe accidentally , maybe intentionally for her / his lies . The rape scenes are very disturbing , and the murder is tragic , this is a very convincing performance from Swank as the hero ( ine ) , and a gripping film . Good !
This Year's Love	I recognised the poster with the kissed frog , and there were some good people in it , so I wasn't going to dismiss it even if it is not as good as I hoped it would be . Basically a group of thirty-somethings flit around Camden Town swapping partners in search of love , lust and life . The stories include the marriage Danny ( Primeval's Douglas Henshall ) and Hannah ( Catherine McCormack ) ending after half an hour when his affair is revealed . Hannah leaves the reception , gets drunk , and beds artist Cameron ( Enigma's Dougray Scott ) . Danny meanwhile is having almost a fling with Cameron's friend , struggling singer Mary ( Kathy Burke ) . There is also the story of the relationship between comic book fan Liam ( Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone's Ian Hart ) and Sophie ( Jennifer Ehle ) , who almost can't seem to get away from each other . Also starring Emily Woof as Alice , Sophie Okonedo as Denise and Goodnight Mister Tom's Annabelle Apsion as the Speed Dating Hostess . For me , this film is interest is mainly with the Burke and Hart characters . Good !
Derren Brown : The Heist	Derren Brown does quite a few specials shows including Russian Roulette , Séance and The Gathering . Now , he is bringing about 20 normal members of the public to perform another " stunt " . Basically he convinces all of them to commit a robbery , without them knowing it . So he makes them see the colour green a lot , plays a Jackson 5 song that they'll remember and says a lot of words that criminals would use . So first he gets them to steal sweets from a newsagents . Then he chooses four finalists to be the robbers . Basically a closed off street ( by the police ) will help a walking victim to commit a robbery of a suitcase filled with £50 , 000 . They throw in all the tempting elements until they decide to pull out a near realistic gun to commit the robbery . 3 out of the four do it ! A good trickery special showing how easily we can be tempted to do something . Good !
Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid	I have seen many good westerns and robbery films , and when you combine the two , it is quite good . Basically two robbers Butch Cassidy ( BAFTA nominated Paul Newman ) and The Sundance Kid ( BAFTA winning Robert Redford ) are portrayed in this film as the heroes , even though they are stealing money from many banks and money carrying things , e . g . trains . Etta Place ( BAFTA winning Katharine Ross ) is the only backup they have to staying undercover . The only question I have about this film is why they were portrayed as heroes , unless they were like Robin Hood or something . Also starring Strother Martin as Percy Garris , Henry Jones as Bike Salesman , Jeff Corey as Sheriff Ray Bledsoe and George Furth as Woodcock . With some good gun fighting and chase sequences . It won the Oscars for Best Cinematography , Best Music for Burt Bacharach , Best Song for " Raindrops Keep Fallin ' on My Head " ( also nominated the Golden Globe , and it was number 23 on 100 Years , 100 Songs ) , and Best Writing , Story and Screenplay Based on Material Not Previously Published or Produced , and it was nominated for Best Director for George Roy Hill , Best Picture and Best Sound , it won the BAFTA Anthony Asquith Award for Film Music , Best Cinematography , Best Direction , Best Film , Best Film Editing , Best Screenplay and Best Sound Track , and it won the Golden Globe for Best Original Score , and it was nominated for Best Motion Picture - Drama and Best Screenplay . Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid were number 20 on 100 Years , 100 Heroes & Villains ( as heroes ) . Good !
The Naked Spur	On TV , it was either this western , or the apparently rubbish fantasy film by Sir Ridley Scott starring Tom Cruise called Legend , and I think I made the right decision . From director Anthony Mann ( Winchester ' 73 ) , this western sees Howard Kemp ( James Stewart ) meet Jesse Tate ( Millard Mitchell ) , and then sheriff Roy Anderson ( Ralph Meeker ) . He doesn't explain why for a little while , bu Howard is looking for and trying to catch wanted criminal Ben Vandergroat ( Robert Ryan ) , and when he catches him after a little gun battle , along with Lina Patch ( an attractive Janet Leigh ) , he reveals the high reward for Vandergroat's capture , and they all ( apart from Lina ) make a deal to split the reward when they reach the town . On the journey they encounter disagreements , a great Indian battle that ends with Howard hallucinating from a gun wound , and the film ends with all but Howard and Lina dying , and eventually forgetting the reward completely ( for love , duh ) . Typical and predictable in a couple of places , but still a good film , and obviously I love almost anything with James Stewart ( one of my most favourite actors ) . Good !
Live & Kicking	When I first saw this Saturday morning show , or rather caught bits of it , I first thought it was some kind of sports programme . Then after a couple of other bits I discovered that it was more for kids than adults because there were obvious things to spot . These kinds of things involved kids TV presenters like that really nice black guy who had a teary quit , two Irish puppets , the Rugrats on , and many other things . To be honest I only watched bits of it when I felt like it . When I saw the teary goodbye from the black guy on Greatest Kids TV Moments , I didn't realise he like his job that much ! But anyway , what I saw of this show was not bad . Pretty okay !
Most Shocking Celebrity Moments of the 80s	You've seen the Channel 4 100 Greatest and Worst countdown shows , well this is a similar thing looking back to the 1980's at the celebrities in the press and on television for all the wrong reasons doing all the wrong things . It doesn't matter whether what they did was embarrassing , stupid , ridiculous , career ruining ( or sometimes boosting ) , dangerous or illegal , they were all caught and filmed or photographed , and we will never forget them . Narrated by Isla Blair , with contributions by Simon Donald , Russell Grant , Christine Hamilton , Lauren Harries ( also as James Harries ) , James King and Michael Winner . These moments included It's a Royal Knockout , Rob Lowe's sex tape , Boy George's heroin problems , Drew Barrymore's childhood meltdown ( including taking drugs at a very young age ) , the many mistakes at The Brits 1989 and many more . Good !
Most Shocking Celebrity Moments of the 21st Century / 00s	You've seen the Channel 4 100 Greatest and Worst countdown shows , well this is a similar thing looking back to the 2000's , or 21st century , at the celebrities in the press and on television for all the wrong reasons doing all the wrong things . It doesn't matter whether what they did was embarrassing , stupid , ridiculous , career ruining ( or sometimes boosting ) , dangerous or illegal , they were all caught and filmed or photographed , and we will never forget them . Narrated by Isla Blair , with contributions by Simon Donald , Christine Hamilton , James King , John McCririck , Paul Morley and Michael Winner . These moments included Winona Ryder caught shoplifting , Angus Deayton's downfall , Britney and Madonna kissing on stage , Prince Harry's ill-advised fancy dress costume ( a Nazi ) , Britney shaving her head and many more . Good !
The Defiant Ones	From the director of Guess Who's Coming to Dinner , Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Stanley Kramer , this is quite a good escape fugitive type drama . In a serious role , Some Like It Hot's Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Tony Curtis is John ' Joker ' Jackson , and also BAFTA winning , and Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Sidney Poitier is Noah Cullen , both are chained together in a truck heading to prison , but they crash and they are the only two survivors . They are now on the run from the cops , including Sheriff Max Muller ( Oscar nominated Theodore Bikel ) and Capt . Frank Gibbons ( Charles McGraw ) . It is quite a good double act with Curtis and Poitier chained together , for a while , and on the run . Also starring Lon Chaney Jr . as Big Sam , King Donovan as Solly , Claude Akins as Mack , Kevin Coughlin as Billy , and Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Cara Williams as Billy's mother . It won the Oscars for Best Cinematography and Best Writing , Story and Screenplay - Written Directly for the Screen , and it was nominated for Best Film Editing and Best Picture , and it won the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama , and it was nominated for Best Film Promoting International Understanding . It was number 55 on 100 Years , 100 Cheers . Good !
The Girls Aloud Party	I will admit it took a while to get into them after they won Popstars : The Rivals , but once I did , I have a fan of theirs ever since , and they have beaten the Spice Girls as the most successful girl band ever , achieving the record for most top ten singles . Girls Aloud ( Cheryl Cole - formally Tweedy , Nadine Coyle , Sarah Harding , Nicola Roberts and Kimberley Walsh ) brought this Audience with . . . type show , singing some of their most popular songs , and acting out some little comedy sketches with Little versions of themselves , being old , and bringing in some special guests . Songs of the evening include " The Promise " ( their latest number one ) , " I'll Stand By You " , " Sound of the Underground " , " Love Machine " , " Something Kinda Ooooh " , " Call The Shots " and a couple of others . Special guests include Coronation Street's Julie Goodyear , Kaiser Chiefs , James Morrison , Paul O'Grady with dog Buster , Cilla Black , and narration by Tom Baker . Good !
The Great Muppet Caper	For the second official Muppet film ( after Muppet Movie ) this is quite an entertaining story with a robbery , some good guests and plenty of Muppets . Basically Kermit the Frog ( Jim Henson ) , Fozzie Bear ( Frank Oz ) and The Great Gonzo ( Dave Goelz ) are reporters for a newspaper , and plan to solve the crime in London of some jewel thieves robbing Lady Holiday ( Dame Diana Rigg ) . Miss Piggy ( Oz ) obviously meets Kermit during the process and they fall in love . These crooks , one being Lady Holiday's brother Nick ( Charles Grodin ) , plan to steal the fabulous Baseball Diamond from the Mallery Gallery , and all the Muppets are now trying to prove Miss Piggy's innocence from accusation . Also starring Animal ( Oz ) , Rizzo the Rat ( Steve Whitmire ) , Pops ( Jerry Nelson ) and a brief appearance by Sesame Street's Oscar Grouch . With cameos by John Cleese , Robert Morley , Joan Sanderson , Peter Ustinov and Jack Warden . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Song for " The First Time It Happens " . The Muppets were number 47 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons . Good !
Thomas the Tank Engine & Friends	Thomas the Tank Engine & Friends was a very good programme to watch when I was a kid . There was always a new adventure with the Number 1 blue tank engine train . I also loved the opening titles with that great music . Thomas with Annie and Clarabelle was a hard working engine who always did travel and work jobs for the Fat Controller . He also had some friends that he worked with and knew throughout the show . These characters had their own adventures as well . They include : Gordon , James , Percy , Harold the Helicopter and many others . Most episodes had one of the engines having an accident on the railway and another engine rescued them . I liked it so much when we went to a life railway in Alresford , with Thomas as a rail train . It was number 26 on The 100 Greatest Kids ' TV Shows . Very good !
The Kevin Bishop Show	Do you remember Kevin Bishop as Jim Hawkins in Muppet Treasure Island , well , he first came to our screens in Star Stories , and now he has his own sketch show . This sketch show is basically a channel hopping concept where he spoofs many celebrities , programmes and adverts , along with his other co-stars James Howick ( Peep Show ) , Oliver Maltman ( Star Stories ) and Katie Miles ( The IT Crowd ) . Celebrities impersonated include Gordon Ramsay , Jonathan Ross , Ross Kemp , Justin Lee Collins , Colin Farrell , Christopher Walken ( by Maltman ) and some rappers , spoof programmes include Nursery Crime Squad , ' Allo ' Allo and Pimp My Ride , and spoof adverts include Playbox , celebrity perfumes , film trailers and Daily Mail DVD giveaways . A good show with some funny moments from a new up-and-coming comedian . Good !
The Family Man	I knew the poster for this film , and it looked like a good seasonal film , but I forgot it was directed by Brett Ratner ( The Rush Hour Trilogy ) , another good reason to try it . It is basically like another Frank Capra film , or a cross between A Christmas Carol ( because he realises the error of his actions ) and It's a Wonderful Life ( he sees what could have happened had his life gone a different route ) . Anyway , the film begins with that big decision that Jack Campbell ( Nicolas Cage ) had to make whether to go to Paris to make a successful living ( he came back of course ) , or whether to stay with his college sweetheart Kate Reynolds ( Téa Leoni ) , and he chose Paris . 13 years later , Jack is a highly successful and talented Wall Street businessman , and on Christmas Eve , two days away from a million-dollar merger . That night he stops a gun holding punk , Cash ( Don Cheadle ) , and at one point tells him that he has everything , and later goes to bed in his designer Manhattan apartment . The next morning , Christmas Day , he wakes up shocked to be in bed with Kate , and in a suburban with a dog and two kids ! He goes to the building where he works , well worked , and the people he used to know have no idea who he is . Cash picks him up , and explains to him that he has been given a glimpse , and he must work out what it is . As the days go by , Jack tries to cope with this new life while he works out why he is seeing this , and of course , slowly he is realising that this is the life he would have had if had not left for Paris . When Cash finally comes back after many weeks , Jack says he wants to stay , but of course he can't , but don't worry , there is a happy ending . The final scene sees Kate doing exactly the same , heading for the airport for a new life in another country , and after she has heard Jack's plea for her to stay ( he explains about the life he has seen that could have been ) , thankfully she stayed for a coffee . Also starring Rush Hour 2 and Scary Movie 3's Jeremy Piven as Arnie , Unforgiven's Saul Rubinek as Alan Mintz , Patch Adams ' Josef Sommer as Peter Lassiter , Makenzie Vega as Annie Campbell , Harve Presnell as Big Ed , Lisa Thornhill as Evelyn Thompson and twins Jake and Ryan Milkovich as Josh Campbell . It has some good giggles ( including changing the baby's nappy for the first time ) , and Cage is really good as the Scrooge ( except not that grouchy ) or George Bailey ( except not desperate or suicidal ) of the story , a good seasonal film . Nicolas Cage was number 33 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars . Good !
Only Human : Bs to Cancer	This was the second of three special programmes tackling the issues of life threatened by unusual things , i . e . disability , social skills and body problems . This episode told the story of one man's struggle with testicular cancer , the meaning of the title . He explained his life in the hospital , ideas of what the doctors are planning to do to help him , friends he has made with similar complications and much more . There were some sad moments in this programme when he is talking about his family and his condition , but you have to remember that he is no different to anyone else , he just has a cancer that has near-slim chance of being cured . Good !
50 Ways to Look Great Naked	50 Ways to Look Great Naked was a short list about advice on how to look great naked ( in front of someone mainly ) . These were mainly ways to make your body and image look great before taking your clothes off in front of someone . This included things like tanning , exercising , cut away unwanted pubic hair , clean thoroughly , have something to play with , but the number one way to look great naked , quite obvious but important , have confidence to do it . I mainly watched it for the nudity content ( from the women on the show , not men ) , but the other hand , I could use these tips myself when I'm ready to do the business . There wasn't much nudity too be honest , but some useful tips . Good !
40 Days and 40 Nights	I had heard about this film and knew the concept of no sex for the title amount , but I didn't know much else , so I had to try it , from director Michael Lehmann ( Heathers , Hudson Hawk ) . Basically Matt Sullivan ( 30 Days of Night's Josh Hartnett ) broke up with Nicole ( Vinessa Shaw ) months ago , who is now engaged to someone else , he meanwhile has no problem finding new lovers , but he can't help wanting her back . He also finds himself getting a little depressed with all the sex he is having , so he has the inspiration from a priest to give up sex for 40 days and 40 nights , just like Lent , no sexual acts at all , even kissing or masturbation , to get his perspective he needs . His roommate Ryan ( Road Trip's Paulo Costanzo ) is not convinced he can do it , and after telling many people he and a couple of others have a huge bet saying he will give up . Unfortunately , for Matt , he may be finding it more difficult when quite a while in , he has the met the girl of his dreams , Erica Sutton ( A Knight's Tale's Shannyn Sossamon ) . Oh , don't worry , she finds out what he's doing , and they do get together , but with no bodily contact whatsoever , a very sexy scene involving a flower says it all . Oh , Matt is also having proposals by many women , getting some pornography , and towards the end of the " lent " , seeing things , e . g . women naked in the street , an ocean of breasts , so he is obviously desperate for it to end soon . So it comes to day 40 , but he didn't finish properly , unfortunately mean Nicole spoilt it just minutes before midnight , by jerking him off , and it was meant to be Erica after the clock strike . Don't worry , he adds 10 days extra to make it up , and he and Erica finally have their first kiss , and having numerous ( at least 40 ) " sessions " , a very happy ending indeed . Also starring Maggie Gyllenhaal as Sam , Glenn Fitzgerald as Chris , Griffin Dunne as Jerry and Adam Trese as John Sullivan . Hartnett proves himself a good comic lead , Sossamon is still beautiful , and you will enjoy her in the flower scene , trust me , a very likable romantic comedy . Good !
Carry On Camping	This is pretty much the only modern day Carry On film of the whole bunch , unless you count Constable or Spying , and it's quite good . Basically Sid Boggle ( Sid James ) and Bernie Lugg ( Bernard Bresslaw ) with their girlfriends , Joan Fussey ( Joan Sims ) and Anthea Meeks ( Dilys Laye ) , see a short film in the cinema about camping , when in fact it is about a nude camp . So looking around a camping shop , they find the information they were looking for , about " Camp Paradise " owned by Josh Fiddler ( Peter Butterworth ) , but they certainly had other expectations when they get there , no nudity . Soon enough though , a bus filled with school girls , led by Dr . Kenneth Soaper ( Kenneth Williams ) and Miss Haggard ( Hattie Jacques ) , arrive and they automatically change their minds about leaving . Sid has his attention set on the cute Babs ( Barbara Windsor ) . Other characters in the camp include the helpless Charlie Muggins ( Charles Hawtrey ) , and Peter Potter ( Terry Scott ) with his very irritating wife Harriet ( Betty Marsden ) . It is interesting that most of the stars use their own shortened names , and there are some good saucy gags , including the well known scene where Babs ' bra pings off during exercising , just a good old fashioned comedy . Carry On films were number 39 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons . Good !
Gosford Park	From director Robert Altman ( MASH , Nashville ) , this period murder mystery feeling like an Upstairs Downstairs satire it is an all-star classic feeling drama . Set in the 1930's the story takes place in an old fashioned country house , focusing on both the upper class family members and house guests , and also the servants that serve them . It seems many people in the house upstairs and downstairs want a piece of the head of the house and his money , and it seems that someone will go pretty far to get it . It is when the police are called to investigate the head of house's poisoning , and stabbing afterwards , that all members of the house are revealed to have secrets , but which one has the motive for murder ? Starring Oscar , BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Dame Maggie Smith as Constance Trentham , Sir Michael Gambon as William McCordle , Kristin Scott Thomas as Sylvia McCordle , Emily Watson as Elsie , Shallow Grave's Kelly Macdonald as Mary Maceachran , Clive Owen as Robert Parks , Oscar , BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Dame Helen Mirren as Mrs . Wilson , Eileen Atkins as Mrs . Croft , Alan Bates as Jennings , Derek Jacobi as Probert , Bob Balaban as Morris Weissman , Jeremy Northam as Ivor Novello , I Know What You Did Last Summer's Ryan Phillippe as Henry Denton , Richard E . Grant as George , Stephen Fry as Inspector Thompson , Charles Dance as Lord Raymond Stockbridge , Tom Hollander as Anthony Meredith and Sophie Thompson as Dorothy . It won the Oscar for Best Writing , Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen , and it was nominated for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Best Costume Design , Best Director for Robert Altman ( he did however win the Golden Globe ) and Best Picture , it won the BAFTAs for the Alexander Korda Award for Best British Film and Best Costume Design , and it was nominated for Best Make Up / Hair , Best Production Design , Best Original Screenplay , the Carl Foreman Award for the Most Promising Newcomer Julian Fellowes ( writer ) and the David Lean Award for Direction , and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Musical or Comedy and Best Screenplay . Kristin Scott Thomas was number 22 , Dame Helen Mirren was number 7 , and Dame Maggie Smith number 4 on The 50 Greatest British Actresses , Mirren was number 5 , and Smith number 4 on Britain's Finest Actresses , and Smith was number 20 on The World's Greatest Actor . Good !
How the Grinch Stole Christmas !	When I was spending Christmas with my Dad I watched this on Cartoon Network , I think it is actually a good festive cartoon , especially from Chuck Jones of Looney Tunes . Based on the book by Dr . Suess , it is a very good story of the transformation of bad to good . The town of Whoville are preparing for Christmas and all the Whos are in the festive spirit . Only one isn't happy , The Grinch . He hates Christmas and every year he has to watch and listen to it from his mountain home . Then he gets the idea to get rid of Christmas by stealing everything about it . He steals the presents , the tree , the lights , the food , just everything from every Who home . Obviously in the end he sees that Chrsitmas is not just gifts and stuff , it's love and family , so he returns everything . Narrated by and doing Grinch's voice Boris Karloff is really good . Also appears a song by the guy that voices Tony the Tiger of the Frosties adverts . It was number 82 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons . Good !
Meshes of the Afternoon	The only reason I saw this film was because it appears in the book " 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die " , I personally can't see why . Basically The Woman ( Maya Deren , also directing ) a woman picks up a flower , picks up a falling key , unlocks her door , and inside there is a knife in a loaf of bread , and the phone is off the hook . She soon naps , and supposedly dreams of a hooded figure with the face of a mirror going down the driveway , the knife on the stair , then on the bed with her . The figure puts the flower on the bed , then disappears , and this is all repeated again . She goes downstairs to nap in the chair , waking to see The Man ( Alexander Hammid , also directing ) upstairs with the flower , putting it on the bed , and after a mirror breaks , he enters the house again . One of the final shots sees the woman sitting at the table with two replicas of herself . This may not be as gory or disturbing , this dreamy film is certainly just as original as Un Chien Andalou or Eraserhead . It may be just under twenty minutes , but the camera angles are certainly effective , the study of psychological and physical reality is quite interesting , and even though I was confused throughout , that I guess is the point , it is an experimental film . Good !
Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back	I had seen a few bits of them in Clerks , part of the " New Jersey Trilogy " along with Mallrats and Chasing Amy , an appearance in Scream 3 , and a return in Dogma , but I had never seen one of the proper films from director Kevin Smith , and I'm glad the first film of his I did try starred his most popular characters in their own movie . Basically the star slackers , dope-smoking , jive-talking Jay ( Jason Mewes ) and Silent Bob ( Smith himself , only uttering a few words somewhere in the middle ) have discovered their book alter egos Bluntman and Chronic are having a movie made about them by Miramax , but they are getting bad hate mail ( about the characters , and their real names ) , and they are now heading from Jersey to Hollywood to stop the movie being made . On the way , Jay meets the love of his life with Justice ( American Pie's Shannon Elizabeth ) , who along with Missy ( Jennifer Schwalbach Smith , Kevin's wife ) , Sissy ( True Lies ' Eliza Dushku ) and Chrissy ( Final Destination and Heroes ' Ali Larter ) plan to steal a bunch of diamonds . The cops are on their tails , including Federal Wildlife Marshal Willenholly ( Will Ferrell ) , who is only brought in when a primate / monkey ( whatever ) is stolen , and " The Clit " , lol . One of the reasons this film is fun to watch , besides the in-jokes , small spoofs and bad language ( yes , the swearing is very funny ) is because of the numerous cameo appearances of well-known actors who aren't afraid to send themselves up . These include Ben Affleck , My Name Is Earl's Jason Lee , The Breakfast Club's Judd Nelson , George Carlin , Star Wars ' Carrie Fisher , American Pie's Seann William Scott , Tracy Morgan , Good Will Hunting director Gus Van Sant , Chris Rock , Jamie Kennedy , Scream director Wes Craven , Shannen Doherty , Mark Hamill , American Pie's Jason Biggs , Matt Damon and Dawson's Creek star James Van Der Beek . It also featuring the number one single from Afroman , " Because I Got High " , Jay and Silent Bob naturally feature in the music video . Good !
Half Ton Mum	I saw the advert for this documentary ( a BodyShock special ) , and like Lose 30 Stone or Die I knew I was to expect someone , or should that be something I rarely get the chance to see , a poor victim of a growing epidemic , especially in America . Narrated by Alison Steadman , this story basically sees Renee Williams , a 29-year-old mother of two , who was desperate to save her life mainly to see her kids grew . She officially had the record as the world's heaviest woman , at that age , and 64-stone it is no wonder she had so little time to live . To save her life , she decided to plead on the internet to any hospital that would take her to have a life-threatening surgical operation , a triple bypass ( stapling her stomach to be smaller to take less intake ) . It took a long while to carry her through her door , into the ambulance , and into the hospital , but the near-fatal operation was successful . Tragically though she died a few days later from a cardiac arrest , but her story has inspired many similar sized and weight people to go down the same path to try save their life . Good !
Another Fine Mess	Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy are the most famous comedy duo in history , and deservedly so , so I am happy to see any of their films . I should mention the word is clearly " nice mess " , it's a bit odd . Stan and Ollie are on the run from the cops , and just after Colonel Wilburforce Buckshot ( James Finlayson ) and his servants have left the large mansion , they show up and take it for themselves . Soon enough though Lord Leopold Ambrose Plumtree ( Charles K . Gerrard ) and wife Lady Plumtree ( Thelma Todd ) show up expecting to see the Colonel , so Ollie has to pretend to be him , while Stan acts as a butler , and in drag as the maid , Agnes . Both Ollie and Stan fib all the way , until towards the end , the real Colonel comes back , and after some bickering , they escape in an animal disguise . Filled with wonderful slapstick and all classic comedy you could want from a black and white film , it is an enjoyable film . " Well , here's another nice mess you've gotten me into ! " was number 60 on 100 Years , 100 Quotes , and Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy were number 7 on The Comedians ' Comedian . Good !
Monster-in-Law	I was hoping this would be good , and it was , from the director of Legally Blonde . Basically Charlotte ' Charlie ' Cantilini ( Jennifer Lopez ) has finally found Mr . Right after years of looking , doctor surgeon Kevin Fields ( Michael Vartan ) , and eventually he proposes marriage . He tells the news to his possessive mother Viola ( Barbarella's Jane Fonda ) , who is recently trying to recover from a breakdown , so this news doesn't do a lot of favours . Viola has a secret plan while Kevin goes away for a little while , to drive Charlie as crazy as possible , i . e . being irritating . Charlie does eventually find out her secret plan from looking through her stuff , including finding out her pills are vitamin tablets , so in secret she gets her own back by doing exactly the same . When Kevin comes back , they both know they have been doing this to each other , and finally express their detest for each other . As the wedding day approaches , they are really digging into each other , e . g . getting each other's past loves in one room , Viola even deliberately gets Charlie's face swollen from her nut allergy . Finally the day is on , and Viola and Charlie finally have a proper cat fight ( slap each other continuously ) , but Viola realises how much Charlie loves Kevin , and how to happy she makes him , and they come to an agreement , and they marry . Also starring Wanda Sykes as Ruby , Adam Scott as Remy , Monet Mazur as Fiona , Annie Parisse as Morgan and Elaine Stritch as Gertrude . Fonda and Lopez have their great moments of torturing on each other , Sykes is really memorable with her voice and almost no-nonsense attitude , a funny film . Jane Fonda was number 98 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars . Good !
Edtv	If you are a fan of reality shows , then you will like this film about a normal everyday guy filmed 24-7 , except this time he actually knows about it . Ron Howard directs Matthew McConaughey as Ed ' Eddie ' Pekurny , he is the chosen guy for a new reality show to boost a TV channel's ratings . Edtv does start small , but after a week or so he is the biggest star of TV that is only famous for being him . In his life on TV he is involved with Jenna Elfman as Shari , Woody Harrelson as his brother Ray Pekurny , Sally Kirkland as Jeanette , Oscar winner Martin Landau as Al and many others . Also starring director Rob Reiner as Mr . Whitaker , a brief Dennis Hopper as Henry ' Hank ' Pekurny , Ed's Dad , Elizabeth Hurley as Jill , Harry Shearer as Moderator , Michael Moore and Jay Leno . It is a good film which shows the highs and lows of reality TV , but no way as good as The Truman Show . Good !
When Britain First Had Talent	The end of The X Factor Series 4 had gone ( it should have been Rhydian that won , not Leon ) , and this programme presented by actress and judge on Britain's Got Talent , Amanda Holden , this basically showed the best talent that has come ( and disappeared ) from talent shows . Shows focused on include Opportunity Knocks , New Faces , and today's most popular shows such as Pop Idol , The X Factor and Britain's Got Talent . They also have footage from some of the great talents that have come from them , including Victoria Wood , Lenny Henry , Jim Davidson , Les Dennis , Cannon & Ball , Will Young , Girls Aloud , Joe Pasquale , Debra Stephenson , Bonnie Langford , Paul Potts and many more . Very good !
Best in Show	From director / writer Christopher Guest ( one of the band members in This Is Spinal Tap , and acting in the film ) , and co-writer ( and actor ) Eugene Levy ( American Pie ) , this is an interesting comedy with a hardly interesting contest , but it does actually become fun . Basically an array of characters from all walks of life , and all as unusual as each other , are preparing their dogs for the 25th Annual Mayflower Kennel Club Dog Show . A film crew is filming all individual contestants , and the judges , including Harlan Pepper ( Guest ) , Gerry Fleck ( Levy ) along with his admirer Cookie Fleck ( Home Alone's Catherine O'Hara ) , Stefan Vanderhoof ( Michael McKean ) , Scott Donlan ( John Michael Higgins ) , Sherri Ann Ward Cabot ( American Pie's Jennifer Coolidge ) and Buck Laughlin ( American Pie : The Wedding's Fred Willard ) . There are some giggly moments of dialogue , and small gross or silly comedy , and the winner of the contest is almost obvious , but worth it . It won the British Comedy Award for Best Comedy Film , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Comedy / Musical . It was number 44 on The 100 Greatest Funny Moments , and it was number 30 on The 50 Greatest Comedy Films . Good !
The Pink Panther Strikes Again	The only tiny problem with this sequel is , why is it still called Pink Panther , there's no diamond ! But who cares , this sequel is just as good as Return . The chief of police has gone insane and now wants his former detective assassinated as he plans to wipe out Washington . Detective Inspective Jacques Clouseau ( Golden Globe nominated Peter Sellers ) is now on vacation , although he does suspect someone is trying to kill him . His assistant Cato ( Burt Kwouk ) is still helping him train by fighting him , he even does it at the hilarious end . Still the same terrific accent by Sellers and the same well known theme tune by Henry Mancini ! It was nominated the Oscar for Best Song for " Come to Me " , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Musical / Comedy . Peter Sellers was number 57 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , he was number 22 on The 50 Greatest British Actors , he was number 7 on Britain's Finest Actors , and he was number 24 on The World's Greatest Actor . Good !
The Royal Tenanbaums	This is a pretty interesting story about one man's love for his family , and trying to spend as much time with them as possible , even the one that hates him , but I'm not sure I'd want to see it again . Basically the meaning of the title being Royal is obviously the father and husband of the wealthy like family , Royal Tenenbaum ( Golden Globe winning Gene Hackman ) . Anjelica Huston plays his wife , Etheline Tenenbaum , Gwyneth Paltrow as daughter Margot Tenenbaum , Luke Wilson as son Richie Tenenbaum and Ben Stiller as his brother Chas Tenenbaum , he is the one who hates his Dad . Basically Royal finds out he has only three or four months to live , so he wants to spend that time with his family . By the way , in the end Chas does like his father , he even accompanies him in the ambulance at the end . Also starring Owen Wilson as Eli Cash , Danny Glover as Henry Sherman , Bill Murray as Raleigh St . Clair and narrated by Alec Baldwin . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Writing , Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen , and it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Original Screenplay . Gwyneth Paltrow was number 89 , and Gene Hackman number 42 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , and he was number 31 on The World's Greatest Actor . Good !
Hook	This isn't a bad film directed by Steven Spielberg , but it is certainly one his little career glitches . Basically it is all about what has happened to the guy who was once Peter Pan , the boy who never grew up . Peter Banning ( a childish , but fun Robin Williams ) is a businessman with wife Moira Banning ( Caroline Goodall ) and kids Jack ' Jackie ' ( Charlie Korsmo ) and Maggie ( Amber Scott ) . Not long after arriving at Granny Wendy's ( Dame Maggie Smith ) house , the kids are kidnapped by someone claiming to be Captain James Hook . Soon enough , Tinkerbell ( Julia Roberts ) arrives and takes Peter to Neverland both to meet his past arch enemy , Hook ( Golden Globe nominated Dustin Hoffman ) , and to prepare in three days to remember his past , and fight as Peter Pan . Also starring Bob Hoskins as Smee , Arthur Malet as Tootles , Phil Collins as Inspector Good , Isaiah Robinson as Pockets , Dante Basco as Rufio , Raushan Hammond as Thud Butt , Gwyneth Paltrow as Young Wendy , and try to recognise Glenn Close as Gutless ( the one put in the box with scorpions ) , and although you won't recognise them , George Lucas and Carrie Fisher are the couple kissing on the bridge , lifted by the fairy dust . Williams is fun to watch both before and after becoming Pan , but Hoffman does steal the show as a pantomimic villain lost without his nemesis , makes him a little sympathetic , and all supporting cast members make this a lot of fun for the family . It was nominated for the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Best Costume Design , Best Visual Effects , Best Makeup and Best Music . Good !
Pocahontas	I would need to see it again to write a better review , but I am writing the basics and what I do remember about this Disney animated film . Basically Pocahontas ( Irene Bedard ) is the young Natiev American girl of the " New World " who is to be married to the village's greatest warrior , but she instead grows to love English sailor Captain John Smith ( Mel Gibson ) . So in short , a forbidden love story , some quarrelling , and in the end ( which I admit I remember crying to ) the lovers can't be with each other . Also starring Joe Baker as Lon , Christian Bale as Thomas , Billy Connolly as Ben , Linda Hunt as Grandmother Willow and David Ogden Stiers as Governor Ratcliffe and Wiggins . It won the Oscars for Best Music and Best Song for " Colors of the Wind " ( also won the Golden Globe ) , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Original Score . Good !
Michael Clayton	Directed by Oscar nominated Tony Gilroy , screenplay writer for The Bourne Trilogy , it might have sounded interesting , and I looked forward to seeing the award-winning actress in action , but it wasn't quite what I had in mind . Basically Michael Clayton ( Oscar , BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated George Clooney ) is a Mr . Fix-It guy in a law firm , and after his car blows up , it flashes back four days where he owes a loan shark , and his firm is trying to negotiate in a high-stakes merge . Firm senior partner Arthur Edens ( Oscar , BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Tom Wilkinson ) has a nervous breakdown while taking a lawsuit , ahead of the U-North case , oh , and not much later he kills himself . Oh , and Karen Crowder ( Oscar and BAFTA winning , and Golden Globe nominated Tilda Swinton ) plans an evil scheme in this U-North case . Okay , I'll be completely honest , I lost track of what was going on and couldn't keep up . Also starring Sydney Pollack as Marty Bach , Michael O'Keefe as Barry Grissom , Sean Cullen as Det . Gene Clayton , Ken Howard as Don Jefferies , Denis O'Hare as Mr . Greer , Robert Prescott as Mr . Verne and Austin Williams as Henry Clayton . It is when I lost track that I just spent the rest of the film paying more attention to the performance from Swinton , I can see reasons why she won the Oscar , and I guess she deserved it . Even though I din't get it , the performances are good , and there are bits and pieces to catch your eye , like the car explosion , but I can't see myself watching it again , unless I wanted to actually try and understand it , which I'm not all keen on doing . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Motion Picture of the Year , Best Music for James Newton Howard and Best Writing , Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen for Gilroy , it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Editing and Best Original Screenplay , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama . Good , in my opinion !
The New Scooby-Doo Mysteries	Scooby-Doo Mysteries were so popular in the 70s so they obviously decided to bring the lovable dog back and create more mysteries . Casey Kasem obviously carried on with the good voice of Shaggy . There was obviously goodish characterisation from Scooby and Daphne , but where's Fred and Velma . The only character that did not work in this show was Scooby's nephew Scrappy-Doo . If they wanted the show to be even more successful and appear more of Fred and Velma they should have killed Scrappy . I HATE HIM ! But apart from that little bastard of a puppy this show was okay . Apart from the obvious storyline , a new monster with a new and obvious villain underneath the mask . My favourite episode was probably for Scooby's birthday , and the return of The Red Skull . Okay , if only Scrappy was put down !
The Bugs Bunny / Road Runner Movie	This is basically a movie made from many , many Looney Tunes and Merrie Melodies cartoons and only a few minutes of new footage . The cartoon movie is hosted by Bugs Bunny . It is basically a documentary like movie about the story of chasing in films . It also mentions about the Looney Tunes cartoons and its creators . The sequences included in the cartoon movie have Daffy Duck , Elmer Fudd , Mervin the Martian and of course , most memorable cartoon chase , Road Runner and Wile E . Coyote . I think it is the long final sequence of the film with just half an hour or so of Road Runner and Coyote . Mel Blanc provides all the memorable voices . Pepe Le Pew was number 73 , Road Runner number 47 , Daffy Duck number 30 , Looney Tunes / Merrie Melodies number 20 and Bugs Bunny number 10 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons . Very good !
Bride of Chucky	This was the very first I had seen of the Child's Play series , or rather , starring the infamous killer doll . Basically , Tiffany ( Jennifer Tilly ) who was Charles Lee Ray's girlfriend brings him back to life in the reconstructed doll . When ' Chucky ' ( voiced by Brad Dourif ) wakes she won't let him out because he acts like a bastard . After he kills her he places her soul into a doll too ( hence the title ) . Basically the two dolls travel with two teens to the graveyard with Chucky's corpse , with a voodoo charm on his neck which will help them transfer their souls into human bodies . Along the way they obviously have fun making their drivers look guilty by killing many people along the way , in really violent ways . Also starring Katherine Heigl as Jade , Nick Stabile as Jesse , Alexis Arquette as Howard Fitzwater / Damien Baylock , Gordon Michael Woolvett as David ' Dave ' Collins , John Ritter as Police Chief Warren Kincaid and a cameo by Kathy Najimy . A great horror comedy , and as far as I'm aware , a good comeback from the unpopular Child's Play 3 . Good !
Un Chien Andalou / An Andalusian Dog ( whatever that means )	The opening moments that I did watch were just horrifying , and the rest is weird as well . After the Lumiére Bros . had done all their normal event one minute films , this next moving picture film came out about thirty years later . I know this is a surreal film , but you don't know what is going on or why , it is meaningless . Basically the opening of the film is a guy with a shaving razer ( cutthroat razer ) who goes towards a woman , opens her eye pretty wide , and slices it ! You actually see it done , she goes ahead with it and he goes across the middle until it bursts / bleeds . I think this is even horrifying than that music video with a torture device and a guy with his penis in a vice . The rest of the film is meaningless events such as a transvestite , hung dead priests , two slaughtered donkeys and what looks like the Ten Commandments on and tied to a piano , and a girl being hit ( stupidly ) by a car , it's just nonsense . However , it is worth a look !
Videodrome	The only reason I heard of this was because it is in a my book of 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die , I suppose I can agree with that , but I was disappointed at not seeing the image with the boom in the film ( a guy covered in blood with brains and guts out ) . It is all about Max Renn ( James Woods ) , an adult TV guy that wants the audiences to see only the best of horrible sex and violence . One day , searching through foreign networks with a dish , he comes across something called Videodrome , and finds a video of this new thing . What everyone keeps telling him though is that the imagery is real , and he is hallucinating because of it . It is quite confusing when you're torn between his hallucinating and reality , but that is probably why it is an unmissable film . Also starring Sonja Smits as Bianca O'Blivion , Deborah Harry as Nicki Brand , Peter Dvorsky as Harlan , Leslie Carlson as Barry Convex , Jack Creley as Brian O'Blivion , Lynne Gorman as Masha , Julie Khaner as Bridey and Reiner Schwartz as Moses . From director David Cronenberg ( The Fly ) , a weird film , but the bit with guts bursting out of the TV is interesting ! Good !
Ransom	Quite a thrilling film about a father's struggle with the loss , or rather finding , of his son . Young Sean Mullen is at the park with his Dad , and Mum on stage . He suddenly goes missing , and they discover when they get home that he has been kidnapped . He is being ransomed for $2 , 000 , 000 by the great villain , fake Detective Jimmy Shaker ( Gary Sinise ) . Tom Mullen ( Golden Globe nominated Mel Gibson ) , Sean's Dad is determined to do everything he can to get his son back . He eventually after a failed ransom drop-off decides to offer the money to capture the kidnapper ! Also starring Rene Russo as Kate Mullen , Sean's Mum , Delroy Lindo as Agent Lonnie Hawkins , Liev Schreiber as Clark Barnes and Saw II's Donnie Wahlberg as Cubby Barnes and Evan Handler as Miles Roberts . A good film from director Ron Howard ( Splash , A Beautiful Mind ) . Mel Gibson was number 17 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars . Good !
Star Wars Episode II : Attack of the Clones	Continuing the prequels to the original trilogy , Anakin Skylwalker ( Hayden Christensen ) has grown up , and is now learning apprentice to Obi-Won Kenobi ( Ewan McGregor ) . In this film , the Queen has quit , and is now Senator Padmé Amidala ( Natalie Portman ) , and is endangered by bounty hunter , later identified as Jango Fett ( Temuera Morrison ) , and it is Anakin's job to keep an eye on her . Along the way though , he breaks a Jedi rule by falling in love . Meanwhile , Obi-Won searches for the bounty hunter , and finds a planet where cloning of troops is taking place , apparently for the Rebels . Anakin feels very strongly about his mother , Shmi Skywalker-Lars ( Pernilla August ) , so he takes Padmé with him to his home planet to find her , and he manages to find her , in dying moments , so he kills the desert people that kidnapped her ( a step towards the Dark Side ) . Obi-Won is also on the planet , and he meets former Jedi , turned to Dark Side , Count Dooku / Darth Tyranus ( Christopher Lee ) , and the battle soon after gets under way , as the clones ( on the good side ) attack the villains . In the end , the war is over for now , Anakin gets a replacement hand ( that he lost ) , and he and Padmé marry . Also starring Samuel L . Jackson as Mace Windu , The Muppets ' Frank Oz ( aka Miss Piggy and Fozzie Bear ) as Yoda ( now computer generated ) , Ian McDiarmid as Supreme Chancellor Palpatine and Ahmed Best as Jar Jar Binks . This along with the other two are never going to be as good for story , dialogue ( which is ridiculous ) or ' magic ' as the originals , but the special effects are never disappointing . Star Wars was number 24 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons , and the film was number 65 on The Ultimate Film . Good !
Star Wars Episode III : Revenge of the Sith	The final episode of both the prequels and the entire saga ( 28 years since the release ) is the darkest of them all , from writer / director / creator George Lucas . It was also the most anticipated with the revelation of how Anakin Skywalker ( Hayden Christensen ) joined the Dark Side , and became Darth Vader . It is war , Supreme Chancellor Palpatine ( Ian McDiarmid ) was kidnapped by Count Dooku ( Christopher Lee ) , and Anakin listened to the Chancellor's order to kill him , which is not the Jedi way . Obi-Won Kenobi ( Ewan McGregor ) is on the search for General Grievous , the other person suspected as being the Emperor's servant . Anakin meanwhile is having complications with his wife , Padmé ( Natalie Portman ) who is pregnant , and eventually , as he turns , starts dying , because of his anger . He is also assigned to keep an eye and spy on Chancellor , but when he finds out he is the Emperor he does not do what Mace Windu ( Samuel L . Jackson ) said and kill him , and he ends up striking him , and letting the now disfigured Emperor killing him with his lightning power . Anakin was seduced by it , and now he gives in to the Dark Side and is now named Darth Vader , and he follows all the Emperor's orders to kill all Jedi threat , even the children ! Towards the end , Obi-Won discovers his turn to the Dark Side , and their light sabre fight on the volcanic planet is extraordinary , and when it is concluded Anakin is burned , and Obi-Won just leaves him . This is the pinnacle moment when ( after found by the Emperor ) , Padmé gives birth to the twin babies , Luke and Leia , before dying from Anakin's anger , and Anakin has become Darth Vader with the mask and helmet , because he couldn't breathe properly . Also starring Jimmy Smits as Senator Bail Organa , The Muppets ' Frank Oz ( aka Miss Piggy and Fozzie Bear ) as Yoda ( now computer generated ) , Anthony Daniels as C-3PO , Ahmed Best as Jar Jar Binks , Kenny Baker as R2-D2 , Peter Mayhew as Chewbacca and James Earl Jones as the voice of Darth Vader . This film basically explains everything about the future and ends all questions for the original trilogy . This along with the other two are never going to be as good for story , dialogue ( which is ridiculous ) or ' magic ' as the originals , but the special effects are never disappointing . Star Wars was number 24 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons . Good !
Ricky Gervais : Fame	He won numerous awards , e . g . BAFTAs , a British Comedy Award , Emmys and a Golden Globe , made successful children's books ( Flanimals ) and had success with the programmes The Office and Extras , and third stand-up show at the Apollo was the fastest selling comedy gig in history ! Ricky Geravis is the same mean character as he seems to be in his shows , and he is not just discussing his own experience of fame , but his opinions on what other people do to get it . Jokes in the show include a bit about Autistic people and going on Big Brother , and quite a bit about his career . Ricky Gervais was number 49 on The Comedians ' Comedian , he was number 18 on Britain's Favourite Comedian , and he was number 11 on 100 Greatest Stand-Ups . Good !
Dreamgirls	I can agree with the critics ( giving it three stars out of five ) the story seems similar to Diana Ross and the Supremes , and one or two songs slow the action , but it is still a fantastic film , based on the hit Broadway musical , from director Bill Condon ( director of Gods and Monster , and scriptwriter of Chicago ) . Basically Deena Jones ( Golden Globe nominated pop singer Beyoncé Knowles ) , Lorrell Robinson ( Anika Noni Rose ) and lead singer Effie White ( introducing Oscar , BAFTA and Golden Globe winning American Idol contestant Jennifer Hudson ) are the African American R & B group , the Dreamettes , and after losing a talent contest , they meet ambitious Cadillac dealer Curtis Taylor Jr . ( Jamie Foxx ) who plans to break into the music industry , and as their manager he sets up tours to sing backup for R & B star James " Thunder " Early ( Golden Globe winning , and Oscar nominated Eddie Murphy ) , after striking a deal with Jimmy's manager , Marty Madison ( Danny Glover ) . Eventually , Curtis gives them the chance to be a real band , only if Deena is made lead singer , this is when Effie feels betrayed by her boyfriend . She goes along with it for a while , and The Dreams ( renamed ) become top-selling , but eventually Effie leaves when she knows Curtis has affections for Deena . Eight years later , Effie is depressed and looking after her daughter ( Curtis's ) Magic ( Mariah I . Wilson ) , meanwhile Deena ( now married to Curtis ) & the Dreams , with new backing singer Michelle Morris ( Sharon Leal ) are still popular , along with Curti's Rainbow Records company , running many other pop acts . Jimmy Early's star is fading though , and he turns to drugs , and he eventually dies of overdose . Not long after , Effie gets a comeback single , but this does not help Curtis's success going towards meltdown , and the Dreams breaking up . The conclusion sees Deena and the girls giving a farewell performance , along with Effie being lead singer for the slower version of " Dreamgirls " , and it ends with Curtis realising he is a Dad . Also starring Keith Robinson as C . C . White and John Lithgow as Jerry Harris . The singing and performances from the stars are incredible , especially from Hudson , the R & B , ballad and blues songs are magnificent , the dancing is well choreographed , the costumes are lavish and the editing is like a great music video , I love it ! It won the Oscar for Best Sound Mixing , and it was nominated for Best Art Direction , Best Costume Design , Best Song for Beyoncé's " Listen " ( also nominated the Golden Globe ) , Best Song for " Love You I Do " and Best Song for " Patience " , it was nominated the BAFTA for the Anthony Asquith Award for Film Music for Henry Krieger , and it won the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Musical or Comedy . Eddie Murphy was number 67 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , and Beyoncé Knowles was number 4 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols . Good !
The Terminal	Director Steven Spielberg because of his long success with film-making has permission to direct pretty much anything he wants , and this film certainly proves that . Basically Viktor Navorski ( Tom Hanks , in his third Spielberg film ) from Krakozhia wants to go to New York , but a war in his country means it is unrecognised by the U . S . , and with no correct identification , he cannot legally enter the United States , or go home , until the war is over . For now , Viktor must live in the JFK airport terminal and not leave the building , so he adapts and sets up residence in the airport , and this is making the man who put him there , Frank Dixon ( Stanley Tucci ) very unhappy , and Navorski in the airport could complicate his chances of a promotion . He tries a few ways to get Viktor to leave , but he remains where he is surviving on left over food , until of course he gets help from new friends in the airport staff , Joe Mulroy ( Chi McBride ) , Enrique Cruz ( Diego Luna ) and Gupta Rajan ( Kumar Pallana ) , who help him to survive . Over the time he is in the airport , who also once in a while bumps into flight attendant Amelia Warren ( Catherine Zeta-Jones ) , who is hopelessly waiting for her boyfriend to come back to her , so they are both ultimately waiting for something , and even though they get close , they cannot be together . Eventually , the war does end in Viktor's home country , but Frank refuses to let him go to New York and fulfil his promise to his father , he also threatens to fire all his friends because of their disrespect to rules and regulations , but thankfully Gupta delays the plane and Viktor finally heads for the doors to America , and even Frank's right hand Ray Thurman ( Patch Adams ' Barry ' Shabaka ' Henley ) lets him go . A happy ending when he finally gets the signature of the final member of a classic jazz group . Also starring Zoe Saldana as Dolores Torres . Hanks is superb with accent and emotions of all situations put in front of him , Zeta-Jones has her moments , Tucci is a great power-hungry villain-type , and there are some gags and dramatic moments to be had . Steven Spielberg was number 56 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons , Tom Hanks was number 3 on The 100 Movie Stars , and he was number 39 on The World's Greatest Actor , Catherine Zeta-Jones was number 10 on The 50 Greatest British Actresses , and she was number 39 on The 100 Worst Britons . Good !
Sherlock Holmes in New York	The greatest detective ever known ( in fiction ) appears in this really enjoyable TV film with three great actors and a great story of kidnap and robbery together . Sir Roger Moore as the very English and very professional Sherlock Holmes is a very good creation , the best ( and only ) one I've seen . Apparently there are scenes where John Huston as the nasty Professor Moriarty steals scenes , but I don't think that's true . Patrick Macnee ( who worked with Moore in A View To A Kill ) is a very good , amusing and lovable Doctor Watson . Basically they have to stop Moriarty from stealing some gold , and get Irene Adler's ( Charlotte Rampling ) kid back as well . The good moments are the small action , chases and sneaking moments . Moore's good breakaway from James Bond . Good !
Alive	I saw the spoof of this film in the episode of South Park when Cartman finds out who his Dad is , it was hilarious . But the real film is actually a pretty good film with an unthinkable idea , but if it keeps you alive , then I suppose it's okay . Basically students travelling in a plane go over the Andes mountains , and they crash . There are 27 survivors , and they are trying everything they can to survive and get help . When they get really hungry and the rescuers presume their dead , they decide that they have to eat the ( frozen ) skin of the dead to stay alive . Starring Ethan Hawke as Nando Parrado , Vincent Spano as Antonio Balbi , Josh Hamilton as Roberto Canessa , Bruce Ramsay as Carlitos Páez , John Haymes Newton as Antonio ' Tintín ' Vizintín , David Kriegel as Gustavo Zerbino , Kevin Breznahan as Roy Harley , Sam Behrens as Javier Methol , Illeana Douglas as Lilliana Methol , Jack Noseworthy as Bobby François , Christian J . Meoli as Federico Aranda , Jake Carpenter as Alberto Artuna , Michael DeLorenzo as Rafael Cano , and a brief John Malkovich appears . It's a good question , would you eat the dead to stay alive ? Good !
Dracula	I saw a small clip of this version of the famous vampire on 100 Years , 100 Heroes & Villains , Dracula was number 33 on the list , not just the Bela Lugosi character . It is pretty much exactly the same as the Lugosi version according to the story , but I realise now that this is the version that the awful Dracula : Dead and Loving It took spoofed . Frank Langella is Count Dracula , Lord Sir Laurence Olivier is Prof . Abraham Van Helsing , Donald Pleasence is Dr . Jack Seward , Kate Nelligan is Lucy Seward and Trevor Eve is Jonathan Harker . I can't really say much about what happens , because it is pretty obvious . Dracula lives in Transylvania , bites some people sucking blood , they turn and the good guys stop the vampire , that's pretty much it . Count Dracula was number 33 on 100 Years , 100 Heroes & Villains . Good !
Ali G Indahouse	If you are a fan of smooth , hip talking or just a bit of hip hop , then you'll like this film , as for everyone else , you can enjoy Sacha Baron Cohen as the great Ali G . Borat ( Cohen ) also appears , but his own film is much better . Basically , Ali G lives in the West Side of Staines and is protesting about his Leisure Centre closing down . So he decides to join the Prime Minister ( Sir Michael Gambon ) and his nasty assistant David Carlton ( Charles Dance ) in parliament , hence the title , Indahouse . Also starring Kellie Bright as " me " Julie , Martin Freeman as Ricky C , the fit Rhona Mitra as Kate Hedges , Tony Way as Dave , EastEnders ' Nabil Elouhabi as Jezzy F and Ray Panthaki as Hassan B , Naomi Campbell , newsreader Jon Snow , EastEnders ' Rudolph Walker as President Mwepu , and Richard Madeley and Judy Finnigan . Ali G was number 8 on The 100 Greatest TV Characters , he was number 6 on The 100 Greatest Funny Moments , along with Borat at number 24 ( and Bruno at number 77 ) , and he was number 6 on The World's Greatest Comedy Characters , with Borat at number 17 , and Sacha Baron Cohen ( or as the character ) was number 12 on Britain's Favourite Comedian . Good !
The Martins	From Tony Grounds , writer and director , also of that one-off special The Dinner Party ( which has the main star in it ) , this isn't a bad black comedy drama about the loser family trying to get a better life . Before I start , I have to say when I saw the poster , I thought it was some kind of spy or action comedy , but never mind . Anway , basically Robert Martin ( Lee Evans ) enters almost any competition going with big prizes , and his latest attempt saw him towards the finals rounds , but an elderly quite well-off family won instead , Robert obviously blames the paper because they want to make interesting reading . Robert is now on a little bit of rampage with a gun , that he is looking after for a " mate " , sticking it out to anyone who is ruining the chance to have a bit more of a better life , mostly for that " luxury holiday " he lost out on . This includes going to the competition runner Hatfield Recorder Editor ( Paddy Considine ) , and of course , the " undeserved " winners Mr . ( Frank Finlay ) and Mrs . Heath ( Barbara Leigh-Hunt ) for their tickets . While Robert and the family , wife and mother Angie ( Kathy Burke ) , her mother Anthea ( Linda Bassett ) , and the kids , young son Little Bob ( Eric Byrne ) and 14-year-old pregnant Katie ( Terri Dumont ) head off for their stolen holiday , the police are receiving many calls about a man with a gun threatening a school teacher , the competition guy , stealing pet birds , and the elderly couple trapped in the basement . As Robert and family get closer to the holiday , him and Angie seem to be drifting apart , especially when admits to cheating , and she decides that he should leave after the holiday's over . They get there , and are all satisfied , apart from Robert , who is pretty broken with the thought of leaving afterwards . In the end , after Katie has her baby with Robert's help , he is arrested ( falsely , well , apart from the gun stuff ) , a few months later he is released from prison , and it seems things go back to normal . Also starring Frank Finlay as Mr . Heath , Snatch's Lennie James as Police Constable Alex , Jack Shepherd as Detective Inspecter , Mark Strong as Doug , Lorraine Ashbourne as Lil , Tameka Empson as Mo , and a short but humorous appearance by Ray Winstone as Mr . Marvel . It is interesting to see Lee Evans playing a more human character , a family that swears almost as much as The Osbournes , a fun film with all the issues and similarity to a film by Mike Leigh , and a good mix of films Falling Down and The Pursuit of Happiness . Good !
Frantic	I can see what the critics mean about being like a Hitchcock film , it seems similar to The Lady Vanishes . Basically Dr . Richard Walker ( Harrison Ford ) is in Paris for a medical conference , and while he is the shower of their hotel room , his wife , Sondra ( Betty Buckley ) disappears . The rest of the film is obviously all about him trying to find his wife in the country he cannot speak the language of . It becomes a desperate search as there are people saying that she was kidnapped , and there may be gangs or something involved . Along the way he is accompanied by the Michelle ( French actress Emmanuelle Seigner ) who has some contacts with the kidnapper ( Yorgo Voyagis ) . Also starring John Mahoney as Williams and Jimmie Ray Weeks as Shaap . I did fall asleep or lose interest somewhere , but it wasn't exactly the greatest thriller I have seen from director Roman Polanski . Also , critics say that Seigner is a bit of a disappointment , I didn't think was that bad . Good !
Wild Things	I can agree with the critics that the most notable scenes are X-rated , and the story isn't exactly all great , but if you like that , it's one to watch . Basically high school counselor Sam Lombardo ( Matt Dillon ) is taken to court when he reported by Kelly Lanier Van Ryan ( Denise Richards , after her big break in Starship Troopers ) that he raped her . Suzie Marie Toller ( Scream's Neve Campbell ) also tells the police that he raped her , in court however , there is a big fight when she tells the court it was a lie , and she believes Kelly is doing the same . The big twist however turns out that the three of them are in an agreement in order to get a big cash settlement . Sgt . Ray Duquette ( Kevin Bacon ) is determined to prove that he knows this agreement . It gets pretty crucial when it looks like they kill Suzie , and then Kelly dies . All the big action however takes place on Sam's boat when you find out Suzie's death was faked . Also starring Theresa Russell as Sandra Van Ryan , Daphne Rubin-Vega as Det . Gloria Perez , Austin Powers ' Robert Wagner as Tom Baxter and Bill Murray as Kenneth Bowden . The great threesome with Richards ' fantastic breasts was number 21 on The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments . Good !
James May's Big Ideas	I liked the Top Gear presenter in the small documentary series 20th Century , so I decided to see what this small series was about . James May basically travels the world to find the newest forms of transport , robot technology and energy sources . The forms of travel episode sees hovering crafts , jet packs , a near flying saucer and a mini helicopter . The robots episode ( the best one ) sees a Disneyland walking robot ( with slanted legs to stop it falling ) , a robot looking like the man who created " him " , a robot who can identify objects with it's own memory system , and a 3-D imaging system where a replica James is made . And the energy episode sees solar panels on a car and outside , wind turbines , and a high heat machine making temperature like the sun , from pure air , easily burning a hot dog and melting steel . An interesting small series with a likable presenter and some good looking future technology . Good !
Lady and the Tramp	I cannot remember a single thing that happens in the film , but it has quality animation . However , I do remember two scenes , and the basic plot . A posh Lady dog falls in love with a Tramp dog , that's it . Anyway , the two scenes I remember are the Siamese cats scene , where they sing about themselves and get Lady into trouble , and then obviously , the second scene is the spaghetti scene . That is probably the scene that everyone would remember or know about even if they haven't seen it . I have not seen it for years , and I want to just to see why so many people warm to it . It was nominated the BAFTA for Best Animated Film . It was number 95 on 100 Years , 100 Passions , and it was number 75 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons . Good , as far as I remember !
Das Boot ( The Boat )	I have not seen many Second World War films seen from the point of view of the German Nazis , and this is a particular film doing exactly that , from Oscar nominated director Wolfgang Petersen ( The NeverEnding Story , In the Line of Fire , Air Force One ) . Set in 1942 , the film sees a German submarine fleet engaged in the " Battle of the Atlantic " to destroy English shipping . German U-Boats have taken heavy losses , and the particular boat is seen trying to accomplish impossible and questionable missions . Towards the end , after being badly hit , there is desperation to reach the surface and get back home , which they do manage , but the film ends with our " heroes " being bombed at port . Starring Jürgen Prochnow as Capt . Lt . Henrich Lehmann-Willenbrock , Herbert Grönemeyer as Lt . Werner / Correspondent Herbert Grönemeyer , Klaus Wennemann as Chief Engineer Fritz Grade , Hubertus Bengsch as 1st Lieutenant / Number One , Martin Semmelrogge as 2nd Lieutenant , Bernd Tauber as Chief Quartermaster-Navigator Kriechbaum , Erwin Leder as Johann , Martin May as Ullman , Heinz Höenig as Hinrich , Uwe Ochsenknecht as Chief Bosun and Claude-Oliver Rudolph as Ario . The fact that you are almost rooting for Germans to survive is quite interesting , the claustrophobia is quite effective , and the moments with explosions , especially the ending , are good viewing . The West German language film is available in the original two and half hour version , the three and half hour director's cut , and there's even the four hours and fifty-three minute uncut version . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Cinematography , Best Sound Effects Editing , Best Film Editing , Best Sound and Best Writing , Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium , it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Foreign Language Film , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Foreign Film . It was number 17 on The 100 Greatest War Films . Good !
The Thin Red Line	It is called a very good war film , but I think I only wanted to see it for the amount of good stars appearing in it . By the way , The Thin Red Line is a term used in the war for something . To be honest , I was interested in what the battle was , just the battles themselves , and who was in them . Starring , in alphabetical order , The Pianist's Adrien Brody as Cpl . Fife , James Caviezel as Pvt . Witt , Ben Chaplin as Pvt . Bell , George Clooney as Capt . Bosche , John Cusack as Capt . Gaff , Woody Harrelson as Sgt . Keck , Thomas Jane as Pvt . Ash , Elias Koteas as Capt . Staros , Jared Leto as 2nd Lt . Whyte , Tim Blake Nelson as Pvt . Tills , Nick Nolte as Lt . Col . Tall , The Lord of the Rings ' Miranda Otto as Marty Bell , Sean Penn as 1st Sgt . Welsh , John C . Reilly as Sgt . Storm , Terminator 3's Nick Stahl as Pvt . 1cl Beade and John Travolta as Brig . Gen . Quintard . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Cinematography , Best Director for Terrence Malick , Best Film Editing , Best Music for Hans Zimmer , Best Sound , Best Writing , Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium ( also for Malick ) and Best Picture . It was number 16 on The 100 Greatest War Films . Good , in my opinion !
Tea with Mussolini	In some ways this seems like a film about art , but it is a semi-autobiographical tale from the early life of director Franco Zeffirelli . An illegitimate child ( Charlie Lucas as a boy , Baird Wallace as the teen ) is raised by the English Mary Wallace ( 101 Dalmatians ' Dame Joan Plowright ) after his mother died . Before World War II , Fascist Italy , part of an English community in Florence presided over by a diplomat's widow , Lady Hester Random ( BAFTA winning Dame Maggie Smith ) . A wealthy American collector , Elsa Morganthal Strauss-Armistan ( Cher ) of modern art who visits these " Scorpioni " on occasion . Also starring Dame Judi Dench as Arabella and Lily Tomlin as Georgie Rockwell . I don't remember all of what happens , but there quite a few sentimental moments that catches your attention . It was nominated the BAFTA for Best Costume Design . Good !
Porn with Attitude	The only thing I don't understand about this programme , is it meant to be focusing mainly on the pornography , or the hip hop music industry . It was basically a documentary showing the cross between hip hop and hardcore porn industry , i . e . hip hop videos using this money making tool and industry , and hip hop artists themselves making and becoming part of it ( not literally , but directing it ) . Footage includes the videos of Snoop Dogg and Sir-Mix-A lot , but in all honesty , it was the pornography footage that appealed to me . There wasn't as much as I'd expected from the hardcore aspect , it blurred quite a lot , but there were enough big asses and tits to keep me watching . Good !
Shrek the Third	The first two films were pecked with plenty of gags and wit for all the family , but I have to say this second sequel , you can tell they are struggling to keep it fresh and witty , but it is still a fun film . Basically King Harold ( John Cleese ) , now a toad has fallen ill , and till he gets better Shrek ( Mike Myers ) and Princess Fiona ( Cameron Diaz ) have to take care of all his jobs , e . g . knighting people , launching ships and dressing like royals , all going disastrously wrong . Before the King dies he mentions the only other person besides Shrek suitable to run the kingdom , Arthur ( Justin Timberlake ) in Worcestershire . So while Shrek , Donkey ( Eddie Murphy ) and Puss in Boots ( Antonio Banderas ) set off to go and find him , a vengeful Prince Charming ( Rupert Everett ) and many fairytale villains are storming the kingdom to get their happily ever after that was taken from them . Also starring Julie Andrews as Queen Lillian , Eric Idle as Merlin , Cody Cameron as Pinocchio and others , Larry King as Doris ( Jonathan Ross replaced him in Shrek 2 ) , Cheri Oteri as Belle , Maya Rudolph as Rapunzel , Amy Sedaris as Cinderella and Conrad Vernon as Gingerbread Man and others . The good jokes include the King that won't die ( three times ) , the song Live and Let Die for the funeral , the baby nightmare ( including the puking ) , and a great song at the end by Murphy and Banderas , " Thank Yout ( for Letting Me Be Myself ) " , not as good as the previous two , but there is still fun to be had . Good !
Sicko	When I heard about this film , I got confused , because I thought it was about American waste disposal , but seeing this documentary about the American health care system is even better , from director Michael Moore . He basically showed us some examples of patients that had been dismissed treatment because of glitches in their medical history , they are unable to pay for the bills , or have no health / life insurance , and he also shows the consequences of these procedures . The documentary also shows some people responsible for making and carrying out these American procedures , and their consequences . But he is not just focusing on the American health service , he also came to Britain to see out free service help for the sick and needy . I hate to admit this , but I didn't realise , with the help of the NHS , that care and operations to treat , care and maybe even save a life is free , only unnecessary stuff like for example , a tit job , needs payment . France and Cuba are also focused as having either free service or great health service and facilities , even the secret and protected Guantanimo Bay is a target for Moore to help some friends who need medical attention , but can't get it in America . A good documentary that definitely shows America isn't all perfect , and they boast as the wealthiest nation in the world , well , here's a reason why . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Documentary , Features . Good !
Old Bear Stories	Old Bear Stories , when I was young , used to be a small highlight of my television childhood . Every episode there was something new , funny or interesting happening to the characters . Anton Rodgers as Narrator and voices of the characters was just perfect . Some of the very good characters were obviously Old Bear himself . There was also Little Bear with his big red trousers , Duck . My favourite though was the sometimes mischievous and lovable Rabbit . The first episode I remember is when Little Bear tries to get into the attic to explore it . But one of the funniest and most lovable episode was when Rabbit pretended to have Chicken Pox when he didn't want to paint the gate . Very good for kids !
Still Crazy	If you liked This Is Spinal Tap , then you will love this rockumentary focusing on a fake band reunion . Years when they had success it was shaken by a lighting bolt hitting their gig , and recently a member of the band disappearing , maybe dead . Basically one of the members of the band , Strange Fruit , has the idea , years later , to bring everyone back together for a reunion concert . The members include Tony Costello ( The Crying Game's Stephen Rea , Hughie ( Billy Connolly ) , Les Wickes ( Jimmy Nail ) , David ' Beano ' Baggot ( Timothy Spall ) , Ray Simms ( Bill Nighy ) and Brian Lovell ( Bruce Robinson ) , by the way , one of them is the one they suspected was dead . Personally , I preferred this to This Is Spinal Tap , and not just because of an all-star cast , but there was more laughs and more unique moments . Also starring Juliet Aubrey as Karen Knowles , Helena Bergström as Astrid Simms , Hans Matheson as Luke Shand , Rachael Stirling as Clare Knowles , Phil Daniels as Neil Gaydon , Zoë Ball and Corrie's Tricky Dicky Brian Capron as Senior Executive . It was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Comedy / Musical and Best Song for " The Flame Still Burns " . Good !
Mission : Impossible	I have seen one or two pretty good roles by Tom Cruise , and I suppose this could be one of them . This is a film with some action , some hacking , some intelligence and directed pretty well from director Brian De Palma ( Scarface , The Untouchables ) . Basically Cruise is a secret agent working for an unknown agency , and they do lots of cool secret stuff to find stuff , and kind of stop the bad guys . Unfortunately , it looks like Ethan Hunt ( Cruise ) and his team were found out , and his group apart from him are dead . Now he is trying to get loads of contacts to help him find the truth , while at the same time help them , e . g . steal access codes in a list ( the best part ) . Also starring Jon Voight as Jim Phelps , Emmanuelle Béart as Claire Phelps , Jean Reno as Franz Krieger , Ving Rhames as Luther Stickell , Kristin Scott Thomas as Sarah Davies and Vanessa Redgrave as Max . Tom Cruise was number 32 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , he was number 25 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols , and he was number 81 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons . Good !
Spider-Man 3	I was looking forward to this sequel that made a record breaking gross on it's opening day , beating Pirates of the Caribbean 2's record , and it was quite satisfactory . Basically , Peter Parker ( Tobey Maguire ) and Mary Jane Watson ( Kirsten Dunst ) are together , since she now knows he is web swinging super hero Spider-Man , and he is happy both to be with her and have public cheering and supporting him . But one day , his job as Spidey's photographer is being threatened by rival Eddie Brock ( Topher Grace ) , hoping to be his replacement . Meanwhile , escaped criminal Flint Marko ( George of the Jungle's Thomas Haden Church ) gets caught in a experiment that places his molecules in sand , and he is now Sandman and can transform into anything he wants . But what Peter also finds out about him , is that he was responsible for the death of Uncle Ben ( Cliff Robertson ) ( accidently , he later finds out ) . Also , one night a tiny meteor hits the ground , and from it comes out a mysterious black alien substance that will eventually transform Spidey's suit , and Peter's personality ( if he has it on underneath his clothes ) , this becomes a concern for Mary Jane . Also , Harry Osborn ( James Franco ) recently attempted to become the new Green Goblin , after his father Norman ( a brief Willem Dafoe ) , and he has light amnesia , but he'll get it back and rethink his Dad's past . Finally , when Peter sees the evil of the black suit , he rips it and the substance off his body , and passes it to rival Eddie , who turns into ( popular Spidey villain ) Venom ( but no-one actually calls him that in the film ) . Also starring Bryce Dallas Howard as Gwen Stacy , Rosemary Harris as May Parker , J . K . Simmons as J . Jonah Jameson , James Cromwell as Captain Stacy , Happiness's Dylan Baker as Dr . Curt Connors , Bill Nunn as Joseph ' Robbie ' Robertson , Bruce Campbell as Maître d ' , Ted Raimi ( Sam's brother ) as Hoffman and a more noticeable cameo by Marvel Comics man Stan Lee . Eventually , Venom is defeated , Sandman blows away ( he should have stayed washed away ) , and Harry / New Goblin dies , but will Peter and Mary Jane get engaged ? The film may be longer than the other two , and the story may be overloaded and plodding , but the humour and even better special effects ( particularly for Sandman ) can't be faulted . Good !
Muppet Treasure Island	For a Muppet film this isn't too bad , but I saw it on TV , and seems just the tiniest bit childish , unlike most of the other Muppet films . Just like Muppet Christmas Carol , they don't mess with the story , apart from having Muppets and the ending . Anyway , basically Jim Hawkins and his two friends Gonzo ( Dave Goelz ) and Rizzo the Rat ( Steve Whitmire ) want to explore . When they are given a treasure map , obviously they get a ship , captain and crew to find this island with treasure . Captain Smollet , or Kermit the Frog ( Whitmire ) , Fozzie ( Frank Oz ) , Animal ( Oz ) and Sam the Eagle ( Oz ) accompany them . Also starring Tim Curry as Long John Silver , Billy Connolly as Billy Bones and Jennifer Saunders as Mrs . Bluberidge . The Muppets were number 47 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons . Good !
X-Men	If you are a fan of the popular comics about the mutant super heroes , then you'll love this movie . It is mainly focused on Logan / Wolverine ( Hugh Jackman ) who meets outcast mutant Rogue / Marie D'Ancanto ( The Piano's Anna Paquin ) and they both go to a secret place which has all young and old mutants studying , and of course , the headquarters of The X-Men . Patrick Stewart plays Professor Charles Xavier , the commander of The X-Men , he believes that Rogue and Wolverine can be part of the team , along with Jean Grey ( GoldenEye's Famke Janssen ) , Scott Summers / Cyclops ( James Marsden ) , Ororo Munroe / Storm ( Halle Berry ) . Meanwhile , the evil Magneto ( Sir Ian McKellen ) along with Toad ( Ray Park ) , Sabretooth ( Tyler Mane ) and the gorgeous Mystique ( Rebecca Romijn ) want to find Wolverine and make him part of his team . Personally , the second film's better . Good !
Star Wars Episode I : The Phantom Menace	After the unexpected success of the three original films , George Lucas knew that one day he would have to make the prequels ( the old films being episodes IV , V and VI ) . So this is the first of the new prequels leading to the story of how Anakin Skywalker became Lord Darth Vader . Basically Jedi Knights Qui-Gon Jinn ( Liam Neeson ) and his apprentice Obi-Won Kenobi ( Ewan McGregor ) are trying to restore some order in the galaxy after the villains have started a battle , because of taxation . Along the journey they help Queen Padmé Naberrie Amidala ( Natalie Portman ) , meet 10-year-old Anakin ( Jake Lloyd ) who wins a pod race for them to get money to fix their ship , have many political discussions both about the war and Anakin's future , and have a war with the Gungans , droid armies and fighter pilots . Also starring Pernilla August as Shmi Skywalker , The Muppets ' Frank Oz ( aka Miss Piggy and Fozzie Bear ) as Yoda ( still a puppet , till the next two ) , Ian McDiarmid as Senator Palpatine / Darth Sidius , Ray Park as Darth Maul , Ahmed Best as Jar Jar Binks , Anthony Daniels as an uncovered C-3PO , Kenny Baker as R2-D2 , Terence Stamp as Supreme Chancellor Valorum , Brian Blessed as Boss Nass , Celia Imrie as Fighter Pilot Bravo 5 , Samuel L . Jackson as Mace Windu and Keira Knightley as Sabé . This along with the other two are never going to be as good for story , dialogue ( which is ridiculous ) or ' magic ' as the originals , but the special effects are never disappointing . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Sound Effects Editing , Best Visual Effects and Best Sound , and it was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Special Visual Effects and Best Sound . Star Wars was number 24 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons , and the film was number 28 on The Ultimate Film . Good !
Final Destination	" In death there are no accidents , no coincidences , no mishaps , and no escapes ! " One of the creators of the X Files has created a very creepy work of genius in a story about fate . Alex Browning ( Devon Sawa ) is going on a plane to France with a load of classmates and teachers . Before take off he has a dream of the plane exploding . When he wakes up some of the things that happen in the dream happen again . He and some other class members : Clear Rivers ( Ali Larter ) , Carter Horton ( Kerr Smith ) , Ms . Valerie Lewton ( Kristen Cloke ) , Billy Hitchcock ( American Pie's Seann William Scott ) , Tod Waggner ( Chad E . Donella ) and Terry Chaney ( Amanda Detmer ) get off the plane because of his fear , and when the plane takes off without those that got off , it does explode ! He had a premonition ! After the remembrance , its not long till the survivors start to die one-by-one . Alex is convinced that it is Death ( The Grim Reaper ) hunting them down because they cheated death . Now he and the other survivors ( eventually ) are trying everything they can to survive and cheat death again . Also starring Daniel Roebuck as Agent Weine and Roger Guenveur Smith as Agent Schreck , with an appearance by Tony Todd , better known as the Candyman , as the mortician William Bludworth . It was number 46 on The 100 Greatest Scary Moments . Good !
The Quick and the Dead	For a western film from director Sam Raimi ( The Evil Dead , Spider-Man ) , this is quite good . Sharon Stone plays Ellen " The Lady " , a female cowboy visiting the town called Redemption for a particular reason . Later on , you find out she accidentally killed her father , and she can think of only one person to blame for making her do it , the horrible John Herod ( Gene Hackman ) . Herod is a cowboy who is best known as never losing any showdowns when one is set , and this is the main theme of the film besides her revenge , a shooting competition . Also in the competition are prisoner Cort ( Russell Crowe ) , who originally said he won't fight , and Herrod's son , Fee " The Kid " ( Leonardo DiCaprio ) , who has some of the fastest hands in the west . Also starring Saw's Tobin Bell as Dog Kelly , Roberts Blossom as Doc Wallace , Kevin Conway as Eugene Dred , Volcano's Keith David as Sgt . Clay Cantrell , Lance Henriksen as Ace Hanlon , Batman's Pat Hingle as Horace and Gary Sinise as The Marshal . The cast is good , the action is cool , and the western genre seems to still create watchable films like this . Good !
What Lies Beneath	Director Robert Zemeckis ( Back to the Future , Forrest Gump ) proves himself a versatile director with this spooky supernatural thriller . Basically retired concert cellist Claire Spencer ( Michelle Pfeiffer ) was involved in a car accident , and now a year on she has to go through sending her daughter Caitlin Spencer ( Katharine Towne ) to college . Now Claire is convinced she can hear voices , and suspects her quite new neighbour of murder , and Claire's husband , university research scientist Dr . Norman Spencer ( Harrison Ford ) is very concerned for her . The suspected murder of the neighbour , Mary Feur ( The Lord of the Rings ' Miranda Otto ) by husband Warren ( James Remar ) is cleared up , but Claire is still sure that a spirit is trying to tell her something . She sees the woman's face in the bath , and tells a little bit more to shrink Dr . Drayton ( Joe Morton ) , and eventually she finds a name , based on some initials she found . It turns out husband Norman knew this girl that disappeared , he had an affair with her , and unfortunately for Claire , he plans her to be his next victim , drowning her while she is still from breathing chloroform . The last scenes of Claire trying to escape ( after her body is back to normal ) , and the car plunges into the lake , with Norman going down with it , because of the body of the dead girl grabbing him , is very interesting . Also starring Diana Scarwid as Jody and Amber Valletta as Madison Elizabeth Frank . The spooky moments all add the mystery , Pfeiffer is convincing as the traumatised , Ford drops his lovable action hero persona completely to become a sinister and quite unexpected villain , definitely worth a look . If you have Scary Movie 2 , then you would recognise the spoof of the " I think she's starting to suspect something " moment , and in the deleted scenes , the still in the bath sequence . Good !
Girl with a Pearl Earring	When I heard about it I thought it was a traditional modern day love story , I had no idea it was a period costume drama , but that didn't make any difference . Based on a work of fiction by Tracy Chevalier , this tells a story of events surrounding the creation of the painting " Girl with a Pearl Earring " by 17th century Dutch master Johannes Vermeer . It is speculated that the little known girl in the painting is a maid that lived with Vermeer , so the film goes along with that idea . Basically Griet ( BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Scarlett Johansson ) is a maid in the house of Vermeer ( Colin Firth ) . His wealthy patron and sole means of support , Pieter Van Ruijven ( Tom Wilkinson ) commissions him to paint Griet so that he can have her before it's finished . She must secretly pose for the painting without Vermeer's wife finding out , avoiding Van Ruijven's grasp , and protecting herself from everyone gossipping . Also starring BAFTA nominated Judy Parfitt as Maria Thins , Cillian Murphy as Pieter , Essie Davis as Catharina Bolnes Vermeer , Joanna Scanlan as Tanneke , Alakina Mann as Cornelia Vermeer , Chris McHallem as Griet's Father , Gabrielle Reidy as Griet's Mother and Anna Popplewell as Maertge . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Best Cinematography and Best Costume Design , it was nominated the BAFTAs for the Alexander Korda Award for Best British Film , the Anthony Asquith Award for Film Music for Alexandre Desplat , Best Cinematography , Best Costume Design , Best Make Up / Hair , Best Production Design , Best Adapted Screenplay and the Carl Foreman Award for the Most Promising Newcomer for Peter Webber ( director ) , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Original Score . Good !
Panic Room	From director David Fincher ( Alien³ , Se7en , Fight Club ) this is a chilling , suspenseful and quite gripping film about two people's struggle to get out of a room and the other people's struggle to get in . Meg Altman ( Jodie Foster ) and her daughter Sarah ( Kristen Stewart ) have moved into a large new house with everything they need , an elevator , a lot of space , and what appears to be like a safe . This safe was known as the Panic Room to the previous owners , and right they were . Just a couple of days later some criminals lead by Burnham ( the great Forest Whitaker ) break into the house and have Meg and Sarah locking themselves in the Panic Room . Now they are trying everything they can to get help , and the criminals are trying everything they can to get to the Panic Room , for the money . It does slow slightly towards the concluding scenes , when Foster is out the Panic Room , but it is still a cool film . Good !
Thunderball	I would have thought that Goldfinger was always the most popular Bond film , but in fact this is the Bond film with a cinema record of nearly 20 million people . This is the fourth film in the collection , and also for Sir Sean Connery as James Bond . Basically a fighter jet containing some nuclear MOS type bombs has crashed in the ocean , on purpose and the bad guys of SPECTRE take these bombs to threaten against Britain and America . Bond is assigned to find any information concerning the bombs . He is accompanied along the way by the quite pretty Dominique ' Domino ' Derval ( Claudine Auger ) . He also makes an enemy of Emilio Largo ( Adolfo Celi ) , also known as SPECTRE # 2 . There are some good moments out of the water , but most of it is underwater battles and exploration . Also starring Luciana Paluzzi as Fiona Volpe , Rik Van Nutter as Felix Leiter , Guy Doleman as Count Lippe , Molly Peters as Patricia Fearing , Martine Beswick as Paula Caplan , Bernard Lee as M , Desmond Llewelyn as Q and Lois Maxwell as Miss Moneypenny . It won the Oscar for Best Special Visual Effects . James Bond was number 3 on 100 Years , 100 Heroes & Villains , he was number 21 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols , and he was number 21 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons , Sir Sean Connery was number 8 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , and he was number 3 on The 50 Greatest British Actors , the film was number 18 on James Bond's Greatest Hits for Sir Tom Jones's title song , and it was number 18 on The Ultimate Film . Good !
Inside I'm Dancing	I first saw him in The Chronicles of Narnia : The Lion , the Witch and the Wardrobe as Mr . Tumnus , the Faun , but this is a much better role for James McAvoy . Basically Rory O'Shea ( McAvoy ) is a wheelchair bound Scottish cool boy , he is sent to a disabled home to live in . There he meets his best friend , misunderstood when talking , Michael Connolly ( a brilliant Steven Robertson ) . He may be retarded , but he does have a good life , and Rory can understand him . After a while they both leave the home , and buy their own flat , accompanied by new helper and carer Alice ( Anna Healy ) . Also starring Alan King as Tommy ; Brenda Fricker as Eileen and Ruth McCabe as Annie . I think this is a really good drama to show both the struggle , and the rewards of being disabled , or in a wheelchair . James McAvoy definitely deserved the BAFTA for Best Rising Star . Very good !
Bend of the River	For some reason I thought I had seen this film , but I didn't recognise it , so I " refamiliarised " myself with this western , from director Anthony Mann ( Winchester ' 73 , The Naked Spur , The Man from Laramie ) . Basically Glyn McLyntock ( James Stewart ) is trying to hide a past , and with former partner Emerson Cole ( Arthur Kennedy ) , they lead a wagon-train load of people and supplies from Missouri to Oregon . They set up a home in Portland for a little while , and are making sure not to let the supplies fall into officials ' hands . They continue , travelling over mountain and up river , and Glyn is not going to be swayed by gold miners . There is the point when the bad guys come along to try and get their stuff , and Emerson it turns out is one of them , so it is all up to Glyn to save the people and the supplies and deliver them safely . Also starring young little known Rock Hudson as Trey Wilson , Julie Adams as Laura Baile , Lori Nelson as Marjie Baile , Jay C . Flippen as Jeremy Baile , Stepin Fetchit as Adam , Harry Morgan as Shorty , Chubby Johnson as Cap'n Mello , Howard Petrie as Tom Hendricks , Frances Bavier as Mrs . Prentiss , Jack Lambert as Red , Royal Dano as Long Tom , Frank Chase as Wasco and Cliff Lyons as Willie . I will admit I didn't pay full attention to this film ( may that is why I can't see myself giving it ) , but from I did watch , Stewart gives a very good performance , and there are some good action sequences , maybe another viewing and I'll give it an extra star . Good !
It's a Mystery	When I was younger , and when it was sometimes repeated this was and kind-of still is one of the best and most mysterious kids programmes I know . Neil Buchanan from Art Attack hosts with a female host . Basically they try to solve mysteries of the world . These include aliens and UFOs , the Bermuder Triangle , vampires , disappearing houses , ghosts and many more weird and sometimes creepy mysteries . Every question was answered either with Solved or Unsolved . I personally think they did more unsolved mysteries than solved . Neil Buchanan was really good at adding slight humour and of course mystery to the questions and facts . Good !
Pete Burns's Cosmetic Surgery Nightmares	I was not a fan of him in Celebrity Big Brother because so rude and unpleasant at times , but this programme showed that he can be okay . Pete Burns hosted this documentary with a quarter of it about his own cosmetic surgery nightmares , and three others . The first quarter had the story of Pete trying to look like a woman , and the consequences of his surgery from his body not coping , e . g . his new lips leaked puss . The three guests he brought on , all women , had similar occurrences of surgery complications and incidences . One woman had problems with her new breasts when it started to puss ; one had problems with her tummy tuck when her chest suddenly had a hole in it ; but one of the most shocking ones was the woman who had a face lift , and she looked like she had some sort of skin eating disease around her mouth . I personally would not get any type of surgery , part from maybe a smaller ear and some moles , but apart from that , I wouldn't do it unless it was really necessary or you are desperate to look better . Just remember the possible consequences of your actions . Good !
Red Eye	From director Wes Craven ( Scream ) , this thriller film lasting 1 hour 15 minutes may seem a bit short , but actually , it doesn't need to be any longer . Basically Lisa Reisert ( Mean Girls ' Rachel McAdams ) is a hotel receptionist who is flying back to her job in Miami after going to her grandmother's funeral in Dallas , and she has a phobia of flying . The flight is delayed by bad weather , so she now has a seat on the Red Eye , and she meets an intriguing guy twice while waiting , Jackson Rippner ( 28 Days Later's Cillian Murphy ) . After he has left her , she boards her plane , and coincidently has a seat next to him ! Of course , after the plane has taken off , Jackson explains to her that he has hired a killer to wait outside the door of her Dad , Joe ( Brian Cox ) , and this man will kill him unless Lisa does what Jackson says . The head of Homeland Security , Charles Keefe ( Jack Scalia ) is arriving at the hotel she works at , and Jackson wants Lisa to call the hotel and have him moved to a certain room , where terrorists are set to assassinate him at a certain time . On the plane , Lisa tries one or two attempts trying to get help and trick him , but she eventually makes her escape when the plane lands , and , well , everyone that needs to be saved is . Also starring Ugly Betty's Jayma Mays as Cynthia , Robert Pine as Bob Taylor , Laura Johnson as Blonde Woman , Max Kasch as Headphone Kid , Brittany Oaks as Rebecca , Tina Anderson as Rebecca's Mom and Angela Paton as Nice Lady . McAdams does alright as the forced victim , Murphy is certainly chilling as the killer passenger , and Craven's direction is pretty good too , definitely worth a go . Good !
AVP : Alien Vs . Predator	If you liked the space thriller with Sigourney Weaver , or the jungle thriller with Arnold Schwarzenegger , then you will love it when the creatures from the film do battle with each other , from director Paul W . S . Anderson ( Resident Evil ) . It is 2004 , and a private satellite , owned by billionaire Charles Bishop Weyland ( Lance Henriksen ) , discovers an unidentified heat source in Antarctica , coming from a pyramid deep beneath the ice . So he sends a team of top-of-the-line archaeologists and engineers to go with him and explore , these include Alexa Woods ( Blade's Sanaa Lathan ) , Sebastian De Rosa ( Raoul Bova ) , Graeme Miller ( Trainspotting's Ewen Bremner ) and Maxwell Stafford ( Colin Salmon ) . Once there , through taking some unknown weapons , they trigger a chain reaction closing many of the doors , and waking the frozen Alien mother who lays the eggs containing face huggers that lay new Aliens in the humans . Meanwhile , the Predator ship has landed and three of the humanoid warriors have entered the pyramid to destroy the Aliens . Through inscriptions on the walls , they find out that these creatures used to rule the human race during the dawn of man , and the Predators had to prove themselves worthy by fighting the Aliens , but it ended when one of them set of a bomb to kill all in the area , this new battle is basically another chance . The special effects never fail , some familiar faces are good , and the action is cool , obviously not as good as the first time you saw the Aliens and Predators , but still a cool film . Good !
A Clockwork Orange	Director Stanley Kubrick was one of the greatest , and even though this was banned by the director himself , till his death in 1999 ( just after Eyes Wide Shut ) , this is still not a bad film , but more especially for students . It tells a dark story about a psychopathic gang leader of raping , beating and killing thugs . This young gang leader , Alex De Large ( Golden Globe nominated Malcolm McDowell ) loves Beethoven , loves raping and having sex with women , takes drugs and kills for fun . One day he is found out for his terrible crimes and is sent to Rehab . After many months of torturous experiments , he is apparently cured . It's only when he is haunted by his previous crimes that he cannot stand what he has become . In the end , he is obviously cured properly and back to his evil self . This film , along with Natural Born Killers , has been criticised for controversially glamorising violence , in this case , making it look fun , and easy to copy ( which it was ) . A disturbing film with some drugs , sex , rape , violence , bad language and a giant penis . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Director , Best Film Editing , Best Writing , Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium and Best Picture , and it was nominated BAFTAs for Best Art Direction , Best Cinematography , Best Direction , Best Film Editing , Best Screenplay , Best Sound Track and Best Film , and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Director and Best Motion Picture - Drama . Alex De Large was number 12 on 100 Years , 100 Heroes & Villains , the film was number 21 on 100 Years , 100 Thrills , it was number 54 on The Ultimate Film , and it was number 7 on The 50 Greatest British Films . Good !
Dangerous Liaisons	An unusual film filled with fake passion and two very good deceivers doing something just a bit odd , from director Stephen Frears ( Mrs . Henderson Presents , The Queen ) . Oscar and BAFTA nominated Glenn Close plays Marquise Isabelle De Merteuil and John Malkovich plays Vicomte Sébastien De Valmont . These two for some reason like to deceive people into thinking that they love them , probably for the sex or to break up Close's family so they can be together . I can't remember many of Close's partners , but Malkovich " falls " for BAFTA winning , and Oscar nominated Michelle Pfeiffer as Madame Marie De Tourvel and Uma Thurman as Cécile De Volanges . Also starring Keanu Reeves as some gay like guy called Le Chevalier Raphael Danceny . An interesting idea , I just don't know why they enjoyed deceiving people to like / love them . It won the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Best Costume Design and Best Writing , Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium , and it was nominated for Best Music for George Fenton and Best Picture , and it won the BAFTA for Best Adapted Screenplay , and it was nominated for Best Cinematography , Best Costume Design , Best Direction for Stephen Frears ( Mrs . Henderson Presents , The Queen ) , Best Editing , Best Make Up Artist , Best Original Film Score and Best Production Design . Uma Thurman was number 95 , and John Malkovich was number 59 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , and Malkovich was number 53 , and Thurman number 15 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols , and the film was number 30 on The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments . Good !
American Dreamz	Based on the success of talent shows such as Pop Idol and The X Factor , the creators of American Pie and About a Boy took the opportunity to create a film about these type of shows . Hugh Grant as Martin Tweed is the Simon Cowell figure , and he is both excited and annoyed that he is presenting another series of the successful American Dreamz . He is looking for more freaks , but also real talent , and he finds contestants Omer Obeidi ( Sam Golzari ) , who secretly had a plan to kill the guest judge for the final show , President Staton ( Dennis Quaid ) , and the beautiful Sally Kendoo ( Mandy Moore ) , a girl with a modern life with her enthusiastic mother , Mrs . Kendoo ( American Pie's Jennifer Coolidge ) and boyfriend , William Williams ( American Pie's Chris Klein ) . Also starring Willem Dafoe as Chief of Staff , Marcia Gay Harden as First Lady , American Pie's John Cho as Ittles , Trey Parker as a Show Contestant and a brief Carmen Electra . I didn't expect the ending it had , but the rest of the film is quite fun . Good !
Last Orders	From Fred Schepisi , director of Roxanne and Fierce Creatures , this is quite a good drama . Basically it is all about the friends of Jack Dodds who have been given the difficult " last orders " of scattering his ashes to the sea . These friends , Vic Tucker ( Tom Courtenay ) , Lenny ' Len ' ( David Hemmings ) , Ray ' Raysie ' Johnson ( Bob Hoskins ) and ( I think ) Vince ' Vincey ' Dodds ( Ray Winstone ) on the journey remember the good times with their friend as butcher and pub mate . Sir Michael Caine as Jack in the flashbacks is the nice guy with a good personality . I cannot remember much of what happens , besides the scattering , and the fact that Caine and Hoskins are in it , but it is definitely worth seeing . Also starring Dame Helen Mirren as Amy Dodds . Good !
Moonwalker	I can't remember the entire film , but this film was obviously made during the excellent success of one of the greatest pop sensations ever . Michael Jackson as Michael ( himself ) , in this film is cool , slick and obviously great at singing and dancing . This is basically a fantasy film where some guys , lead by Joe Pesci as Mr . Big , are trying to ( for some reason I don't know yet ) stop him . Maybe it's something about his child molestation charges ( giggle ) . But basically this film features all of Jackson's greatest and most successful songs including Billie Jean . Look out for an appearance by Mick Jagger . Very good , as far as I can remember !
Rude Tube	YouTube has established itself as the most used video sharing site in the world since it was created in 2005 , anyone can put on a video , and anyone and anything can be the star , and this countdown shows us the 50 most popular videos growing by the number of views , presented by Balls of Steel star Alex Zane , and with interviews by some of the stars themselves . Videos on the list include the world record for cup stacking , fanny farting , dog bites own leg , monkey smells but then faints , dog shags cat , mad hair wife , rap contest entry , Steve Ballmer at Microsoft convention , the Reh Dogg - " Why Must I Cry ? " music video , karate baby , skateboarding dog ( who in appeared in the film Lords of Dogtown ) , ninja wimps , the Dirty Dancing wedding , Pam & Tommy Lee - Hardcore & Uncensored , 1 Night in Paris ( Hilton ) , Janice It Hurts , piano playing cat , Star Wars kid , The Quad Squad - 4 laughing babies , The Backdorn Boys lip syncing " I Want It That Way " , break dance baby , Adhisaya Piravi - Pigmi Dance , Where The Hell Is Matt ? - Matt Harding dancing badly around the world , Japanese Prisoners doing Thriller , Gary Brolma - The Numa Numa Song , Tay Zonday - " Chocolate Rain " , sneezing panda , robot dance - Dave Burnell , Chris Crocker - Leave Britney , and the most popular , with over 80 , 000 , 000 views and growing , The Evolution of Dance starring Judson Laipply . Very good !
Roger Dodger	This film did start pretty boring and I didn't really understand what the big deal was , apart from the meaning of the title , but as it went on I found what a good film it is . Basically Roger " Roger Dodger " Swanson ( Campbell Scott ) has lost his lover and job from Joyce ( Isabella Rossellini ) , but he is still and smooth-talking towards friends , and especially women . His evening does change though when he is paid a surprise visit by his nephew Nick ( Cursed's Jesse Eisenberg ) . Hoping to settle , once and for all , the issue of his virginity , Nick begs Roger to school him in the art of seducing women . He takes him to the three possible places to get his chance , an adults bar where he and Roger chat up Andrea ( Showgirls ' Elizabeth Berkley ) and Sophie ( Jennifer Beals ) , a friend's party with drunk guests , and a secret escort place . Nick does not lose his virginity , but when he leaves Roger certainly needs to learn what women , and men , really want . Very good !
Animal Farm	It was nominated for the BAFTA award for Best Animated Films , and this great cartoon film based on the famous book by Orson Welles is still popular . Basically Manor Farm run by the nasty Mr . Jones is overrun by animals when they make Jones run away . It then becomes Animal Farm , and Snowball the pig is leader for a while . He makes some farm rules , and life seems quite good for a while . Unfortunately the horrible grumpy Napoleon gets greedy and gets some dogs to hunt down Snowball so he can take over . Eventually , all the pigs become so greedy with power over other animals , that they basically become the enemy they got rid of , humans . They did change the ending to have some hope , but it would have been interesting to see this ending as it was in the book . Narrated by Gordon Heath and all animal voices by Maurice Denham . It was number 92 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons . Very good !
Batman Begins	The first of the Batman films directed by Tim Burton is just the best one . Why did Memento and Insomnia director Chrsitopher Nolan have to start the whole story from scratch ? He shows a new version of Wayne's parents murder , and how he became the Caped Crusader . Christian Bale as Bruce Wayne and Batman is very good for being mysterious and rough in places . He is also very good at being suave and posh . The villains in this one are Liam Neeson as Ducard , he works for Ra's Al Ghul , unless he is him . There is also Cillian Murphy as the terrifying Scarecrow , Dr . Jonathan Crane . Also starring Michael Caine as Alfred , Katie Holmes as Rachel Dawes , Gary Oldman as Jim Gordon and Morgan Freeman as Lucius Fox . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Cinematography , and it was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Special Visual Effects , Best Production Design and Best Sound . Batman was number 84 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons . Very good !
The National Television 2006	It is the same every year , a celebration of television over the last year , and awarding those who deserve . Sir Trevor McDonald hosted this great evening , I cannot remember all the awards , apart from Best Actor to David Tennant ( in Doctor Who ) , Best Actress to Billie Piper ( for Doctor Who ) , Best Newcomer Actor to Charlie Clements ( for EastEnders ) , Best Entertainment Programme to The X Factor , Best Reality Show to Big Brother , Best TV Contendor to Nikki Grahame ( from Big Brother ) , Best Factual Programme to Top Gear , Best Soap to EastEnders and Best Long Running Career ( or something ) to Sir David Walliams . Presenters , winners and guests included : Peter Andre and Katie Price ( Jordan ) , Julie Andrews , Michael Barrymore , Fern Britton , Jeremy Clarkson and James May , Charlie Clements , Antony Cotton , Simon Cowell , Anthony Head , Terri Irwin ( Steve Irwin's wife ) , Boris Johnson , Vernon Kay , Davina McCall and Dermot O'Leary , Jack and Kelly Osbourne , John Savident , Phillip Schofield , David Schwimmer , Chico Slimani , Kate Thornton , David Walliams , Louis Walsh and Barbara Windsor . Very good !
Alice	I think I liked the idea of seeing another adaptation of the Lewis Carroll classic , Alice in Wonderland , especially with stop motion from Czechoslovakia and Faust director Jan Svankmajer . It follows most of the same storyline , but with originally bizarre digressions , as Alice ( Kristýna Kohoutová , the only flesh and blood character ) says at the beginning , " it's a film made for children . . . perhaps ? " So Alice follows the complex White Rabbit into the Wonderland world , where she also encounters the Caterpillar ( made of a sock , a couple of glass eyes and false teeth ) , the Mad Hatter ( an old wooden puppet ) and March Hare ( a wind up tatty puppet ) , and the King and Queen of Hearts ( cards ) , and a new addition , as well as scary fish , skeleton birds , and a slab of raw meat ? This is certainly more absurd than the Disney or Fiona Fullerton versions , it is darker , a light sinister feel , and even with it's simplicity , the animation more than makes up for it , and makes this quite a watchable film . With English narration by Camilla Power . Very good !
Saboteur	I only knew the end sequence , but I knew I couldn't dismiss a film directed by Sir Alfred Hitchcock . Basically somebody has sabotaged part of a aircraft plant with a bomb , and plant worker Barry Kane ( Robert Cummings ) is falsely accused for the crime . Determined to prove his innocence he sets out to find the real saboteur , and the only clue he has is the address , Soda City , and the name , Frank Fry ( Norman Lloyd ) . He chases him across the deserts to New York . There , along with the woman he picked up , Patricia " Pat " Martin ( Priscilla Lane ) , he finds out that there is some terrible thing the rich guy , Charles Tobin ( Otto Kruger ) is planning , something to do with Fifth Columnists . Also starring Alan Baxter as Mr . Freeman , Clem Bevans as Neilson , Alma Kruger as Henrietta Sutton , Vaughan Glaser as Phillip Martin and Hitchcock's cameo is the man standing in front of Cut Rate Drugs as the saboteur's car stops . The best thrilling moments are the jump off the bridge and hiding in waterfall rocks , and the climax with Fry hanging off the Statue of Liberty . The only tiny problems I have are the freak circus sequence , and the yelling of Fry when falling off the Statue , but the rest makes a good classic . Sir Alfred Hitchcock was number 75 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons . Very good !
X-Men 2	If you have seen the first film , or you like to read the comics about the bunch of mutant super heroes , then this sequel is better than the first film . It has more interest , more action and obviously more interesting mutants . Basically William Stryker ( Brian Cox ) wants to eliminate all the mutants , even though they are already a threat to society , also he wants to see his creation again , Logan / Wolverine ( Hugh Jackman ) . Professor Charles Xavier ( Patrick Stewart ) is sending the X-Men team to try and stop this . Eric Lensherr / Magneto ( Sir Ian McKellen ) with the gorgeous Mystique / Grace ( Rebecca Romijn ) do join the good side for a while , but mainly he wanted to escape and almost gets what he wants in the next film . The film reunites Storm / Ororo Munroe ( Halle Berry ) , Jean Grey ( Famke Janssen , the character should have stayed dead ) , Scott Summers / Cyclops ( James Marsden ) and Rogue / Marie D'Ancanto ( The Piano's Anna Paquin ) . It also introduces Kurt Wagner / Nightcrawler ( Alan Cumming ) , Bobby Drake / Iceman ( Shawn Ashmore ) , Yuriko Oyama / Deathstrike ( Kelly Hu ) and Colossus ( Daniel Cudmore ) . Very good !
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire	To be honest , I though the first three Harry Potter films were more like family films , had a bit less darkness , and obviously weren't 12as because of more scary moments . Anyway , basically Harry ( Daniel Radcliffe ) , Ron ( Rupert Grint ) and Hermione ( Emma Watson ) go back to Hogwarts and Professor Albus Dumbledore ( Sir Michael Gambon ) announces a Tri-Wizard Tournament . Harry , under the correct age , must compete and complete dangerous challenges to win the Tri-Wizard cup . Also starring Eric Sykes as Frank Bryce , Timothy Spall as Wormtail ( Peter Pettigrew ) , David Tennant as Barty Crouch Junior , Mark Williams as Arthur Weasley , Jason Isaacs as Lucius Malfoy , Tom Felton as Draco Malfoy , Robbie Coltrane as Rubeus Hagrid , David Bradley as Argus Filch , Warwick Davis as Filius Flitwick , Dame Maggie Smith as Professor Minerva McGonagall , Alan Rickman as Professor Severus Snape , Brendan Gleeson as Professor Alastor ' Mad-Eye ' Moody , Miranda Richardson as Rita Skeeter , Gary Oldman as Sirius Black , Jarvis Cocker as Band Lead Singer , Shirley Henderson as Moaning Myrtle and Ralph Fiennes as Lord Voldemort . Like I said , not as good as the first three , especially because you don't really know if the good side has won , but there are some magical moments to be seen , I'd have to see it again to confirm my opinion . It was nominated for the Oscar for Best Art Direction , and it won the BAFTA for Best Production Design , and it was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Special Visual Effects and Best Make Up / Hair . Harry Potter was number 45 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons , but he was also number 35 on The 100 Worst Britons ( the only fictional person , why ? ) . Very good !
Superhuman : Giants	I saw a clip of this programme on Harry Hill's TV Burp , for TV Highlight of the Year , with Britain's Tallest Man getting out of a car , and when I watched the repeat it was quite interesting . Basically this documentary , narrated by Sam Hazeldine , focused on some of the world's tallest people , whether in Britain , America or other countries ( in this case China ) , and how they cope , make a living from and some suffer in their life of being taller than the average man / woman . The people focused are Britain's tallest man ( mainly because of a tumour and growth disorder ) , Chris Greener , who had kept the record from the 1970's - 2007 ( you also meet his agent , short man Peter Burroughs ) ; the man who beat him , Neil Fingleton ( who is two inches taller ) hoping to get work in films ( with the help of Hollywood agent Sheila Manning ) ; supermarket worker Ross Sambridge who is unfortunate to have a bent spine ( from bending down so much ) , so can't be measured properly ; one of America's tallest living women , Alana Renaud , who is getting ready for a wedding in year ; the world's ex-tallest living man in the world , China's Xishun Bao ; and the man who beat him , the Ukraine's Leonid Stadnyk . Very good !
Häxan / The Witch	I can see there is some kind of documentary theme in this silent film , but I think it is more horror than fact filled . It is all about the history of witchcraft , told with illustrated slide show and dramatised supposedly real-life events from the earliest part of the 20th Century . The pictures look interesting enough , but the dramatisation by the actors , with the back then quite ahead of it's time make up and special effects , are very impressive . A guy dressed as the Devil , kissing his arse , torture scenes , grave robbing , possession of nuns , some nudity and a little violence are some of the things to expect , and that got the film banned in some countries at the time . Today it is illuminating , frightening ( in some ways ) and amusing , but a most watchable classic , no wonder it features in the book " 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die " . Very good !
A Passage to India	I originally only noticed this for the Star Wars actor being in it , and then I found out that it was directed , and written , by Oscar , BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Sir David Lean , and his last , even better ! There is no real story , e . g . a love story , it is basically just about the tensions between India and the British , in this case , two English women , Adela Quested ( Oscar nominated Judy Davis ) and Mrs . Moore ( Oscar , BAFTA and Golden Globe winning Peggy Ashcroft ) coming to India to see many things , and just meet Indian people , but other British there suggest that they hardly go near the people . Mrs . Moore meets the friendly fluent-English speaking Muslim Dr . Aziz H . Ahmed ( BAFTA nominated Victor Banerjee ) . He is the man who allows them all the travel and sights they want . One day he takes them to some caverns ( a local attraction ) , but what happens there creates even more problems with Indians and the British . Aziz is accused of attempting to rape Adela , and is taken to court , and after a little while she takes the claim back . That is really the most interesting part to the film , all the rest is just good acting , cheerful moments , the death of Mrs . Moore ( heart attack , I think ) and great music by Oscar and Golden Globe winning , and BAFTA nominated Maurice Jarre . Also starring BAFTA nominated James Fox as Richard Fielding , Sir Alec Guinness as a convincing Indian Professor Godbhole , Nigel Havers as Ronny , One Foot in the Grave's Richard Wilson as Turton , Antonia Pemberton as Mrs . Turton , Michael Culver as McBryde and Art Malik as Ali . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Best Cinematography , Best Costume Design , Best Film Editing , Best Sound , Best Writing , Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium and Best Picture , it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Cinematography , Best Costume Design , Best Production Design , Best Adapted Screenplay and Best Film , and it won the Golden Globe for Best Foreign Film - England , and it was nominated for Best Screenplay . Sir Alec Guinness was number 12 on The 50 Greatest British Actors , he was number 2 on Britain's Finest Actors , and he was number 11 on The World's Greatest Actor . Very good !
Candy	Heath Ledger was a really good young actor , but it was a live-fast-die-young life for him , it was such a shame ( and shock ) when he was discovered dead ( at age 29 ) from accidental prescribed drug overdose , this ( along with I'm Not There and The Dark Knight ) was not long before his death , and a good role . Set in Australia , poet Dan ( Heath Ledger ) falls in love with two kinds of Candy , the woman , art student Candice ( Abbie Cornish ) and the drug , heroin . Candy in the film becomes an actress , a call girl , a streetwalker and a mad woman ( I assume from a nervous breakdown ) . The film has two halves : Heaven which sees the good relationship between Dan and Candy , with a little tragedy when they have to give up drugs when Candy discovers she's pregnant ; and Hell : the relationship breaking and the problems after the miscarriage . Also starring Geoffrey Rush ( who I didn't realise was Australian ) as Casper , Tony Martin as Jim Wyatt , Noni Hazlehurst as Elaine Wyatt , Tom Budge as Schumann and Roberto Meza-Mont as Jorge . This Australian film can be compared to Trainspotting and Requiem of a Dream ( with the realities of drug use ) , and it is just as believable and watchable as them . Very good !
Patton	From Oscar winning and Golden Globe nominated director Franklin J . Schaffner ( Planet of the Apes ) , this is a pretty good war film about one of the most infamous and heroic leader's . The film begins with my favourite and most memorable moment where Gen . George S . Patton Jr . ( Oscar and Golden Globe winning , and BAFTA nominated George C . Scott ) addresses his troops in front of the large stars and stripes flag . The rest of the film is good too , for nearly three hours , although it is mainly seeing the attitude of Patton , his many chats with fellow leaders such as Gen . Omar N . Bradley ( Karl Malden ) , Field Marshal Sir Bernard Law Montgomery ( Michael Bates ) , Capt . Chester B . Hansen ( Stephen Young ) , Brig . Gen . Hobart Carver ( Michael Strong ) and Moroccan Minister ( Albert Dumortier ) . Also starring Frank Latimore as Lt . Col . Henry Davenport , Morgan Paull as Capt . Richard N . Jenson , Karl Michael Vogler as Field Marshal Erwin Rommel , Patrick J . Zurica as 1st Lt . Alexander Stiller , James Edwards as Sgt . William George Meeks , Lawrence Dobkin as Col . Gaston Bell and David Bauer as Lt . Gen . Harry Buford . There are a few battle scenes which add excitement , you see some stuff from the Germans , and there is great theme music , but the one who steals the show is indeed the performance of Scott , who was the first actor in Oscar history to refuse his award ( second being Marlon Brando in The Godfather ) . It won the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Best Film Editing , Best Sound , Best Writing , Story and Screenplay Based on Factual Material or Material Not Previously Published or Produced for Francis Ford Coppola and Edmund H . North , and Best Picture , and it was nominated for Best Cinematography , Best Special Visual Effects and Best Music for Jerry Goldsmith , it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Sound Track , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama . General George Patton was number 29 on 100 Years , 100 Heroes , the film was number 89 on 100 Years , 100 Movies , and it was number 44 on The 100 Greatest War Films . Very good !
The Big Lebowski	With the recent win at the Oscars for writing / directing brothers Joel and Ethan Coen , for No Country For Old Men , it was appropriate that some of their films be on TV , and this one was pretty good . Basically Jeffrey ' The Dude ' Lebowski ( Jeff Bridges ) is an ageing hippie , and mistaken for another Jeffrey Lebowski , aka The Big Lebowski ( David Huddlestone ) who is a millionaire , by two thugs who pee on his carpet . The Dude is then drawn into a kidnap ( possibly because of the mistaken identity ) of The Big Lebowski's wife , Bunny ( American Pie's Tara Reid ) . It seems that many other people , not just the kidnappers , want something from The Dude , and all probably because they think he's the millionaire . For me , what kept me watching was the great performance by John Goodman as The Dude's aggressive bowling buddy , Walter Sobchak , a bear-like Vietnam-veteran with a serious temper , and a bit of a potty mouth . Also starring Julianne Moore as Maude Lebowski , Steve Buscemi as Theodore Donald ' Donny ' Kerabatsos , Philip Seymour Hoffman as Brandt , John Turturro as Jesus Quintana , Harry Potter's David Thewlis as Knox Harrington and Sam Elliott as The Stranger ( the one narrating ) . There were some funny moments , and the surreal dream sequences were interesting , and the performances ( especially Goodman ) were all great , so I don't see any reason not to see it . Very good !
All Star Mr and Mrs	I have no idea when the original TV show was on ITV , I guess the 80's , but I certainly didn't miss the opportunity to try it , and it turned out to be a pretty good series . Basically Fern Britton ( who lost a lot of weight ) and Phillip Schofield presented this new spin on the original show , getting celebrity couples to open up and answer questions for a charity cash prize . The first round has three questions , and one of the pair goes into a booth with a blind fold and headphones , and after the other person answers three questions , e . g . " what would happen if such and such happened ? " ( most with options ) , and the booth person has to match answers . The second round sees the couple behind the sight proof screen , see they can't see each other , and holding pink ( for her ) and blue ( for him ) paddles they hold up the paddle they think best fits the question , e . g . " who does such and such ? " , and they have to match of course . The final round sees the couple with the most points ( out of three couples ) back in the booth with blind fold and headphones , but the other person swaps places , first three questions about person outside booth , last / fourth about person inside , and each correct answer gets £5000 , and if final question matches , all winnings are doubled , jackpot being £30 , 000 , obviously going to charity . Celebrities appearing with their other half have included Boyzone's Shane Lynch , EastEnders ' Wendy Richard , Phil Tufnell , Gabriella Irimia ( Cheeky Girl with twin sister Monica ) , Lembit Öpik , Coronation Street's William Roache , Christopher Biggins , Neil Twimaps ( Biggins ' partner ) , Danny Dyer , Julie Goodyear , Mark ' Bez ' Berry , David Coulthard , Vic Reeves , Nancy Sorrell ( Reeves ' model wife ) , Coronation Street's Vicky Entwistle , Dominic Wood , David Dickinson , Anthony Head , Lorne Lesley ( as Lorne Dickinson ) , Dave Berry , politician Michael Howard , Laurence Llewelyn-Bowen , Sugababes ' Heidi Range and many more . Very good !
48 Hours	I had heard of this film a couple of times in the past , and when the opportunity came to watch it , I knew I couldn't miss it . Basically convicted robber Albert Ganz ( James Remar ) has escaped from a road gang with his partner Billy Bear ( Sonny Landham ) , and immediately kill their partner , then check into the Walden Hotel in San Francisco under false names . Alcoholic and racist cop Detective Jack Cates ( Nick Nolte ) and his fellow cops Vanzant ( James Keane ) and Algren ( Jonathan Banks ) are obviously looking for him , and check out on a guy at the hotel named G . P . Polson , who turns out to be Ganz . They manage to get away though , and kill Jack's partners , now Jack wants revenge , so he convinces his boss , Captain Haden ( Licence to Kill's Frank McRae ) , to let him work alone on this case . Jack goes to a prison where Ganz and Billy's former partner Reggie Hammond ( a fantastic debut from Golden Globe nominated Eddie Murphy ) , and he springs him out for 48 hours so he can help him find the villains . It is not going to be easy , not just because of Ganz and Billy , but Jack and Reggie are not getting along with each other , the tension at one point starting beating each other up . Reggie remembers $500 , 000 stashed away in the trunk of his car , which has been parked ever since he was convicted ( something like three years ) . Ganz and Billy are obviously after the money , and they have kidnapped Rosalie ( Kerry Sherman ) , girlfriend of former partner Luther ( David Patrick Kelly ) so he can get the cash filled car . Jack and Reggie are now near to catching Ganz and Billy , but they need to hurry before Reggie has to go back to prison . Also starring Annette O'Toole as Elaine and Brion James as Ben Kehoe . Nolte is pretty rough with a pretty gravelly voice , Murphy is brilliant with his small impressions , swearing and even some serious moments , and some good chases and fights in between , a pretty good comedy thriller . Very good !
Clueless	Apparently a remake of Jane Austen's Emma for the modern world , from writer / director Amy Heckerling ( Fast Times at Ridgemont High ) . Basically Cher Horowitz ( Batman & Robin's Alicia Silverstone ) is the rich , pretty , blonde and popular girl who knows how to talk anyone into doing almost anything , and also the narrator . When Cher can't get a better grade from her teacher Mr . Wendell Hall ( Toy Story's Wallace Shawn ) , she and her friend Dionne ( Stacey Dash , who played the same character in the Clueless TV series ) match him up with Miss Toby Geist ( Twink Caplan ) to them happier , and maybe boost their expectations . Cher is happy doing " good deeds " , and when new girl Tai ( Brittany Murphy ) shows up , Cher and Dionne give her a makeover and try to get her a boyfriend . Cher realises doing this she wants a boyfriend as well , but she can't find the right guy . As she continues a spiritual makeover , she realises theirs more to life than clothes and popularity , and the guy of her dreams is the guy she has spent most time with as a friend , Josh ( Paul Rudd ) . She should have also realised Tai was infatuated with Travis ( Road Trip's Breckin Meyer ) , and vice versa , not the guy she expected to like her , Elton ( Jeremy Sisto ) , and also the guy she originally wanted as a boyfriend , Christian ( Justin Walker ) was gay , it was obvious . Also starring Donald Faison as Murray , Elisa Donovan as Amber and Dan Hedaya as Mel Horowitz . It is in my book of 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die , I'd have to see it more to agree with that , but it is a good film . Very good !
Camelot	From director Joshua Logan ( South Pacific , Paint Your Wagon ) , this story of the marriage and downfall of King Arthur , based on the stage musical , even at nearly three hours long , is actually pretty good . The film sees King Arthur ( Golden Globe winning Richard Harris ) briefly meeting Merlin ( Laurence Naismith ) as a young boy , before getting to the real start , where he has been taught well to rule England from his kingdom of Camelot , and he meets Guinevere ( Golden Globe nominated Vanessa Redgrave ) , who he soon marries to become his Queen . Arthur then has the idea to make the Round Table for all the best knights in the world to sit around , including Lancelot Du Lac ( Golden Globe nominated Franco Nero ) . Unfortunately for Arthur , he realises that Guinevere , or " Jenny " and Lancelot have betrayed him and fallen in love , and from there after , his kingdom slowly falls , with his pretending things are normal , needing advice from Merlin , the arrival of Arthur's son Mordred ( David Hemmings ) , and the battle . But don't worry , a young boy named Tom restores Arthur's hope for the future of his kingdom . Also starring Lionel Jeffries as King Pellinore , Pierre Olaf as Dap , Estelle Winwood as Lady Clarinda , Gary Marshall as Sir Lionel , Anthony Rogers as Sir Dinaden , Peter Bromilow as Sir Sagramore and Sue Casey as Lady Sybil . The critics think that actors like Harris and Redgrave can't hold a tune , I think they are pretty good , and songs such as " C'est Moi " , " Then You May Take Me To The Fair " , " How to Handle A Woman " , " If Ever I Would Leave You " , " What Do The Simple Folk Do ? " and of course the title songs deserve credit . It may be a bit overlong , but it is certainly worth it . It won the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Best Costume Design and Best Music for Alfred Newman and Ken Darby , and it was nominated for Best Cinematography and Best Sound , and it won the Golden Globes for Best Original Score and Best Original Song for " If Ever I Should Leave You " , and it was nominated for Best Motion Picture - Musical / Comedy . Very good !
Derren Brown : Messiah	Derren Brown , the pretty renowned magician and psychological illusionist , and this is one of the quite ambitious one-off specials he made . He was fascinated by people having beliefs , that he decided to put his skills to the test and try to convince people , including " experts " in a field themselves , that he has got a gift . He travelled to America , posing as five characters meeting " experts " in the fields of Christian evangelism ( instant conversion ) , alien abduction , psychic powers , New Age theories and mediums ( people who contact the dead ) . He said he would admit he is fake if they asked any questions as to whether what he was doing is real , and he carried off all five " performances " , and none of the " experts " questioned or stopped him , they totally believed it , a couple even invited him for more exhibition , he declined all . Very good !
In the Mood for Love	Just like Chungking Express in 1994 , from the same director , Kar Wai Wong , this was a film I would need to watch as part of my Film Studies exam . Basically in 1962 Hong Kong , newspaper editor Chow Mo-Wan ( Cannes Film Festival Award winning Tony Leung Chiu Wai ) has moved into a new building with his wife , at the same time as beautiful secretary Su Li-Zhen - Mrs . Chan ( Maggie Cheung ) with her executive husband . With both their marriage partners away a lot , Chow and Su spend much time together as friends . They have a lot in common , and it seems almost like an affair as they try and fail to get closer . They are shocked to find that their partners are having affairs , so they decide to find comfort with each other as closer friends . Eventually though , it ends rather sadly when Su rejects him for a closer relationship . The only annoying thing about this film is the use of music , with the violin theme playing almost every ten minutes of the film . It was nominated the BAFTA for Best Film not in the English Language , and it won the Cannes Film Festival Technical Grand Prize , and it was nominated the Golden Palm for Wong . Very good !
Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind	The first time I saw it I was pretty confused , but seeing it again I can almost understand the plot . Basically Joel Barish ( another more serious role for BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Jim Carrey ) wakes up with no memory of the night before , and his car scratched . He skips work and heads to the shore , and as he travels he keeps seeing Clementine ( no jokes , e . g . Huckleberry Hound's " Oh My Darling , Clementine " ) Kruczynski ( Oscar , BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Kate Winslet ) . First she is asking if they know each other , then they lie together on the thick ice of a lake , and then all of the sudden it cuts to Joel upset because of their split . He finds out that she went to Dr . Howard Mierzwiak ( Tom Wilkinson ) and had all memories of Joel erased from her memory , so he follows her . As his memories are erased , his mind rediscovers past passions , and he almost tries to escape the procedure . Meanwhile , out of Joel's mind , Stan ( Mark Ruffalo ) is carrying out the erasure , while his partner Patrick ( Elijah Wood , after the last Lord of the Rings ) is trying to create a relationship with the now Joel-memory erased Clementine using Joel's stuff . Stan is also trying to continue his relationship with co-worker Mary ( Kirsten Dunst ) , but she finds out that she had memories of a passion with Dr . Howard erased . When the erasure is complete , you find out the segments at the beginning was after the procedure , so Joel and Clementine pretty much start their passion all over again , even after Mary gives them back their opinion chats of each other back . Also starring Jane Adams as Carrie and Scary Movie 2's David Cross as Rob . It might be complicated inside Carrey's mind , but it is a very inventive story about how memories can construct our minds . It won the Oscar for Best Writing , Original Screenplay , it won the BAFTAs for Best Editing and Best Original Screenplay , and it was nominated for Best Film and the David Lean Award for Direction for music video director Michel Gondry , and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Musical or Comedy and Best Screenplay . Very good !
Casino	I didn't finish the entire film , but what I did see of it was interesting . Based on a true story , Golden Globe nominated Martin Scorsese directs a film based in an American Las Vegas casino . Robert De Niro is Sam ' Ace ' Rothstein , he does not have a real job at the casino , he just keeps swapping them to stop him getting in trouble , and keep the casino running smoothly . He marries Ginger McKenna ( Golden Globe winning , and Oscar nominated Sharon Stone ) for a while , but she lets him down and he can't be bothered with her . Joe Pesci is Nicky Santoro , the only person that knows Ace keeps swapping his job , and he also makes sure the casino don't find out . I like this film really because of the explanations by De Niro and Pesci about how American casinos work and run , and how people try to con and steal from them . Also starring James Woods as Lester Diamond and Frank Vincent as Frank Marino . Very good !
King of the Hill	This is another good example of a comedy sitcom-like cartoon ( still not as good as The Simpsons ) . Hank Hill is the weird father and husband . He lives with his wife Peggy , his son Bobby and the large dog . Throughout the show they have some pretty weird and wonderful " adventure " like happenings . For example , the dog starts to get an infection and Hank thinks he should have a doghouse outside so it doesn't infect the house . Instead Bobby decides to use the doghouse himself when the dog refuses to go outside . Hank is quite a good example of the weird or not too intelligent father and husband ( Homer Simpson's still better though ) . It won the Emmys for Outstanding Voice-Over Performance for Pamela Adlon and Outstanding Animated Program ( For Programming One Hour or Less ) ( it was nominated this same award 4 times ) . It was number 41 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons . Very good !
Ronin	From director John Frankenheimer ( Birdman of Alcatraz , Deception ) this is a fantastic retro ( deliberately ) thriller with plenty of eye-catching moments and some good choice actors . The title means Japanese Samurai without a master , so basically the lead characters in this are Ronin , outcast specialists hired for jobs . Basically Irish Deirdre ( The Truman Show's Natascha McElhone ) hires some Ronin to form a team with a mission to retrieve an important suitcase from a man planning to sell it to the Russians . These men are Sam ( Robert De Niro ) , Vincent ( Leon's Jean Reno ) , Gregor ( Pirates of the Caribbean's Stellan Skarsgård ) , and briefly Spence ( Sean Bean ) - exposed as a fraud , and Larry ( Skipp Sudduth ) . Also starring Moonraker's Michel Lonsdale as Jean-Pierre and Jonathan Pryce as Seamus . The main reason this film is unmissable is for the many exciting chases and almost never ending gun shooting sequences , and the actors all do very well , a very slick film . Very good !
Monster's Ball	I don't understand the meaning of the title , but that doesn't matter , this is a pretty good romantic crime drama with some bloody good acting . Basically cop Hank Grotowski ( Love Actually's Billy Bob Thornton ) recently lost his cop son , Sonny ( Heath Ledger ) because he told him he hated him and he shot himself . So Hank quit being a cop and just tried to get on with his life living with his Dad . Leticia Musgrove ( gorgeous Oscar winning , and BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Halle Berry ) has similar problems , she lost her husband going on the electric chair and her fat son was hit by a car . When Hank and Letita meet they are just friends at first , but it builds from there and we end up seeing one of the roughest , sexiest love scenes ever made , and you see the arse and breasts of Berry . Berry definitely deserved the Academy Award , she cried so much about it because she was the first black leading actress to win Best Actress ( she was against Renée Zellweger for Bridget Jones or Nicole Kidman in Moulin Rouge ) . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Writing , Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen . Halle Berry was number 99 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars . Very good !
Ocean's Eleven	Director Steven Soderbergh ( Out of Sight , Erin Brockovich , Traffic ) has created probably one of the best robbery films I have ever seen with an all star cast , plenty of classic action or drama like moments , and a good George Clooney as Danny Ocean . Basically Ocean is a crook who has robbed many places and stolen a lot of stuff . He has been in jail for quite a long time , and he says that he is not going to rob anymore , which is obviously a lie . He plans to rob one of the only non-attempted casino's in Las Vegas . It takes a while to find a good team of eleven , but all do the job well and make sure it does not fail and they get all the cash they can without being caught . Also starring Brad Pitt as Rusty Ryan , Matt Damon as Linus Caldwell , Andy Garcia as Terry Benedict and Julia Roberts as Tess Ocean . George Clooney was number 72 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , and he was number 7 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols . Very good !
A Nightmare on Elm Street	If you are a fan of the really original horror film Scream , then you will like this really interesting story directed and written by Wes Craven . He actually read cases of young kids dying because of nightmares , so this is taking that idea a lot further . Basically a bunch of kids living in Elm Street are being stalked by a dream controlling monster known as Freddy Krueger ( Robert Englund ) . Every time they fall asleep Freddy is going to try to kill them , even the tiniest wink . You probably know the rhyme , " One . . . Two , Freddy's coming for you . . . Three . . . Four , better lock the door . . . Five . . . Six , Grab a crucifix . . . Seven . . . Eight , better stay up late , and Nine . . . Ten , never sleep again ! Oh , the reason he stalks them is because their parents burned him alive , he was a child molester . Look out for the very first screen appearance of young star Johnny Depp as the mischievous Glen Lantz . The many sequels that have followed have not only made him a cult villain , but also a bit of a ridicule , but also a toy store item and hero ! Insane ! It was number 10 on The 100 Greatest Scary Moments , and Freddy Krueger was number 40 on 100 Years , 100 Heroes & Villains . Very good !
The C Word : How We Came to Swear by It	I didn't see the beginning of this interesting documentary , but from what I did watch it was very good . Basically British comedian Will Smith went on a journey and wanted to know what opinions people from all backgrounds , religion and culture have of the most controversial of all profanities , and in my opinion the strongest of all swear words , the C word ( you know it ) . All the people interviewed basically explained what they thought of it , a situation they would use swearing ( particularly that word ) in , or it's place in history and society . I personally do not like to use the C word unless I was really , really angered by something or someone , and for now , I think it will still stay as strong as ever , even with all the media use . Very good !
Ratatouille	From Pixar , the geniuses behind Toy Story and Monsters , Inc . , and director Brad Bird ( The Iron Giant , The Incredibles ) this is another pleasant experience . Basically young rat Remy ( Patton Oswalt ) lives with his brother Emile ( Peter Sohn ) and father , leader of the pack of rats , Django ( Brian Dennehy ) , and because of his great sense of taste and smell , he is a rat poison checker . But he dreams of becoming a great chef , like his hero Auguste Gusteau ( Brad Garrett ) , who he often imagines talking to . The rats escape the house where the old woman discovers them , but Remy is separated from his family . However , he finds good luck when he sees he has been living under Paris for so long , and he heads to Gusteau's restaurant . There he encounters Linguini ( Lou Romano ) , who sees him putting ingredients into the soup that he almost spoilt , and when it is taken away to a customer , who they didn't realise was a food critic , everyone believes it was Linguini , and chef Colette ( Janeane Garofalo ) convinces nasty owner Skinner ( Sir Ian Holm ) not to fire him , as long as he can recreate the same soup . Linguini soon realises Remy can understand him , so they soon form a " partnership " , and to make Linguini do what he wants Remy controls him by pulling his hair . After a long while , Linguini is made to look like a great chef , and unfortunately for Skinner , he may be the heir of Gusteau , and obviously later it turns out to be true . Oh , and there is a small bit of love story with Linguini and Colette . Of course there are negative turns , when Skinner discovers it's Remy that is the genius , Remy sees the bad side to human when he is reunited with his family , but there is a happy ending , and the man they are desperate to please , food critic Anton Ego ( Peter O'Toole ) gives his praise , and the kitchen is revealed to run by all the rats . Also starring Will Arnett as Horst , Julius Callahan as Lalo / Francois , James Remar as Larousse , John Ratzenberger as Mustafa , Teddy Newton as Lawyer ( Talon Labarthe ) , and if you have the British version , it would be Jamie Oliver as The Health Inspector . The animation is ( as always ) impeccable , the characters all have their moments , the family will enjoy it . It won the Oscar for Best Animated Feature Film of the Year , and it was nominated for Best Music for Michael Giacchino , Best Sound , Best Sound Editing and Best Writing , Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen , it won the BAFTA for Best Animated Film , and it won the Golden Globe for Best Animated Film . Very good !
To Kill a Mockingbird	I was told that this was mainly a courtroom drama , but from one point , it seems to be more about the kids and family . Also , I wonder why Atticus Finch was voted number 1 on 100 Years , 100 Heroes & Villains instead of James Bond or Indiana Jones , he didn't do much heroic stuff . Anyway , basically Atticus ( Oscar and Golden Globe winning , and BAFTA nominated Gregory Peck ) lives with his maid and two kids Jean Louise ' Scout ' ( Oscar nominated Mary Badham ) and Jeremy ' Jem ' Finch ( Phillip Alford ) . All I can say about the court case , which comes a lot later , is that Atticus tries quite hard , but he doesn't win the case to prove a Negroes innocence of raping a woman . The stories that I really am interested in involve the two kids and their new friend , Charles Baker ' Dill ' Harris ( John Megna ) nearly investigating a psychopathic neighbourhood man , but later , you find out he is nothing like what they expected , and turns out to save one of them . Also starring Robert Duvall in his first film role as Arthur ' Boo ' Radley . It is a good film , and I guess Atticus Finch is a great hero in some ways , I can't really say this is one of my favourite films , but definitely worth watching . It won the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration and Best Writing , Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium , and it was nominated for Best Cinematography , Best Director for Robert Mulligan ( also nominated the Golden Globe ) , Best Music for Elmer Bernstein and Best Picture , and it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Film from any Source , and it won the Golden Globe for Best Film Promoting International Understanding , Best Motion Picture Score , and it was nominated for Best Motion Picture - Drama . Gregory Peck was 12 on 100 Years , 100 Stars - Men , the film was number 17 on 100 Years of Film Scores , it was number 23 on The 100 Greatest Tearjerkers , it was number 2 on 100 Years , 100 Cheers , and it was number 34 on 100 Years , 100 Movies . Very good !
Dinosaurs	I wish I could remember all of this great puppet show from Jim Henson and the makers of The Muppets and Sesame Street , but this was for Disney . All I do remember is the great theme tune , some of the babies fantastic naughtiness , and the fact that it is almost the same format as The Flintstones . It is basically the funny dysfunctional dinosaur family living in the modern world , with humans as pets and wild animals . The family consists of overweight father and husband , Earl Sinclair ( Stuart Pankin / Bill Barretta ) , trying and failing supporting mother and wife Fran ( Jessica Walter / Mitchel Evans / Tony Price / Allan Trautman ) , the kids , 14-year-old daughter Charlene ( Bruce Lanoil / Sally Struthers / Arlene Lorre ) , 16-year-old son Robbie ( Jason Willinger / Leif Tilden ) , the cranky Grandma , Ethel ( Brian Henson , Jim's son / Florence Stanley ) , and probably the best character , the troublesome Baby ( Kevin Clash ) . It won the Emmy for Outstanding Art Direction for a Series , and it was nominated for Outstanding Editing for a Series - Single Camera Production . Very good , as far as I can remember !
The Colditz Story	Before The Great Escape , there was this Pow ( Prisoner of War ) escape film based on true events , from director Guy Hamilton ( Goldfinger , Live and Let Die ) . The story sees many soldiers from Britain , France , Poland and other countries involved in World War II placed into Colditz castle , used by Nazis to hold the " bad boys " , those who regularly attempted escape from other camps . There are more guards outnumbering the prisoners , and some were political with very strict monitoring . Anyway , the story sees Pat Reid ( Sir John Mills ) creating all sorts of escape routes and plans , including a tunnel , under the theatre stage , jumping over the fence , and dressing as Nazis , and these are what keep you interested . Also starring Eric Portman as Colonel Richmond , Christopher Rhodes as ' Mac ' McGill , Lionel Jeffries as Harry Tyler , Frederick Valk as Kommandant , Bryan Forbes as Jimmy Winslow , Ian Carmichael as Robin Cartwright , Anton Diffring as Fischer and Ludwik Lawinski as Franz Josef . It was nominated the BAFTAs for Best British Film and Best Film from any Source . Sir John Mills was number 38 on The 50 Greatest British Actors , and the film was number 94 on The 100 Greatest War Films . Very good !
Spellbound	No it's not the Hitchcock film , it's an interesting documentary film about the pressures , kids , preparation and events of a national spelling bee in America . Basically it shows the stories of six kids : Angela Arenivar , Ted Brigham , April DeGideo , Neil Kadakia , Nupur Lala , Emily Stagg , Ashley White and the hyperactive Harry Altman , who is pulling the face on the poster . It shows why they study , why they like to spell and their journey to the stage to win the spelling trophy . Their family , teachers and friends are obviously behind all of them determined that they could win . Obviously one of the nicest female kids won the trophy . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Documentary , Features . It was number 32 on The 50 Greatest Documentaries . Very good !
Batman of the Future	If you liked Batman : The Animated Series , then you'll be happy to know that the same Batman is back . This time it is forty years later , Bruce Wayne has quit being the Dark Knight and lives alone with his dog Ace . Terry McGinnis is a teenager that comes across his mansion while being chased by a Jokers gang . He stumbles upon the Batcave through the clock in the wall . Later he suffers his fathers death and decides to steal Wayne's improved Batman suit to track down the person responsible . He also plans to stop the new manager of Wayne Enterprises Derek Powers from making nerve gas in Wayne's company . A very good new instalment to The Animated Series . They even made a straight-to-video movie where The Joker returns from the dead . Batman was number 84 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons . Very good !
The Great Train Robbery	This is one of the most significant films in cinema history , it is the second ( after A Trip to the Moon - 1902 ) to feature in the book " 1001 Movies You Must Before You Die " . Basically a clerk of a train station is assaulted and left tied up by four bandits , and they proceed to carry out the great train robbery robbery of the title . They line up all passengers of the train , after unhooking the passenger cars from the engine , and take all wallets and money from them . Quickly they get in the engine , go forward a bit , and then run out to ride away on some horses , and then they enter a saloon , forcing people at gunpoint to dance , before a final shoot-out , where the robbers are killed . The iconic image of this film is the final shot where a moustached bandit faces the audiences and shoots , disappearing in the cloud of smoke . It may a bit shaky and black and white , but it is an important film , as it was the first ever western , I think it was the first to feature guns , and of course , it was the first to feature both heroes and villains , as 100 Years , 100 Heroes & Villains explained . Very good !
Beyond the Valley of the Dolls	All the Russ Meyer films I have seen do seem to have more nudity , sex and Carry On type comedy , but this hardly has any . It is the story of an all-girl band called the Carrie Nations scaling the dizzy heights of rock-star fame and then crash-landing into decadent sleaze . It has mostly drugs , relationships , cults , singing and sleaze , not much nudity or sex . Starring Dolly Read as Kelly McNamara , Cynthia Myers as Casey Anderson , Marcia McBroom as Petronella Danforth , John Lazar as Ronnie ' Z-Man ' Barzell ( who you find out is a hermaphrodite ) , Michael Blodgett as Lance Rocke , David Gurian as Harris Allsworth , Edy Williams as Ashley St . Ives , Vixen's Vixen herself Erica Gavin as Roxanne , Phyllis Davis as Susan Lake , Harrison Page as Emerson Thorne , Duncan McLeod as Porter Hall , James Inglehart as Randy Black and Charles Napier as Baxter Wolfe . The only nudity I can remember is flashed of breasts and arses , and the lesbian scene towards the end ( one of the girls was pregnant ! ) . Very good !
Black Narcissus	The meaning of the title just to let you know is some sort of cloth or something . I have seen quite a few nun films , and I can see why this one is one had quite an impact , especially for directors Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger ( A Matter of Life and Death ) . Basically five British nuns have been sent to a windy " palace " in the Himalayas , and led by Sister Clodagh ( The King and I's Deborah Kerr ) they try to establish a religious community . Key characters include a mean Mr . Dean ( David Farrar ) , and towards the great climax the insanity ( from temptation ) driven Sister Ruth ( Kathleen Byron ) . I cannot remember much of the basic story apart from there were many praying moments , moments of character break downs , and some unusual character actions and twists . Also starring Flora Robson as Sister Philippa , Jean Simmons as Kanchi , Sabu as The Young General , Esmond Knight as The Old General , Jenny Laird as Sister Honey and Judith Furse as Sister Briony . I think the best moment is obviously when Sister Ruth attempts to kill Sister Clodagh , and instead meets a deserved death herself . It won the Oscars for Best Cinematography and Best Art Direction - Set Decoration , and it won the Golden Globe for Best Cinematography . Deborah Kerr was number 27 on The 50 Greatest British Actresses , and she was number 9 on Britain's Finest Actresses , and the film was number 18 on Film 4's 50 Films To See Before You Die . Very good !
Superman Returns	Since watching the programme , The Curse of Superman , I was concerned for the film people's well being , but I still enjoyed the film anyway . It was a really good film , I just found it a bit darker than the Christopher Reeve version , and I can see how it could be a more expensive budget film than Titanic . Basically Clark Kent / Superman ( newcomer Brandon Routh ) went to visit the ruins of his home world , and he has now returned after ten years or something . He does not know it till later , but Lois Lane ( Kate Bosworth ) has a new life with a man and his kid , or is it ? Meanwhile , Lex Luthor ( a pretty good Kevin Spacey being a real bastard ) , found Superman's route of identity , which you saw in the first film , and has taken the crystals that have the ability to destroy a city , and create new land . The negatives are obvious , this island Luthor creates is made of crystal and mixed with Kryptonite ( Superman's weakness ) , Lois has a kid and man and Perry White ( Frank Langella ) demands just stories of Superman's return , can Superman and Clark Kent win over all this . Also starring James Marsden as Richard White , Parker Posey as Kitty Kowalski , Sam Huntington as Jimmy Olsen , Eva Marie Saint as Martha Kent and archive footage of Marlon Brando as Jor-El . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Visual Effects , and it was nominated the BAFTAfor Best Special Visual Effects . Superman was number 26 on 100 Years , 100 Heroes & Villains , and he was number 72 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons . Very good !
The Family	You may remember a documentary series ( and one of the first reality TV vehicles ) in the 1970's with the same title focusing on the lives of a working class family , well , now in the modern world , it was about time to see the lives of a regular middle-class family . With title narration by Life on Mars's John Simm , this documentary series on the lives of the Hughes family : mother / wife Jane , father / husband Simon , 19-year-old daughter Emily , 17-year-old daughter Charlotte , 14-year-old son Tom , family cat Ziggy , and ( seen most in the last episode ) oldest daughter Jess , living with fiancée Pat and baby daughter Ruby . The first five episodes each had narration from one of the family members , the rest of the episodes didn't . Anyway , each episode showed the typical day in the Hughes family , quite a few arguments about many things , e . g . bed time , a piercing , parenting , etc , but they do always make up in the end , and the episode they all really express happiness is the wedding of Jess and Pat , the final episode , and a happy ending . Very good !
What's Eating Gilbert Grape	From director Lasse Hallström ( The Cider House Rules ) , this is an inspired film with a fantastic cast of actors . Basically Gilbert Grape ( Johnny Depp ) lives in Endora , where not much happens , with his quite unusual family . He has an obese 36 stone mother Bonnie ( 500 pound weighing Darlene Cates ) , two sisters , Amy ( Laura Harrington ) and Ellen ( Mary Kate Schellhardt ) , and a very close and inescapable bond with his mentally handicapped autistic brother , Arnie ( Oscar nominated , and then unknown Leonardo DiCaprio ) . Gilbert's life is almost stolen from him by having to look after his family , particularly Arnie , but stranded free spirit Becky ( Juliette Lewis ) who gives him more feelings . Also starring Escape to Witch Mountain's ( the crap one ) Kevin Tighe as Ken Carver , The River Wild's John C . Reilly as Tucker Van Dyke and Crispin Glover as Bobby McBurney . The only giggle I laughed at was the car driving with half almost on the ground ( because of the mother ) , there are many serious issues as well , e . g . coping with mental handicapped people , extreme obesity and losses . The most memorable moments , good and bad , are the mother being stared at ( and photographed ! ) when leaving the police station , Gilbert striking Arnie , and the mother's tragic death after Arnie's 18th birthday ( the doctor's predicted he'd die at 10 ) and being cremated in the house instead of having more starers see her lifted by a crane . As the only Oscar nominated was for DiCaprio's extraordinary and believable performance , he could have won it ( he lost it to Tommy Lee Jones in The Fugitive ) . Leonardo DiCaprio was number 94 , and Johnny Depp number 22 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , he was also number 9 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols , and he was number 2 on The World's Greatest Actor . Very good !
All the President's Men	I can't remember much of the story , but personally this is a bit weird and hard to understand in places , well , actually nearly all the film I didn't understand , from Oscar , BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated director Alan J . Pakula ( Sophie's Choice ) . It's about some kind of murder and two detective-like newspaper writers are brought together to find the reason why and the killer , or something like that . BAFTA nominated Dustin Hoffman is Carl Bernstein and Robert Redford is Bob Woodward in this true story based on the books by these two real characters . The only tiny problem with Robert Redford as Bob Woodward was that he stole quite a few of the key scenes , especially on the phone , there was not that much Dustin Hoffman in my opinion . Also starring Jack Warden as Harry M . Rosenfeld , BAFTA nominated Martin Balsam as Howard Simons , Hal Holbrook as Deep Throat , Oscar winning , and BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Jason Robards as Ben Bradlee and Oscar nominated Jane Alexander as Judy Hoback . It won the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Best Sound and Best Writing , Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium , and it was nominated for Best Film Editing and Best Picture , it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Cinematography , Best Film Editing , Best Production Design / Art Direction , Best Screenplay , Best Sound Track and Best Film , and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Drama and Best Screenplay - Motion Picture . Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein were number 27 on 100 Years , 100 Heroes & Villains , the film was number 57 on 100 Years , 100 Thrills , and it was number 34 on 100 Years , 100 Cheers . Very good , at least once ( in my opinion ) !
Recess	This used by one of the best reasons to get up early on a Saturday morning . This cartoon was just one of the best weekend treats when I was younger . Basically it is showing all the adventures that all the kids of an American school have in Recess . The main kids are T . J . ( the boss ) , Vince ( the cool one ) , Mikey ( the greedy fat simple one ) , Gretchen ( the smart nerdy one ) , Gus ( the wimp ) and Spinelli ( the tough girl ) . There were some other good characters during Recess that the main kids dealt with . There was the mean playground minder Miss Finster with her young sneaky spy-like assistant , Randall . There was the constant watcher ( of T . J . especially ) and manager of the school Principal Prickley . There was also the ruler of the playground , the teenager King Bob ( anything he said had to be done ) . This is very good from time to time , the kids will love it if they like Disney and Saturday morning cartoons . Very good !
In Which We Serve	Directed by David Lean ( The Bride on the River Kwai ) and Noel Coward ( also starring ) , both making their directorial debuts , this is quite a good British war film . It is a film that combines war ship battles and character flashbacks . Basically the British destroyer ship , HMS Torrin is attacked by the Nazis , and is sinking slowly , and as the surviving members of the British ship cling to a life raft , they have flashbacks both of the ( familiy ) live they have left behind , and their work in the army and on the ship before the attack . Starring Coward as Capt . Edward V . Kinross , Sir John Mills as Ordinary Seaman Shorty Blake , The Man Who Knew Too Much's Bernard Miles as CPO Walter Hardy , Brief Encounter's Celia Johnson as Alix Kinross , Kay Walsh as Freda Lewis , Joyce Carey as Katherine Lemmon Hardy ; Derek Elphinstone as First Lieutenant , the ' Torrin ' ( Number One ) ; Michael Wilding as ' Flags ' , Second Lieutenant ; Robert Sansom as ' Guns ' , Gunnery Officer ; Philip Friend as ' Torps ' , Torpedo Officer , Ballard Berkeley as Engineer Commander , James Donald as Ship's doctor , Michael Whittaker as Sub and Lord Sir Richard Attenborough ( in his film debut ) as Snotty , Midshipman Who Leaves Post . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Picture and Best Writing , Original Screenplay , with a special Honorary Award for Coward . Sir John Mills was number 38 on The 50 Greatest British Actors , and the film was number 57 on The 100 Greatest War Films . Very good !
Manhunter	I saw Brett Ratner's remake based on the novel of the same name , Red Dragon , and with most remakes , this original version is much better , from director Michael Mann ( Collateral ) . 5 years before Sir Anthony Hopkin's Oscar winning turn in The Silence of the Lambs , plus 2001's sequel Hannibal and the prequel remake I mentioned ( both also starring Hopkins ) came Brian Cox , best known The Bourne Trilogy , and even though he doesn't have the same great delivery of lines or pure evil look , he's still more memorable than most other characters . Anyway , basically a sophisticated serial killer is on the loose , and ex-detective Will Graham ( William Petersen ) is brought out of retirement to help hunt him down . The only person who may have some idea of how he thinks and where he might go is the man Graham caught and caused his retirement , Dr . Hannibal Lecktor ( Cox ) , who without anyone's knowledge manages to use his phone time , fiddle with the wires and tell this serial killer anything that helps . This killer by the way we do eventually see is Francis Dollarhyde ( Tom Noonan ) , a sadistic man most of the time wearing a balaclava on his head , quoting from the bible , and ( briefly seen ) hanging out with a blind girl . Also starring Kim Greist as Molly Graham , Dennis Farina as Jack Crawford , Stephen Lang as Freddie Lounds , The Bourne Trilogy's Joan Allen as Reba McClane , David Seaman as Kevin Graham and Benjamin Hendrickson as Dr . Frederick Chilton . Like Cox , Noonan is also not as convincing as Ralph Fiennes ( with Hopkins , the only good reason to see the remake ) , but like I said , there is enough mystery and suspense scattered , and good performances to keep you interested . It was number 41 on Film 4's 50 Films To See Before You Die . Very good !
Valiant	I think the main reason I wanted to see this was for the many good actors in the film , but also because computer animated films are good . Based in the days of World War II were Carrier Pigeons delivering important military messages to the soldiers . The only problem was that the vultures kept stopping them and taking them to their place . Anyway , small pigeon Valiant ( Ewan McGregor ) dreams of flying for the Royal Pigeon team . Joining him after a while is the slobbering but brilliant character Bugsy ( a very good Ricky Gervais ) . Leading and training the pigeons is Sergeant ( Jim Broadbent ) . By the way , the leader of the evil vultures is Von Talon ( Tim Curry ) . Also starring Hugh Laurie as Gutsy , John Cleese as Mercury , John Hurt as Felix , Rik Mayall as Cufflingk and Jonathan Ross as Big Thug . Very good !
American Pie 2	In my opinion , it is almost as good as the first one . All the teenagers from American Pie are reunited and have graduated from college . Jim ( Jason Biggs ) has heard from Nadia ( Shannon Elizabeth ) that she is coming to see him , so he seeks " sex " advice from his prom date Michelle ( Alyson Hannigan ) . Kevin ( Thomas Ian Nicholas ) is still an idiot and still trying to be friends with Vicki ( Tara Reid ) . Oz ( Chris Klein ) is speaking to Heather ( Mena Suvari ) on the phone , they even have short phone sex . Finch ( Eddie Kaye Thomas ) is still obsessed with Stifler's Mom ( Jennifer Coolidge ) ever since prom , and Stifler ( Seann William Scott ) is still the loud and hilarious jock . Anyway , the basic story is they rent a beach house and spend summer there , and eventually do a party that they will never forget . My favourite bit is Jim gluing himself to " himself " ( his penis ) . Filled with more good laughs and more short scenes with Jim's Dad ( Eugene Levy ) , this is a good sequel . Very good !
The Bear	If you liked The Snowman or Father Christmas , then here is another Christmas film from Raymond Briggs . It doesn't have any dialogue , but the music just makes it just as good as The Snowman , it even appears a tiny bit from it . Basically a little girl really loves bear's , especially polar bears . When she loses her teddy bear in the polar bear sanctuary , she is one night visited by a polar bear that returns it . Together that night they go through the snow , follow a large ghost polar bear , have a bath and much more . The animation is just quality , the music is perfect and the end theme sung by young Charlotte Church makes this one of the essentials for Christmas television . Very good !
Dogville	From the director of The Idiots , Lars Von Trier ( nominated the Cannes Film Festival Golden Palm award for this ) is an inventive and stylised film that really challenges you imagination . All buildings and landmarks are suggested by outlines , sound and props on a single sound stage ( no real sets ) , which is the town of Dogville , based in the Depression era . Basically , Grace Margaret Mulligan ( Nicole Kidman ) arrives in the isolated town on the run from gangsters , led by The Big Man ( James Caan ) . After some persuasion Tom Edison ( Paul Bettany ) , the town decide to help her hide , and in return she works for them , even if they " don't need help " . As time goes by , and they get to know her , searches are going through the town , and the people have suspicions and assumptions of poor Grace , and she finds out the hard way that goodness is relative . But she does have a dangerous secret , and the gangsters do eventually find her . Also starring Harriet Andersson as Gloria , Lauren Bacall as Ma Ginger , Jean-Marc Barr as The Man with the Big Hat , Blair Brown as Mrs . Henson , Patricia Clarkson as Vera , Secretary's Jeremy Davies as Bill Henson , Ben Gazzara as Jack McKay , Bruce Almighty's Philip Baker Hall as Tom Edison Sr . , Forrest Gump's Siobhan Fallon as Martha and narrated by John Hurt . Very good !
King Kong	If you liked the original film made in 1933 , then you might like this pretty much sequence by sequence , and high-budget special effects ladened remake by Lord of the Rings director Peter Jackson . Basically it is 1933 ( duh ! ) , and film director Carl Denham ( School of Rock's Jack Black ) is hoping to create a new film on a remote unknown island with aspiring actress Ann Darrow ( The Ring's Naomi Watts ) . Also on the ship of Captain Englehorn ( Thomas Kretschmann ) , are writer Jack Driscoll ( The Pianist's Adrien Brody ) , Preston ( Colin Hanks , son of Tom ) , Lumpy ( Andy Serkis ) , Hayes ( Evan Parke ) , Jimmy ( Billy Elliot's Jamie Bell ) and acting star Bruce Baxter ( Kyle Chandler ) . They unintentionally find the island Denham has in mind , Skull Island , hidden in fog , and filled with terrifying tribe people , hideous and bugs and beasts , dangerous dinosaurs , and of course , the most feared of the beasts , ( King ) Kong ( acted by Gollum performer Serkis ) . When the survivors get back home , Kong is obviously Denham's star attraction ( instead of the film he lost ) , until of course Kong manages to break free , in search of Ann , who has also develop some feeling for him , and it all comes to an end when he falls to his death from the top of New York's Empire State Building . The film could have had many scenes taken out and less high-action stuff that make you eyes a bit sore to make it much shorter than it's 3 hour length , never-the-less , a good remake film from a good director . It won the Oscars for Best Sound Editing , Best Sound Mixing and Best Achievement in Visual Effects , and it was nominated for Best Art Direction , it won the BAFTA for Best Special Visual Effects , and it was nominated for Best Production Design and Best Sound , and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Director and Best Original Score for James Newton Howard . Very good !
The Crocodile Hunter : A Tribute to Steve Irwin	When I heard that Steve Irwin had died ( stingray attack ) , I knew I had to watch this as I used to find him really fun and interesting . When I actually watched this , I didn't realise he did that much for his home country and ours , it makes me wish I'd paid more attention than I actually did to him on TV . It was a really focus on the many programmes , documentaries and mainly contributions he has made for the world . With tributes from family and friends , including David Bellamy , Nigel Marven , Terry Nutkins Kathy Lette , Jono Coleman and Germaine Greer . A good archive documentary about a good man , he will be sorely missed . Very good !
Rita , Sue and Bob Too	I heard about this for having some strong sexual scenes , and my Mum liked the film , and it turned out to be quite a fun film that went just a bit too quickly . There is no real story apart from Rita ( Siobhan Finneran ) and Sue ( Michelle Holmes ) are two school girls having a sexual fling with a married man named Bob ( George Costigan ) . It started with Bob asking if they know anything about sex , being virgins , and then having sex with them one at a time . It continues through the film , many meetings in not very popular public places and having sex . There are obviously many arguments about who should go first , Sue being argumentative towards her mother ( Patti Nicholls ) and father ( Willie Ross ) , and Bob trying to end it to be with wife Michelle ( Lesley Sharp ) . But it is a good comedy drama with some good laughs and turns . It was number 57 on The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments . Very good !
Bugsy Malone	I had heard the title many times , and then I found out that the twice Oscar winning female star of The Silence of the Lambs was in it , and I thought why not . Set in the 1930's , this story is loosely based on the gangster exploits ( e . g . Al Capone ) during the Prohibition era , but all characters are played by children , no adults at all , unless you count the singing voice of Paul Williams . Basically the film centres on the ongoing gang battle between ( named because of his physique ) Fat Sam ( John Cassisi ) and ( named because of his classy fashion sense ) Dandy Dan ( Martin Lev ) , and both are fighting to have the best weapons to take out their threats , i . e . the custard pies , and the essential " splurge gun " . Bugsy Malone ( Scott Baio ) is around during this conflict , he starts as a bystander , a penniless boxing promoter down on his luck , but he gets a job for Fat Sam as a driver , and he agrees to help with whatever he wants . Bugsy also meets his love interest , Blousey Brown ( Florrie Dugger ) , who is ambitious to be a film star in Hollywood . Bugsy makes the money she needs to take her their , but he is mugged and money stolen . He was rescued after this mugging by Leroy Smith ( Paul Murphy ) , who has boxing talent , so Bugsy trains him as a boxer , and Leroy becomes his unofficial sidekick . Oh , Blousey also gets jealous when she sees Bugsy flirting with Fat Sam's girlfriend and lead singer , Tallulah ( twice BAFTA winning " newcomer " , 14-year-old Jodie Foster ) . Also starring Albin ' Humpty ' Jenkins as Fizzy , Davidson Knight as Cagey Joe , Sheridan Earl Russell as Knuckles , Paul Chirelstein as Smolsky / Boxer ; Lock , Stock and Two Smoking Barrels ' Dexter Fletcher as Baby Face , Vivienne McKone as Velma , Helen Corran as Bangles , Andrew Paul as O'Dreary , and an uncredited Phil Daniels as Waiter who spills spaghetti . The acting is pretty good for youngsters , the songs are quite fun , the pie and cream fights are always a treat , and young Foster proves to be worthy to-be movie star . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Music for Paul Williams , it won the BAFTAs for Best Production Design / Art Direction , Best Screenplay and Best Sound Track , and it was nominated the Anthony Asquith Award for Film Music , Best Costume Design , Best Direction for Alan Parker ( Fame ) and Best Film , Parker was nominated the Golden Palm at the Cannes Film Festival , and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Musical / Comedy , Best Original Score and Best Original Song for Williams ' " Bugsy Malone " . Jodie Foster was number 23 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , the film was number 19 on The 100 Greatest Musicals , and it was number 39 on The 100 Greatest Family Films . Very good !
A Room with a View	For a film to be a PG , it doesn't seem like it should be , especially because of the nudity content , but never mind that , this is a good period drama from Oscar , BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated director James Ivory ( Howards End , The Remains of the Day ) . It is quite an interesting story with class , good British actors and some memorable moments to be seen . The story is split into two stories , half in Florence and the other half in England , but mainly in Florence . I hardly understood the story itself , I mainly only wanted to see it for the stars , and they are what make it a good film , their performances , especially for amusement . Starring BAFTA and Golden Globe winning , and Oscar nominated Dame Maggie Smith as Charlotte Bartlett , a chaperon , Helena Bonham Carter as Lucy Honeychurch , Miss Bartlett's cousin and charge , Oscar and BAFTA nominated Denholm Elliott as Mr . Emerson , an English tourist , BAFTA nominated Simon Callow as The Reverend Mr . Beebe , BAFTA winning Dame Judi Dench as Eleanor Lavish , a novelist , Daniel Day-Lewis as Cecil Vyse and BAFTA nominated Rosemary Leach as Mrs . Honeychurch . It won the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Best Costume Design and Best Writing , Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium , and it was nominated for Best Cinematography , and Best Picture , it won the BAFTAs for Best Film and Best Production Design , and it was nominated for Best Cinematography , Best Direction , Best Editing , Best Score for Richard Robbins , Best Adapted Screenplay , Best Sound and Best Costume Design , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama . Very good !
The Client	It is likely that they showed this film because of the recent death of the Bully star Brad Renfro , from an accidental overdose of heroin , he was introduced in this film . But if that wasn't why it was on again after just three or four months , it is a pretty good film to watch , from director Joel Schumacher ( Falling Down , Phone Booth ) . Basically young Mark Sway ( Renfro ) and his little brother Ricky ( David Speck ) see a man , lawyer Jerome ' Romey ' Clifford ( Walter Olkewicz ) trying to kill himself with gas in his car . He catches Mark trying to pull out the tube from the exhaust pipe , and he gets him into the car so they can die together , and while they wait , Clifford tells him about his current client , Mafia hit-man Barry ' The Blade ' Muldano ( Anthony LaPaglia ) and where the body of Senator Boyd Boyette is buried . Mark escapes from the car , leaving behind many fingerprints , and Clifford chases after him , before eventually stopping to shoot himself . When they are found at the crime scene , Ricky goes into a coma because of the shock , and the FBI and Mafia both realise Mark probably knows more than he says . Mark decides he needs a lawyer to hold off questioning and defend him , and he finds Regina ' Reggie ' Love ( BAFTA winning , and Oscar nominated Susan Sarandon ) . One of the authorities most anxious to get answers is a lawyer who's never lost a case , ' Reverend ' Roy Foltrigg ( Tommy Lee Jones ) , and even without permission from Mark's mother Dianne ( Mary-Louise Parker ) he is determined . He has his concerns about her , being a woman , and later finding out about her past alcoholism after she lost her kids , but he eventually forms a trust with her . After a long while , after more evidence comes about , Mark eventually tells the truth to Reggie , and after he escapes juvenile prison , they go to find the Senator's body , not far ahead of the Mafia . In the end , the cops get their body , and Mark and his family are put on the witness protection program to a better life somewhere else . Also starring Pleasantville's J . T . Walsh as Jason McThune , Anthony Edwards as Clint Von Hooser , Will Patton as Sergeant Hardy , Bradley Whitford as Thomas Fink , The Silence of the Lambs ' Anthony Heald as Larry Trumann , Kim Coates as Paul Gronke , Kimberly Scott as Doreen , William H . Macy as Dr . Greenway , Ossie Davis as Judge Harry Roosevelt , Micole Mercurio as Momma Love , William Sanderson as Wally Boxx , Amy Hathaway as Karen and Jo Harvey Allen as Claudette . From the title , I expected a courtroom drama film , but it is a good film none-the-less . Susan Sarandon was number 25 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars . Very good !
The Birth of a Nation	I had heard about this film mainly because it featured the Ku Klux Klan , but I didn't know much else , so being in the book of " 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die " , I was obviously going to see it when I got the opportunity . The first half of the film focuses on the Civil War , showing the slavery of black people , and the eventual abolition of it , and the equal rights movement seeing that they can join the war . The first part ends with the death of President Abraham Lincoln , murdered at a play by John Wilkes Booth . The second half of the film sees racism grow in the Reconstruction era , and the forming of the most infamous cult group in history , the Ku Klux Klan , who only care about ridding the world of blacks , and burn some crucifixes . The story is told mostly by focusing on families affected by the events , but the footage of Lincoln's assassination , and the riding of the KKK is much more prominent . Back in 1915 the film was of course considered controversial , and today , the impact of the film has not diminished , and even though it's a little shaky , black and white , silent , and three hours and twelve minutes long , it is worth it . Very good !
Rio Bravo	From director Howard Hawks ( Scarface - 1932 , Gentlemen Prefer Blondes ) , this is a western might not have the biggest amount of plot and be a tiny bit lengthy , and yet it is a good classic . Basically Sheriff John T . Chance ( John Wayne ) in a small town of Southwest Texas must keep custody of murderer Joe Burdette ( Claude Akins ) whose brother , powerful rancher Nathan Burdette ( John Russell ) is trying to help him escape . After a friend is killed , Chance gets new deputies , a disgraced drunk , Dude ( singer Dean Martin ) , a young gunslinger , Colorado Ryan ( singer Ricky Nelson ) and an old cripple , Stumpy ( Walter Brennan ) , and they must hold out against Burdette's hired guns till the marshal arrives . Meanwhile , the only subplot worth mentioning is Chance and his relationship with mysterious beauty Feathers ( Angie Dickinson ) . Also starring Ward Bond as Pat Wheeler , Pedro Gonzalez Gonzalez as Carlos Robante and Estelita Rodriguez as Consuela Robante . Wayne is very good , Brennan is fantastic with that accent , and when the story actually sees some action it is very fun to watch . It may not be the most sophisticated and high action western ( in my opinion ) , it may be quite simple , but it is a good western all the same . Very good !
Chungking Express	This is one of those films that I personally did not choose to watch , but I made myself because it was part of my Film Studies exam in the New Wave film topic . From director Kar Wai Wong , this is quite an interesting Hong Kong New Wave film with very inventive editing . The first half ( well , actually almost only a third ) is about Cop 223 , He Zhiwu ( Takeshi Kaneshiro ) , who has broken up with his five-year girlfriend , and he has purchased many tins of pineapples that all expire on the same date , May 1 1994 . He feels that either he will rejoin his love , or the love will expire forever . The second half of the film ( the other two thirds ) is about Cop 663 ( Tony Leung Chiu Wai ) dealing with his breakup with his flight attendant girlfriend . He only talks to his apartment furnishings till finding a new local lunch counter girl , Faye ( Faye Wong ) . Also starring Brigitte Lin as Woman in blonde wig and Valerie Chow as Air Hostess . Very good !
Fireman Sam	I think this is the same makers as Postman Pat , and if you liked that you'll love this . A local fireman named Sam works for the local fire service , and throughout the series him and his team help people . For example Sam helps the naughty Norman out of a deep dark hole / cave in the ground , he gets his nephew and niece's kite off Bella's roof , he catches Trevor's tyre and many other " daring " rescues and services . I used to like the naughty Norman always skate-boarding and trying to steal his Mum's apples . His Mum always tried to get him away from the telly , she didn't realise he was a mischief . There was also the silly Trevor with his van , he always had a problem somewhere . So altogether , when I was young this was a very good kids show . Very good !
Thank You for Smoking	The debut film from Jason Reitman , son of Ghostbusters , Twins and Evolution director Ivan , is a very good satire comedy focusing on one of the most powerful , and controversial businesses in the world . The lead character of this film is anti-hero chief spokesperson , lobbyist and Vice-President of the Academy of Tobacco Studies , Nick Naylor ( Golden Globe nominated Aaron Eckhart ) , and he is very talented in speaking to defend the cigarette industry in difficult situations . His best friends are also working in controversial businesses , Polly Bailey ( Maria Bello ) for the alcohol business , and Bobby Jay Bliss ( David Koechner ) for the gun business , and they frequently meet each other in a bar calling themselves the Mod Squad , or Merchants of Death , disputing which industry has killed more people . Nick's greatest enemy is the man who defends the use of skull and crossbones on cigarette packs , Senator Ortolan Finistirre ( William H . Macy ) . Obviously it is when Heather Holloway ( Katie Holmes ) that his life is starting to go wrong for him when she betrays his sexual trust . Also starring Cameron Bright as Joey Naylor ( Nick's son ) , The O . C . ' s Adam Brody as Jack , Sam Elliott as Lorne Lutch , Rob Lowe as Jeff Megall , Spider-Man's J . K . Simmons as BR , Robert Duvall as Captain and Kim Dickens as Jill Naylor . The story is not only funny , but quite poignant to see how affective the tobacco industry really is , with some very good performances , obviously best is Eckhart , a very good satire . It was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Musical or Comedy . Very good !
Heat	This is a pretty good crime action thriller where there are mainly chase sequences between the cops and the crooks . I think it is called Heat either for the amount of explosions , or the Heat of the chases . Al Pacino plays Lt . Vincent Hanna , the detective on the lookout for a crime gang planning to do something to the city , or something . Robert De Niro is Neil McCauley , the man mainly in charge of this gang , and the one who Hanna mainly wants to get his hands on . McCauley is a pretty hardcore criminal because he does not care who he kills to get his own way . Also starring Val Kilmer as the nasty Chris Shiherlis , Jon Voight as Nate , Ted Levine as Bosko and Natalie Portman as Lauren Gustafson . Robert De Niro was number 2 , and Al Pacino number 1 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , De Niro was number 50 , and Pacino number 26 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons , Pacino and De Niro together were number 5 on The World's Greatest Actor . Very good !
O Brother , Where Art Thou ?	I don't exactly understand the meaning of the title , probably something to do with country folk or the time that the characters were living in , but it is a good film from the Coen brothers . This is quite an interesting story about some escape prisoners ( with some accent ) on the run and trying to get on with a new life . Golden Globe winning George Clooney as Ulysses Everett McGill is really good ( and if it was really him ) , he is good at singing . On the way Clooney and his two companions Pete ( John Turturro ) and Delmar O'Donnell ( Tim Blake Nelson ) meet farm people , some police and a KKK group run by Big Dan Teague ( John Goodman ) . Also starring Holly Hunter as Penny Although the ending is a tiny bit unlikely and confusing , the rest is still a film to watch . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Cinematography and Best Writing , Screenplay Based on Material Previously Produced or Published , it was nominated the BAFTAs for the Anthony Asquith Award for Film Music , Best Cinematography , Best Costume Design , Best Production Design and Best Original Screenplay , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Comedy / Musical . George Clooney was number 72 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , and he was number 7 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols . Very good !
Chocolat	From director Lasse Hallströmof ( The Cider House Rules ) , this is a pretty good film of how a delicious substance can change a town in both good and bad ways . Basically in a French village ( which explains the title being French ) run by the mayor , Comte Paul De Reynaud ( Spider-Man 2's Alfred Molina ) a new woman moves to the town . Soon enough , Vianne Rocher ( Oscar , BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Juliette Binoche ) and her daughter Anouk open a chocolate shop . The only concern for some people is that she has opened during rent , but she still insists on letting people try her new recipes and treats . Unfortunately , not everyone approves , especially the mayor who tries to make everyone turn against Vianne . Also starring Memento's Carrie-Anne Moss as Caroline Clairmont , Oscar , BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Dame Judi Dench as Armande Voizin , Johnny Depp as Roux and BAFTA nominated Lena Olin as Josephine Muscat . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Music , Original Score for Rachel Portman , Best Writing , Screenplay Based on Material Previously Produced or Published and Best Picture , it was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Cinematography , Best Costume Design , Best Make Up / Hair , Best Production Design and Best Adapted Screenplay , and it was nominated Golden Globe Best Motion Picture - Comedy / Musical and Best Original Score . Juliette Binoche was number 88 , and Johnny Depp number 22 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , Dame Judi Dench was number 1 on The 50 Greatest British Actresses , she was number 1 on Britain's Finest Actresses , Depp was number 9 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols , and Dench was number 8 , and Depp number 2 on The World's Greatest Actor . Very good !
The Incredible Journey	I had seen the 1993 remake , Homeward Bound , before this classic Walt Disney Pictures film , and I have to say , even with the great voice cast in the remake , this classic is more fun . Basically three pets , the old dog , the leader dog ( Golden Retreaver ) and the Siamese cat , have been left behind by their owners and will be looked after by the old friend of theirs . But when the old guy is not looking , the Golden Retrever with the other two soon following embark on the incredible journey to the place where their owners are staying . They have many long walks through the countryside , come across many risky and sometimes dangerous tests of nature , e . g . water , animals , but they eventually make it back to the owners on the day of one of the kids ' birthdays , good for him . Based on a true story , with narration by Rex Allen ( narrator of Charlotte's Web ) . It was number 49 on The 100 Greatest Tearjerkers for the happy ending . Very good !
Space Cadets	For a short reality show type programme , this was a pretty essential thing to see . Basically they take nine ordinary members of the public , and the producers and Johnny Vaughn are going to convince them that they are going to Russia to become astronauts . Three people also joining these nine are three actors to make sure nothing goes wrong . After at least a week or so of training the four chosen , one being an actor , are made to think they are really going to space for a little while . When it is all over and they have experienced no weightlessness ( they were told why ) they finally found out it was all fake . The three that were genuine were pretty gutted , amused and obviously gullible . Good !
All or Nothing	I had seen the controversial and hard-hitting Vera Drake from director Mike Leigh , and the critics liked this film , so I decided to give it a go . There was no real plot to the story for a while , just a gentle , philosophical taxi driver named Phil ( Timothy Spall ) who has a dry love relationship with his partner ( who works in a supermarket ) Penny ( Lesley Manville ) , their daughter Rachel ( Alison Garland ) is an elderly people's home cleaner , and their son son Rory ( James Corden ) is unemployed and aggressive . It is when Rory suffers a near-fatal heart attack that the film really gets it's biggest interest ( although there are moments of good chat before ) , and all characters are brought together to rediscover themselves . Also starring Ruth Sheen as Maureen , Marion Bailey as Carol , Paul Jesson as Ron , Sam Kelly as Sid , Kathryn Hunter as Cécile , Sally Hawkins as Samantha and Helen Coker as Donna . The actors are great , the story is human and believable , and this is just one of those films that you can't stop watching . Very good !
Where's Wally ?	When I was a kid I always used to like to read the picture books , then they made them into a TV series on CITV . This was actually quite a good book based cartoon . Wally is a guy in a red and white fleece with a dog dressed the same . Basically every episode , when he felts like it ( obviously all the time ) he would get his magic walking stick and create a vortex that would transport him to another world , e . g . stone age , spooky , under the sea , jungle , etc . Wizard Whitebeard would be around to see how he was using the walking stick or how he was in the adventure , and the villain ( I can't remember his name ) in the yellow and black fleece would always try to steal the walking stick . But the main part of the show ( hence the title ) was when the audience at home have to spot Wally in a freeze frame ( because he disappears for some reason ) , just like in the books . Very good !
Match Point	From Oscar and twice Golden Globe nominated actor-writer / director Woody Allen ( Annie Hall ) , his first in Britain , this is quite a good film that doesn't have any comedy at all . I didn't really pay much attention to the first few minutes of the film , but basically Chris Wilton ( The Tudors ' Jonathan Rhys Meyers ) is a retired pro tennis player , and gets married to Chloe Hewett ( Emily Mortimer ) , who it is quite obvious he is not in love with entirely . So he starts an affair with the girl he has much more passion for , struggling American actress and Femme Fetale Nola Rice ( Golden Globe nominated Scarlett Johansson ) . They have a great secret passion , but she gets very demanding on when they should get together , causing him problems sticking to schedules with his wife or other stuff . As Chris gets more and more harassed by the demanding mistress , he must make a decision on which woman he wants more , he chooses his wife , and decides to kill an innocent old woman , Nola's neighbour Mrs . Eastby ( Margaret Tyzack ) , and then Nola , making it look like a robbery , where Nola got in the way . Chris does have to give an alibi to the police , and of course he has to tell them about the affair when he knows Nola kept a diary , of course , Inspector Dowd ( AVP's Ewen Bremner ) and Detective Banner ( James Nesbitt ) realise this plan , but in the end , we never see him get arrested , it's more a will he stay free ending , he should have got what he deserved . Also starring a variety of British stars , including Brian Cox as Alec Hewett , Matthew Goode as Tom Hewett , Penelope Wilton as Eleanor Hewett , Rupert Penry-Jones as Henry , Alexander Armstrong as Mr . Townsend , Paul Kaye ( aka Dennis Pennis ) as Estate Agent , The League of Gentlemen's Mark Gatiss as Ping-Pong Player , Colin Salmon as Ian and The League of Gentlemen's Steve Pemberton as Detective Parry . I may have seen affair films many times , but this is actually pretty original , with some good acting and interesting realism , well , maybe not the murdering , but everything else . It was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama . Very good !
Belleville Rendez-Vous	I had heard a lot about this French cartoon , and I identified the Grandma character with it , so when the opportunity came , I wasn't going to miss it . Basically an orphan boy named Champion is kidnapped while cycling in the Tour De France by two sinister mafia gangsters , to be taken across the Atlantic to Belleville . It is up to his club-footed Grandmother , Madame Souza , with her lazy and pudgy dog Bruno , to rescue him . Soon after arriving in Belleville herself , she meets three performing Triplets ( named in the alternative film title , The Triplets of Belleville ) , who not only form a bizarre jazz combo with her included , but help her to rescue Champion from the clutches of the mob . The highlights of the film are the ocean crossing with classic score , the disgusting frog dinner ( I'm guessing a mock on one of the French's signature foods ) , and the jazzy music sequences with the batty Triplets . The unusual and stylised animation is not only what makes the film very watchable and charming , but it also adds to the film's dark side , the slapstick and throwaway gags are great too . It was number 76 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons . Very good !
Art Attack	I do watch it occasionally when there is a new series or it is repeated , but when I was younger this used to be one of my favourite creative programmes . Neil Buchanan has been the host for who knows how long now , and he's still as interesting as ever . Basically he enters the studio and helps you to get ideas for creating many things . He also gives us drawing tips and a Big Art Attack ! Some of the things he's created are helpful , handy , fun and laughable . There is also the amusing antics of " The Head " reminding you of what's been made , and sometimes he even gave you his version of what was made . But it's Neil that was the highlight of the show for me . It won a BAFTA for BAFTA Award for Best Children's Programme ( Factual ) from 5 nominations . At the time , and sometimes now , very good !
: The Falling Man	To be honest , I did not see the entire Twin Towers incident , so this documentary was pretty much a chance to see what I probably should have seen . This documentary focused on how New York was changed by this horrific day of occurrences , with the hijacked planes crashing into the North and South towers , people helpless in the building , the rescue attempts , and the mass destruction leading to hundreds dead . But one image that summed up another way this day was so horrible was the captured image of a man falling to his death , an example of many people jumping to their deaths . This image was very controversial for the newspaper that printed it , but they knew people needed to know how horrible this incident was , and what it could lead people to do when there is no chance . There is also the search for the identity of this single man , and his relatives or friends who would recognise him . A truly moving documentary that you cannot ignore , and really gives you an insight into how this single terrible day caught the attention of people all over the world . It was nominated the BAFTA Flaherty Documentary Award . Very good !
The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie	I have to admit I wasn't paying the biggest amount of attention to the story itself , but I saw enough to agree with most opinions that this is quite a good film . Basically Jean Brodie ( Oscar and BAFTA winning , and Golden Globe nominated Dame Maggie Smith ) is a young teacher at an Edinburgh school for girls , and ignoring the more mundane subjects , she instead teaches the girls about love , politics and art . Miss Brodie's two affairs with male teachers starts her fighting to keep her job , and also , one of her students thinks she's lost her " prime " , and learns life and love for herself . To be honest , that's all I could grasp in the story . Also starring Robert Stephens as Teddy Lloyd , BAFTA nominated Pamela Franklin as Sandy , Gordon Jackson as Gordon Lowther , BAFTA winning Celia Johnson as Miss Mackay , Diane Grayson as Jenny , Jane Carr as Mary McGregor , Shirley Steedman as Monica , Lavinia Lang as Emily Carstairs and Antoinette Biggerstaff as Helen McPhee . To be honest , I think the only good reason to see the film is for the Oscar winning performance by Smith , I couldn't concentrate on much else . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Song for " Jean " ( it won the Golden Globe ) , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama . Dame Maggie Smith was number 4 on The 50 Greatest British Actresses , she was number 4 on Britain's Finest Actresses , and she was number 20 on The World's Greatest Actor . Very good !
Jumanji	I used to love this film as a kid , it was and still is a really good fun family film , from director Joe Johnston ( Honey , I Shrunk the Kids ; Jurassic Park III ) . It is basically about a board game with a life of it's own that can transport the players into the terrible and some scary parts of the jungle . It is 1969 , and young Alan Parrish ( Adam Hann-Byrd ) finds this board game , Jumanji , in a building site , not too far away from the show factory owned by his father , Samuel ( Jonathan Hyde ) , and starting the game with his friend Sarah ( Laura Bell Bundy ) is soon sucked into the game , while Sarah runs away being chased by it's African bats . 26 years later , Aunt Nora Shepherd ( Bebe Neuwirth ) with her niece and nephew Judy ( Spider-Man's Kirsten Dunst ) and Peter ( The Borrowers ' Bradley Pierce ) have bought the old Parrish house . Soon enough , Judy and Peter hear the drumming of the game ( that's how Alan found it ) and start to play , and doing so also let out older Alan ( Robin Williams ) . Eventually when they find the final player , older Sarah Whittle ( Bonnie Hunt ) they are all determined to finish the game and make all the plants and creatures go back into the game . While playing they encounter hunter Van Pelt ( Hyde again ) , monkeys , Peter turns into a monkey for cheating , a stampede of many large animals , rapid growing poisonous and hungry plants , quick sand , a lion , crocodiles , mosquitoes , spiders and an earthquake . Robin Williams was number 19 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , the film was number 48 on The 100 Greatest Family Films . Very good !
Wacky Races	When I was younger , and occasionally now on Cartoon Network this is a very good Hanna-Barbera cartoon . It's basically a cartoon about car races involving bizarre characters and vehicles used to win the local race . There are at least twelve drivers competing in the race wherever set . The drivers that I can remember as Penelope Pitstop in her girlie makeup car , The General and Leuitenant in the tank , Peter Perfect ( the git ) , Professor Pat Pending in his high-tech machine car , The Gang ( whatever their called ) in their 30s car , and of course , the ever popular Dick Dastardly and Muttley in car zero . Every episode Dastardly and Muttley try to win but always stop to try and stop the others from winning , they should have just kept going ! They obviously never won , which is a lesson , never cheat ! It was number 100 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons . Very good !
The Aviator	This biographical drama from Oscar , BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated director Martin Scorsese ( Taxi Driver , The Departed ) is not as good as the much more accomplished biopic Raging Bull ( about Jake La Motta ) , but it is certainly worth a go . It shows the life of Hollywood mogul and aviator ( plane pilot and designer ) Howard Hughes ( Golden Globe winning , and Oscar and BAFTA nominated Leonardo DiCaprio ) . It shows his making of his only two ( directed ) films Hell's Angels ' and The Outlaw ( although he's best known for helping Howard Hawks make the original 1932 Scarface ) , his affairs with such stars as Ava Gardner ( miscast Kate Beckinsale ) , Jean Harlow ( singer Gwen Stefani ) , and more prominently , the great Katharine Hepburn ( Oscar and BAFTA winning , and Golden Globe nominated Cate Blanchett ) , and his millions spent , lost and succeeded on plane design and manufacture . But the scenes I found most intriguing and gripping were his attempts , successes and one big failure in plane test flights ( notably the one that almost crippled him ) , and his slow decent into both bankruptcy and madness , his repeating of phrases is most frequent . Also starring John C . Reilly as Noah Dietrich , Alec Baldwin as Juan Trippe , Oscar and BAFTA nominated Alan Alda as Senator Ralph Owen Brewster , Sir Ian Holm as Professor Fitz , Danny Huston as Jack Frye , Jude Law as Errol Flynn , Edward Herrmann as Joseph Breen , Willem Dafoe as Roland Sweet , Kelli Garner as Faith Domergue , Adam Scott as Johnny Meyer , Frances Conroy as Mrs . Hepburn , Independence Day's Brent Spiner as Robert Gross , Matt Ross as Glenn Odekirk , Kenneth Welsh as Dr . Thomas Norval Hepburn and Kevin O'Rourke as Spencer Tracy . Most of the actors in this film do look and sound ( a little mostly ) like who they are meant to be , Blanchett and DiCaprio obviously being best , there are some memorable moments , e . g . the plane crash , and Scorsese makes quite an intense ( in parts ) film . It won the Oscars for Best Art Direction , Best Cinematography , Best Costume Design and Best Editing , and it was nominated for Best Sound Mixing , Best Writing , Original Screenplay and Best Motion Picture of the Year , it won the BAFTAs for Best Film , Best Make Up / Hair and Best Production Design , and it was nominated the Anthony Asquith Award for Film Music for Howard Shore , Best Special Visual Effects , Best Cinematography , Best Costume Design , Best Editing , Best Original Screenplay , Best Sound and the David Lean Award for Direction , and it won the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Drama and Best Original Score , and it was nominated for Best Screenplay . Very good !
Peter and the Wolf	I heard about this film on the news , from director Suzie Templeton , from Hedge End , Southampton , Hampshire , England ( which I know very well ) won the Oscar for Best Short Animated Film , and deservedly so . It is a film based on the piece of music by Sergei Prokofiev , so like Fantasia , a story is added with the music to guide . Basically Peter is the young boy locked out the woods by his protective grandfather , and his only friend is a duck , he is bullied in town . Peter manages to steal the gate keys from his sleeping grandfather and enters the woods with the duck , and an ill-flying bird . They have a little fun on the frozen lake , with the grandfather's cat joining them . Soon though they encounter a wolf , and when it eats the duck , Peter wants to get revenge and capture the wolf with a near netting . He succeeds , and his grandfather sees it too , but in the end , when taking the caged animal into town , Peter can't let the wolf be either put in a stage show , or killed by hunters , he just lets it go . The stop-motion animation , particularly for the ginger cat and wolf , is extraordinary . Templeton apparently spent a year making this half hour film , and she deservedly won the Oscar for Best Short Animated Film ( also nominated the BAFTA ) , a great triumph . Very good !
Black Hawk Down	Based on actual events , Oscar nominated director Sir Ridley Scott portrays the battle mission that took place in Somalia , 1993 . It was the tiniest bit slow for the first 20 minutes or so , but if you stick with it , after that it does not stop for a breath as the U . S . soldiers battle . Starring Josh Hartnett as SSgt . Matt Eversmann , Ewan McGregor as Spec . John Grimes , Jason Isaacs as Capt . Mike Steele , Tom Sizemore as Lt . Col . Danny McKnight , William Fichtner as Sfc . Jeff Sanderson , Eric Bana as Sfc . Norm ' Hoot ' Hooten , Orlando Bloom as Todd Blackburn and Ioan Gruffudd as Lt . John Beales . A gripping film that will stop after those 20 minutes . By the way , the title relates to a helicopter crash . It won the Oscars for Best Sound and Best Editing ( beating Memento ) , and it was nominated for Best Cinematography , and it was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Cinematography , Best Editing and Best Sound . It was number 9 on The 100 Greatest War Films . Very good !
Playdays	When I was younger this was one of the best kids programmes to watch nearly as soon as you got home from Primary School . Every episode was a different location at the bus stop . The ones that I liked though were either those episodes in the shop or at the magic merry-go-round . Every episode was both a bit of fun and a little bit of education , I mean you can't just have fun . One of the parts that I always liked were some of the puppets . The three that were quite regular and that I looked forward to seeing were Why Bird , Daisy the rag doll and Poppy the cat . But the most favourite part of the show for me was the beginning . Every time they announced that Playdays was on , I was always smile because I knew the theme tune was coming on . I just loved to hum and do a tiny dance to it . I would definitely recommend this to young kids ! It was brilliant ! ( When I was a kid )
The History of Mr . Polly	This was another great TV made film drama ( for ITV ) , if you liked Goodnight Mister Tom or Heartless , then you'll like this story based on the H . G . Wells classic novel . Set in Victorian England , it starts with the defining middle part , where the leading man , Alfred Polly ( a well cast Lee Evans ) plans suicide , and then we see the past that led him there . He started out as an innocent boy with ambitions , then as he got older he fancied a girl on a brick wall , but he gives this up to marry a girl he is not really in love with , Miriam Larkins ( Anne-Marie Duff ) . When he knows the marriage is failing , and he is seen as a bit of a joke , he decides to set fire to his new shop and cut his neck , but the twist is that he fails to go with the slash and escapes the fire . Also , saving his neighbour shop owner's wife , he is seen as a hero . After this , he decides to run away from his marriage to find real happiness . Far from home , he stumbles upon an idyllic waterside inn , run by delightful landlady Nancy ( Julie Graham ) and is given work . His new life seems perfect , until local thug Jim ( Richard Coyle ) shows up and tells him to shove off , but will he stand up to him ? There is a happy ending though , where are ridding of Jim , and saying a goodbye to widow Miriam ( when she thought he was dead ) , he finds a good life . Also starring Roger Lloyd Pack as Johnson and Trevor Cooper as Rumbold . Very good !
A Time to Kill	I am not completely interested in all parts to the story , I think it is just the court case I like . Basically , the young daughter of Carl Lee Hailey ( Golden Globe nominated Samuel L . Jackson ) is horrifically beaten , raped and hanged to die ( which she didn't ) , and he kills the men responsible for this crime . But this is what creates the court case . Carl Lee Hailey wants justice for the crime that the men committed , and lawyer Jake Tyler Brigance ( Matthew McConaughey , the film that launched his career , three years before Edtv ) is determined to help him . The opposition , D . A . Rufus Buckley ( Kevin Spacey ) is determined to show everyone that he did still carry out an unlawful act against two men who were going to have justice brought to them . Also starring Sandra Bullock as practising lawyer Ellen Roark , Oliver Platt as Harry Rex Vonner , Charles S . Dutton as Sheriff Ozzie Walls , My Left Foot's Brenda Fricker as Ethel Twitty , Donald Sutherland as Lucien Wilbanks , Kiefer Sutherland as Freddie Lee Cobb , Braveheart's Patrick McGoohan as Judge Omar Noose and Ashley Judd as Carla Brigance . It has got some good twists as a thriller , the KKK are involved , and the two Sutherlands are good in their roles , although they should have been related . Very good !
Frank Skinner Live at Birmingham Hippodrome	I had seen him on a couple of TV shows , such as panel shows , and bits and pieces of Baddiel & Skinner Un-Planned , but I had never seen Frank Skinner do any stand-up , and I am glad I gave him a chance . Live at the Birmingham Hippodrome theatre , this was a very funny show , and Skinner is interesting not to make an effort with clothing or costume , he just appears in some track-suit trousers and a football shirt , but I guess that's his thing . Anyway , almost the whole show is about his opinions , embarrassments and experiences during many forms of sex . He is crude , rude and very , very funny , more so than I expected in fact . Frank Skinner was number 5 on Britain's Favourite Comedian , and he was 26 on 100 Greatest Stand-Ups . Very good !
The L-Shaped Room	I don't know the meaning of the title , but there is a reference to it towards the end with the guy writing a novel with ' The L-Shaped Room ' as it's title . Anyway , basically it is all about French born Jane Fosset ( BAFTA and Golden Globe winning , and Oscar nominated Leslie Caron ) . She moved to England to escape her dreary life in France , and has moved into a flat block . In this place she makes friends with manager Doris ( Avis Bunnage ) , Sonia ( Patricia Phoenix ) , neighbour Johnny ( To Kill a Mockinbird and Batman : The Animated Series - Lucias Fox - star Brock Peters ) , and downstairs neighbour Toby ( Tom Bell ) . The main story is that Jane is pregnant , and unknowing Toby forms a close relationship with her . She does give in one night to his love , but is gone the next morning , after Johnny told him about the baby coming . She is now trying to sort everything out with everyone in the flat block , get back together possibly with Toby , and not let the baby get in the way of a happy life . Also starring Anthony Booth as Youth in Street and James Bond's Bernard Lee as Charlie . It was nominated the BAFTAs for Best British Film and Best Film from any Source , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best English-Language Foreign Film . Very good !
TV's 50 Greatest Stars	This was similar to the ITV's 50 Greatest Shows programme , as it was on the same channel ( instead of Channel 4 ) , and it was probably more essential . Presented by Bradley Walsh , the list had such stars as : Alan Titchmarsh , Coronation Street's William Roache , Steve Coogan , Kenny Everett , Anne Robinson , Richard Madeley & Judy Finnigan , Des Lynam , Peter Cook , Chris Tarrant , Caroline Quentin , Cilla Black , Robson Green , Jamie Oliver , Martin Clunes , Sir Trevor McDonald , Les Dawson , Ricky Gervais , Dame Helen Mirren , Simon Cowell , Joanna Lumley , Noel Edmonds , Rolf Harris , Bob Monkhouse , Sir David Frost , Sir Terry Wogan , Michael Parkinson , Jeremy Clarkson , Lenny Henry , Benny Hill , Billy Connolly , Tommy Cooper , Michael Palin , Dawn French & Jennifer Saunders , Peter Kay , Robbie Coltrane , Victoria Wood , Stephen Fry , Sir David Attenborough , Anthony McPartlin & Declan Donnelly , Ronnie Barker & Ronnie Corbett , Bruce Forsyth , Julie Walters , John Thaw , Eric Morecambe & Ernie Wise and deserved number one , Sir David Jason . With contributions from some of them , as well as : Charlie Dimmock , Nicki Chapman , Terry Jones , David Schneider , Sharon Osbourne , Tony Blackburn , Andi Peters , Lorraine Kelly , Jerry Springer , Corrie's Tina O'Brien , Jennie Bond , Eamonn Holmes , Barry Cryer , Germaine Greer , Kerry Katona , Neil Fox , Jeremy Irons , Pete Waterman , Fay Ripley and Corrie's Shobna Gulati . Very good !
Autopsy : Emergency Room	I do remember about one or two years ago I saw another programme filmed in Germany , with an audience of body donors , where the ( German ) presenter basically cut up , opened and examined bodies to find answers to many questions posed in certain circumstances . This new series was paying attention to medical emergency , and Dr . Gunther Von Hughes , accompanied by A & E consultant John Heyworth ( technically a co-presenter ) , naked models Anna Tatarczyk and Dennis Lau , and Red Cross expert Emma Rand this set out to answer the questions and give you the information you would need in an emergency situation . All bodies on the programme were donated for medical research such as this , and the emergencies focused were no breathing , stabbing , blood loss , brain damage , and many more in the certain subjects . The taking apart of bodies can be disturbing , the naked models are slightly odd but useful , and all the experts give a very interesting explanation about all the subjects to bodily emergency , that is the main reason I think it is a good programme . Very good !
Pollock	I knew this was a biographical film about an artist , I found out about it mainly because of Ed Harris , also directing , and the protagonist has the same first name I do . This is the true story of artist Jackson Pollock ( Oscar nominated Harris ) , who towards the end of the 1940's , was trying to find his spark again . He was an expressionist who only painted what he wanted , and had no care for meaning or genre . First he used his brush and painted random lines and shapes , but then he found that he could create much more interesting expression with the brush by dripping the paint onto the canvas . His paintings made a real breakthrough , and he had critic praise , including an article in Life magazine . But old demons were bound to come back , and his wife Lee Krasner ( Oscar winning Flubber actress Marcia Gay Harden ) had to tolerate his alcoholism , which was ultimately forced her out , and killed him in his fatal car crash , along with one of two women . Also starring Amy Madigan as Peggy Guggenheim , Jennifer Connelly as Ruth Kligman , Jeffrey Tambor as Clem Greenberg , Bud Cort as Howard Putzel , John Heard as Tony Smith , Val Kilmer as Willem DeKooning , Stephanie Seymour as Helen Frankenthaler , Sada Thompson as Stella Pollock , Kenny Scharf as William Baziotes , Barbara Garrick as Betty Parsons and Everett Quinton as James Johnson Sweeney . Harris gives a very convincing portrayal , as well as good directing skills , and Harden does give an Oscar worthy performance as his patiently suffering wife . The story does have some powerful structure , and the highlights for me are both the creation of and finished paintings . Very good !
The Big Bang	This was and still is a pretty good show for both some theory , some small questions answered and some science stuff to listen to or create yourself . Violet Berlin has been in it ever since it started , it also used to have How 2's Gareth Jones as one of the best male hosts . Violet even looked pregnant in one of the series . The Big Bang is obviously the earth beginning , so it's obvious they should do science stuff . They show you how to put a cup of water over your head without it dropping , how to make your own home-made crisps , how to race with empty bottles , how to use a professional telescope and many other interesting things . Good !
The Age of Innocence	Golden Globe nominated Martin Scorcese ( Taxi Driver , GoodFellas , The Departed ) directing a period drama , well , call it an arty-farty costume drama , obviously raised many eye-brows , and yet , it worked . Basically , it is the late 19th Century , in America , and Newland Archer ( Daniel Day-Lewis ) is engaged to May Welland ( Golden Globe winning , and Oscar and BAFTA nominated Winona Ryder ) , but his life is to be changed when he starts a " fling " with May's unconventional cousin , Countess Ellen Olenska ( Golden Globe nominated Michelle Pfeiffer ) . The story obviously focuses on many complications with this love triangle , but it also an interesting insight into the lives of rich folk in those days , e . g . how they dine , how they socialise and where they do they do these things . Also starring Alexis Smith as Louisa Van Der Luyden , Geraldine Chaplin as Mrs . Welland , Mary Beth Hurt as Regina Beaufort , Alec McCowen as Sillerton Jackson , Richard E . Grant as Larry Lefferts , BAFTA winning Miriam Margolyes as Mrs . Mingott , Robert Sean Leonard as Ted Archer , Siân Phillips as Mrs . Archer , Jonathan Pryce as Rivière and Batman's Michael Gough as Henry Van Der Luyden , and narrated by Joanne Woodward . I will admit I wasn't paying full attention to the story , but I could see what the critics mean by some of the acting , especially ( Oscar nominated ? ) Ryder was a bit stiff , but I think this is worth seeing if you want to see Scorsese having some versatility . It won the Oscar for Best Costume Design , and it was nominated for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Best Music for Elmer Bernstein and Best Writing , Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium , it was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Cinematography and Best Production Design , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama . Very good !
William Shakespeare's Romeo + Juliet	I first saw bits of this and dismissed it because back then I hated Leonardo DiCaprio and Shakespearean language in the modern world , but now I like both . BAFTA winning director Baz Luhrmann ( Moulin Rouge ) has brought the famous William Shakespeare love story into the 20th century ( not the language of course ) , e . g . daggers are guns called Dagger . Romeo ( DiCaprio ) and Juliet ( Terminator 3's Claire Danes ) are two strong lovers , but they cannot be together as their families are in a battle with each other . The story is no change from the original play story , and in fact , it is almost like a stage performance ( particularly with characters not " looking behind them " ) . A lovely and tragic film with a doomed romance . Also starring John Leguizamo as Tybalt , Lost's Harold Perrineau as Mercutio , Pete Postlethwaite as Father Laurence , Paul Sorvino as Fulgencio Capulet , Brian Dennehy as Ted Montague , Friends ' Paul Rudd as Dave Paris , Miriam Margolyes as The Nurse and Des'ree is in the film singing the film's love song , " Kissing You " . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , it won the BAFTAs for Anthony Asquith Award for Film Music for Nellee Hooper , Best Production Design , Best Adapted Screenplay and the David Lean Award for Direction , and it was nominated for Best Cinematography , Best Editing and Best Sound . Very good !
Ring	I should say firstly that I saw the Hollywood remake and was pretty freaked out by it , so I had no idea what I would think of the original Japanese version . Basically after the death of her cousin Tomoko Oishi ( Yuko Takeuchi ) , reporter Reiko Asakawa ( Nanako Matsushima ) hears stories of a " cursed " video tape that will kill anyone who watches it in seven days . It is when she finds it and watches it herself that she really believes she will suffer the same fate as many others . So with the help of her ex-husband Ryuji Takayama ( Hiroyuki Sanada ) she is following all he clues to investigate where and how the video was made , to save not only herself , but her son Yoichi Asakawa ( Rikiya Otaka ) who watched it too . Of course , Reiko does save herself , but Ryuji suffers his fate when they long-haired monster girl with no fingernails from the well comes towards the television screen , climbs out , and kills him just from sight . In the end , Reiko knows the only way to save everybody's life is to show people who have already seen the video the copy , or something like that . Also starring Miki Nakatani as Mai Takano , Hitomi Sato as Masami Kurahashi , Yoichi Numata as Takashi Yamamura , Yutaka Matsushige as Yoshino , Katsumi Muramatsu as Koichi Asakawa , Rie Inou as Sadako Yamamura and Masako as Shizuko Yamamura . I admit I did know most of what was going to happen , but obviously it isn't exactly the same , and it is much more interesting to see the original . It was number 6 on The 100 Greatest Scary Moments . Very good !
Get Carter	I can't remember why the bad guys killed Carter's brother ( probably because he knew something ) , but it's what Carter does that's important to me . Sir Michael Caine is perfect in the role of Jack Carter and he revenge for his brother's death , and he'll do anything , talk to anyone , and kill almost anybody to get his way ( almost an anti-hero ) . There one or two good chase sequences , and quite a lot of swearing and violence to keep the pace going . Also starring BAFTA nominated Ian Hendry as Eric Paice , Britt Ekland as Anna Fletcher , John Osborne as Cyril Kinnear , Tony Beckley as Peter , George Sewell as Con , Geraldine Moffat as Glenda , Dorothy White as Margaret , Rosemarie Dunham as Edna , Petra Markham as Doreen Carter , young Alun Armstrong as Keith , Bryan Mosley as Cliff Brumby , Glynn Edwards as Albert Swift and Bernard Hepton as Thorpe . To be honest , the final moments on the beach are the best and most memorable , where Carter does get his revenge , but is gunned down by an unknown assassin , a mean ending , but a good one . It was nominated the BAFTA for Best Supporting Actor for Ian Hendry as Eric . Sir Michael Caine was number 44 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , and he was number 7 on The 50 Greatest British Actors , the film was number 82 on The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments for the scene where Caine has phone sex with Ekland , it was number 22 on The 50 Greatest British Films , and it was number 68 on The 100 Greatest Films . Very good !
Alien Nation	I have seen quite a few science-fiction films where aliens or mutants have become part of the modern world , e . g . Total Recall , and this is a pretty good one . Basically in the not too distant future , Earth has first contact with an alien civilisation , known as the Newcomers ( same anatomies as us , only they are all bald and spotty ) these aliens , after being quarantined have slowly integrated into human society . When the first Newcomer police officer , Det . Samuel Francisco ( The Princess Bride's Mandy Patinkin ) is assigned his new partner , he gets Det . Sgt . Matthew Sykes ( James Caan ) , who still has issues about Newcomers . They are searching for the people who killed Sykes ' partner , and investigating the Newcomer underworld , and especially Newcomer leader William Harcourt ( Terence Stamp ) . It is both a friendship growing partnership between Sykes and ' George ' , oh , and I should mention Newcomers can be killed by water , which causes an acidic reaction to their skin . Also starring Kevyn Major Howard as Rudyard Kipling , Leslie Bevis as Cassandra , Peter Jason as Fedorchuk , Conrad Dunn / George Jenesky as Quint , Jeff Kober as Joshua Strader , Roger Aaron Brown as Det . Bill Tuggle , Tony Simotes as Wiltey and The Terminator's Earl Boen as Duncan Crais . With some good action sequences , a good buddy-buddy films , a good sci-fi thriller . Very good !
The French Connection	The first time I saw this I almost ignored it because I fell asleep somewhere , but I'm glad I gave it a second chance . There was no way I was going ignore a film from The Exorcist director William Friedkin , especially as this was the film that won him the Best Director Oscar . Anyway , it is all about Det . Jimmy ' Popeye ' Doyle ( Oscar winning Gene Hackman ) on the lookout for criminals planning to ship many drugs through the United States . Doyle knows quite a lot about the criminal world , and his work buddy Det . Buddy ' Cloudy ' Russo ( Oscar nominated Roy Scheider ) is right behind him . I cannot remember all that much besides some chase sequences with the main villain , and the highlight of Doyle chasing the hit-man on the train . Also starring Fernando Rey as Alain Charnier , Tony Lo Bianco as Salvatore ' Sal ' Boca , Marcel Bozzuffi as Pierre Nicoli the Hit Man , Frédéric De Pasquale as Henri Devereaux and Bill Hickman as Bill Mulderig . Winner of three other Oscars , Best Picture , Best Film Editing and Best Writing , Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium , and nominated for Best Cinematography and Best Sound . Gene Hackman was number 42 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , and he was number 31 on The World's Greatest Actor , Jimmy ' Popeye ' Doyle was number 44 on 100 Heroes & Villains , the film was number 8 on 100 Years , 100 Thrills , it was number 70 on 100 Years , 100 Movies , and it was number 74 on The 100 Greatest Films . Very good !
About Schmidt	When I first heard about this film , I was expecting it to be a boring family drama , but it was a really good one once you get into it . Basically Warren Schmidt ( Golden Globe winning , and Oscar and BAFTA nominated Jack Nicholson ) has recently lost his wife , Helen ( June Squibb ) , who he felt had annoying habits , but he still loved her to bits . Anyway , the story is about him because he is sending letters to a poor and hungry person in Africa for a charity . The rest of the story really is his journey through his past , where he is visiting places in his childhood and young life . Also starring Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Kathy Bates as Roberta Hertzel , Hope Davis as Jeannie Schmidt , Dermot Mulroney as Randall Hertzel , Howard Hesseman as Larry Hertzel and Mark Venhuizen as Duncan Hertzel . It does seem a bit boring for 15-20 minutes , but stay with it and you will find it is an enjoyable drama . It won the Golden Globe for Best Screenplay , and it was nominated for Best Director for Alexander Payne and Best Picture - Drama . Jack Nicholson was number 6 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , he was number 71 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons , he was number 63 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols , and he was number 7 on The World's Greatest Actor . Very good !
Dog Soldiers	For a British horror from debut director Neil Marshall , who followed with the good The Descent , this is a good horror film with a classic theme recreated . Basically a British Sqaud , led by Sgt . Harry G . Wells ( Sean Pertwee , son of Jon Pertwee , aka Worzel Gummidge ) are sent on a training in the woods of Scotland against Special Operations , ignoring childish " campfire " stories about the area . Soon though they stumble into a savage werewolf attack , and they are now in battle with these terrifying creatures . They seclude themselves in a farmhouse provided by Megan ( Emma Cleasby ) , and the terror continues as these man-sized werewolves try to get in , and tear everyone apart , or turn them into more of them . Also starring Kevin McKidd as Pvt . Cooper , Liam Cunningham as Capt . Ryan , Thomas Lockyer as Cpl . Bruce Campbell , Darren Morfitt as ' Spoon ' Witherspoon , Chris Robson as Pvt . Joe Kirkley and Leslie Simpson as Pvt . Terry Milburn . The performances are cool , the effects are very good for a low budget film , and it a very good thrill film combining light humour and great gruesome gore . Very good !
Dear Frankie	This sounded like an appealing film drama , and recognised the leading actor and actress , so I gave it a go , and I'm glad I did . Basically Lizzie ( Emily Mortimer ) is a single mother living with her mother and her deaf son Frankie ( Scotland BAFTA nominated Jack McElhone ) . Since childhood Frankie has been writing to his father , but it is actually his mother who has been answering , posing as a gentle ship worker , when in fact his real father is , or was , a violent abusive man . But now Frankie wants to meet his father , and Lizzie obviously doesn't to bring the real father into it . So she gets her friend to find a man with no past , present or future , and soon enough The Stranger ( 300's Gerard Butler ) agrees to pose as Frankie's father ( and is getting paid for it ) for one day . But he enjoys his company that he asks Lizzie to stay one more day so Frankie can really get his time with him . When he does leave , Lizzie gets news that the real father is dying , so she goes to visit him , and obviously he wants to see his son before he dies , and gets very angry when she disagrees . In the end , Frankie sends his last letter , thanking his dad ( the stranger ) for the time they spent together , but it turns out that he knew all along he wasn't the real father , and that the real one died , and hopes to see the stranger ( who was Lizzie's friend's brother ) again . Also starring Sharon Small as Marie , Mary Riggans as Nell , Jayd Johnson as Catriona , Sean Brown as Ricky Monroe , Anne Marie Timoney as Janet , Cal Macaninch as Davey and Mike & Angelo's Katy Murphy as Miss MacKenzie . Mortimer does very well as the pressured and protective mother , Butler adds interest as the kind stranger , and McElhone is very natural as the deaf son , not too sentimental and a good amount of bittersweet charm , a very good Scottish drama . It was nominated the BAFTA for the Carl Foreman Award for the Most Promising Newcomer for first time director Shona Auerbach , and it was nominated the Scotland BAFTA for Best Director . Very good !
Captain Scarlet	When Supermarionation ended we don't know what happened to Gerry Anderson . Now after at least forty years he has brought back one of his best shows and recreated it in the thing called Hypermarionation . Captain Scarlet has started all over again with a new way of becoming indestructible and Captain Black was with him ! This computer-animated series is nearly as good as the original puppet version was . The only main differences are obviously that it's computer made , Leiutenant Green is a girl and the Mysterons don't give away their plans . The main similarity is that it is still just the tiniest bit corny , but it's still worth it for the action and brilliant effects . Very good !
Summertime	This is one of the only films directed by Sir David Lean ( The Bridge on the River Kwai , Lawrence of Arabia ) I've seen with not much Britishness to it , and the start for his appetite of location filming . Basically a lonely slightly naive spinster traveller , Jane Hudson ( Katharine Hepburn ) from Akron , Ohio , has finally made it to Venice , Italy , for her long-awaited dream vacation . The only thing she has with her and constantly used is her movie camera for the most inanimate and not particularly exciting sites , and she does eventually see even a city as beautiful can make you lonely . All that changes with a brief encounter of Renato Di Rossi ( Rossano Brazzi ) and they start quite a close relationship , but it ends sadly when she discovered he was married with some kids , and she chose to go home . Hepburn has an interesting role , the sites are beautiful , and Lean's direction certainly doesn't disappoint . Katharine Hepburn was number 38 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , she was number 1 on 100 Years , 100 Stars - Women , and she was number 9 on The World's Greatest Actor . Very good !
Zoolander	Written and directed by , and starring Ben Stiller , I knew this film was about modelling , and it turned out to be a pretty funny film . Basically Derek Zoolander ( Ben Stiller ) is the three time VH1 male model of the year , and he looks forward to the fourth , but is beaten by rival Hansel ( Owen Wilson ) . So Derek's friends disappear , his father Larry ( Jon Voight ) is disappointed in him , and feels like he's not a good model anymore . But he soon gets hired by the fiendish fashion guru Mugatu ( Will Ferrell ) , only to be brainwashed into killing the President of Malaysia , and many other models have something implanted in them . Time Magazine journalist Matilda Jeffries ( Christine Taylor ) is now trying to help Derek hide out from the Katinka ( Milla Jovovich ) and the other bad guys , and find a way to stop the brainwashing murder from happening . Also starring Jerry Stiller ( Ben's father ) as Maury Ballstein , David Duchovny as J . P . Prewitt , Judah Friedlander as Scrappy Zoolander , Nathan Lee Graham as Todd , Alexandre Manning as Brint , Asio Highsmith as Rufus and Alexander Skarsgård ( Stellan's son ) as Meekus , with cameos from Donald Trump , Christian Slater , Cuba Gooding Jr . , Natalie Portman , Fabio , Lenny Kravitz , Gwen Stefani , Heidi Klum , Mark Ronson , Paris Hilton , David Bowie , Kimberly ' Lil ' Kim ' Jones , Claudia Schiffer , Lukas Haas , Amy Stiller ( Ben's sister ) as Hansel's Posse Member , Jennifer Coolidge as American Designer , X-Men's James Marsden as John Wilkes Booth , Victoria Beckham , The King of Comedy's Sandra Bernhard , Emma Bunton , Blade's Stephen Dorff , Winona Ryder , Vince Vaughn as Luke Zoolander and Billy Zane . Stiller is good at playing both stupid and Hissy fits ( he won an award from it funnily enough ) , and pulling those " pose " faces , and it is good to see so many famous faces in a satirical comedy film like this . Very good !
Carry On : Don't Lose Your Head	Spoofing the French Revolution is the great British Carry On team , and 21 years later Blackadder did the same . Anyway , this mock of the great Scarlett Pimpernell has Sir Rodney Ffing a . k . a . The Black Fingernail ( Sid James , with a great constant laugh ) , is the anti-hero saving people from execution , but mainly his own life as a master-of-disguise . Citizen Camembert ( Kenneth Williams ) and Citizen Bidet ( Peter Butterworth ) are the only two that can possibly stop him . This is a really good comedy film with great depiction of the period , and the other Carry On members do their great parts as well . These include Jim Dale as Lord Darcy Pue , Charles Hawtrey as Duc De Pommfrit and Joan Sims as Désirée Dubarry , but where's Barbara Windsor when you want her ? Carry On films were number 39 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons . Very good !
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix	As the Harry Potter films have gone on they are certainly getting better with special effects , but they are not as much fun and getting almost too dark to like . Anyway , the film begins with Harry ( Daniel Radcliffe ) and his cousin encountering a Dementor , and after using his wand to rid of it , he is put on trial to decide whether to punish or not for using magic in public , this is where the title Order of the Phoenix relates . He is released and , after discussions of Lord Voldermort ( Ralph Fiennes ) returning , allowed to go back to Hogwarts with best friends Hermione Granger ( Emma Watson ) and Ron Weasley ( Rupert Grint ) . But when they think everyone is normal in Hogwarts , there seems to be a new teacher , Dolores Umbridge ( Imelda Staunton ) who takes over the Defence Against the Dark Arts , but she won't teach real magic combat skills . They soon start their own secret club where Harry teaches them all the skills they need to know , being one who has faced many enemies . Umbridge meanwhile has become almost a replacement for Professor Albus Dumbledore ( Sir Michael Gambon ) , and is making sure nobody gets in her way of " a good school " , but she is just a massive bitch , particularly when punishment is concerned , illegal torture ! Towards the end there is some sort of prophecy that Lord Voldermort , and his villainous gang including Lucius Malfoy ( Jason Isaacs ) and Bellatrix Lestrange ( Helena Bonham Carter ) want from the Ministry of Magic , and they all eventually defeated , but Harry's only family left , Sirius Black ( Gary Oldman ) is killed . Also starring Fiona Shaw as Petunia Dursley , Richard Griffiths as Vernon Dursley , Brendan Gleeson as Professor Alastor ' Mad-­Eye ' Moody , Raiders of the Lost Ark's George Harris as Kingsley Shacklebolt , Mark Williams as Arthur Weasley , David Thewlis as Remus Lupin , Dame Maggie Smith as Minerva McGonagall , Julie Walters as Mrs . Weasley , Tom Felton as Draco Malfoy , Katie Leung as Cho Chang ( who Harry snogs ) , Evanna Lynch as Luna Lovegood , David Bradley as Argus Filch , Alan Rickman as Professor Severus Snape , Emma Thompson as Professor Sybil Trelawney , Warwick Davis as Filius Flitwick and Robbie Coltrane as Rubeus Hagrid . Harry Potter was number 45 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons , but he was also number 35 on The 100 Worst Britons ( the only fictional person , why ? ) . Very good !
Little Britain's Big Swim	This programme was not just an event for Sports Relief , but pretty much an event in history , the first mainstream celebrity to swim across the Enlgish Channel to France . David Walliams , star of the great BBC comedy sketch show Little Britain had always dreamt of swimming the English Channel , and he finally decided to make this dream a reality when he started training over eight months before the real event for Sports Relief ( part of Comic Relief ) . He trained both in swimming pools , oceans and many tests for his conditions , all ready for when he started . He was estimated to take at least 14 hours to cross , but he was relieved when completed the almost impossible task in 10 hours 34 minutes . He has won deserved awards for his triumphant achievement . Matt Lucas , partner in Little Britain , narrated and showed up a couple of times , and Robbie Williams makes a quick opinion of what Walliams was doing . Very good !
Kevin & Perry Go Large	One of Harry Enfield's comedy favourites has now come onto the big screen in this hilarious comedy film . Kevi the Teenager is obviously the virgin . His best mate Perry ( Kathy Burke ) and him are both DJs , when they buy a porn magazine they read about lots of sex going on in Ibiza . So Kevin asks his Mum ( Louisa Rix ) and Dad ( James Fleet ) if they can go to Ibiza . When they eventually do get there , that is when more mayhem begins . With the help of their new " friend " Eyeball Paul ( Rhys Ifans ) , the manager of the Amnesia Club , they want to attract two girls that they fancy . There are some small moments with one of Harry Enfield's " chums " , Paul Whitehouse as a Bouncer . Also , look out for appearances by Patsy Byrne and EastEnders ' Steve McFadden ( Phil Mitchell ) . A great comedy , particularly for the teens . Paul Whitehouse was number 48 on The Comedians ' Comedian , Harry Enfield was number 10 on Britain's Favourite Comedian , and Kevin the Teenager was number 15 on The 100 Greatest TV Characters . Very good !
Mary , Queen of Scots	I noticed the year this film was made , 1971 , and besides the two great lead actresses , I think I was more interested in seeing a young future James Bond , well , and the critics give it four out of five stars . Basically this film is a battle of ruler-ship of both England and Scotland , and the fight is between Mary Stuart , Queen of Scots ( Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Vanessa Redgrave ) and Queen Elizabeth I ( Golden Globe nominated Glenda Jackson ) . Both Queens have plans to remove each other from their thrones , or better , have each other eliminated . In the end , Mary is the loser after being sentenced to death , and Elizabeth ruled for years after . Even though I do not understand everything going on , there is a lot of discussion with many male characters involved in whatever way to one of the two Queens , including James Stuart ( Scanners ' Patrick McGoohan ) , Lord Henry Darnley ( young - and blonde ? - Timothy Dalton ) , Lord Bothwell ( Nigel Davenport , Jack's father ) , William Cecil ( Trevor Howard ) and David Rizzio ( Sir Ian Holm ) . Apparently not all the story is accurate in relation to what really happened , but who cares ? Also starring Daniel Massey as Robert Dudley - Earl of Leicester , Tom Fleming as Father Ballard , Jeremy Bulloch as Andrew , Beth Harris as Mary Seton , Frances White as Mary Fleming and Maria Aitken as Lady Bothwell . All actors are suited to their roles very well , especially Redgrave and Jackson , and as for young Dalton , well , an unusually double-edged character , but a good one , and the film is worth seeing . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Best Costume Design , Best Music for John Barry and Best Sound , and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Drama , Best Original Score and Best Screenplay . Very good !
Outbreak	From director Wolfgang Petersen ( In the Line of Fire , Air Force One ) , this is really good film with a deadly virus spread by a cute monkey . Basically somewhere in Africa many people have been dying of an unknown virus , and it Col . Sam Daniels ' ( Dustin Hoffman ) job to make sure it does not spread any further . For now he investigating along with girlfriend Robby Keough ( Rene Russo ) , Maj . Salt ( Cuba Gooding Jr . ) and Maj . Casey Schuler ( Kevin Spacey ) to find the cause , the speed , the impact , and the cure ! The bad news is that he does not know what is causing it , and soon enough it spreads to America , and we know it is a monkey that is the cause / source . The virus pretty much makes your skin break up , melt kind of , and a lot of coughing and puking . Also starring Morgan Freeman as Brig . Gen . Billy Ford , Donald Sutherland as Maj . Gen . Donald McClintock and Patrick Dempsey as Jimbo Scott . With some action sequences , panicking , and a real bastard Sutherland , who thinks the situation will end if he blows up the town ! Very good !
Easy Rider	Called the greatest road movie ever made , I nearly agree with that statement , although Thelma & Louise is better . Basically after somehow getting a load of money Peter Fonda as Wyatt and Dennis Hopper as Billy decide to buy two bikes to travel across America . Along the way they meet a hitchhiker , hang out with hippie like folk , release a prisoner who becomes their companion for a little while , and come eventually to a pretty unexpected end . This is probably the first film where the audience responded more to the appearance of Oscar , BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Jack Nicholson as George Hanson . It is really good when he drinks whiskey and talks about drugs in that accent . Written by Fonda and Hopper , and directed by Hopper , this is a really good film . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Writing , Story and Screenplay Based on Material Not Previously Published or Produced , it won the Cannes Film Festival Award for Best First Work for Hopper , and he was also nominated the Golden Palm . Dennis Hopper was number 80 , and Jack Nicholson number 6 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , he was number 63 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols , Hopper was number 49 , and Nicholson number 7 on The World's Greatest Actor , " Born To Be Wild " was number 29 on 100 Years , 100 Songs , the film was number 88 on 100 Years , 100 Movies , and it was number 94 on The 100 Greatest Films . Very good !
Mrs . Henserson Presents	For a British film set in the Second World War , and full of nudity , this is a triumph . Basically , not long after the death of her son , Laura Henderson ( Oscar , BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Dame Judi Dench ) decides to spend her fortune on a theatre in London , The Windmill , and she seeks Vivian Van Damm ( Golden Globe nominated Bob Hoskins ) to be manager . They start well at first , but then every theatre copies them . So they decide to do the unthinkable and have nude girls on stage , and then the theatre becomes a huge success . Also , it never closes even during the air raids of the war , which causes a stir with the government , but there is a happy ending . Also starring an excellent introduction to film for Pop Idol winner Will Young as Bertie , This Is Spinal Tap's Christopher Guest as Lord Cromer , Kelly Reilly as Maureen , Thelma Barlow as Lady Conway , Anna Brewster as Doris , Rosalind Halstead as Frances , Sarah Solemani as Vera and Natalia Tena as Peggy . Filled with marvellous songs , acting , stage shows , Hoskins and Young nude , and Dench saying the F word , I kind of wish she'd won the Oscar instead of Reese Witherspoon ( Walk the Line ) . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Costume Design , it was nominated the BAFTAs for the Anthony Asquith Award for Film Music for George Fenton , Best Costume Design and Best Original Screenplay , and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Musical or Comedy . Dame Judi Dench was number 1 on The 50 Greatest British Actresses , she was number 1 on Britain's Finest Actresses , she was also number 8 on The World's Greatest Actor . Very good !
Wall Street	From director Oliver Stone ( Platoon , Natural Born Killers ) , I must admit I don't know much about stockbrokers or stock exchange , so no surprise I didn't really understand it the first time and needed to see it a second time , and now I can appreciate it being a good financial drama . Set in New York City on Wall Street in the 1980's , Bud Fox ( Scary Movie 3's Charlie Sheen ) is one of many stockbrokers with a desire to get to high success . Working for his firm during the day , he spends spare time trying to approach high-powered , extremely successful ( but ruthless and greedy ) broker Gordon Gekko ( Oscar and Golden winning Michael Douglas ) . They do eventually meet , and Gekko does take the gullible youth under his wing and explains his philosophy . Taking the advice and working closely with Gekko , Fox finds himself in the world of a " yuppie " , many business deals , the " good life " , fast money , and fast women . Slowly though Fox sees Gekko's true greediness and no care for anything but money when Gekko threatens the Bluestar Airline company , which his father Carl ( Martin Sheen ) has worked at for years . In the end Fox's attempt to pretty much bring down Gekko backfires when he is arrested , and after a little fistfight with Gekko he is still insignificant in the world of Wall Street . Also starring Splash's Razzie winning Daryl Hannah as Darien Taylor , Terence Stamp as Sir Larry Wildman , Hal Holbrook as Lou Mannheim , Blade Runner's Sean Young as Kate Gekko , Secretary's James Spader as Roger Barnes and Identity's John C . McGinley as Marvin . Charlie Sheen in very believable , his dad Martin has his moments , and Douglas of course steals the show with his hateful ( but at the same time likable ) money hungry bastard character . Gordon Gekko was number 24 on 100 Years , 100 Heroes & Villains , and the film was number 57 on 100 Years , 100 Quotes ( " Greed , for lack of a better word , is good " ) . Very good !
Batman : Mask of the Phantasm	Not long after the new animated series of Batman started they made a movie . Batman is suspected of murdering a gangster after a mysterious dark man does it . The police are now on the lookout for Batman ( Kevin Conroy ) . Bruce Wayne ( Batman's real name ) meanwhile is having flashback's of a previous love , Andrea ' Andi ' ( Dana Delany ) that he misses . When he finds her she obviously finds out he's Batman and they get back together . Unfortunately , he also finds out that she is this mysterious dark man , The Phantasm . Also , The Joker ( Star Wars ' Mark Hamill ) is trying to find ' Andi ' to kill her before he is next . A good animated film with some good action , and it almost warmed up towards the TV series . Batman was number 84 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons . Very good !
WarGames	In only his second film role , and before his rise to stardom with Ferris Bueller's Day Off , young Matthew Broderick starred in this tense thriller from director John Badham ( Saturday Night Fever ) . Basically computer whizz , video game fan and hacker David Lightman ( Broderick ) is on the lookout for the coolest , and after connecting every phone number in his area to his computer , he comes across what seems to be a new games system . What he has actually come across is a top secret super-computer at the Pentagon , and what he believes is a fictional war between America and Russia , called " Global Thermonuclear War " , could actually be real , and the countdown to World War III has started . Soon the authorities catch up to his activities , which he did find out he is responsible for , and they are convinced he wants to destroy the world with the War Operations Plan Response ( W . O . P . R . ) software . David is trying to do everything he can think of to both stay away from the authorities , or cancel the game , along with girlfriend Jennifer Mack ( The Breakfast Club's Ally Sheedy ) and eventually the software's creator Professor Falken ( John Wood ) . In the end , David is back at the Pentagon , and John McKittrick ( Dabney Coleman ) does let him try to confuse the computer , and thank goodness , the missiles turn out to be just screen explosions , and the world is safe . Also starring Barry Corbin as General Jack Beringer , Juanin Clay as Pat Healy , Dennis Lipscomb as Lyle Watson , Kent Williams as Arthur Cabot , Joe Dorsey as Colonel Joe Conley , Irving Metzman as Paul Richter , Michael Ensign as Beringer's Aide , William Bogert as Mr . Lightman , Susan Davis as Mrs . Lightman , James Tolkan as FBI Agent Nigan and Dexter's Laboratory's Eddie Deezen as Malvin . Broderick is a great young lead , there are some good tense moments , e . g . escaping the Pentagon , even with dated looking technology on screen , it is a great edge-of-seat thriller film . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Cinematography , Best Sound and Best Writing , Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen , and it won the BAFTA for Best Sound , and it was nominated for Best Production Design / Art Direction and Best Special Visual Effects . Very good !
The Italian Job	For a British film this is a really good example of quality entertainment , and it is a really good crime like film as well . Sir Michael Caine as Charlie Croker is just the perfect character for the film , he is both confident , easy to annoy and a good leader . Basically he gets an offer to rob a famous gold bank in Italy , and he accepts it . The beginning and near middle of the film is the planning and testing , e . g . explosives . But most of the film is the actual robbery , or " job " . It is really cool to see that Mini's can rob a bank , jump over buildings and be thrown off cliffs and explode . The ending is a clever idea as well , that we just see them on the edge of the cliff and we the audience make our own story , this is probably where the phrase ' cliffhanger ' came from . Also starring Benny Hill as Professor Simon Peach and Dad's Army's John Le Mesurier as Governor . Sir Michael Caine was number 44 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , and he was number 7 on The 50 Greatest British Actors , the film was number 2 on The 50 Greatest British Films , and it was number 51 on The 100 Greatest Films . Very good !
The Shootist	This is not only a really good cowboy or western story about a dying hero , but it was also the final film role for John Wayne ( who was really dying of cancer himself ) . He plays J . B . Books who has been told by his old friend Dr . E . W . Hostetler ( guest star James Stewart ) that he has a cancer and he has at least four months to live ) . He was thinking of killing himself , but he is not a coward and he can wait to die on his own . Looking after him in their house are Bond Rogers ( BAFTA nominated Lauren Bacall ) and her son , Gillom ( young actor-turned-director of Splash and A Beautiful Mind , Golden Globe nominated Ron Howard ) . Unfortunately there is one thing J . B . wants to do before he does eventually die , and that's have a final duel with an enemy of his in the bar . Unfortunately it all ends in tragedy when he is shot , and he dies in Gillom's arms . Stewart in my opinion stole the scenes he was in , but Wayne was even more interesting . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration . John Wayne was number 56 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , and he was number 13 on 100 Years , 100 Stars - Men . Very good !
Disturbia	I had heard about this film , and that it was a reincarnation of the Rear Window format for the teenage generation , and I knew I had to see it . Basically Kale Brecht ( Transformers ' Shia LaBeouf ) lost his father Daniel ( Matt Craven ) in a car crash , and one year he is trouble maker , and when his Spanish teacher talks badly about his Dad , Kale punches him . As punishment he is put under house arrest , and during his vacation time , he is tagged by the police with a water and damage ( alarm will go if he attempts to break it ) proof system , he has to stay in set perimeters , or else . With not much to do , because his iPod and television are pretty much out of access because of his Mum , Julie ( The Matrix's Carrie-Anne Moss ) , and not able to go outside , he can only chat to his friend Ronnie ( Aaron Yoo ) . Then though he occupies himself by spying on his neighbourhood of Disturbia ( a play on the word " suburbia " , and translated from Russian is " paranoia " ) . First he is infatuated by new neighbour and soon to be love interest Ashley Carlson ( a fit Sarah Roemer ) , but then it moves to very suspicious neighbour Robert Turner ( David Morse ) . Kale has heard a lot of news about murders of girls , and he is convinced that Turner is the man responsible , and as more evidence comes about that makes his suspicions more believable , he is determined to reveal the truth , even with his house arrest stopping him . Also starring Jose Pablo Cantillo as Officer Gutierrez and Viola Davis as Detective Parker . It is a good mix of a good teen movie , and a pretty gripping thriller , in fact , just as much as Rear Window , you don't know if Kale's suspicions are right or wrong at times , till of course you see the blood and bodies pop up , and both the villain and hero get what they deserve . Very good !
Hello , Dolly !	My Mum said she did not like the main actress of this film , I can say that she is a little annoying in this role , but she is probably eccentric . Basically Dolly Levi ( BAFTA nominated Barbra Streisand in her second film role , after coming from stage ) is a matchmaker , and has her own eyes set on single millionaire Horace Vandergelder ( BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Walter Matthau ) . She convinces him to go to New York , and secretly also does the same for his two excitable clerks Cornelius Hackl ( Some Mothers Do ' Ave ' Em's Michael Crawford ) and Barnaby Tucker ( Danny Lockin ) , his niece Irene Molloy ( twice Golden Globe nominated Marianne McAndrew ) and her beau Minnie Fay ( E . J . Peaker ) . The romance between the clerks and the shop women is definitely strong , but Dolly has to go quite far to interest Vandergelder . With a fantastic cameo by Louis Armstrong . . . Louis , who had a number one with the song Hello , Dolly ! in America . I never thought I'd see Matthau in a musical , but he great , the only other little flaw is a not-fantastic American accent by Crawford , but it is not a big deal . The highlights for me are in the restaurant with dancing waiters , clerks , Armstrong and some good laughs . A great film with some great songs and dance . It won the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Best Music and Best Sound , and it was nominated for Best Cinematography , Best Costume Design , Best Film Editing and Best Picture , it was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Art Direction and Best Cinematography , and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Director for Gene Kelly and Best Motion Picture - Musical / Comedy . It was number 50 on The 100 Greatest Musicals . Very good !
Dom Joly's Complainers	I mainly decided to watch this series because I really liked Trigger Happy TV , and it turned out to be both interesting , and have some good jokes and pranks similar to those in Trigger . Basically comedian Dom Joly and his crack team of Complainers were out to annoy the people who annoy us , since we the British are rubbish at complaining , putting up with rubbish public transport , bad rules , terrible service and annoying people . Dom looked at the big issues in modern Britain , e . g . security cameras everywhere , recycling , mobiles and radiation , and going green , to see just what we have to put up with , and give some helpful tips and information they don't want us to know . The other Complainers : Jenni Davies , Richard Smith aka Mr . Angry , Ben Cooper and Richard Johnson tested the public's patience in Tolerance Tests , e . g . with taxis , cash points and pub service ; did Ridiculous Refunds , in restaurants , a sex shop , joke shop and burger bars , and Mr . Angry got revenge on Cold Callers , companies calling to offer us things we don't want . A very interesting programme that not only lets you know the problems we have in modern Britain , but with some funny stuff as they battle to stop it and make the British complain more . Very good !
Frankie and Johnny	It is quite rare you see Al Pacino in a film that doesn't involve crime or drugs , and this was the second time he and Michelle Pfeiffer had worked with each other , 8 years since Scarface , and from director Garry Marshall ( Beaches , Pretty Woman , Runaway Bride ) . Anyway , basically Johnny ( Pacino ) has just been released from prison , and after a while he gets a job in a Greek family's restaurant . There he meets waitress Frankie ( Golden Globe nominated Pfeiffer ) , a woman who looks like she isn't happy with all her life . It takes a little while before she agrees to go on a date with him , but after a while it is clear that they are destined to be together . There is a point where Frankie feels lost in her monotony , and I think something to do with Johnny married , or just him unable to convince her of his feelings , but the ending where both of them listen to the radio , while both of them are brushing their teeth , to hear the song " Frankie & Johnny " ( Johnny mentioned the coincidence ) , and she eventually gives in and the film ends happily . Also starring Hector Elizondo as Nick , Nathan Lane as Tim , BAFTA nominated Kate Nelligan as Cora , Jane Morris as Nedda , Greg Lewis as Tino , Al Fann as Luther , Glenn Plummer as Peter , Sean O'Bryan as Bobby , Fernando López as Jorge , Ele Keats as Artemis , Phil Leeds as Mr . DeLeon , K Callan as Frankie's Mother and Shannon Wilcox as Christine the Hooker . A nice romantic drama , with tiny giggles ( probably not intentional ) thrown in . Very good !
The Wonderful World of Roald Dahl	This was quite an essential programme to watch both before seeing Charlie and the Chocolate Factory , and seeing the original Willy Wonka film . Basically this documentary explained about the great stories and books by one of children's favourite writers . It also gave examples of the books that became films ( but why wasn't Matilda mentioned , because it's American ? ) . They had clips from Tales of the Unexpected , Willy Wonka , Danny The Champion of the World , The BFG , The Witches and James and the Giant Peach . With contributions from Tim Brooke-Taylor , Tim Burton ( director of the Willy Wonka remake ) , Brian Cant , Sarah Cawood , Julie Dawn Cole ( the original Veruca Salt ) , Bernard Cribbins , Tessa Dahl ( Roald's daughter ) , Johnny Depp ( the new Willy Wonka ) , Pam Ferris , Rusty Goffe ( an Oompa Loompa ) , Freddie Highmore ( the new Charlie ) , Kirsten O'Brien , Bill Paterson ( Bruno's Dad in Witches ) , Nicolas Roeg , Toyah Willcox , David Wood , and narrated by Jim Broadbent . Very good !
Love Me or Leave Me	This isn't exactly a musical , but it almost seems like one because there more singing than much else , but this is obviously one of the hooks . Basically one day in a bar that she used to work in , Ruth Etting ( Doris Day ) met producer Martin Snyder ( Oscar nominated James Cagney ) who could promise a new and better paid career on stage . She doesn't get in to it immediately as she is on for a few seconds , but she soon gets the chance for longer shows . She enjoys herself and the critics and producers are throwing offers at her . Later , after marriage Ruth and Martin get even bigger and she has become one of the most successful women on stage , and her career soon comes to Hollywood . It is only she discovers an old friend ( near love ) is working on the film , Johnny Alderman ( Cameron Mitchell ) that things go a bit pear shaped for her and the marriage / relationship with Martin . Also starring Robert Keith as Bernard V . Loomis , Tom Tully as Frobisher and Harry Bellaver as Georgie . It won the Oscar for Best Writing , Motion Picture Story , and it was nominated for Best Song for " I'll Never Stop Loving You " , Best Music for Percy Faith and George E . Stoll , Best Sound and Best Writing , Screenplay . Doris Day was number 84 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , and James Cagney was number 8 on 100 Years , 100 Stars - Men . Very good !
The Color of Money	If you have seen The Hustler , then you would know that this is the sequel from director Martin Scorsese ( GoodFellas , The Departed ) , and apparently the flashier film . Paul Newman reprises his role as pool shark and " hustler " ' Fast Eddie Felson , and won an Oscar ( and was nominated the Golden Globe ) . Basically Eddie has been forced into retirement , and he enters a relationship with promising young pool player Vincent Lauria ( Tom Cruise ) , along with his girlfriend Carmen ( Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio ) . In this relationship Eddy finds himself , self-respect and redemption , and as they travel he realises how much he lost , but he can see history beginning to repeat itself . Vincent has a habit of showing off his talent , and by doing so is losing players / opponents and money . In an effort to avert tragedy , Eddy ends the relationship , and returns to his love of pool . Finally , in a big Atlantic City tournament , Vincent returns the favour by teaching the final lesson to Eddy allowing him to finish his quest for rediscovery . Also starring Helen Shaver as Janelle , John Turturro as Julian , Bill Cobbs as Orvis , Robert Agins as Earl at Chalkie's , Keith McCready as Grady Seasons , Carol Messing as Casino Bar Band Singer / Julian's Flirt , Steve Mizerak as Duke , Eddie's First Opponent , Alvin Anastasia as Kennedy , Joe Guastaferro as Chuck the Bartender , then little known Forest Whitaker as Amos and Iggy Pop Skinny Player on Road . The pool games are interesting to watch , both Newman and Cruise have their moments in their roles , and good direction from Scorcese , a good film . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration and Best Writing , Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium . Tom Cruise was number 32 , and Paul Newman number 16 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , Cruise was also number 25 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols , and he was number 81 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons . Very good !
Teenage Mutant Hero Turtles	When I was a kid this was one of favourite cartoons ever , I don't know but it might of been made in Japan , but who cares . Basically four turtles are transformed into large super heroes and save the day in their car and with their knives . The Rat King wasn't in it that much , but was he meant to be their boss ? The person the turtles ( I can't remember the names of ) always faced was the nasty Shredder with a mask and helmet . There were two henchmen as well , I can only remember the warthog called Beebok . Rachel , the turtles ' friend , was in a couple of good episodes as well . It was the turtles who actually introduced me to eating pizza and buying the toys , thanks turtles . It also had a good theme tune . It was number 27 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons . Very good !
Zero for Conduct	I only heard of this black and white French film because it appears in the book " 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die " , so I decided to try it . The film reflects on director Jean Vigo's boarding school experiences and his anarchist view on childhood . The film is basically showing all the children rebelling against the teachers , and the leaders of this revolt are Caussat ( Louis Lefebvre ) and Bruel ( Coco Golstein ) . Starring Jean Dasté as Superintendent Huguet , Robert Le Flon as Superintendent Pète-Sec , Du Verron as Superintendent-Général Bec-De-Gaz , Delphin as Principal , Pierre Blanchar as Superintendent General , Léon Larive as Chemistry Professor , Madame Émile as Madame Colin and Louis De Gonzague-Frick as Le Préfet . This satire is only forty minutes long , and when it was released it was banned for causing anger and hostility , probably for the idea of kids at school going out of control , only thing I can see wrong was a kid saying a swear word . Very good !
Michael Collins	Director Neil Jordan ( The Crying Game ) has created a very interesting biographical drama about the ' Lion of Ireland ' . Michael Collins ( Golden Globe nominated Liam Neeson ) is the man leading the IRA , determined to stop the British ruining the establishment of the Irish Free State ( Eire ) during the the 1920s . It is quite struggle to get freedom , and there are many Irish people joining in with his large campaign for freedom , but don't worry , there is always a happy ending , isn't there ? Also starring BAFTA nominated Alan Rickman as Eamon De Valera , Julia Roberts as Kitty Kiernan and Harry Potter and the Philosopher Stone's Ian Hart as Joe O'Reilly . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Cinematography and Best Music for Elliot Goldenthal , it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Cinematography , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Original Score . Liam Neeson was number 15 , and Alan Rickman number 6 on The 50 Greatest British Actors . Very good !
Body Heat	I heard about this film , and it sounded like some sort of porn film , and then I noticed it was in my book of 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die , I can see why . Basically seedy small town lawyer Ned Racine ( William Hurt ) lives in Florida , and they are recently experiencing an unusual searing heat wave . Somewhere near a beach he is picked up by married Matty Walker ( BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Kathleen Turner , in her first film ) . She does try to dismiss him , and keeps in mind of her husband , Edmund Walker ( Richard Crenna ) , but eventually she gives into her feelings , when Ned breaks the window into her house . Their passionate affair continues till she knows her husband is back from his trip , so they hatch a plan to kill him if they want to stay another , it is just a question of can they pull it off . Unfortunately I did drift off somewhere after the murder , so I am not sure what happened that made Matty eventually refuse Ned . But I did like the conclusion where you find out , after it looks like she killed herself with a bomb in her house , that she is not who she says she is . Also starring Ted Danson as Peter Lowenstein , J . A . Preston as Oscar Grace , Sin City's Mickey Rourke as Teddy Lewis and Kim Zimmer as Mary Ann Simpson . Very good !
Father of the Bride	As far as I can work out , it is after this film that the career of Steve Martin has had very few laughs , which is a shame , he just needs to find the right film . Anyway , this is the remake of the 1950 film , and it sees middle aged father George Banks ( Martin ) with wife Nina ( Diane Keaton ) having to prepare the wedding for their 21-year-old daughter Annie Banks ( Kimberly Williams-Paisley ) . They had never met her fiancée Bryan MacKenzie ( George Newbern ) , living an upper class with his parents in Bel-Air , but George tries to keep his feelings about wedding preparations and this new man in his daughter's life intact . But it is mainly the thought of never seeing his daughter again that gets to George the most , and it is only after a near cancellation ( over a blender ) that he understands he has to let go and reunites the happy couple . So the wedding day comes , George walks Annie up the aisle , and the rest of the day he can't even say his final goodbye before they leave for honeymoon , but at least she called him . Also starring Home Alone's Kieran Culkin ( Macaulay's brother ) as Matty Banks , Martin Short as Franck Eggelhoffer , B . D . Wong as Howard Weinstein , Peter Michael Goetz as John MacKenzie , Kate McGregor-Stewart as Joanna MacKenzie , Carmen Hayward as Grace and April Ortiz as Olivia . Martin does do well , Keaton offers a good support , and Short adds giggles as the foreign wedding organiser , and while there are one or two good gags , it is the mushy bits ( which I'm not always up for ) that actually do most good . Very good !
Knocked Up	From the writer / director of The 40-Year-Old Virgin , this is a pretty good " romantic " comedy , which I preferred much more than the following film from the same makers , Superbad . Basically slob / slacker Ben Stone ( Seth Rogen ) is in the process of establishing flesh of the stars . com , a website listing nudity times for famous actresses nude scenes in films ( he later finds out Mr . Skin has already done this ) . Alison Scott ( Katherine Heigl ) is a responsible young woman who works behind the scenes on the E ! Television Network . They meet each other at a club where they are celebrating the promotion of Alison's sister . Anyway , they get drunk together , and get into bed together , and when he gets the condom out , and she says " Just get on with it " , he mistakes her and throws it away . Next morning , they realise they have nothing in common and go their separate ways . Eight weeks pass , Alison begins feeling sick a lot , and after countless pregnancy tests , she is positive on all of them . She gets in contact with Ben , and he is at first shocked and also angry that she has decided to keep it ( oh , they confirmed it with a scan ) . After this , they start spending more time together , and do actually start to have laughs and slowly fall for each other . Obviously there is a big argument as she gets nearer to giving birth , and Ben obviously thinks it's Alison's hormones , but don't worry , they get back together at the birth and there is a happy ending with their new baby girl . Also starring Paul Rudd as Pete , George of the Jungle's Leslie Mann as Debbie , Jason Segel as Jason , Jay Baruchel as Jay , Superbad's Jonah Hill as Jonah , Martin Starr as Martin , Ghostbusters ' Harold Ramis as Ben's Dad , A Knight's Tale's Alan Tudyk as Jack and Bill Hader as Brent , with cameos ( for the E ! Network segments ) including Jessica Alba , The 40-Year-Old Virgin's Steve Carell , Andy Dick , Spider-Man's James Franco , Eva Mendes , E ! ' s Ryan Seacrest and Punk'd actor Dax Shepard . With some good gags , a realistic plot and a good old fashioned love-hate relationship , a really good film . Very good !
Double Indemnity	One reason I wanted to see this film was because it was directed and written by Oscar nominated Billy Wilder ( Some Like It Hot ) , another reason is because it is a film noir , and Femme Fetale ( aka attractive woman seducing men ) , and it becomes a crime partnership or something ) film , and many people have recommended it . Basically smooth talking insurance agent Walter Neff ( Fred MacMurray ) is confessing his story to his best and suspecting friend , detective Barton Keyes ( Little Caesar's Edward G . Robinson ) . Walter met attractive Phyllis Dietrichson ( Oscar nominated Barbara Stanwyck ) calling to renew the automobile policy for her husband , Mr . Dietrichson ( Tom Powers ) . The pair become very close , and eventually they plot to kill the husband , who is tricked into signing a double indemnity accident policy ( i . e . Phyllis gets cash if he dies ) , and they kill him to look like an accident . Barton doesn't believe it was an accident , and links the murder to Phyllis , and never to his best friend . Walter meanwhile believes Phyllis has dumped him for a younger man , and he ends up stabbing her in the end . Also starring Porter Hall as Mr . Jackson , Jean Heather as Lola Dietrichson and Byron Barr as Nino Zachetti . I can see why the critics gave it five stars , and it is definitely not one to miss , and Stanwyck's character is a true bitch , but it is one of those classics I don't want to see much , but it is very good . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Cinematography , Best Music for Miklós Rózsa , Best Sound , Best Writing , Screenplay and Best Picture . Phyllis Dietrichson was number 8 on 100 Years , 100 Heroes & Villains , the film was number 84 on 100 Years , 100 Passions , it was number 24 on 100 Years , 100 Thrills , and it was number 38 on 100 Years , 100 Movies . Very good !
Woodstock : The Director's Cut	I knew of this documentary because it is in the book of 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die , and I had heard of the concert itself , and I can see why it won an Oscar . To be honest , I was really " watching " it , mainly just listening to it while working , because of the good music shows , but also because I did not realise the original cut was only 3 hours and four minutes , this director's cut version I saw was an extra 48 minutes of footage . This film from director Michael Wadleigh , with the assistance of Thelma Shoonmaker ( editor of such films as Goodfellas , Gangs of New York and The Departed , see the connection ) and Martin Scorcese , this basically had footage from all sides ( on and off stage ) at the fields of upstate New York in 1969 of the biggest gathering ( at the time , Live Aid probably beat it ) in history for a big music festival . With music from The Who , Sha-Na-Na , Joe Cocker , Country Joe and the Fish , Crosby , Stills and Nash , Ten Years After , Santana , Sly & the Family Stone and Jimi Hendrix . It won the Oscar for Best Documentary , Features , and it was nominated for Best Film Editing and Best Sound . It was number 36 on The 50 Greatest Documentaries . Very good !
Confessions of a Dangerous Mind	This was the directing debut for actor George Clooney , and accompanied by writer Charlie Kaufman ( Being John Malkovich ) , this tells the true story of an entertainment host and creator , who was also a killer . Basically Chuck Barris ( The Green Mile's Sam Rockwell ) wanted to get into television as that was where the big bucks were , he managed it , and he soon established himself as a creator for new shows , first being The Dating Shown ( think Blind Date in the UK ) . One day he meets Jim Byrd ( Clooney ) who wants to recruit him for the CIA to become an operative , basically killing people that need to be , Chuck agrees and is the likable game show host and creator of influential US shows by day , and the assassin by night . The trips the winning couples of Dating Game get are covers to get Barris to the countries for his kills . Other shows Barris was responsible for were The Gong Show and The Newlywed Game . Also starring Drew Barrymore as Barris's girlfriend Penny , Julia Roberts as Patricia Watson , The Hitcher's Rutger Hauer as Keeler , Maggie Gyllenhaal as Debbie , Kristen Wilson as Loretta , Jennifer Hall as Georgia , Jim Lange , Jaye P . Morgan , Dick Clark , Brad Pitt as Bachelor Brad , Matt Damon as Bachelor Matt and the real Chuck Barris ( in present day ) . Even with the dark subject matter , this story still has room for comedy moments , Rockwell is pretty convincing , and the supporting cast is very good too , just a good biographical comedy drama . Very good !
The Man from Laramie	From Anthony Mann ( The Naked Spur ) , probably the director the lead actor worked with the most ( and both changing the very nature of the western ) , this is a pretty good western . Basically Will Lockhart ( James Stewart ) came from Laramie to Coronado , an isolated town in Apache country , to deliver a cart full of supplies for storekeeper Barbara Waggoman ( Cathy O'Donnell ) . Soon though he gets tangled with Barbara's cousin Dave ( Alex Nicol ) , vicious son of autocratic rancher Alec Waggoman ( Donald Crisp ) . But Will sticks around town , especially when there is a missing cart full of rifles , he gets shot by Dave in the hand ( like he unintentionally did to him ) and finds out Dave had something to do with a friend's death . Also starring Arthur Kennedy as Vic Hansbro , Aline MacMahon as Kate Canady , Wallace Ford as Charley O'Leary , Jack Elam as Chris Boldt , James Millican as Tom Quigby and John War Eagle as Frank Darrah . I can agree the squabbles with Crisp , Nicol and Kennedy are frequent and dominating , but I can also agree Stewart shot in the hand and the final shoot-out on the cliffs are more memorable . James Stewart was number 12 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , he was number 3 on 100 Years , 100 Stars - Men , and he was number 13 on The World's Greatest Actor . Very good !
Shenandoah	I have seen one or two western films with James Stewart , and this one is actually alright . He plays Charlie Anderson , a farmer who wants to look after his farm , but more importantly his family , and he is caught in the middle of the Civil War . He does not want to get involved because he , probably as a Christian , does not believe it his war to fight . But he does get involved when his younger son is kidnapped by the North . It is basically the story of all the events that happen to him and his family during the peril of the war . Also starring Doug McClure as Lt . Sam , Glenn Corbett as Jacob Anderson , Patrick Wayne as James Anderson , Golden Globe nominated Rosemary Forsyth as Jennie Anderson , Phillip Alford as Boy Anderson , Katharine Ross as Mrs . Ann Anderson , Charles Robinson as Nathan Anderson , James McMullan as John Anderson , Tim McIntire as Henry Anderson , Eugene Jackson Jr . as Gabriel and Paul Fix as Dr . Tom Witherspoon . It is a tiny bit slow at first , but it gets better after about a quarter of an hour . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Sound . Very good !
Chariots of Fire	Most people probably know this film for the famous ( running ) theme tune , which has been used hundreds of times in other films and TV programmes , mostly in slow motion running sequences , I obviously knew of it because of this . Based on a true story , this sports drama takes place in 1924 Britain , where two young British sprinters , devout Scottish missionary Eric Liddell ( Ian Charleson ) and Jewish Harold Abrahams ( Ben Cross ) , are competing at Cambridge ready to run in the Summer Olympics . That's really all there is to say . Also starring BAFTA nominated Nigel Havers as Lord Andrew Lindsay , Nicholas Farrell as Aubrey Montague ; BAFTA winning , and Oscar nominated Sir Ian Holm as Sam Mussabini , Sir John Gielgud as Master of Trinity , Lindsay Anderson as Master of Caius , Nigel Davenport as Lord Birkenhead , Cheryl Campbell as Jennie Liddell , Alice Krige as Sybil Gordon , Dennis Christopher as Charles Paddock , Brad Davis as Jackson Scholz , Patrick Magee as Lord Cadogan , Peter Egan as Duke of Sutherland , Struan Rodger as Sandy McGrath , David Yelland as Prince of Wales , Richard Griffiths as Head Porter - Caius College , Daniel Gerroll as Henry Stallard and Ruby Wax as Bunty . I have to be honest , I was more interested in the running and music more than the chat sequences , but never-the-less , it is a very good British film . It won the Oscars for Best Picture , Best Costume Design , Best Music for Vangelis and Best Writing , Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen , and it was nominated for Best Director for Hugh Hudson and Best Film Editing , it won the BAFTAs for Best Film and Best Costume Design , and it was nominated for the Anthony Asquith Award for Film Music , Best Cinematography , Best Direction , Best Editing , Best Production Design / Art Direction , Best Screenplay and Best Sound , and it won the Golden Globe for Best Foreign Film . It was number 100 on 100 Years , 100 Cheers , and it was number 18 on The 50 Greatest British Films . Very good !
Spider-Plant Man	This short comedy spoof film was part of the Comic Relief 2005 programme . Rowan Atkinson ( aka Mr . Bean and Blackadder ) is in every Comic Relief , in 2001 he was a Popsters judge , and in 2003 he was Martin Bashir meeting Michael Jackson ( Lenny Henry ) . In this short film he is the new Tobey Maguire playing Peter Piper / Spider-Plant Man . Also starring celebrity stars the gorgeous Rachel Stevens as Jane Mary , Jim Broadbent as Batman , Tony Robinson ( aka Baldrick ) as Robin , Peter Andre , Mackenzie Crook as Scientist , Nick Frost as Scientist and Simon Pegg as Reporter . The crappy effects , witty dialogue and pieces from the Spider-Man story , and of course Atkinson in the tights make this a very good spoof film , especially for Comic Relief . Very good !
Guys and Dolls	It was originally meant to be a film that Gene Kelly would star in , but when the makers couldn't get him they got " the greatest actor in the world " , and the result is pretty good . Basically Nathan Detroit ( Frank Sinatra ) is having trouble doing what he does best , setting up a high stakes crap dice game , because he needs $1000 to get the place . So to get the money he needs , he has a $1000 bet with old friend Sky Masterson ( Marlon Brando ) that he can't get Sergeant Sarah Brown ( Great Expectations ' Golden Globe winning , and BAFTA nominated Jean Simmons ) to go with him to Havana . Meanwhile , Nathan is having trouble trying to get rid of the woman who wants him to ask her hand in marriage , Miss Adelaide ( Vivian Blaine ) . Also starring Robert Keith as Lieutenant Brannigan , Stubby Kaye as Nicely Nicely Johnson and B . S . Pulley as Big Jule . An interesting romantic comedy musical , with Brando singing all his own songs , and Sinatra being smooth and cool . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Best Cinematography , Best Costume Design and Best Music for Jay Blackton and Cyril J . Mockridge , it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Film from any Source , and it won the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Musical / Comedy . Frank Sinatra was number 43 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons , Marlon Brando was number 30 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , he was number 11 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols , he was number 4 on 100 Years , 100 Stars - Men , Sinatra was number 35 , and Brando was number 1 on The World's Greatest Actor , " Luck Be a Lady " was number 42 on 100 Years , 100 Songs for , the film was number 23 on 100 Years of Musicals , and it was number 36 on The 100 Greatest Musicals . Very good !
The Departed	I always wondered when Martin Scorsese was going to win an Oscar for Best Director , after 6 nominations , and he deserved to win for this inventive crime drama thriller . Basically years ago , Irish mobster Frank Costello ( BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Jack Nicholson ) got Colin Sullivan to go through the many courses to become a professional cop , and now grown up , Colin ( Matt Damon ) has everyone's trust , but what they do not know is that is in fact keeping an eye out for any police activity that could come to an arrest . The police decide to get young undercover cop Billy Costigan ( BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Leonardo DiCaprio , Oscar nominated the same year for Blood Diamond ) to get into Frank's gang , earn his trust , and hope to get evidence of his guilt , and crimes . It is when word gets out about two rats , in Frank's gang and the police that trouble brews for both groups . Also starring Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Mark Wahlberg as Dignam , Martin Sheen as Captain Queenan , Ray Winstone as Mr . French , Vera Farmiga as Madolyn , Scary Movie 3 & 4's Anthony Anderson as Brown and Alec Baldwin as Ellerby . I really like the idea of two rats in both groups , and the concluding scenes are the personal highlights . It won the Oscars for Best Editing , Best Motion Picture of the Year and Best Writing , Adapted Screenplay , it was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Editing , Best Adapted Screenplay , the David Lean Award for Direction and Best Film , and it won the Golden Globe for Best Director , and it was nominated for Best Motion Picture - Drama and Best Screenplay . Leonardo DiCaprio was number 94 , and Jack Nicholson on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , he was number 63 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols , and he was number 7 on The World's Greatest Actor , and Ray Winstone was number 32 on The 50 Greatest British Actors . Very good !
Those Magnificent Men in Their Flying Machines	A great host of international comedians help to make this period comedy a great laugh . Basically in the early days of the 20th century , aeroplanes were one of the latest crazes giving men the ability to fly , and this film involves a British Newspaper offering a prize for the first person and plane to make it from London airfield to Paris . The first hour or son is just the individual pilots testing their planes , or sabotaging others , and then the other half or so is the race itself . Starring Sarah Miles as Patricia Rawnsley , James Fox as Richard Mays , Stuart Whitman as Orvil Newton , Alberto Sordi as Count Emilio Ponticelli , the great Robert Morley as Lord Rawnsley , the great Goldfinger's Gert Fröbe as German Colonel Manfred Von Holstein , Jean-Pierre Cassel as Pierre Dubois , Eric Sykes as Courtney , the great gap-toothed tom thumb and Robin Hood ( cartoon ) star Terry-Thomas as Sir Percival Ware-Armitage , Tony Hancock as Harry Popperwell , Benny Hill as Fire Chief Perkins , Flora Robson as Mother Superior , Sam Wanamaker ( father of Zoë ) as George Gruber , Gordon Jackson as McDougal and Yûjirô Ishihara as Yamamoto . It was number 86 on The 100 Greatest Family Films . Very good !
Snow Cake	From director Marc Evans ( My Little Eye ) , this mix of both comedic and tragic moments is a very good look at Autism , almost as effect as Rain Man . Basically Alex Hughes ( Alan Rickman ) is a recently released ( for murder ) man travelling to Winnipeg to see an old friend , and along the way he gives the annoying , but vivacious Vivienne Freeman ( Emily Hampshire ) . He may not have wanted to at first , and just when he warms to her eccentric nature , the vehicle is in a serious automobile accident , killing Vivienne . After talking to the police , he sees the address of Vivienne's mother , and decides to speak to her . After a difficult meeting with the mother Linda ( Sigourney Weaver ) , he afterwards talks to neighbour Maggie ( Carrie-Anne Moss ) , who explains to him that she has autism . Linda wants him to stay till after the funeral , the day the garbage is collected , and he agrees . In the days leading up to it , Alex makes a partner with Maggie and a few other friends , and learning more about Linda's uniqueness he also finds himself letting out past demons , such as his son's death and the man he killed . The moments that really get to you are the Scrabble game with made up words and an example of their use , and of course , the end , when Alex leaves Linda a cake made of snow ( because she likes to eat it , and has no temperature sense ) , and it is Maggie that takes the garbage out for her . Also starring James Allodi as Clyde , Janet Van De Graaf as Meryl , Julie Stewart as Florence , Selina Cadell as Diane Wooton , Callum Keith Rennie as John Neil and David Fox as Dirk Freeman . I can have some understanding of the character of Linda ( not in exactly the same way ) , because I myself have a form of Autism called Asperger's Syndrome . Weaver is very compelling , Rickman makes the most of his self-grieving character , and the support from Moss and the brief Hampshire are good too , a good tragicomedy . Very good !
Out of Sight	When I was younger this used to be one of my most favourite shows on CITV ( Children's Integalactic Television ) just after I got home from school . I never missed one episode because it was one of the best ideas for a show ever . Who wouldn't want to be able to turn invisible with a magic green spray . This boy somehow invented his own invisibility spray when trying an experiment , and he also found that water was the way to remove invisibility . He and his best friend used this spray for all sorts of adventures . They scared a retiring puppet performer to go a birthday party , they made some scientists believe in ghosts , they stopped thieves from stealing stuff at the school , they stopped a boy from cheating on a test , and the main boy even had one episode where he couldn't turn visible ! Very good !
An American Tail	Before The Land Before Time , Don Bluth made this lovable rodent filled cartoon . Basically it is 1885 , and the Mousekewitz family of Russia : Papa ( Nehemiah Persoff ) , Mama ( Erica Yohn ) , daughter ( Amy Green ) and of course , son Fievel ( Phillip Glasser ) are forced to emigrate to America when their house is burnt down . Unfortunately on the journey Fievel falls off the side , and is now determined to find his family in New York . Along the way of course he faces all the commotion of the city from humans , mice and other creatures alike , but he still has friends to help him . These friends include : pigeon Henri ( The Sound of Music's Christopher Plummer ) , Tony Toponi ( Pat Musick ) and his new found love interest Bridget ( Cathianne Blore ) , and cat Tiger ( Dom DeLuise ) . The big building story that Fievel and the family alike ( apart of course ) sees the mice , lead by Gussie Mausheimer ( Madeline Kahn ) and Honest John ( Neil Ross ) revolting against the cats of the city , lead by Warren T . Rat ( John Finnegan ) by building a giant machine , the Giant Mouse of Minsk ( based on a story Papa told Fievel ) . Obviously the mice defeat the mice , and Fievel eventually finds his Papa and family , and the Statue of Liberty completes construction . It was nominated the Oscar and Golden Globe for Best Song for " Somewhere Out There " . Very good !
Arthur	If you like interesting one joke comedies , then you might be interested in this film . Oscar nominated and Golden Globe winning Dudley Moore plays millionaire playboy Arthur Bach , a man who lives on quite a lot of alcohol and spends all his money on it , plus high living . One day he is told that he must get married if he wants to keep his share of the family fortune . Obviously , because he drinks a lot he doesn't try that hard . Although , he does meet his perfect woman , Linda Marolla ( Golden Globe winning Liza Minnelli ) , a poor woman living with her father . Everyone thinks that she is the wrong woman because Arthur is already engaged . It does have a happy ending , although it does take a little while to get to it . It won the Oscars for Best Song , and Best Supporting Actor for Sir John Gielgud as Hobson , Arthur's Valet , and it was nominated for Best Writing , Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen , it was nominated the BAFTA for the Anthony Asquith Award for Film Music for Burt Bacharach , Best Supporting Actor for John Gielgud , and it won the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Comedy / Musical , Best Actor for Dudley Moore , Best Supporting Actor in a for John Gielgud and Best Original Song for " Arthur's Theme ( Best That You Can Do ) " . It was number 53 on 100 Years , 100 Laughs . Good !
Léon	This is quite a good mix of family type comedy , in adult film , and great thriller film action . Basically Mathilda ( Natalie Portman ) has recently lost her half-family because of vengeful Stansfield ( the great Gary Oldman as a perfect villain ) and his gang . After escaping , Mathilda hides in the neighbour's apartment , but she discover he is a professional assassin , Léon ( Jean Reno ) . When he finds her , and decides not to kill her , he has to deal with fatherly tasks , which he is not experienced with , but as they continue they form a very close friendship . Eventually though , Stansfield finds out loads about both Mathilda and Léon , so you can imagine what the result is going to be , loads of gun fights and an almost unpredictable ending . From director Luc Besson ( The Fifth Element ) , this is a fantastic action thriller , with some light moments of comedy and sentiment thrown in . Gary Oldman was number 40 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , he was number 11 on The 50 Greatest British Actors , and he was number 36 on The World's Greatest Actor . Very good !
The Sixth Sense	You probably know the five human senses : Touch , Scent , Sight , Sound and Taste , and this is a terrifying idea for a sixth , from director M . Night Shyamalan ( also starring as Dr . Hill ) . Basically Malcolm Crowe ( Bruce Willis ) is a child psychologist recently awarded , and on the same night visited by a mad ex-patient who wounds him by gunshot . A few months later Malcolm is visited by the troubled 9-year-old Cole Sear ( Forrest Gump's Haley Joel Osment ) . He does not tell his secret for a while , but when he does , it is one of the iconic moments of the film , it was number 44 on 100 Years , 100 Quotes , " I see dead people " . It is because of this he is a freak in school , and his mother Lynn ( Toni Collette ) is very concerned about his increasing problems . Malcolm is now trying to find out whether he is seeing things or not , and trying to rekindle his relationship with wife Anna Crowe ( Olivia Williams ) . Also starring Saw II's Donnie Wahlberg as Vincent Gray , Glenn Fitzgerald as Sean , young Mischa Barton as Kyra Collins and Jurassic Park III's Trevor Morgan as Tommy Tammisimo . The film has a great conclusion as well with Cole's mother weeping at the idea of Cole seeing his Grandma , and Malcolm finding out why his wife has been ignoring him for so long , he wasn't wounded in that gunshot , he died . It was number 60 on 100 Years , 100 Thrills , and it was number 33 on The 100 Greatest Scary Moments . Very good !
Die Hard with a Vengeance	Director of the first film John McTiernan ( Predator ) returns with this third film installment with the humorous , wise-cracking and admirable hero in the wrong place at the wrong time . It is a quiet morning in New York city , till an explosion suddenly takes place at a department , and then the police receive a phone call from the terrorist , calling himself Simon ( Jeremy Irons ) . Simon says ( that's the game he's playing ) he wants Lt . John McClane ( Bruce Willis ) , who is on suspension and an alcoholic , to go the corner of 138th Street and Amsterdam in Harlem wearing a racist sign . This is how he meets the almost completely white hating store owner and accomplice Zeus Carver ( Samuel L . Jackson , not long after Pulp Fiction ) , and they stick together as they travel round New York following Simon's instructions and figuring out his riddles , to stop more bombs going off . Simon tells them he has placed a bomb in a school ( a lie ) , so while the cops are busy searching for it , and eventually " defusing " it , Simon Gruber ( yes , Hans from the first film's brother ) is getting closer to his goal of revenge , stealing millions and destroying New York , with John and Zeus hot on his and the terrorists tail . Also starring Graham Greene as Joe Lambert , Colleen Camp as Connie Kowalski , Kevin Chamberlin as Charles Weiss and Sharon Washington as Officer Jane . Like the first sequel it may not be as fun to watch and completely original as the first film , but this is certainly better than Die Hard 2 , Willis and Jackson make a good double-act , there are some good chases and explosions , and the great catchphrase " Yippee-ki-yay mother fer " , a very good action thriller . Bruce Willis was number 35 , and Samuel L . Jackson number 11 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars . Very good !
Scrooge	This is considered the best adaptation of Charles Dickens ' classic Christmas story , and I can certainly see most of the reasons to give it five stars like the critics do . It is Christmas Eve , the anniversary of Jacob Marley's death , and Ebenezer Scrooge ( the great Alastair Sim , who actually played Scrooge twice , second time in a cartoon version ) of course is working with his employee Bob Cratchit ( Mervyn Johns ) , being rude to charity collectors and his nephew Fred ( Brian Worth ) , and of course saying Christmas is a humbug . Then that night he is visited by Marley's Ghost ( Michael Hordern ) who warns him of the pain he faces in death unless he faces what's ahead , the haunting from three spirits . Then , one by one , the Spirits of Christmas Past ( Michael Dolan ) , Present ( Francis De Wolff ) and silent Future / Yet To Come showing him what he has become in the many years passed . The only additional material ( that could have been taken out in my opinion ) is Scrooge leaving business with Mr . S . Fezziwig ( Roddy Hughes ) , and starting business with Marley , oh , and his love interest is named Alice ( Rona Anderson ) instead of Belle ( like all the other versions I've seen ) . At the end of the " journey " Scrooge wakes to Christmas morning and does do a little over the top in happiness with his maid , but promises her a pay raise , and to change to be a better man and appreciate Christmas . In doing this he gives a blind guy some money , buys Bob Cratchit a turkey , Tiny Tim ( Glyn Dearman ) believes it is Scrooge and that Christmas changed him ( well , that's kind of right ) , and he goes to his nephew's for dinner that he originally refused , and obviously from then on he stayed the nicer man he became . Also starring Kathleen Harrison as Mrs . Dilber , Mary Poppins ' Hermione Baddeley as Mrs . Cratchit , George Cole as Young Ebenezer Scrooge , Miles Malleson as Old Joe and A View to a Kill's young Patrick Macnee as Young Jacob Marley . I have say there were moments this seemed almost like a light horror film , the music especially gave that impression , but it is still a great family film . It was number 58 on The 100 Greatest Christmas Moments . Very good !
Austin Powers : International Man of Mystery	This is one of the best spy spoofs ever made . Mike Myers stars as Austin Powers , a secret agent from the 1960s brought into 1997 . He has been brought back to fight Dr . Evil ( Myers again ) who plans to take over the world . He uses Vanessa ( Elizabeth Hurley ) to help him . A very funny film with some good gags . Seth Green hardly does much , but he will later in the next two films . Austin Powers is stupid , but then again , so Dr . Evil . I can't decide who's funnier of the two . Austin's funniest moment is discovering the future , e . g . crossing off deceased people he admired , and testing at CDs and trainers . Dr . Evil's funniest moment is telling Scott ( Green ) to shh . Also starring Mimi Rogers as Mrs . Kensington , Robert Wagner as Number Two , Fabiana Udenio as Alotta Fagina ( kinda like Pussy Galore ) and Mindy Sterling as Frau Farbissina . Look out for Burt Bacharach , True Lies ' Tom Arnold , Christian Slater , Star Wars ' Carrie Fisher and Rob Lowe ! Mike Myers was number 46 on The Comedians ' Comedian , and the film was number 4 on The 50 Greatest Comedy Films . Very good !
Ace Ventura : Pet Detective	This was Jim Carrey's first official role and launched his brilliant career . He stars as Ace Ventura : Pet Detective . " He's the best there is . Actually , he's the only one there is . " The mascot of the Miami Dolphins " Snowflake the Dolphin " has been kidnapped . It is Ace's job to find this dolphin . He has help from Courney Cox ( Arquette ) and Sean Young who has a funny but sick story towards the end . There is also an appearance by legendary Miami Dolphin player Dan Marino ( as himself ) . A hilarious film with wonderful slapstick and cuddly animals thrown in . The best part for me is seeing Ace being thrown about by a shark ! Ace Ventura : When Nature Calls followed . Very good !
The Addams Family	Based on the popular TV series ( which there were a few of ) and New Yorker cartoons - from the characters created by Charles Addams - comes this live action feature film about the kooky , spooky , eccentric and darkly comical humorous family , from director Barry Sonnenfeld ( Men in Black ) . Basically The Addams Family are the strange scary movie stereotypes filled clan , with wife / mother Morticia ( Anjelica Huston ) , husband / father Gomez ( Raul Julia ) , the witch-like Granny ( Judith Malina ) , Frankenstein's monster like butler Lurch ( Carel Struycken ) , and the kids , Wednesday ( young Christina Ricci ) and Pugsley ( Jimmy Workman ) . Notice anyone missing , yes , Uncle Fester ( Christopher Lloyd ) disappeared 25 years ago after a fight with brother Gomez , and Abigail Craven ( Elizabeth Wilson ) wants to try and get the Addams ' fortune , by using her " son " Gordon ( Lloyd again ) , who has a striking resemblance to Fester , to con his way into the family , and find the fortune . As time goes by though , Gordon slowly finds himself settling very nicely as if he really was Fester , oh , and by the end , you realise it is really him , Craven found him with amnesia . Also starring Dan Hedaya as Tully Alford , Dana Ivey as Margaret Alford and Paul Benedict as Judge Womack . The dark comedy is wonderfully strange , the performances from Julia , Huston and Lloyd are marvellous , young Ricci also shines with her moments as the daughter , just a very good dark comedy film . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Costume Design , and it was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Make Up Artist and Best Production Design . Very good !
Desperado	From director Robert Rodriguez ( From Dusk Till Dawn , Sin City ) , it almost seems like a modern western , in American Italy . It starts with Buscemi ( Steve Buscemi ) telling a story about a guitar player killer that he saw , and most people have heard this before as a legend / myth . But he is real , and soon enough trouble brews as El Mariachi ( Antonio Banderas ) searches for his " girl's " killer , Bucho ( Joaquim De Almeida ) . This is pretty much the main plot , the great moments of the film come from Bandares and his gun filled guitar case . I have not seen Bandares this good since The Mask of Zorro . Also starring Salma Hayek ( who shows her breasts , very briefly ) as Carolina , Cheech Marin as Short Bartender , Carlos Gómez as Right Hand and with no involvement besides acting , Quentin Tarantino as Pick-Up Guy . Banderas and Hayek returned in the 2003 sequel , Once Upon a Time in Mexico . Very good !
Secret Smile	Goodnight Mister Tom was brilliant , Footsteps in the Snow was a good biography , and this was another good ITV made-for-TV film . Basically Miranda Cotton ( Kate Ashfield from Shaun of the Dead ) one day meets a complete stranger and they have sex . After about ten days , she wants Brendan Block ( Doctor Who's David Tennant ) to leave . Then the next thing she knows , he's met and proposed to her sister , Kerry ( Claire Goose ) . Soon after Brendan poisoning her life , Miranda's sister commits suicide when he believes that she doesn't care about him , says Brendan . Now worst of all , Brendan dumps Kerry for another woman , and now Miranda needs to warn her of what he's capable of . Then the unthinkable and horrible happens , he rapes Miranda . That then clinches it and Miranda and Kerry , oh , and the new girl , form a plan to put Brendan behind bars . This is the really good twist , that it looks like Miranda was dead , because of blood in bathroom and Brendan's fingerprints on her keys , but she was actually having a short holiday . Great idea ! Anyway , this is a very good drama , the title obviously suggests his character . Very good !
Alien : Resurrection	If you thought Alien³ had ended the series , director Jean-Pierre Jeunet ( Amélie ) had found a way to return , quite a clever one . It has 200 years since Ellen Ripley ( Sigourney Weaver ) killed herself on the prison planet , being impregnated . After many attempts , scientists from The Company have successfully managed to clone her into an alien / human hybrid clone using her blood samples ( from the planet ) , and removed the alien queen from her . Ripley , known as Number 8 , does have blurs in her original memory , and she does need to relearn things , but she seems to have developed much more power , e . g . acidic blood , strength , ability to hear and smell the aliens , and obviously with these they won't kill her . They are keeping the growing queen in a high security room , and breeding new aliens ( with face huggers ) insanely with crew members in hibernation , and eventually , they all break out on the ship . So with the help of Ripley , a group of smugglers , including : Annalee Call ( Winona Ryder ) ( who turns out to be an android ) , cripple Vriess ( Amélie's Dominique Pinon ) , Johner ( Hellboy's Ron Perlman ) , Christie ( Gary Dourdan ) , Sabra Hillard ( Kim Flowers ) and Vincent Distephano ( Raymond Cruz ) are trying to escape the ship before they enter the Homeland , Earth . Ripley does have contact with what she has become though , including meeting the new hybrid baby from the alien she had inside her , a hideous pale yellow alien with what looks like a skull for a head , who mistakes Ripley for her mother . In the end they do escape though , the aliens are destroyed , and the pale yellow thing is sucked ( by the vaccuum ) into bloody chunks going into outer space . Also starring Michael Wincott as Frank Elgyn , Dan Hedaya as Gen . Martin Perez , J . E . Freeman as Dr . Mason Wren , Brad Dourif as Dr . Jonathan Gediman and Leland Orser as Larry Purvis . The fantastic sequences include Dourif face to face ( through glass ) with the alien queen making it pull faces , the underwater chase , the alien birth through both a guy's stomach and a guy's head , and almost all of the gory effects . I have seen the re-edited version , which is ridiculous , e . g . the opening being an alien turning into an insect being squashed , although Ripley being reminded of Newt ( she can't remember her name though ) is interesting , but just see the original . Winona Ryder was number 87 , and Sigourney Weaver number 20 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars . Very good !
Absolute Power	A very good thriller directed by and starring Clint Eastwood . Luther Whitney ( Eastwood ) has witnessed a murder taking place as he was committing a robbery . He was stealing money and jewels when he saw them come in and he hid in a secret room . He saw President Richmond ( Gene Hackman ) rape and kill an innocent girl . Luther is now trying to hide from both the police and the President ( he knows that he saw him ) . At the same time , Luther is also trying to get his relationship with his daughter Kate ( Laura Linney ) back to normal . But she knows what he has done in the past , she is not sure she can trust him . Also starring Ed Harris as Seth Frank . A very good thriller from a very good director , and actor . Very good !
True Grit	I had heard and remembered the character name somewhere , and I always wondered if the lead male star had ever had an Oscar winning role , so I was really looking forward to seeing both . Basically in the wild west of California , the father of Mattie Ross ( BAFTA nominated Kim Darby ) is killed by Tom Chaney ( Jeff Corey ) , she is determined to avenge the death , find Chaney and bring him to justice ( have him hanged ) . She recruits tough , old , drunken , one-eyed ( lost in war ) U . S . Marshall Reuben J . ' Rooster ' Cogburn ( Oscar and Golden Globe winning John Wayne ) , because he has a good reputation , and people say he has " grit " , and they are accompanied by Texas Ranger La Boeuf ( Golden Globe nominated Glen Campbell ) . Along the way they have some chats with crooks who may know where to find him , including Moon ( young Dennis Hopper ) , and they have their " get-to-know-eachother " chats , before they eventually find Chaney , and the rest of his gang lead by Ned Pepper ( Robert Duvall ) . The concluding scenes with the many shooting is quite gripping , and there are some good scenes of Cogburn showing his true worth . Also starring Jeremy Slate as Emmett Quincy , Alfred Ryder as Mr . Goudy ( Defense attorney ) , Strother Martin as Colonel G . Stonehill , Ron Soble as Capt . Boots Finch , John Fiedler as Lawyer Daggett , James Westerfield as Judge Parker and John Doucette as Sheriff . This is definitely a must-see western and Wayne film . It was nominated the Oscar and Golden Globe for Best Song for " True Grit " . John Wayne was number 56 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , and he was number 13 on 100 Years , 100 Stars - Men , and Rooster Cogburn was number 36 on 100 Years , 100 Heroes & Villains . Very good !
The Sunshine Boys	At first this looked like a boring comedy like The Odd Couple , but when I got into it it turned out to be a really funny film . Basically forgetful ex-comedians Willy Clark ( Golden Globe winner , and Oscar and BAFTA nominated Walter Matthau ) and Al Lewis ( Oscar winning , and Golden Glove nominated George Burns ) were a great comedy duo , and a brought back together to revive their hospital sketch for a TV show . Willy's nephew , Ben Clark ( Golden Globe winning Richard Benjamin ) is confident they can get together again with no hard feelings for each other , how wrong he is . They cannot get on all the time , they are both forgetful , especially during conversation , but they do it eventually . Also starring Lee Meredith as Nurse in Sketch ( Miss McIntosh ) , Carol DeLuise as Mrs . Doris Green , Al's Daughter , Rosetta LeNoire as Odessa , Willy's nurse and Muppets from Space's F . Murray Abraham as Mechanic . I think the best line of the film is Burns mentioning that Matthau called him " a son of a bitch bastard " . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration and Best Writing , Screenplay Adapted From Other Material , it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Screenplay , and it won the Golden Globe Best Motion Picture - Musical / Comedy , and it was nominated for Best Screenplay . Very good !
Batman Beyond : Return of the Joker	If you have ever seen the futuristic TV series about the future of the caped crusader , then you might want to see this movie . Bruce Wayne is still retired , but still has Wayne Enterprises . His house boy is now the new Batman in the new suit . Bruce ( Kevin Conroy ) and Terry McGinnis ( new Batman ) ( voiced by Will Friedle ) don't know it , but a familiar and horrifying face from Bruce's past has returned to Gotham City . The Joker ( Star Wars ' Luke Skywalker , Mark Hamill ) is back to try and take over the city and destroy it with a satellite laser . There is a very good flashback of how The Joker died , and the voice talents are just perfect . Also starring Teri Garr as Mrs . Mary McGinnis , Arleen Sorkin as Harley Quinn and Sabrina's Melissa Joan Hart as the twins , Dee Dee and Dee Dee . Batman was number 84 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons . Very good !
Paris , Texas	The star of this film mainly did supporting characters , such as Alien , and this is one of the rare occasions he has a leading part , and a great one . The film starts with the lonely drifter Travis Anderson ( Harry Dean Stanton ) walking through the desert , till he collapses ( exhaustion ) in a near bar . With his identification , the man there contacts his brother Walter R . Anderson ( Dean Stockwell ) he hasn't seen for four years , since he disappeared . His brother takes him home on the road ( when he can't get on a plane ) , and when they get there , Travis meets his son who Walter and his wife Aurore Clément ( Anne Anderson ) have looked after since he and the mother disappeared , named Hunter Anderson ( Hunter Carson ) . After getting used to his Dad , both Hunter and Travis decide to try and find the mother , Jane ( Nastassja Kinski ) by finding the bank she visits every month , and luck strikes when Hunter spots her in the car park ( recognised her face from photo ) . When Travis investigates the building she enters , he finds out she has become a peep-show stripper ( stripping for someone she can't see because of two-way mirror , reflection on her side ) . The emotional part is slowly telling his story , as someone else , and she realises it is him . It is uncertain what happened after Jane and Hunter met each other in the hotel , and Travis wandered off , but this is an essential drama . Oh , the meaning of the title by the way , is that Travis bought a piece of land called Paris , in Texas , and his Dad joked making everyone think he was first talking about Paris , France . It won the BAFTA for Best Direction for Wim Wenders , and it was nominated for Best Film , Best Score for Ry Cooder and Best Adapted Screenplay , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Foreign Film . Very good !
Crimson Tide	From director Tony Scott ( True Romance , Deja Vu ) this is a pretty good slightly claustrophobic action thriller . At the beginning it mentions that the three most powerful men in the world are the President of the United States , the President of Russia , and the submarine captain , I don't know if that is true , but you could believe it . Anyway , basically , based in the near future , Russian rebels have seized some of the country , and threaten to launch nuclear missiles at the United States . In response , Capt . Frank Ramsey ( Gene Hackman ) has orders to take his nuclear submarine , the USS Alabama , out and get in position for if a preemptive strike launch is needed . After a medical emergency , second in command is replaced by Lt . Commander Ron Hunter ( Denzel Washington ) , and it later becomes obvious they will not get on . It is the Captain's very tough decisions , many that Hunter questions and doubts are right that the tension comes from . The biggest decision is when an enemy submarine comes to take them out , and the Captain gives the order to launch the missiles at Russia , but Hunter will not concur , and after a big argument , he relieves the Captain of his duty and places him under arrest in his cabin . He does get out eventually though , and when the submarine has eventually ( somehow , I can't remember how it ended ) , the Captain admits his mistake when they were inside . Also starring George Dzundza as Chief of the Boat , Viggo Mortensen as Lt . Peter ' WEAPS ' Ince ; Matt Craven as Lt . Roy Zimmer , USS Alabama Communications Officer , The Sopranos ' James Gandolfini as Lt . Bobby Dougherty , Rocky Carroll as Lt . Darik Westergard , Jaime Gomez as Officer of the Deck Mahoney , Michael Milhoan as Chief of the Watch Hunsicker , Scott Burkholder as T . S . O . Billy Linkletter and Titanic's Danny Nucci as Petty Officer First Class Danny Rivetti . Only male characters is interesting , the acting is very effective , particularly in those argumentative character moments , the attacks on the sub are cool , you might not understand the codes and stuff they use , but is still a cool film . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Sound Effects Editing , Best Film Editing and Best Sound . Gene Hackman was number 42 , and Denzel Washington number 28 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , and Washington was number 40 , and Hackman number 31 on The World's Greatest Actor . Very good !
Magnolia	From writer / director Paul Thomas Anderson ( Boogie Nights ) this is a very interesting drama with several interrelated characters in search for happiness , forgiveness and meaning , all in 24 hours . Oh , by the way , the title I thought was about the flower or colour , but it is reference to both the LA Blvd and similar to the term Charles Font , about where things falling from the sky come from . Anyway , the stories ( all somehow connected ) include : Frank T . J . Mackey ( Golden Globe winning , and Oscar nominated Tom Cruise ) is the successful motivational speaker with giving the aggressive seminar on dating called " Seduce and Destroy " , and he eventually , with the help of male nurse Phil Parma ( Philip Seymour Hoffman ) finds his dying ( of cancer ) father , Earl Partridge ( Jason Robards ) . Linda Partridge ( Julianne Moore ) married Earl for the money , but is struggling to have a normal life , and is resorting to suicide . Officer Jim Kurring ( John C . Reilly ) receives complaints about noise from neighbours , leading to cocaine addicted Claudia Wilson Gator ( Melora Walters ) , who he wants a date with . Jimmy Gator ( Bruce Almighty's Philip Baker Hall ) is estranged from his daughter ( Claudia ) , and he has been hosting popular quiz show " What Do Kids Know ? " for over 30 years , but he can't go on with his condition , two weeks left to live . Stanley Spector ( Jeremy Blackman ) is the brightest of three kids reigning on the show . ' Quiz Kid ' Donnie Smith ( William H . Macy ) was once a contestant on the show , but has been down on his luck since being struck by lightning . Towards the end , all characters meet the scary fate of a night where , after raining cats and dogs ( LOL ) , it rains frogs ! ( It can happen ) Also starring Melinda Dillon as Rose Gator , Luis Guzman as Luis , Tomorrow Never Dies ' Ricky Jay as Burt Ramsey , Evolution's Orlando Jones as Worm , Spider-Man 2's Alfred Molina as Solomon Solomon , Henry Gibson as Thurston Howell , Jackie Brown's Michael Bowen as Rick Spector and Miriam Margolyes as Faye Barringer . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Song for " Save Me " ( also nominated the Golden Globe and Best Writing , Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen . Tom Cruise was number 32 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , he was number 25 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols , and he was number 81 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons . Very good !
Where Eagles Dare	Many people had told me that this is one of the best classic war films ever made , and certainly is one of the most exciting classics , from director Brian G . Hutton ( Kelly's Heroes ) . Set in World War II , a British aircraft is shot down and crashes in Nazi territory , an American General , the only survivor , is captured , and he has full knowledge of D-Day . The British decide to try and rescue him so that he does not talk , led by Maj . Jonathan Smith , MC ( Richard Burton ) , along with American Ranger Lt . Morris Schaffer ( Clint Eastwood ) , which confuses him ( being involved with the British ) . Parachuting to the snowy ground , one of the soldiers is killed , what looks like purposely , so there is much more than just a rescue mission . The most exciting scenes are those in the German mountain castle where Smith and Schaffer along with the other good guys are trying to escape with hostages , but are ending up running into many Nazis , having to set bombs , and stealing cable cars and buses , till eventually they get to the plane . Oh , and they also find out one of their allies is actually a bad guy , and he jumped out the plane to commit suicide . Also starring Mary Ure as Mary Ellison , Michael Hordern as Adm . Rolland ; Patrick Wymark as Col . Wyatt Turner , DSO MC , Robert Beatty as Gen . George Carnaby , Anton Diffring as SS-Standartenführer Kramer , Donald Houston as Capt . James Christiansen , Ferdy Mayne as Gen . Rosemeyer , Ingrid Pitt as Heidi , Peter Barkworth as Edward Berkeley , William Squire as Capt . Philip Thomas , Brook Williams as Sgt . Harrod , Derren Nesbitt as SS-Sturmbannführer Von Hapen , Neil McCarthy as Sgt . Jock MacPherson , Vincent Ball as Carpenter and Victor Beaumont as Col . Weissner . This is one of those essential classics with the most exciting from the middle to the end , a great performance from Eastwood , and almost a James Bond type feel to it , a lot of fun ! Clint Eastwood was number 18 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , and he was number 61 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons , and the film was number 21 on The 100 Greatest War Films . Very good !
The Boy Whose Skin Fell Off	This was a must see documentary for me when I missed the opportunity in 2004 , so I was definitely going to watch the repeat . I really sympathised with the main character of the film , because , this is true , I have a milder condition of the skin problem he had , Dystrophic Epidermolysis Bullosa ( EB ) . This is a sad , sometimes amusing and very emotional documentary about a boy with a terrible skin disorder . Jonny Kennedy speaks like a kid ( because of wasting vocal muscle ) and never went through puberty , but he is 36 years old . Most sympathising moments are seeing his terrible condition , and pealing off his bandages . Jonny had quite a naughty sense of humour , he even narrated from beyond the grave when showing his body in a coffin . He tells his story with the help of his mother , Edna Kennedy , his older brother and celebrity model , and Jonny's supporter , Nell McAndrew . It won the BAFTAs for Best Editing and Best New Director ( Factual ) , and it was nominated for Best Sound ( Factual ) and the Flaherty Documentary Award . It was number 10 on The 100 Greatest TV Treats 2004 . A must see documentary !
The Sooty Show	It is nearly exactly the same as Sooty & Co , and just as good . The only difference is that the wonderful host and the puppet chums don't run a shop business . Sooty with his two puppet friends Sweep and Soo ( no Scampy until Sooty & Co ) had many good stories . Most of the stories however I thought in this show were dominated by Matthew Corbett . The stories that I can remember I saw of this show are : Playing cricket , Camping like Scouts , Driving Racing Cars and Waterskiing . The only guest they had was someone called Connie Crighton , and that's it . I'm sure they had more , I would have loved to see the whole show . It was number 38 on The 100 Greatest Kids ' TV Shows , and Sooty was on a special Top 10 Puppets list , hosted by Rainbow's Zippy and George . Very good !
Now , Voyager	When I first heard of this film , I thought it was some kind of sci-fi film , but it could have been more obvious it was talking about a cruise . Basically Charlotte Vale ( Oscar nominated Bette Davis ) suffers a nervous breakdown because of the pretty nerve-wrecking domineering of her mother , Mrs . Henry Windle Vale ( Oscar nominated Gladys Cooper ) , and she is sent to a sanitarium , where she is transformed to become elegant . Then she goes on a South American cruise where she falls for already married Jerry Durrance ( Paul Henreid ) . She goes back to comfort her mother dying from a heart attack , and she returns to the sanitarium where she meets Jerry's depressed daughter , Tina ( Janis Wilson ) . They become really close friends and they both move back to Boston , Jerry is glad to see Tina happy , that he lets her stay with her mother ( although she doesn't know it's Charlotte . It won the Oscar for Best Music for Max Steiner . Bette Davis was number 45 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , she was number 2 on 100 Years , 100 Stars - Women , and she was number 17 on The World's Greatest Actor , the film was number 93 on The 100 Greatest Tearjerkers , it was number 23 on 100 Years , 100 Passions , and it was number 46 on 100 Years , 100 Quotes for the great end quote ( " Oh , Jerry , don't let's ask for the moon . We have the stars " ) . Very good !
The Wild One	I had always wanted to see the film that The Godfather star is representing in London's Madame Tussauds . Based on a real 1947 incident where a cycle gang terrorised the small town of Hollister , California on the 4th of July , and the film was banned for a while . Basically 40 motorcyclists , The Black Rebels Motorcycle Club , go to the town of Wrightsville after being thrown out of viewing a legitimate motorcycle race . They stole the second place trophy , and gave it to their leader , Johnny ( Marlon Brando ) . Some people do complain about their hanging around the Bleekers bar , but Sheriff Singer ( Jay C . Flippen ) cannot seem to address their disturbance . Meanwhile , Johnny falls for the Sheriff's daughter , Kathie ( Mary Murphy ) , and rival gang The Beetles show up for a while , led by Chino ( Paint Your Wagon's Lee Marvin ) . Also starring Robert Keith as Harry Bleeker , Peggy Maley as Mildred , Hugh Sanders as Charlie Thomas , Ray Teal as Frank Bleeker , Will Wright as Art Kleiner , Yvonne Doughty as Britches , Gene Peterson as Crazy and Alvy Moore as Pigeon . For anyone who likes bikes , bikers or biking , this is the film for you . Marlon Brando was number 30 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , he was number 11 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols , he was number 4 on 100 Years , 100 Stars - Men , and he was number 1 on The World's Greatest Actor . Very good !
The Peter Serafinowicz Show	The only places I knew the comedian before was a programme my Mum and brothers watched called Hardware , but I knew him better in Shaun of the Dead , and playing Terry Wogan in a Comic Relief Blankety Blank spoof , and now the really good Peter Serafinowicz has his own show . When it first started I thought it was quite a clever mix of ridiculous , obvious and long-awaited ( can't believe no-one did it before ) comedy , and as it continued it just became a very entertaining sketch show . Characters in the show include : Brian Butterfield , the rubbish fat advertiser ; O ! News , with really camp newscaster Kennedy St . King ; Acting Masterclass sketches with impressions of Sir Michael Caine , Al Pacino , Kevin Spacey , Ralph Fiennes , Robert De Niro and Marlon Brando ( with the body of Jabba the Hutt ) ; A Guide to Modern Life , the spoof British self-help programmes , e . g . Let's . . . Get Married , Have a Baby , Have an Orgy and others , all narrated by Simon Pegg ; Buy It Channel , different occurrences happen with this spoof of those loathsome shopping channel shows ; Michael-6 , the talk show hosted by the robotic host , who almost always malfunctions and secretes white fluid from his mouth , BBN News , with the newsreader getting buzzed every time he says something incorrect ; Ringo Remembers , short documentaries with Ringo Starr reminiscing about the other Beatle members or himself ; Sex line spoofs where you can talk to pirates , zombies , Basil Fawlty impersonators , drunks and others ; parodies of magazines with various ( and usually ridiculous or unrelated ) subjects ; spoofs of famous detectives such as Sherlock Holmes , Poirot , Marple , Columbo and others ; and many one-off sketches of pop-culture programmes and films , e . g . The Weakest Link , Who Wants to Be a Millionaire ? , Star Wars , Laurel and Hardy , The X Factor , Big Brother and others . Also starring Little Britain's Paul Putner , Catherine Shepherd and Belinda Stewart-Wilson . A very good show , I look forward to more from it . Very good !
For the Birds	This short film started just before the main Disney Pixar film at the cinema , Monsters Inc . This was a brand new Pixar movie and it won Best Short Animated Film at the Oscars . It is basically a load of little blue birds on a telephone wire having a relaxing sit , and they are interrupted by a large bird who gets on the wire . They try to make this dopey bird leave but he won't budge . Due to his weight after a little while , the wire starts heading to the ground . So the dopey bird jumps off , and the wire springs in the air with a load of blue feathers falling . The film ends with all the little birds featherless and covering themselves up with leaves . It was very funny , and got you even more excited to see the real film that people wanted to see . Very good !
The Day Today	This is a really good comedy that mixes real news from the 90's with satire . I think it was Brass Eye that was more of a problem than this , especially with the paedophile thing . It is basically a pretend news programme hosted by British Comedy Award winning Christopher Morris as Ted Maul ( along with various other characters ) . It also has the first television appearance for Steve Coogan as Alan Partridge ( and many other roles ) . Also starring Rebecca Front as Valerie Sinatra / Barbara Wintergreen and Rosy May ( and many other roles ) , Smack The Pony's Doon Mackichan as Collaterlie Sisters ( and many other roles ) , Patrick Marber as Peter O'Hanarha-Hanrahan , Jaques-'Jaques ' Liverot and Chapman Baxter ( and many other roles ) and the really good David Schneider as Brant and Sylvester Stewart ( and many other roles ) . It won the BAFTA for Best graphic Design , and it was nominated the Interactive Award for DVD . Ted Maul was number 25 on The World's Greatest Comedy Characters , The Pool sketch ( with the guy that goes " no-one died " ) was number 18 on The 50 Greatest Comedy Sketches . Very good !
An Audience with Take That : Live !	Not long after they announced their chart reunion and releasing the great number one single " Patience " , Take That ( Gary Barlow , Howard Donald , Jason Orange and Mark Owen , Robbie Williams obviously sees himself as successful on his own , but he has gone slightly down hill since ) gave the public to see their reunion come into motion . The show opened with the classic " Relight My Fire " with special guest ( who really did vocals in the song ) , Lulu . The rest of the show saw celebrities enjoy other classic songs , asking questions , and making a couple jokes . Other great songs included : of course " Patience " , " Back For Good " , " Never Forget " , " Pray " , " A Million Love Songs " and many more . In the audience included Sara Cox , Peter Kay , Al Murray , Phillip Schofield and many more . Very good !
Broken Flowers	From director Jim Jarmusch comes another Bill Murray film where , like Lost in Translation , he doesn't need to say much to make it a great film . Basically Don Johnston ( Murray ) is a lonely old devout bachelor , and has just been dumped by another lover , Sherry ( Julie Delpy ) , and he wants to stay alone . But this soon changes when he finds a letter in the mail , made by a typewriter with no return address or name , and his close friend , investigative neighbour Winston ( Casino Royale's Jeffrey Wright ) makes all arrangements for a road trip to see all his former lovers from 19 years ago , who could be the mother of a son he may be the father of . On his journey he is armoured only with pink flowers for the women , and he has a driving songs CD for company in his car journeys . First , widow Laura ( Sharon Stone ) , living with her teenage daughter Lolita ( Alexis Dziena ) , who he has dinner with , and also sleeps with Laura again . Second , successful real estate agent Dora ( Frances Conroy ) , living with husband Ron ( Christopher McDonald ) , who he has an uncomfortable dinner with . Third , animal communicator and psychologist Dr . Carmen ( Jessica Lange ) . Fourth and final , and the only aggressive one , Penny ( Tilda Swinton ) , living in the woods with two young motorcycle thugs , who knock him out , and he is left with a cut and broken flowers , like the title says . So in the end , he goes home with no idea who the mother is , and no idea who his son is , although he does meet a kid ( Mark Webber ) on his own journey of some kind . Murray is very good , the story has a good structure and no need for high action and big gags , it is just a good laid back comedy drama . Very good !
Richard & Judy	I don't watch it that often unless there is a really good celebrity guest appearing , but when I do watch this it's quite good . Richard Madeley and Judy present this quite good mid-day chat show which also includes some good competitions and latest news . The most interesting parts of the show for me are You Say We Pay where Richard and Judy guess what a caller is describing , and obviously when a guest is on . They've had Kacey Ainsworth , Les Dennis , Amanda Holden , Jessie Wallace , Sanjeev Bhaskar , Geri Halliwell , S Club 7 , Sophie Ellis-Bextor , Kyle MacLachlan , Simon Cowell , Delia Smith , Des O'Connor , Gina Yashere , Charlotte Church , Charlie Higson , Samantha Mumba , Gordon Ramsay , Danny Dyer , Billy Boyd , Dominic Monaghan , Zoë Wanamaker , Dido , Brian McFadden , Letitia Dean , Hear'say , James Nesbitt , Sir Ian McKellen , David Suchet , Alan Titchmarsh , Brenda Blethyn , Hugh Grant , Julie Walters , Daryl Hannah , Claire Sweeney , Tony Blackburn , Paul O'Grady , Tom Hanks , Holly Valance , Kim Cattrall , Sue Perkins , Graham Norton , Samuel L . Jackson , Naomie Harris , David Blunkett , Rob Brydon , Will Young , William Shatner , David Sneddon , Leonardo DiCaprio , Martin Scorsese , Ray Liotta , Susan Sarandon , Jade Goody , Billy Crystal , Robert De Niro , Jennifer Lopez , Darius , George Michael , Gareth Gates , Julianne Moore , Laurence Llewelyn-Bowen , Barry Norman , Colin Farrell , Joanna Lumley , Alan Cumming , Vanessa Feltz , Richard Whiteley , Jennie Bond , Ben Miller , Kim Medcalf , Joel Schumacher , James Fleet , Hank Azaria , Minnie Driver , Matthew Perry , Denise Van Outen , Lenny Henry , Meat Loaf , Brian Cox , Patrick Stewart , Sir Michael Caine , Dale Winton , Brian Blessed , Mark Nicholas , Dougray Scott , James Alexandrou , Myleene Klass , Jada Pinkett Smith , Ronni Ancona , Jill Halfpenny , Queen Latifah , Alistair McGowan , David Dickinson , Melvyn Bragg , Jeff Goldblum , Tim Pigott-Smith , Edwina Currie , Colin Salmon , Jim Carrey , Neil Morrissey , Jon Snow , Natalie and Nicole Appleton , John Fashanu , Dom Joly , Germaine Greer , Anthony Head , Laila Morse , Jools Holland , Jon Culshaw , Arnold Schwarzenegger , Nell McAndrew , Elvis Costello , Cilla Black , John Leslie , Dan Aykroyd , Leslie Grantham , Joan Collins , Emma Bunton , Michael Ball , Paul Burrell , Matthew Kelly , Robert Downey Jr . , Christopher Lee , Kim Woodburn and Aggie MacKenzie , Barry Cryer , Zoe Lucker , Cuba Gooding Jr . , Ricky Gervais , Kelly Osbourne , Jason Isaacs , David Walliams and Matt Lucas , Abi Titmuss , Ross Kemp , Jamie Lee Curtis , Martin Kemp , Dermot O'Leary , Ben Affleck , Joely Richardson , Nigella Lawson , Simon Day , John Sergeant , Eugene Levy , Siân Lloyd , Sir Bob Geldof , Jim Bowen , Suranne Jones , Griff Rhys Jones , Robson Green , Shobna Gulati , Alyson Hannigan , Trinny Woodall and Susannah Constantine , LL Cool J , Vic Reeves and Bob Mortimer , Naomi Watts , Harry Hill , Brittany Murphy , Johnny Vegas , The Rock , Peter Andre , Andy Serkis , Jon Culshaw , Kevin Costner , Lulu , Charlie Brooks , Lionel Richie , Anita Dobson , Blue , Halle Berry , Simon Pegg , Viggo Mortensen , Charlize Theron , Jimmy Carr , Paul Daniels , Rebecca Loos , Johnny Depp , Mark Williams , Jo Brand , Jordan ( Katie Price ) , Janet Street-Porter , Bruce Forsyth , Val Kilmer , Antony Worrall Thompson , Matthew Lillard , Nikki Sanderson , Derren Brown , Mark Owen , Roland Emmerich , Rupert Grint , Eddie Izzard , Daniel Radcliffe , Serenaand Venus Williams , Jackie Chan , Noel Edmonds , Bill Clinton , Rachel Stevens , Ioan Gruffudd , Busted , David Baddiel , David Hasselhoff , Danny Glover , Lord Charles Brocket , Shell Jubin , Stuart Wilson , Jennifer Ellison , Tony Robinson , Christian Slater , Boris Johnson , Cherie Blair , Michael Winner , Natalie Cassidy , Michael Palin , Tamsin Greig , Nancy Sinatra , Geoffrey Rush , Sir Cliff Richard , Paul McKenna , Pamela Anderson , Ben Elton , Annette Bening , Sir Elton John , Pierce Brosnan , Madonna , Bill Bailey , Adrian Edmondson , Sean Astin , Ian Hislop , Sir Andrew Lloyd Webber , Sting , Samantha Bond , Kris Marshall , Holly Hunter , Chris Tarrant , Imelda Staunton , Carol Vorderman , Marco Sabba , Jackie Stallone , Rhys Ifans , Ross Kemp , Kenzie , Mark ' Bez ' Berry , Carol Thatcher , Kathleen Turner , Sir Trevor McDonald , Richard E . Grant , Nancy Sorrell , Chris Evans , Morgan Spurlock , Bill Oddie , Davina McCall , Nicki Chapman , Tony Blair , Ruby Wax , Sir Patrick Moore , Tracy-Ann Oberman , Paul Whitehouse , Jonathan Wilkes , Karen Krizanovich , David Tennant , Su Pollard , Tony Bennett , John McCririck , Julian Clary , Victoria Wood , Nicole Kidman , Olivia Newton-John , Uri Geller , Rose McGowan , David Blaine , Billie Piper , Juliette Lewis , Melanie Brown , Jane Fonda , Gene Wilder , Jeremy Beadle , James Blunt , Owen Wilson , Leslie Ash , Catherine Tate , Simon Callow , Jan Ravens , Gene Simmons , Jonathan Ross , Rob Lowe , Jamie Oliver , Stephen Hawking , Emma Thompson , Des Lynam , Gillian Anderson , Gail Porter , Sheryl Crow , Dave Spikey , Derek Acorah , Richard Wilson , John Thomson , Mark Dolan , Pete Waterman , Kevin Bacon , Kermit the Frog , Bob Hoskins , Patrick Swayze , Colin Jackson , Kirsty Gallacher , Kemal Shahin , Debra Stephenson , Elizabeth Hurley , Jodie Marsh , George Galloway , Omid Djalili , Patrick McGuinness , Rula Lenska , Sir Terry Wogan , Carol Thatcher , Russell Brand , Alan Carr , Justin Lee Collins , Maggot , Tom Baker , Lucy Porter , Eamonn Holmes , Neve Campbell , Nick Park , Timmy Mallett , Chantelle Houghton , Jeffrey Archer , Ray Winstone , Anjelica Huston , Makosi Musambasi , Nadia Almada , John Hurt , Sean Lock , Jeremy Irons , Carrie Fisher , Sir Michael Gambon , Sandra Bullock , Keanu Reeves , J . K . Rowling , Cannon ( Tommy Cannon ) and Ball ( Bobby Ball ) , Jack Davenport , Isabella Rossellini , Patricia Arquette , Lucy Benjamin , Nigel Marven , Rihanna , Lea Walker , Sid Owen , Rolf Harris , Jennifer Aniston , Sam Neill , Bill Nighy , Mike Read , Sir Jimmy Savile , Imogen Thomas , Sigourney Weaver and many more famous faces . The only thing that's hard to get used is obviously Richard talking more than Judy , but apart from that it's fine occasionally . Richard Madeley was number 60 on The 100 Worst Britons , the programme was number 96 on The 100 Greatest Funny Moments for the Little Britain spoof , and it has been on all 100 Greatest TV Treats programmes so far . Very good !
Willie's Wonky Chocolate Factory	I saw the advert for this documentary on Channel 4 , and thought it might be interesting , and it turned out to be very . Filmed in " fly-on-the-wall " style , this programme shows the efforts of British entrepreneur Willie Harcourt-Cooze , who lives in Tiverton , Devon with wife Tania , and three children - Sophia ( nine ) , William ( seven ) and Eve ( four ) . He owns a cocoa farm and forest in Venezuela , and he plans not only to make chocolate with it , but to sell this " cocao " off not only to eat , but to use as ingredients in many dishes , which he shows us how to make . So you see him get the cocoa beans , take them back to Britain to his chocolate factory , getting the machine to smooth the chocolate , making the mixture into bars / blocks , and eventually , managing to sell it to a supermarket chain , Morrisons , and he runs down the road nude in celebration . Willie is obviously a little eccentric , and obsessed with chocolate enough to use it in almost any meal he can , but you can't help but like the guy and hope that he succeeds in all he does . A Christmas special , Willie's Perfect Chocolate Christmas , followed . Very good !
Slumdog Millionaire	This film has surely put British film-making back on the map , a fantastic success for versatile Oscar , BAFTA and Golden Globe winning director Danny Boyle ( Trainspotting , 28 Days Later ) . Basically 18-year-old orphan " slumdog " Jamal K . Malik ( BAFTA nominated Dev Patel ) is being interrogated by the Police Inspector ( Irrfan Khan ) with Sergeant Srinivas ( Saurabh Shukla ) , after appearing on the Indian version of " Who Wants To Be A Millionaire ? " , hosted by Prem Kumar ( Anil Kapoor ) . Because he knows all the answers to the questions , they are accusing him of cheating , but he explains how he knew , and we see how through a series of flashbacks . The flashbacks see Jamal ( middle - Tanay Hemant Chheda , youngest - Ayush Mahesh Khedekar ) , with brother Salim ( older - Madhur Mittal , middle - Ashutosh Lobo Gajiwala , youngest - Azharuddin Mohammed Ismail ) , and their life in the slums of Mumbai , and the adventures and vicious encounters they go through . This includes Jamal meeting Latika ( older - BAFTA nominated Freida Pinto , middle - Tanvi Ganesh Lonkar , youngest - Rubiana Ali ) , the girl he loved and lost . Each chapter of his life reveals how he learnt the answers to all his seemingly impossible questions , until reaching the present day , where one question remains . With sixty million viewers watching , having used Ask The Audience and 50 : 50 already , Jamal uses the final lifeline , Phone A Friend , for his brother Salim , but instead ( after a little wait ) , Latika is the one who answers the phone , she and Jamal cared more about talking to each other than the question , which she didn't know the answer to anyway . But it doesn't matter , Jamal decided as long as she saw him on TV , he might as well take a guess , a big risk , but it pays off , and he walks away with the jackpot of 20 million rupees , and it ends with he and Latika reunited . I wasn't expecting a dance sequence during a few minutes of the credits , but this just adds to sure enjoyment to be had with this energetic rags-to-riches tale full of tragic , comical and enlightening moments , with a wonderful use of colour , good on location cities , and terrific music , a brilliant British film . It won the Oscars for Best Cinematography , Best Editing , Best Music for A . R . Rahman , Best Song for " Jai Ho " , Best Sound , Best Writing , Screenplay Based on Material Previously Produced or Published and Best Motion Picture of the Year , and it was nominated for Best Song for " O Saya " and Best Sound Editing , it won the BAFTAs for Best Cinematography , Best Editing , Best Music , Best Adapted Screenplay , Best Sound and Best Film , and it was nominated for Outstanding British Film and Best Production Design , and it won the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Drama , Best Original Score and Best Screenplay . Very good !
Sister Act	She may have won acclaim ( and an Oscar nomination ) in The Color Purple , and won the Oscar for Ghost , but the leading actress became huge with this very good comedy from director Emile Ardolino ( Dirty Dancing ) . Basically Las Vegas , Reno lounge singer Deloris Van Cartier ( Golden Globe nominated Whoopi Goldberg ) witnesses his mobster boyfriend ( she didn't know that at the time ) Vince LaRocca ( Harvey Keitel ) killing an employer . She goes to the police , and Lt . Eddie Souther ( Bill Nunn ) puts her under witness protection , placing her in a convent full of nuns . The only person who also knows about her hiding out is Reverand Mother Superior ( Dame Maggie Smith ) , but she insists that Delores does not arouse suspicion from the real nuns , so she gives her the new identity of Sister Mary Clarence . Obviously for a while Delores is very unhappy in this situation , but after getting in trouble letting Sister Mary Robert ( Wendy Makkena ) and Sister Mary Patrick ( Kathy Najimy , a hilariously kooky performance , almost stealing the show ) she has a purpose . Being put with the nun choir , Delores finds herself a job , replacing Sister Mary Lazarus ( Mary Wickes ) as head of the choir , and with her knowledge of Vegas music , she turns the awful singing into crowd bringing spectacle . She also makes a good image for the once failing convent , giving to the public ( not just the singing ) . Of course , there is a point when the Reverand Mother is not confident with herself anymore , and Vincent was due to find Delores , but all is settled in the end . Filled with great comedy , great performances and great singing , just one of the best . It was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Comedy / Musical . Very good !
Monkey Dust	Monkey Dust is quite a confusing cartoon with many different uses of animation . Every sketch of the show , unless they are using regular stories or characters , they change the type of animation used . There are some disturbing incidents in this show . There's drug use , suicide , some swearing , some light violence and much more . But it's just an example that a show will do pretty much anything to get laughs . But it does make you laugh occasionally . They have very short stories in pubs , hospitals , night clubs , homes , on the streets and many other outrageous or even normal places . I wouldn't say this was one of the best cartoon or animation shows , but it is good . It won the British Animation Award for Best Comedy . It was number 48 on The 100 Greatest TV Treats 2003 . Very good !
Kung Fu Hustle	Like Hero , House of Flying Daggers and Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon this film has the spectacular ( and slightly ridiculous ) visuals as key , but unlike them , director / writer / star Stephen Chow uses them for comedy purposes , and does so very well . Set in the 1940s , a town in China is ruled by the Axe Gang , and Sing ( Chow ) desperately wants to become a member . He stumbles into a slum ruled by eccentric landlords , who turn out to be disguised kung-fu masters . Sing's actions eventually causes the explosive kung-fu battle between the Axe Gang and slumlords . Only one side will win , and only one hero will emerge as the greatest kung-fu master of all . Also starring Wah Yuen as Landlord , Leung Siu-Lung as The Beast , Zhi Hua Dong as Donut , Chi Ling Chiu as Tailor , Yu Xing as Coolie , Chan Kwok-Kwan as Brother Sum , Chi Chung Lam , or Lam Tze Chung as Bone - Sing's Sidekick and Xiaogang Feng as Crocodile Gang Boss . The visuals mostly are what made me laugh a lot , including a running chase sequence with cartoon sound effects ( probably inspired from Road Runner ) , and the battle sequences are fun to watch too , a good action comedy . It was nominated the BAFTA and Golden Globe for Best Foreign Language Film . Very good !
Holiday	The same year as Bringing Up Baby , and a few months later , the two leading male and female stars were back together for this great romantic comedy , from director George Cukor ( The Philadelphia Story , My Fair Lady ) . Basically free-spirited John ' Johnny ' Case ( Cary Grant ) is engaged to Julia Seton ( Doris Nolan ) , daughter of a millionaire . Withthe exception of drunken Edward ' Ned ' Seton ( Lew Ayres ) and Linda Seton ( Katharine Hepburn ) , Julia's family want him to settle down to big business , but Johnny instead wants to spend his early years of his life on " holiday " . With the help of his friends , Professor Nick ( Edward Everett Horton ) and Mrs . Susan Elliott Potter ( Jean Dixon ) he makes up his mind which is the better course , and as he is slowly falling for her , should he choose happiness with Linda , or stick with marrying the not to sure anymore Julia . He obviously made the right decision in the end when Julia drops him and the wedding , and Johnny goes on the cruise ship that Linda is travelling . Also starring Henry Kolker as Edward Seton , Binnie Barnes as Mrs . Laura ' The Witch ' Cram and Henry Daniell as Seton ' Dopey ' Cram . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Art Direction ( the only award it was ever nominated for ) . Katharine Hepburn was number 38 , and Cary Grant number 10 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , Grant was number 2 on 100 Years , 100 Stars - Men , Hepburn was number 1 on 100 Years , 100 Stars - Women , and Grant was number 23 , and Hepburn number 9 on The World's Greatest Actor . Very good !
Catch Me If You Can	Steven Spielberg directs the true story of the youngest impostor ever know . Leonardo DiCaprio plays Frank Abagnale Jr . who has ran away from home after hearing that his father Frank Abagnale , Sr . ( BAFTA winner Christopher Walken ) and mother are getting a divorce . After he ran away he decided to become an impostor to earn money to try and get them back together . Carl Hanratty ( Tom Hanks ) is the cop who is determined to catch this impostor before he leaves the country . During the film Frank imposts as an airline pilot , a doctor , a lawyer and a cop . He even manages to marry the daughter of Roger Strong ( Martin Sheen ) . A very good film based on Frank Abagnale's book , Walken deserves the BAFTA for his performance in this . Very good !
Wild at Heart	From director David Lynch , this film ( along with The Elephant Man and Blue Velvet ) makes more sense than many of his others , and is really good . It is all about Nicolas Cage as Sailor , the film pretty much starts with the explanation for the title , when he murders a black man . 20 or so years later he is released and is reunited with his true love , Lula ( Laura Dern ) . This film has quite a few flashbacks with both characters , and you kind of have to pay attention to them , but Lula's Mum character is one of the nastiest and most unusual stories of the film . In real life Cage is an Elvis fan , and the character having a real enthusiasm about him is really important to the story , especially at the very end . The ending is the best part , besides when Bobby Peru ( Willem Dafoe ) blows his head off , when he is beaten up by thugs he calls homosexuals , he waken up by The Wizard of Oz's good fairy , and he runs back to Lula , and he sings a fantastic version of Elvis's " Love Me Tender " , it was quite emotional . Also starring J . E . Freeman as Santos , Back to the Future's Crispin Glover as Dell , Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Diane Ladd as the horrible Marietta Fortune , Calvin Lockhart as Reggie , Isabella Rossellini as Perdita and Harry Dean Stanton as Johnnie Farragut . It was nominated the BAFTA for Best Sound . Nicolas Cage was number 33 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars . Very good !
Mullholland Drive	I first heard of this film at number 44 on The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments because of the lesbian scene ( and Jeff Goldblum gave his opinion on it ) , and then I heard it was a film from Oscar and Golden Globe nominated director David , and it is a very good one . It is after a concert that the two main characters go to where I can't understand what is going on . The story before that is that Rita ( Laura Elena Harring ) having a car crash in Mullholland Drive ( Hollywood ) , and for some reason before she was pointed at with a gun . She has quite serious amnesia , and she spends the night in a house that Betty Elms ( Naomi Watts ) was borrowing from her aunt . It is pretty gripping as they try and discover who she used to be , and they form a close bond , that soon turns to a true love lesbian relationship . The other story going on , although not that interesting , is film director Adam Kesher ( Justin Theroux ) having problems with a film . After that concert I mentioned they change their names for some reason , Watts is Diane Selwyn and Harring I can't remember , but this part aside , the rest is a must see . Also starring Ann Miller as Catherine ' Coco ' Lenoix and Jackie Brown's Robert Forster as Detective Harry McKnight . It won the BAFTA for Best Editing , and it was nominated for the Anthony Asquith Award for Film Music for Angelo Badalamenti , and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Drama , Best Original Score and Best Screenplay . It was number 38 on Film 4's 50 Films To See Before You Die . Very good !
Movie Connections	There was Drama and Comedy Connections , and this new spin-off is the one I could not miss , at least for the films I really know and like . Narrated by Ugly Betty's Ashley Jensen , this programme every episode basically focused on one particular British film ; with cast , crew and critics interviews , clips of course , and other info ( e . g . awards , acclaim , box office success ) to help explain why the film is such a favourite with audiences . The films they have focused on have included : Four Weddings and a Funeral , Billy Elliot , Bend It Like Beckham ; Lock , Stock and Two Smoking Barrels , Shakespeare in Love , Brassed Off and Gregory's Girl . With contributions from : Hugh Grant , James Fleet , Simon Callow , David Haig , Sophie Thompson , Mike Newell , Richard Curtis , Jamie Bell , Gary Lewis , Julie Walters , Stephen Daldry , Parminder Nagra , Juliet Stevenson , Gurinder Chadha , Joseph Fiennes , Rupert Everett , John Madden , Marc Norman , Mark Herman and many more . Very good !
The 50 Greatest TV Dramas	This countdown voted by the British public was a very interesting countdown . I had an idea of what might be number one , but I wasn't even close . Dramas are a television programme that uses all emotions in life to tell a story , whether realistic or not . The dramas that featured included : Band of Brothers ; Upstairs , Downstairs , Z Cars , The Jewel in the Crown , Made in Britain , G . B . H . , Pride and Prejudice , The Prisoner , Hillsborough ; Auf Wiedersehen , Pet , The Naked Civil Servant , Blue Remembered Hills , Scum , 24 , Doctor Who , Shameless , House of Cards , Bleak House , Sex Traffic , Queer as Folk , Abigail's Party , This Life , A Very British Coup , Das Boot ; I , Claudius ; Tinker , Tailor , Soldier , Spy ; Prime Suspect , Twin Peaks , Cracker , The West Wing - Pilot Episode , Cathy Come Home , The Singing Detective , Edge of Darkness , Boys from the Blackstuff and number one was The Sopranos . With contributions by Paul Abbott , Jon Amiel , Anthony Andrews , Annabelle Apsion , Joe Don Baker , John Barrowman , Brian Blessed , Charles Dance , Phil Daniels , Jack Davenport , Andrew Davies , Russell T . Davies , Anne-Marie Duff , Derek Hatton , John Hurt , Mick Jackson , Geraldine James , David Leland , Robert Lindsay , Tim McInnerny , Kyle Maclachlan , James Nesbitt , Bill Paterson , John Simm , Alison Steadman , David Tennant , Johnny Vegas , and narrated by Miriam Margoyles . Very good !
The Magic of Jesus	I first saw Barry Jones and Stuart MacLeod on Dirty Tricks , along with stunt man Jonathan Goodwin . I liked some of their creepy sometimes cruel tricks , and they always entertained me killing Neil Fox . But this special magic show was something else , and on just after their focused person's birthday ! Basically they probably read The Bible enough times to know all of Jesus ' tricks that he performed , and obviously they want to recreate some of those magic tricks , or miracles . The examples I can remember are making a blind person see ( briefly ) , raise the dead , help catch many fish in a net , walk on water and turn water into wine , obviously . Very good !
Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom	A very good second film , not as good as the first or third films , but still a very good one from Steven Spielberg . Indiana Jones ( Harrison Ford ) this time is not involved with German Nazis or in amongst the war , he is in India searching for sacred stones belonging to a village . Accompanied by the squeamish Wilhelmina ' Willie ' Scott ( Kate Capshaw , Spielberg's wife ) and Short ' Shorty ' Round ( introducing Jonathan Ke Quan ) he must go to Pankot Palace , where there is supposed to be a Temple ( of Doom ) where the villains stole the village's Sankara stone , which helps them get their food and water and other stuff . So he is going there to find the stones , and also free the many children that they stole from the parents . What follows is some stuff that small children may find scary , including the villain Mola Ram ( Amrish Puri ) who can take out men's hearts , and places people in a special cage to be lowered into the deadly pit . At one point , Indiana himself is made a villain when he drinks the blood of the God they worship , but he is revived and they get all the children out , and escape in an exciting train cart chase , oh , and collapse a wood and rope bridge . Also starring Roshan Seth as Chattar Lal , Philip Stone as Captain Phillip Blumburtt , Roy Chiao as Lao Che , A View to a Kill's David Yip as Wu Han , Ric Young as Kao Kan and Dan Aykroyd as Earl Weber . It won the Oscar for Best Visual Effects , and it was nominated for Best Music for John Williams , and it was won the BAFTA for Best Special Visual Effects , and it was nominated for Best Cinematography , Best Editing and Best Sound . Steven Spielberg was number 56 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons , Harrison Ford was number 5 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , and Indiana Jones was number 2 on 100 Years , 100 Heroes & Villains . Very good !
Michael Jackson : The Legend Continues	Michael Jackson : The Legend Continues is the very good documentary video about one of the most famous , richest and most popular pop sensations in the world . It shows all of Michael Jackson's best moments of singing and stardom , before his tragic accident on a Pepsi advert ( where his face started it's big changes ) . It shows some of his live shows , his videos , his childhood archive , his other jobs ( including narrating E . T . the Extra-Terrestrial ) , and his very first live moonwalk . Also with appearances by Katharine Hepburn , Quincy Jones , Gene Kelly , Martin Scorsese ( directed his Bad video ) , Elizabeth Taylor and James Earl Jones , also narrating . Very good !
David Blaine : Frozen in Time	This was the first time I saw the almost fearless magician / stunt man in action , and it really was a gripping programme . He basically incarcerated / in-cased himself in a block of ice and tried to stay there for 72 hours . He did not move that much in the ice cube , and people watching him were obviously getting worried about how long he could survive the cold , and in not very good clothing . When the final moments came , he was getting a bit impatient , and when he came out he was rushed straight to hospital with frostbite / hypothermia . It was quite disturbing seeing his condition afterwards , but he was okay . I can't wait to see his next stunt , but I also wonder why he wants to do these things . Very good !
Apocalyse Now Redux	With eleven or whatever minutes of extra footage cut into the film , Apocalpyse Now Redux ( returned ) has its moments . Basically the whole film is based around Captain Benjamin L . Willard ( BAFTA nominated Martin Sheen ) travelling through Vietnam ( during the war ) and fighting all the enemies . However , Ben also has the mission of finding the sinister Colonel Walter E . Kurtz ( Marlon Brando ) . I think the two best moments of the film are the battle scene , and the quote that follows it , " I love the smell of Napalm in the morning " , which was number 12 on 100 Years , 100 Quotes . The first two hours are really cool , but it is after Ben meets Kurtz that I wonder what is going on . But still , this to most people is one of the greatest war films ever made , especially from BAFTA winning , and Oscar and Golden Globe nominated director Francis Ford Coppola ( The Godfather Trilogy ) . Also starring Oscar nominated , and BAFTA and Golden Globe winning Robert Duvall as Lieutenant Colonel Bill Kilgore , Frederic Forrest as Jay ' Chef ' Hicks , Sam Bottoms as Lance B . Johnson , Laurence Fishburne as Tyrone ' Clean ' Miller , Albert Hall as Chief Phillips , Harrison Ford as Colonel Lucas and Dennis Hopper as Photojournalist . It won the Oscars for Best Cinematography and Best Sound , and it was nominated for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Best Film Editing , Best Writing , Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium and Best Picture , it was nominated the BAFTAs for the Anthony Asquith Award for Film Music for Carmine and Francis Ford Coppola , Best Cinematography , Best Editing , Best Production Design , Best Sound Track and Best Film , and it won the Golden Globe for Best Original Score , and it was nominated for Best Motion Picture - Drama . Dennis Hopper was number 80 , and Marlon Brando number 30 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , Brando was also number 11 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols , he was number 4 on 100 Years , 100 Stars - Men , and Hopper was number 49 , and Brando number 1 on The World's Greatest Actor , the film was number 2 on The 100 Greatest War Films , it was number 1 on Film 4's 50 Films To See Before You Die , it was number 28 on 100 Years , 100 Movies , and it was number 13 on The 100 Greatest Films . Very good !
Eraserhead	Critics say this is a really disturbing film from director David Lynch ( Blue Velvet , Wild at Heart ) , and compare it to Un Chien Andalou , and I can agree with them in both cases . It is surreal , it is pretty unbearable , and it makes no sense ( with no plot ) . I don't know them , but this story is about Henry Spencer ( Jack Nance ) and Mary X ( Charlotte Stewart ) , and also with Allen Joseph as Mr . X and Jeanne Bates as Mrs . X . There is obviously some kind of romance with Henry and Mary , but there apart from that it is all really acclaimed nonsense . The moments that really stick out are Henry's ridiculous hair , the mini chickens at dinner filled with blood , a " fishy " looking alien baby that makes a horrible crying , and where the title is explained , when Henry's head shoots off with blood , a kid takes it , and some guy drills out brain to make pencil erasers . It is like a nightmare , but many people think it is a masterpiece , I guess I can agree . Very good !
Derren Brown : Trick or Treat	I have always liked the programmes where psychological mind illusionist Derren Brown has played a trick on an innocent individual , in amongst his other many " magic " tricks in " Trick of the Mind " . This programme was the ultimate chance to see more of this big trick on an individual . Basically many people had answered to an article in the newspaper , and Brown selected six of those applicants to take part . Every one would be met unexpectedly in a normal situation , sign a contract ( allwoing Brown to do as he wishes ) , and then the individual would select either Treat , a pleasant experience , or Trick , the opposite . ( I should note , one episode , you discovered the word " Trick " is on both cards , upside down and vice versa ) . In the show the two Treats were a woman almost winning professional poker using bluff skills , and a young girl forgetting she could play piano , and doing it in front of an audience . The two Tricks though were more memorable , including : taking a man ( unconsciously ) to a foreign country , making a man believe he is a ventriloquist's dummy , making a man temporarily insane , and making a girl believe she has died in a car crash . I can't wait for another series . Very good !
Gremlins	This is a really good comedy horror starring little terrifying creatures from fairy tales , and they really are nasty . Director Joe Dante bases all this at the time of Christmas , what a wonderful idea , no really . Randall Peltzer buys a creature called a Mogwai . When he gives it to his son , Billy , he tells him three rules : Mogwai hates bright light , especially sunlight which can kill him ; he can't get him wet ; and he can't be fed after midnight . Obviously , he does not realise that he does these things . His Mogwai , Gismo , lays other Mogwai from water , he panics in front of bright light , and his brothers all eat after midnight . Gismo and his brothers may be cute , but eating after midnight turns into terrifying Gremlins ! They kill , they laugh , they just do anything they want . It was number 34 on The 100 Greatest Family Films ( it's a 15 ! ) . Good !
Being There	Based on the best selling novel by Jerzy Kosinski , this is a terrific story . I used to think his best role was Inspector Jacques Clouseau , but that was until I saw him in this film , Peter Sellers as Chance - Chauncey Gardiner is superb . He was nominated for an Oscar and BAFTA , but he did win a Golden Globe for his extraordinary performance of a man who spent all his life at home not reading , not writing , having meals made for him , and all his learning comes from television . He also has a keen interest in gardening , which is what confuses people to believe his surname is Gardiner . Basically when going out of the house , for once , Chance is injured by a car belonging to Eve Rand ( BAFTA nominated Shirley MacLaine ) , daughter of dying Benjamin Turnbull Rand ( Melvyn Douglas in his second Oscar winning role , also won a Golden Globe ) . He lives with this family and immediately has people talking about how considerate and understanding he is , but he obviously hardly has a clue what's going on . He even meets the United States President , ' Bobby ' ( Jack Warden ) in the process . Also starring Richard A . Dysart as Dr . Robert Allenby . Filled with both funny and touching moments , and a good representation of how near idiocy can help others , this is great . It won the BAFTA for Best Screenplay , and it was nominated for Best Film , and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Director for Hal Ashby , Best Screenplay and Best Motion Picture - Comedy / Musical . It was number 26 on 100 Years , 100 Laughs . Very , very good !
Enter the Dragon	I have no idea of the meaning of the title , where's the dragon , and when did it enter ? But forget that , it's a really good film with the best performance by legend Bruce Lee . Unless the editor has dubbed the film really well , Lee looks like he is actually speaking English in this film . Basically Lee is a secret agent on a mission to stop a gang lord from doing the usual rubbish , e . g . drugs , killing , etc . Not all of the story is that interesting to be honest , and the villain and supporting characters sometimes steal the show . But if you can get through about half an hour , it turns into a high action film filled the usual excellent fighting skills of Lee . He even cracks a guy's skull and gets the villain shoved into a sword tip . Bruce Lee was number 49 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , and he was number 29 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons , and the film was number 85 on The 100 Greatest Films . Very good !
An American in Paris	An American in Paris is a wonderful musical about an American painter living in Paris for inspiration . He meets a rich woman who admires his paintings on the street and she believes she can get his work to be even more popular to the public , e . g . in a museum . Golden Globe nominated Gene Kelly as the artist Jerry Mulligan is just perfect at both singing and especially dancing . He also meets the main girl Lise Bouvier ( Leslie Caron ) who is engaged to his best friend . He can't help his feelings for this girl , even after he finds out who she is engaged to . Filled with nice romance and wonderful song and dance , this is a very good musical film . It may drag slightly with his dancing dream sequence , i . e . The American in Paris ballet , but there is a good happy ending . It won the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Best Cinematography , Best Costume Design , Best Music , Scoring of a Musical Picture , Best Writing , Story and Screenplay and Best Picture , and it was nominated for Best Director for Vincente Minnelli and Best Film Editing , it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Film from any Source , and it won the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Musical / Comedy , and it was nominated for Best Director for Vincente Millenni ( Liza's father ) . Gene Kelly was number 66 on The 100 Movie Stars , and he was number 15 on 100 Years , 100 Stars - Men , " I Got Rhythm " was number 32 on 100 Years , 100 Songs , the film was number 9 on 100 Years of Musicals , it was number 39 on 100 Years , 100 Passions , it was number 68 on 100 Years , 100 Movies , and it was number 58 on The 100 Greatest Musicals . Very good !
Ghost Busters	This is a very admirable comedy for all the family from director Ivan Reitman ( Twins , Evolution ) , and written by stars Dan Aykroyd and Harold Ramis . Basically misfit parapsychology professors Dr . Peter Venkman ( Golden Globe nominated Bill Murray ) , Dr . Raymond Stantz ( Dan Aykroyd ) and Dr . Egon Spengler ( Harold Ramis ) are booted out of New York City's Columbia University , and even lacking funding start a supernatural entity investigation and removal company called " Ghostbusters " . It is when their first ghost is successfully captured that the company is truly taken seriously by the people of New York as more ghosts are popping up everywhere , and they also recruit new member Winston Zeddmore ( Ernie Hudson ) . Their biggest ghost though comes from the apartment building of Dana Barrett ( Sigourney Weaver ) and her neighbour Louis Tully ( Rick Moranis ) when they are both possessed by creatures that could potentially cause some kind of apocalypse . The Ghostbusters are seen as the only hope for the city , after having their ghost vault emptied , and getting released from jail , and the bizarre finale sees them going against a giant marshmallow man . Also starring Toy Story's Annie Potts as Janine Melnitz , William Atherton as Walter Peck , David Margulies as Mayor , Jordan Charney as Dean Yager , Michael Ensign as Hotel Manager , Slavitza Jovan as Gozer and Awakening's Alice Drummond as Librarian . With great moments of slapstick , some witty dialogue , a good cast , and chock-a-block with supernatural special effects , this film was so successful it spawned cartoon TV series and a not as good sequel followed four years later , fantastic fun . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Visual Effects and Best Song for Ray Parker Jr . ' s " Ghostbusters " ( it won the BAFTA and was nominated the Golden Globe ) , it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Special Visual Effects , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Comedy / Musical . It was number 28 on 100 Years , 100 Laughs , it was number 28 on The 100 Greatest Family Films , and it was number 24 on The 50 Greatest Comedy Films . Very good !
Dr . Strangelove	From director Stanley Kubrick ( 2001 : A Space Odyssey , A Clockwork Orange , Full Metal Jacket ) this is quite an interesting satirical look at Cold War , with a great actor playing three great roles . Basically U . S . Air Force Gen . Jack D . Ripper ( Sterling Hayden ) goes completely mad and sends his bomber wing to destroy the U . S . S . R . , he suspects they are planning wide spread pollution . The befuddled U . S . President Merkin Muffley ( Peter Sellers ) meets with his advisers , where the Soviet Ambassador De Sadesky ( Peter Bull ) tells him that if the U . S . S . R . is hit by nuclear weapons , it will trigger a " Doomsday Machine " , destroying all plant and animal life on Earth . Also in the story is the story of the plane dropping a bomb , and bemused Group Captain Lionel Mandrake ( Sellers again ) trying to help on the ground . But the title character of Sellers ' three is the greatest , Dr . Strangelove is the crazed U . S . Nazi adviser with an arm out of control that can grip , raise and strangle at any time . Also starring George C . Scott as Gen . ' Buck ' Turgidson , Keenan Wynn as Col . ' Bat ' Guano , Slim Pickens as Maj . T . J . ' King ' Kong , Tracy Reed as Miss Scott , young James Earl Jones as Lt . Lothar Zogg , Jack Creley as Mr . Staines , Frank Berry as Lt . H . R . Dietrich , Glenn Beck as Lt . W . D . Kivel , Thunderbirds ' Shane Rimmer as Capt . G . A . ' Ace ' Owens , Paul Tamarin as as Lt . B . Goldberg , Gordon Tanner as Gen . Faceman , Robert O'Neil as Admiral Randolph and Roy Stephens as Frank . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Picture and Best Writing , Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium , and it won the BAFTAs for Best British Art Direction , Best Film from any Source , the UN Award and Best British Film , and it was nominated for Best British Screenplay . Peter Sellers was number 57 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , he was number 22 on The 50 Greatest British Actors , he was number 7 on Britain's Finest Actors , and he was number 24 on The World's Greatest Actor , the film was number 64 on 100 Years , 100 Quotes ( " Gentlemen , you can't fight in here ! This is the War Room ! " ) , it was number 18 on The 100 Greatest War Films , it was number 29 on The 50 Greatest Comedy Films , it was number 3 on 100 Years , 100 Laughs , it was number 26 on 100 Years , 100 Movies , and it was number 56 on The 100 Greatest Films . Very good !
wall·e	I like many of the Disney Pixar films that have come out , so I couldn't resist this latest helping from the successful creators of Toy Story and Monsters , Inc . , from director Andrew Stanton ( Finding Nemo ) . In the distant future ( and if we're not careful , possible to happen ) mankind has left the Earth because of the planet being completely covered with trash from products of powerful multi-national Buy N Large corporation . Alone on this planet is little garbage collecting robot WALL·E ( Waste Allocation Load Lifter Earth-class ) ( Ben Burtt ) cleaning up the mess , a robot with a personality , fascinated with much of the human items in the pile of rubbish . One day , WALL·E finds a plant growing , and not too long after , a ship carrying EVE ( Extraterrestrial Vegetation Evaluator ) ( Elissa Knight ) , a probe-droid , looking for signs of life shows up . It is when EVE sees the plant found by WALL·E that the ship comes back to collect " her " , and out hero follows her all the way to the space cruise city ship with all humans evacuated 700 years ago . All humans by the way eat meals from a straw and are carried by hover chairs as they have become large with laziness , and losing bones , so they can barely move . EVE is determined to get the plant to the Captain ( Jeff Garlin ) , who is fascinated by Earth after the brief good news , which comes to life again when he knows life on Earth can exist . The ship's computer AUTO ( MacInTalk , a talking technology created by Apple ) , obviously inspired by HAL 9000 in 2001 : A Space Odyssey , is determined to stop the Captain taking everyone back to Earth , so it is up to WALL·E and EVE to save the day . Also starring American Pie : The Wedding's Fred Willard ( the real one ) as Shelby Forthright - BnL CEO , John Ratzenberger as John , Kathy Najimy as Mary and Sigourney Weaver as Ship's Computer . The animation and effects of this film , including my favourite sight of space , are extraordinary , and of course WALL·E is a great robot who without speaking ( like Dumbo ) can be lovable , a great family film . It won the Oscar for Best Animated Feature Film of the Year , and it was nominated the Oscar for Best Music for Thomas Newman , Best Song for " Down to Earth " ( also nominated the Golden Globe ) , Best Sound , Best Sound Editing and Best Writing , Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen , it won the BAFTA for Best Animated Film and the BAFTA Children's Award for Best Feature Film , and it was nominated for Best Music and Best Sound , and it won the Golden Globe for Best Animated Feature Film , and it was nominated for Best Original Song for " Down to Earth " , and it won the National Movie Award for Best Family Film . Very good !
The Comedian's Comedian	This was quite an essential countdown to find out comedians ' favourite comedian , no votes by the public . So basically Jimmy Carr presented a top 50 countdown to find the greatest comedian , according to comedians ' themselves . With contributions from David Baddiel , Richard Blackwood , Jim Bowen , Ed Byrne , Barry Cryer , Simon Day , Mark Dolan , Martin Freeman , Ulrika Jonsson , Burt Kwouk , Matt Lucas , Bob Mortimer , Mike Myers , Leslie Nielsen , Bill Oddie , Ozzy Osbourne , Vic Reeves , Joan Rivers , Andrew Sachs , John Thomson , Gina Yashere and Steven Wright . The comedians on the list included Mel Brooks , Ricky Gervais , Mike Myers , Paul Whitehouse , Robin Williams , Joan Ribers , Stephen Fry , Les Dawson , Ken Dodd , Rick Mayall , Bob Monkhouse , Eddie Murphy , Dawn French and Jennifer Saunders , Michael Palin , Victoria Wood , Harry Hill , Rowan Atkinson , Peter Kay , Eric Idle , Eddie Izzard , Charlie Chaplin , Ronnie Barker , Steve Martin , Peter Sellers , Billy Conolly , Laurel and Hardy , Woody Allen , ( could have number 1 ) John Cleese , and number one , Peter Cook . Very good !
The F Word	I didn't watch Hell's Kitchen , but I would have wanted to , and I missed the first series of this really good cooking documentary show . Gordon Ramsay presents a programme of challenges , skills , recipes , celebrities and wannabe chefs . Every week Ramsay gets new non-skilled chefs to create starters , mains and desserts for 50 customers , and they have to prove themselves as worthy chefs with 150 customers paying . Also , Ramsay brings in a celebrity in the kitchen to try and beat him at making a delicious meal for some judging customers . There are many episodes with Janet Street-Porter exploring the choices of alternative ( and possibly controversial ) foods , other guests , in the restaurant , discovering recipes , and going against Gordon in the recipe challenge , have included Giles Coren , Martine McCutcheon , Al Murray , Joan Collins , Les Dennis , Jonathan Ross , Kim Woodburn and Aggie MacKenzie , Richard Wilson , Jimmy Carr , Davina McCall , Colin Jackson , Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall , Sharon Osbourne , Kathy Burke , Dermot O'Leary , Jeremy Clarkson , Ronnie Corbett , Cat Deeley , Ricky Gervais , Johnny Vegas , and Gordon's wife and kids . It is remarkable how much Ramsay uses " the f word " / swears , but also how funny it can be , especially when he does it to the French guy at the restaurant . Gordon Ramsay was number 84 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols , and he was number 82 on The 100 Worst Britons ( for his arrogance I guess ) . Very good !
Channel 4 at 25	The 2nd of November 2007 marked the 25th anniversary of Channel 4 , and this documentary special was part of the celebration , showing the highlights , discussions , controversy and slants of this most talked about terrestrial television channel . Using footage and interviews of all people involved with ( including started on ) and the channel in all it's history , it reminisced from the first broadcast of Countdown and the continuing years of the channel's efforts , successions and mistakes of trying to become the most mainstream , influential and talked about channels on TV . Most of the great programmes I have watched over my years have come from this great channel , and some they talk about , show or mention , including : Big Brother , Father Ted , Bo ' Selecta ! , Green Wing , The Friday Night Project , Sacha Baron Cohen ( Ali G , Borat and Bruno ) programmes , Wife Swap , You Are What You Eat , Friends , My Name Is Earl , The Sopranos and many more , and also the films , Trainspotting , Shallow Grave and many others . Narrated by Julian Rhind-Tutt , and with contributions from Carol Vorderman , Keith Allen , Nadia Almada , Rory Bremner , Julian Clary , Ben Elton , Stephen Frears , Michael Grade , Jools Holland , Jeremy Isaacs , Michael Jackson ( a chief executive ) , Guy Jenkin , Neil Jordan , Robert Lindsay , Davina McCall , Jamie Oliver and Jon Snow . A very interesting documentary that I can really enjoy , watching past clips of some great shows , and seeing what sort of stuff they have done in the past that has made it one of the most talked about channels on TV , I hope it continues for years to come . Very good !
Wallace & Gromit : A Matter of Loaf and Death	It had been 13 years since we had last seen the two lovable Plastercine characters in A Close Shave , and at Christmas we were entertained by this half hour adventure . Wallace ( Peter Sallis ) and Gromit are now earning a living turning 62 West Wallaby Street into a bakery , with a windmill , many mixing machines and ovens , and " dough to door " service . Recently 12 local bakers have been murdered , Gromit seems to be concerned , but Wallace isn't worried , he's too " dough-eyed " for local beauty and bread enthusiast , Piella Bakewell ( Coronation Street's Sally Lindsay ) . It is when Gromit discovers her dark plan , yes , she is the baker killer , that she is determined to do anything to stop him ruining her plan to kill Wallace . In the end it is the two dogs , Gromit and Piella's own poodle Fluffles ( Melissa Collier ) who save the day . A welcome return , and I'm sure this film will nominated for or win another Short Animated Film Oscar for creator Nick Park . Wallace and Gromit were number 11 on The World's Greatest Comedy Characters , and they were number 15 on The 100 Greatest Kid's TV Shows , and as part of Aardman Animations , they was number 15 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons . Very good !
Children of Men	Based on the novel by P . D . James this is a pretty gritty vision of the future from director Alfonso Cuarón ( Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban ) . Basically , it is 2027 in England , and concerns of the nation are the rise in illegal immigrants and the infertility of women . The youngest person on Earth died , at 18 years old , and human life and its morals are almost becoming extinct . Theodore Faron ( Clive Owen ) finds an underground rebel band called The Fishes , and as he goes along with these people , one of which being ( for a little while ) Julian ( Julianne Moore ) , he finds the one thing that could change the course of humanity , the first pregnant woman is 18 years ! Now he , Kee ( Claire-Hope Ashitey ) and Miriam ( Matilda's Pam Ferris ) are on the run from the Human Project , so the baby ( after it's out ) is safe . Aging hippie Jasper ( Sir Michael Caine ) helps out for a while as well in the process of this important road trip . Also starring Love Actually's Chiwetel Ejiofor as Luke . The scenes when Owen is escaping gunfire in the wrecked streets is extraordinary when it doesn't cut for at least five minutes , even with red spots flicked on the camera . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Cinematography , Best Editing and Best Writing , Adapted Screenplay , and it won the BAFTAs for Best Cinematography and Best Production Design , and it was nominated for Best Special Visual Effects . Very good !
Dead Ringers	This is another one of the really good impression programmes , especially because it has Jon Culshaw and Jan Ravens , who also did the really good 2DTV . It's basically a bunch of impressions where you actually see the people being other people . Jon Culshaw does all the best male impressions including : President George Bush , Tony Blair , Trevor McDonald , Ozzy Osbourne , Ricky Gervais , Arnold Schwarzenegger , Dale Winton , Shane Richie and many more . Jan Ravens does all the best female impressions including : Fiona Bruce , Carol Smillie , Delia Smith , Nigella Lawson and many more . I hardly know them , but there's also Kevin Connelly who does Andrew Marr ; Phil Cornwell who does Michael Caine , Jack Nicholson , Alan Rickman , Saruman and Dirty Den ; Mark Perry who does John Prescott , Saddam Hussein and David Blunkett . Some very good impressionists and comedians in a very good show . It was nominated 2 BAFTA awards for Best Make Up & Hair Design . It was number 8 on The 100 Greatest Funny Moments . Very good !
Wolf Creek	When I first heard of this horror film , I thought it was a werewolf film , but then I heard it was based on true events is Australia , and I have to say , I was quite impressed . I don't normally pay attention to all dialogue ( unless it's important ) in a horror film , but I think this one does have some smart and realistic chat . Anyway , basically tourists Liz Hunter ( Cassandra Magrath ) , Kristy Earl ( Kestie Morassi ) and Ben Mitchell ( Nathan Phillips ) are on a cross-country trip to visit the site of a meteor strike , and afterwards , their car engine has conked out . But help soon comes in the form of friendly hunter Mick Taylor ( John Jarratt ) who offers to tow them back to his camp . Mick may be friendly , but he does have his quite crazy side showing in their chats before bed , and when they individually wake up , they realise just how crazy he really is . They have been chained up , and one by one they are both trying to escape , and dying . Both girls are killed in their attempt , but Ben is the lone survivor who told this story , and the investigation still continues . This is pretty much a grittier episode of Home and Away , mixed with claustrophobia , like The Texas Chainsaw Massacre ( no chainsaw though , just a knife ) . Very good !
Movie Lounge	I hardly ever used to watch film based programmes because I thought they would give away details about upcoming films , and they seem a bit boring . But of course , that was before I started becoming more enthusiastic about films . This documentary / talk-show hosted by a cool host Giles Coren is a really good insight into what's on at the cinema and on DVD , and with celebrity guests giving their opinions . They have had guests such as Sue Perkins , Gail Porter , actor Warwick Davis ( Leprachaun ) and a private chat with Uma Thurman ! There are many cool segments of the show also , including " Sleezy Kid " who reviews sexy new DVD releases , the best small cinema in Britain ( made by the public ) , private viewing by what seem to be stereotypes , e . g . Elvis impersonators , and of course , Brian Sewell viewing new films on DVD instead of art . Very good !
Bringing Up Baby	For it's time it was probably really good comedy . It is , but some of it is just a bit annoying and repetitive , especially the bit when they are in jail and trying to get the story straight . Katharine Hepburn plays Susan Vance , she one day meets Cary Grant asDr . David Huxley and they kind of get quite close . Susan is quite rich and she even owns a pet leopard named Baby , David is obviously not sure about her having her . Baby later escapes and David and Susan soon go everywhere to try and catch her before the circus do . Quite good screwball , situation like comedy . Cary Grant and Katherine Hepburn are quite a good duo . It was number 51 on 100 Years , 100 Passions , it was number 97 on 100 Years , 100 Movies , and it was number 14 on 100 Years , 100 Laughs . Very good !
Derren Brown : Russian Roulette	I didn't see this when it was actually live on TV , but luckily they repeated just a year later . I became interested Derren Brown pretty much the following year of this quite big event . Basically he sat at a table with a loaded gun on it , and it was his job to shoot all shots and avoid being shot . I can understand how this programme got complaints , not as many as Séance , but I can't understand how he knew when the bullet would have shot him . He just suddenly after three or four blank shots pointed at the wall and shot the bullet . The guy watching him was obviously really nervous , and I can't imagine what he was thinking after . It was number 21 on The 100 Greatest TV Treats 2003 . Very good !
A Beautiful Mind	I can't understand why the critics give the film three out of five stars . From Oscar winning , and BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated director Ron Howard ( Splash , Ransom , The Da Vinci Code ) this is a really inspiring film . The ' beautiful mind ' is John Nash ( Oscar nominated and BAFTA winning Russell Crowe , he lost to Denzel Washington in Training Day ) . He is a genius who can work out really , really complicated mathematical equations , codes and theories . It is only after a few years that he and his wife , Alicia Nash ( Oscar , BAFTA and Golden Globe winning Jennifer Connelly ) go tits up when he discovers he has schizophrenia . Also starring Ed Harris as Parcher ( one of John's non-existed characters ) , Christopher Plummer as Dr . Rosen , Paul Bettany as Charles ( another unreal character ) , Adam Goldberg as Sol , Josh Lucas as Hansen , Road Trip's Anthony Rapp as Bender , Jason Gray-Stanford as Ainsley and Independence Day's Judd Hirsch as Helinger . It won the Oscars for Best Writing , Screenplay Based on Material Previously Produced or Published and Best Picture , and it was nominated for Best Editing , Best Makeup , Best Music for James Horner , it was nominated the BAFTAs for the David Lean Award for Direction for Ron Howard , Best Adapted Screenplay and Best Film , and it won the Golden Globes for Best Screenplay and Best Motion Picture - Drama , and it was nominated for Best Original Score . Russell Crowe was number 26 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , Paul Bettany was number 40 on The 50 Greatest British Actors , and the film was number 93 on 100 Years , 100 Cheers . Very good !
The X Factor : Battle of the Stars	This isn't as good as the normal public applying show , because they obviously didn't do auditions . But it is still a great " talent " show where we can see celebrities for what they really are , good or bad singers . The judges Simon Cowell , Sharon Osbourne and Louis Walsh still continue to pick the best of the 16-24s , 25 and overs , and the groups . The first series has so far brought us Paul Daniels and Debbie McGee , Dr . Gillian McKeith , Michelle Marsh , James Hewitt and Rebecca Loos , Coronation Street's Nikki Sanderson , The Chefs ( Jean-Christophe Novelli , Aldo Zilli , Paul Rankin , Ross Burden ) , Chris Moyles , rugby player Matt Stevens and first X Factor female and celebrity winner , EastEnders ' Lucy Benjamin . Very good !
The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols	You may remember The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments , showing the most arousing and tantalising scenes in film and TV , well this similar countdown celebrates the many celebrities and characters that we fantasise about . Narrated by Anna Chancellor , and appearing contributions from some of the celebrities themselves , and Kevin Adams , Hilary Alexander , Julian Alexander , Flo Anthony , Lucy Beresford , Honor Blackman , Nigel Carthorne , Ted Casablanca , Max Clifford , Tracey Cox , Edwina Currie , Frank DeCaro , Janice Dickinson , Charlie Dimmock , Andrew Emery , Paul Gambaccini , Tony Gard , Steven Gaydos , Bonnie Greer , Germaine Greer , Marie Helvin , Boyd Hilton , Rachael Hopper , Gareth Hunt , Lisa I'Anson , Dylan Jones , Vinnie Jones , Jordan , Jeremy Joseph , Colin Kennedy , James King , Sanjeev Kohli , Karen Krizanovich , Nick Kroll , Albert Lee , Olivia Lee , Rebecca Loos , Colin McAllister , Jenny McCarthy , Bradley Mcintosh , Sheridan Morley , Jimmy Osmond , Kevin O'Sullivan , Heidi Parker , Richard Park , Rowan Pelling , Agnés Poirier , Lucy Porter , Joan Rivers , Rachel Roberts , Justin Ryan , Rowetta Satchell , Jane Seymour , Jenny Shimizu , Victoria Silverstedt , Junior Simpson , Jon Snow , Valerie Steele , Joel Stein , Mamie Van Doren , Robert Vaughn , Tommy Walsh , Nadia Wadia and Simon West . Celebrities and characters in the list are Alan Titchmarsh , Brooke Shields , Richard Madeley , Jean-Christophe Novelli ( interviewed ) , James Nesbitt , Farrah Fawcett , Julio Iglesias , Jessica Rabbit , Tony Curtis , Diana Dors , Gordon Ramsay , Joanna Lumley , Woody Allen , Rock Husdon , David Walliams , Rachel Stevens , Wonder Woman , Carol Vorderman , Denzel Washington , Jeremy Paxman , Jude Law , John F . Kennedy , Abi Titmuss ( interviewed ) , Simon Cowell , Vivien Leigh , Tony Blair , Jack Nicholson , Prince William , Owen Wilson , Sharon Stone , Patrick Stewart , Nigella Lawson , Gerard Depardieu , Hugh Laurie , Donny Osmond , John Malkovich , Jamie Lee Curtis , Thierry Henry , Dame Helen Mirren , Steve McQueen , Johnny Knoxville , Mel Gibson , Burt Reynolds , Ziyi Zhang , David Cassidy , Richard Gere , Jordan ( interviewed ) , Robert Redford , Raquel Welch , Jenna Jameson , John Travolta , Christian Bale , the Desperate Housewives , David Beckham , Antonio Banderas , Kim Basinger , Sir Tom Jones , Cindy Crawford , Colin Firth , James Dean , Cameron Diaz , Tom Cruise , Sophia Loren , Brigitte Bardot , Pamela Anderson , James Bond , Robbie Williams , Colin Farrell , Debbie Harry , Viggo Mortensen v Orlando Bloom , Sarah Michelle Gellar , Uma Thurman , Alan Rickman , Dame Elizabeth Taylor , Madonna , Marlon Brando , Scarlett Johansson , Johnny Depp , Kylie Minogue , George Clooney , Lara Croft , Brad Pitt , Beyoncé Knowles , Marilyn Monroe ( I wanted her to be number one ) , Elvis Presley , and the number one Angelina Jolie . Very good !
Them Thar Hills	Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy are the most famous comedy duo in history , and deservedly so , so I am happy to see any of their films . With a broken leg Ollie is recommended by The Doctor ( County Hospital's Billy Gilbert ) that he and Stan should get away from the home life , so Stan has the idea that they rent a trailer and take it to the countryside . Before they get to their location , some bandits throw stolen alcohol into the near well , and after everyone is gone , Ollie and Stan soon arrive and park their trailer . As they try to get some food and coffee organised , they don't realise that there is alcohol in the water they are drinking , Ollie is sure it is the lead . Soon enough they are joined by Mr . and Mrs . Hall ( Charlie Hall , Mae Busch ) , who are looking for fuel , and while the husband sorts out their car , the wife joins Ollie and Stan getting drunk on the " healthy " mountain water . Mr . Hall realises the alcohol in the water , and he starts an argument with Ollie and Stan , and they respond covering with his hair on his chin , a plunger his forehead and some treacle or whatever and feathers , the film ends with Hall getting the last laugh though when he sets Ollie's backside alight , and he jumps into the well ! Filled with wonderful slapstick and all classic comedy you could want from a black and white film , it is an enjoyable film . Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy were number 7 on The Comedians ' Comedian . Very good !
Judge Dredd	From director Danny Cannon ( I Still Know What You Did Last Summer , Goal ! , CSI shows ) , this is an explosive comic strip thriller . The film opens with narration from James Earl Jones , it is the future , 2139 , and the Earth is populated with " Mega Cities " , while the rest of the virtually uninhabitable planet is the " Cursed Earth " . The justice system has also changed because of the high violent crime , with the three systems ( police , jury and executioner ) have now all become one person , these officers are known as the " Judges " , and the most feared by all criminals is Judge Joseph Dredd ( Sylvester Stallone , who was for reason nominated a Razzie ) . Then one day he is charged for murder , with both some video footage of him murdering reporter Vardas Hammond ( Liar Liar's Mitchell ' Mitch ' Ryan ) and his wife , and the definite evidence of his DNA on the gun and bullets . Dredd does manage to escape the criminal carrying ship , going across the Cursed Earth , along with his " judged " prisoner Herman ' Fergie ' Ferguson ( Rob Schneider ) , and he is now determined to find the person who framed him . Chief Justice Fargo ( Max Von Sydow ) reveals to Dredd , before he dies , that he is in fact the result of an experiment to create the perfect judge , and it also resulted in him having a brother of the opposite side , who he thought was his student friend , Rico ( Armand Assante ) . Anyway , now you get the DNA connection , Dredd will not stop till he has found his evil brother , who is planning to eradicate the Mega Cities with many clones of himself . Also starring Air Force One's Jürgen Prochnow as Judge Griffin , Diane Lane as Judge Hershey , Joanna Miles as Judge Evelyn McGruder , Joan Chen as Ilsa , Balthazar Getty as Olmeyer , The Blockheads ' front man Ian Dury as Geiger and Christopher Adamson as Mean Machine . From the poster I saw , I thought this was an 80's film , it would make a bit more sense if it was , but anyway , filled with over-the-top destruction , snappy catch - phrases , and dazzling special effects , this is a very good ( apparently underrated ) action film . Very good !
Hero	I can't fully appreciate the critics giving this film from director Yimou Zhang ( House of Flying Daggers ) five out of five , because the visuals are more impressive than the story , but it is a pretty good film . Basically a warrior known only as Nameless ( Jet Li ) has been called to the palace of the King of Qin ( Chen Dao Ming ) to recount the tale of how he accomplished an amazing mission , this of course means going to flashback . The King plans to conquer the entire land , and he is targeted by three dangerous assassins : spear-wielding Sky ( Blade II's Donnie Yen ) , and the lovers Broken Sword ( Chungking Express's Tony Leung Chiu Wai ) with servant ( and lover at one point ) Moon ( House of Flying Daggers ' Ziyi Zhang ) , and Flying Snow ( In the Mood for Love's Maggie Cheung ) . At the end of the story the King notices it's flaws , and eventually it turns out Nameless might have something against the King as well . To be completely honest it is mainly the visuals I paid more attention , the wonderful use of vibrant colours , the stunts and over-the-top fights . It was nominated the Oscar and Golden Globe for Best Foreign Language Film . It was number 26 on Film 4's 50 Films To See Before You Die . Very good !
The Royal Variety Performance 2008	This was only the second time I had seen The Royal Variety Performance , and with it being the 60th anniversary , they certainly pulled out all the stops to make this the most entertaining show ever . This time you did see Prince Charles ( who recently celebrated his 60th birthday ) with wife Camilla and son Harry , and it was good to see their reactions . Compères ( quick hosts ) of the show included TV presenter Tess Daly , comedian Graham Norton , Lord Sir Andrew Lloyd Webber , singer Emma Bunton , comedians Matthew Horne and James Corden , TV personality Myleene Klass , comedian Jimmy Tarbuck , American actor Josh Hartnett , American actor Brendan Fraser , John Barrowman , and judges Pete Waterman , Nicky Chapman and Neil Fox . The show had : comedian Jimmy Carr , guitarist and Queen member Brian May with singer Kerry Ellis , singer / actor John Barrowman , singer Josh Groban , singer Leona Lewis , comedian Rhod Gilbert , singer Rihanna , Les Ballets Trockadero De Monte Carlo ( comedy ballet ) , Alexander Armstrong and Ben Miller , The Pussycat Dolls , Naturally 7 ( beatboxers ) , singer Duffy , boy band Take That , male choir Only Men Aloud , Britain's Got Talent winner George Sampson ( with a new routine ) , comedian Michael McIntyre , Britain's Got The Pop Factor . . . winner - singer Geraldine McQueen ( Peter Kay ) , Cliff Richard and The Shadows , West End's Jersey Boys , West End's La Cage Aux Folles , West End's The Lion King and West End's Zorro . Very good !
300	From Frank Miller ( Sin City ) , this is another perfect adaptation of one of his celebrated graphic novels , from Zack Snyder , director of the Dawn of the Dead remake . Recreating the Battle of Thermopylae in 480 BC , it is the simple story of King Leonidas ( Gerard Butler ) rallying 300 of his finest red-caped warriors from Sparta , all taught from childhood to have no fear and fight against the forces of the massive Persian army . The enemy includes men , immortals and creatures , all belonging to giant King Xerxes ( Love Actually's Rodrigo Santoro ) . Dilios ( The Lord of the Rings ' David Wenham ) is the one warrior who delivers the news to awaiting Queen Gorgo ( Lena Headey ) , even the ( for me ) unexpected ending . Also starring Dominic West as Theron , Vincent Regan as Captain , Michael Fassbender as Stelios and Tom Wisdom as Astinos . The special effects are marvellous ( especially the hunchback character ) , the sets , light and colour are lavish , and the use of bloody violence ( including many be-headings ) is fantastic , it could have been an 18 if you saw some guts and the blood spill on the floor . Very good !
Cutting Edge : Mind Your F-ing Language	I think I really wanted to see this because swearing has always been an issue with young people , and I knew it would be interesting to see how bad it is in one focused school . Basically a school is undertaking an experiment , with the help of journalist Simon Donald ( who I've seen in a couple of countdown shows ) to see how well students / pupils can do to give up swearing , and they will be put in detention if they do . There are also some things to do to see how much they use it in daily life outside of school , i . e . asking them questions , and taking a test to see which word they think is most offensive , and surprisingly , most thought " bastard " was worst , not the F or C words , they came in second or third ! Very good !
The Weakest Link	If you like game shows , I don't know if you'd like this one , it's hardly the same as any normal one . There are ten contestants brought into a dark studio to answer many questions . The rules are when a question is asked if they answer correctly they rise a stage with money , if they answer incorrectly they start again . However if they say bank before a question the money is safe . The reason this show is not like a normal game show is that the contestants work as a team , but they can get rid of a member ( The Weakest Link ) . But the main reason for the game show being different is the host . Normally the host is nice , but Anne Robinson purposely acts nasty and the contestant leaves with nothing but the words " You are the Weakest Link , Goodbye ! " Anne Robinson was number 25 on The 100 Worst Britons ( for being mean ) , and she was number 46 on TV's 50 Greatest Stars . Very good !
Witness	From Golden Globe nominated director Peter Weir ( Dead Poets Society , The Truman Show ) , comes a really interesting story about crime , love and religion . Basically Rachel Lapp ( Top Gun's BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Kelly McGillis ) and her son Samuel ( Mars Attacks ! star Lucas Haas ) are Amish , a religion who avoid modern convenience , such as cars and electricity . They were heading back to the home town from Philadelphia , but in the train station washroom , Samuel witnesses the brutal murder of a police officer , he only saw one face of two men . Detecive John Book ( Oscar , BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Harrison Ford ) is assigned to get a description from Samuel , and using many methods , e . g . photographs , rough handling , until eventually , Samuel sees the man on a newspaper sheet in the trophy cabinet , narcotics officer McFee ( Danny Glover ) . To help protect them , he asks his partner to hide the case files , and he goes to join the Lapps in their community , also because he got wounded ( gunshot ) in his stomach . While there he gets to know the family , including husband and father Eli Lapp ( Jan Rubes ) , helps the community with things , e . g . building a barn , but more prominently , he and Rachel almost fall in love , and a couple of scenes see there feelings grow , e . g . dancing to the car radio , John seeing her naked , and towards the end when they snog . Eventually though , the real villain , Deputy Commissioner Schaeffer ( Josef Sommer ) , with McFee and a group of killers find the town and attempt to kill the witness and his family . Also starring Alexander Godunov as Daniel Hochleitner , Brent Jennings as Carter and The Lord of the Rings ' young Viggo Mortensen as Moses Hochleitner . It won the Oscars for Best Film Editing and Best Writing , Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen , and it was nominated for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Best Cinematography , Best Music for Maurice Jarre and Best Picture , it won the BAFTA for Best Score , and it was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Cinematography , Best Editing , Best Original Screenplay and Best Film , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama , Best Original Score and Best Screenplay . Harrison Ford was number 5 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , and the film was number 82 on 100 Years , 100 Passions . Good !
It Happened One Night	From Oscar winning director Frank Capra ( It's a Wonderful Life ) this is a pretty simple romantic comedy with quite a lot of charm . Basically Ellie Andrews ( Oscar winning Claudette Colbert ) has jumped off a yacht and escaped from his father who took her away from new husband King Westley ( Jameson Thomas ) . She is now on a bus travelling back to Westley , and she reluctantly accepts the help of out-of-work reporter Peter Warne ( Oscar winning Clark Gable ) , well , actually , either he helps her get back to her husband , or he'll blow the whistle to Ellie's father . Either way , he gets ( what he thinks ) he wants , a juicy news story , until of course they find that they are in love and neither will admit it . Also starring Roscoe Karns as Oscar Shapeley , Alan Hale as Danker , Arthur Hoyt as Zeke , Blanche Friderici as Zeke's wife and Charles C . Wilson as Joe Gordon . I might not have understand absolutely everything that was going on , but it was a very charming film . It won the Oscars for Best Picture and Best Writing , Adaptation . Clarke Gable number 63 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , he was also number 7 on 100 Years , 100 Stars - Men , the film was number 38 on 100 Years , 100 Passions , and it was number 35 on 100 Years , 100 Movies . Very good !
Heavenly Creatures	For a film from director Peter Jackson ( The Lord of the Rings Trilogy ) , it looks more like a gory horror film mixed with Tim Burton's The Nightmare Before Christmas in places . The fact that it is based on a true story is even more extraordinary . In their first film roles Kate Winslet and Melanie Lynskey play best friends Juliet Hulme and Pauline Yvonne ( Parker ) Rieper . They both have the same imaginations and live in their own wonderful world of " fun " . It is only when adults , especially Pauline's mother ( Sarah Peirse ) become quite concerned and tries to stop them seeing each other . Their friendship is kind of similar to lesbianism , but not completely homosexual . Anyway , when the two girls fear of being split apart , they decide they must kill the mother ! Jackson is very good at creating good drama with psychology , and excellent moments of terror or fantasy . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Writing , Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen , and Jackson won the Venice Film Festival Silver Lion award . Kate Winslet was number 55 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , she was number 2 on The 50 Greatest British Actresses , and she was number 29 on The World's Greatest Actor , and the film was number 22 on Film 4's 50 Films To See Before You Die . Very good !
Shadow of a Doubt	I could have watched this in my college library , but I'd have to put up with sign language , so I'm glad it was on TV in the middle of the day . Basically Young Charlie ( Teresa Wright ) and her family , including Joseph Newton ( It's a Wonderful Life's Henry Travers ) , Emma Newton ( Patricia Collinge ) , Ann Newton ( Edna May Wonacott ) and Roger Newton ( Charles Bates ) are expecting their unseen-for-ages family member , Charles ' Uncle Charlie ' Newton ( Joseph Cotten ) . Everyone else is up in arms about Charles staying with the family , possibly for good , apart from Young Charlie who suspects Uncle Charlie ( the two names being the same is intriguing ) of being a " Widow Murderer " , and she's right , it's obvious when he yells about looking at the newspaper , to read a story about him . Also starring Macdonald Carey as Det . Jack Graham , Hume Cronyn as Herbie Hawkins , Wallace Ford as Det . Fred Saunders and Hitchcock's cameo is the man on the train to Santa Rosa , playing cards . The highlight for me is when the two Charlies are on the train , and Charles tries to force Young Charlie off the train , but ends up falling off alone , with an oncoming train . It was nominated for the Oscar for Best Writing , Original Story . Sir Alfred Hitchcock was number 75 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons . Very good !
Whatever	If you think about it , this is almost like Jackass or Dirty Sanchez , with the ideas for stunts , but also it is improvisation most of the time . Basically twelve people from the public were found around Britain and given a shed load of money to make absolutely anything they wanted . They created little documentaries , e . g . about Mini Kiss , Against-Gay groups , violent dogs and violent groups . They created little stunts that they thought up themselves , e . g . wrestling with chickens on their heads , up-to-date bus tour , " how long can you last in a shopping centre without getting caught ? " , and " can you get rich guys in Notting Hill to buy you stuff ? " They also had some guests in the studio to talk about their career , and anything dirty , including porn star Steve Perry , Darren Devonshire , X Factor : Battle of the Stars ' James Hewitt and Celebrity Big Brother's winner Mark ' Bez ' Berry . A good example of improvised television . Very good !
One Hour Photo	This is one of the best and most creepy thrillers I have ever seen . Robin Williams plays another great non-comedy role ( just like Insomnia ) as Sy Parrish , a knowledgeable photo developer at a local supermarket . He has been developing the photographs of the Yorkin family , from the films given by mother and wife Nina Yorkin ( Connie Nielsen ) since young Jake ( Dylan Smith ) was a baby . What they and everyone else doesn't know is that at his house his wall is covered with this family's photos ! He basically wants to be part of this family , even though he knows he can't , so you can slightly sympathise with his loneliness . When the supermarket manager Bill Owens ( Gary Cole ) finds out fires him for theft , he has one more week at work , so he starts having a breakdown because he won't " see " the family anymore . But then it gets worse , in his last developing he discovers the father and husband of the family Will Yorkin ( Michael Vartan ) has been having an affair with Maya Burson ( Erin Daniels ) , through some photos that he finds . So he exacts angry revenge by first slipping this affair photo in the family's photo envelope , and then he finds where the Dad and this other woman hang out . When he finds them at the hotel room , he threatens to stab them ( with a stolen knife ) if they do not pose in pornographic poses ( and smile ) , this is obviously the most uncomfortable scene ( but it could just be Sy's mind , when you see at the police station he has only got photos of his hotel room ) . In the end , he gets arrested ( for stalking the manager's daughter ) and the final shot is him in a Yorkin family photo , but is it his imagination or reality ? Also starring Paul Hansen Kim as Yoshi Araki , Eriq La Salle as Detective James Van Der Zee and Clark Gregg as Detective Paul Outerbridge . This is what I like to refer to as the nut-case film , like Falling Down , Fatal Attraction and Misery . Robin Williams was number 19 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars . Very good !
Fiddler on the Roof	I am always on the lookout for good films with a good actor , or a good musical , and this has both . This is telling the story of a man and his family . Golden Globe winning , and Oscar nominated Topol plays Tevrre , the father who is quite a strict man . All his children are getting married to men who are not that rich , and his wife is very happy for them . He is happy too , but he wants to make sure the weddings are perfect and they get some money . Topol , I have seen in Flash Gordon and For Your Eyes Only , is a great star for this very good musical . The best song , from him , is " If I Were a Rich Man " . It does not show The Fiddler on the Roof that much , but that's not important . The ending is a bit sad as well , but it is still a classic . It won the Oscars for Best Cinematography , Best Music for John Williams and Best Sound , and it was nominated for Best Supporting Actor for Leonard Frey as Motel Kamzoil , Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Best Director for Norman Jewison ( Moonstruck ) and Best Picture , it was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Cinematography , Best Film Editing and Best Sound Track , and it won the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Musical / Comedy , and it was nominated for Best Director and Best Supporting Actor for Paul Mann as Lazar Wolf . It was number 82 on 100 Years , 100 Cheers , and it was number 33 on The 100 Greatest Musicals . Very good !
Brat Camp	There have now been three series of this documentary like show , and every time the kids are worse and worse . The first series started in the camp sites with some terrible tear-aways , including the stupid Fran . The second series was just as bad set in the American Stable Farm . The latest series had just girls going , and trust me , girls are worse than boys , and not just in this . Basically every series they bring about ten horrible teenage children to America and send them to a professional brat camp to turn them from bad kids to good kids . It takes a long time , but they all learn their lessons eventually . It was number 36 on The 100 Greatest TV Treats 2004 , when it started . Very good !
Britain's Best Sitcom	This was the voting show that I needed to see more than any other ( at the time ) . Jonathan Ross presented a show filled with 100 great sitcoms , e . g . Father Ted . But the last show was the most important , the top ten . We at home had to vote for our favourite sitcom with the help of opinions from their celebrity advocates . These celebrities included Carol Vorderman ( The Vicar of Dibley ) , Johnny Vaughan ( Porridge ) , Rowland Rivron ( One Foot in the Grave ) , Phill Jupitus ( Dad's Army ) , Clarissa Dickson-Wright ( Open All Hours ) , David Dickinson ( Only Fools and Horses ) , Armando Iannucci ( Yes , Minister ) , Ulrika Jonsson ( The Good Life ) , Jack Dee ( Fawlty Towers ) , and the one I wanted to win John Sergeant ( Blackadder ) . In the end , after nearly 12 million phone call votes it was between Blackadder and Only Fools and Horses . Only Fools and Horses won . Not a bad result , but it would have been nicer if it was Blackadder that won . But apart from that , a good programme .
A Knight's Tale	This is a really good medieval story about one man's spirit to be a champion , not just for the money . Heath Ledger plays William Thatcher , he and his two friends Wat ( Alan Tudyk ) and Roland ( Mark Addy ) are poor and need money to eat , so William decides to play in a dead knight friend's place in jousting . Then he has the idea to become a proper jousting knight , Sir Ulrich Von Lichtenstein of Gelderland . To do this he also gets the help of Geoffrey Chaucer ( really well cast and show stealing Paul Bettany ) . Along his journey to being champion William falls in love with Lady Jocelyn ( attractive Shannyn Sossamon ) and encounters enemy and jousting opponent Count Adhemar of Anjou ( Rufus Sewell ) . There is really good use of rock music in this film , and it hardly seems very medieval . Paul Bettany was number 40 on The 100 Greatest British Actors . Very good !
Iris	Based on a true story , this is a really good film about one woman's life with a hard to deal with problem that his husband has to live with . BAFTA winning , and Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Dame Judi Dench plays Iris Murdoch , a famous writer who makes books , most about her private thoughts and problems made into a story or autobiography like book . Iris's husband John ( Oscar and Golden Globe winning , and BAFTA nominated Jim Broadbent ) is proud of her making these books , but there are moments when living with her he cannot deal with . She suffers Alzheimer's disease , and doesn't understand what is going on , and has panics for no reason . She also has flashbacks of her life with young John , where she is played by Oscar nominated Kate Winslet , with a couple of nude scenes thrown in . Also starring BAFTA nominated Hugh Bonneville as Young John Bayley and Shaun of the Dead's Penelope Wilton as Janet Stone . I thought Broadbent stole the show , particularly with his panics , happy times , but ultimately struggling to cope with Iris . It was nominated the BAFTA for the Alexander Korda Award for Best British Film and Best Adapted Screenplay . Kate Winslet was number 55 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , Winslet was number 2 , and Dame Judi Dench number 1 on The 50 Greatest British Actresses , Dench was number 1 on Britain's Finest Actresses , and Winslet was number 29 , and Dench number 8 on The World's Greatest Actor , and Jim Broadbent was number 23 on The 50 Greatest British Actors . Very good !
The Jeremy Kyle Show	I must admit that a while ago I was too interested in all talk shows , even though Jerry Springer looked very good , and also I used to think the presenter of this show was a prick to his guests , but as I have watched more and more episodes I have grown to like his " technique " of talking . Jeremy Kyle has become one of the most entertaining British day-time shows in years , they have brought on / satellite talked to many people with known and regular problems , e . g . sleeping with people behind partner's backs , DNA tests to find a father to a baby , etc , but they have also done some disturbing material , including obesity , British drug addicts and gang members , beating husbands , and most memorable , some insane American atheists ( aka people who believe God is evil ! ) , and Kyle is like you bad tempered head teacher towards the guests , this is the main reason I have grown to love it , it's both great to see someone giving the same opinion the audience ( TV and studio ) have , and it can be quite funny . Very good !
Gogs	When I first saw this fantastic series , I thought it was from Nick Park and the creators of Wallace and Gromit , but it isn't . Basically it's all about a thick stone age family living their lives trying to survive and develop . The family are a near bearded Father , a stressed Mother , a bearded Grampa , a near smart young girl , an idiotic young boy , and the fantastic baby . Throughout the series they try to fly , build a swing , fight and eat dinosaurs and warthogs , avoid storms , get colds , get involved with gorillas and encounter a bear in their cave . The main reason this is so funny for Claymation is that it uses all great disgusting habits we as humans have , i . e . crapping , burping , farting , sneezing and vomiting . Very good !
The Life and Death of Colonel Blimp	Critics call it one of cinema's great British masterpieces , and I can see why they give it five stars , but like Casablanca I personally give it because it is a " once in a while classic " ( plus I dozed off somewhere ) , but it is an interesting film , the first Technicolor from directors Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger ( A Matter of Life and Death ) . Basically the story is based in World War , and focusing on the life and loves of the extraordinary General Clive Wynne-Candy ( Roger Livesey ) . The film goes back in time 40 years to look back to his posh young days , living and " fighting " through three wars ( Boer War , World War I and World War II ) , and his rise to power of the British army . The three women in his life ( Edith Hunter , Barbara Wyn , Johnny Cannon ) are all played by The King and I's Deborah Kerr , and he also has a lifelong friendship with German officer Theo Kretschmar-Schuldorff ( Anton Walbrook ) . Also starring James McKechnie as Spud Wilson , Neville Mapp as Stuffy Graves , Roland Culver as Colonel Betteridge , David Hutcheson as Hoppy , Spencer Trevor as Period Blimp , David Ward as Kaunitz , Valentine Dyall as Von Schönborn , Carl Jaffe as Von Reumann , Albert Lieven as Von Ritter , Ursula Jeans as Frau Von Kalteneck , John Laurie as Murdoch , Reginald Tate as Van Zijl , Harry Welchman as Major Davis and A . E . Matthews as President of the Tribunal . In my opinion the film is a lot of clever and witty chat with a little bit of romance and war thrown in , but I certainly didn't want to turn it off . Oh , and I think the reason why Winston Churchill tried to ban it is because it sees a British soldier being friends with a German . It was number 72 on The 100 Greatest War Films . Very good !
Carry On Again Doctor	This is meant to be the sequel to Carry On Doctor , and it is one of the best of all the Carry Ons . All the great British cast are at their best in a situation ( hospital ) comedy . The story mainly focuses on Doctor Jimmy Nookey ( Jim Dale ) , the troublesome sex-obsessed doctor who wants better things to come to him , and his wish is granted . Model Goldie Locks ( a fantastic looking Barbara Windsor ) comes in with only hearts on her breasts and bum , and they develop a closer relationship in the hospital . Frederick Carver ( Kenneth Williams ) however is getting tired of his ( to us ) hilarious mistakes , so he sends him to a hospital in Africa run by Gladstone Screwer ( Sid James ) . There he first thinks its not a real hospital , but soon he discovers Screwer can make obese eliminating tonic . When he gets back , he buys the building that Carver was going to , who sends disguised Doctor Ernest Stoppidge ( Charles Hawtrey ) to investigate things . Also starring Joan Sims as Ellen Moore , Hattie Jacques as Matron , Peter Butterworth as Shuffling Patient and Steptoe and Son's Wilfrid Brambell as Mr . Pullen ( . Filled with great sexy , stupid and innuendo gags , and a great British cast , it is a fantastic Carry On . Carry On films were number 39 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons , and this film was number 77 on The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments for Windsor's examination . Very good !
Star Trek : First Contact	The only Star Trek film I have seen before this one was Star Trek II : Wrath of Khan , which was okay . I think it was looking up reviews for other Star Trek films that I discovered this one that the critics give 5 stars , this I can agree with . Basically it is all focused on Earth's first encounter in 2056 ( after World War III ) with alien species , The Borg . There were orders for the Enterprise crew , but they knew that this cube shaped ship is going to cause trouble for the universe . I personally think Captain Jean-Luc Picard ( Patrick Stewart ) is the best of all the captains , even though I don't watch the TV series . Also starring Jonathan Frakes ( also directing ) as Commander William T . Riker , Brent Spiner as Lt . Commander Data , LeVar Burton as Lt . Commander Geordi La Forge , Michael Dorn as Lt . Commander Worf , Gates McFadden as Dr . Beverly Crusher , Marina Sirtis as Counselor Deanna Troi , Alice Krige as Borg Queen , James Cromwell as Zefram Cochrane , Alfre Woodard as Lily Sloane , Dwight Schultz as Lt . Barclay and Robert Picardo as Holographic doctor . It was nominated for the Oscar for Best Makeup . Star Trek was number 41 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons . Very good !
Bill Bailey : Cosmic Jam	This was the debut stand-up show from the comedian that has since starred in the Part Troll stand-up show , Black Books and Never Mind the Buzzcocks . Bill Bailey at the time was hardly known , but he certainly made quite an impact with the theatre audience , and indeed television audiences alike . He is just the best at some observational , on the spot and musical jokes , he can play pretty much any instrument that is given to him ( probably why they wanted him to replace Sean Hughes in Buzzcocks ) . The highlights for me are the Starsky and Hutch music joke with guitar effects , and the song near the conclusion , " Human Slaves in an Insect Nation " ( Aaaaagh ! ) with an appearance of Lenny Henry in Pieces ' Martin Trenanman . Before or after you've seen his Part Troll show , see this ! Bill Bailey was number 7 on 100 Greatest Stand-Ups . Very good !
Who Wants to Be a Millionnaire	They have done many specials , e . g . twins , mums and dads with their kids , and celebrities for charity , but most of the time , I like the original award winning game show . There is no-one in this country , or the world , who doesn't already know the answer to the question given in the title . Chris Tarrant has presented since 1998 , and it is still going strong . So far there have been four known Millionnaire winners with the £1 , 000 , 000 jackpot . Three of these are the first winner Judith Keppel , the obvious fraudster Charles Ingrim with his coughing friend , and old father Ingram Wilcox . I doubt this is going to end for a couple more years , because there are still so many Brits , and people in the world wide show who still want to answer yes to the question and play the game . Chris Tarrant was number 38 on TV's 50 Greatest Stars , the Christmas Special was number 69 on The 100 Greatest Christmas Moments , and the programme was number 16 on ITV : 50 Greatest Shows . Very good !
There's Something About Mary	I used to think this wasn't all funny , but that was just because I couldn't remember any of it , besides the obvious scenes , and seeing it again , I can now see why people love it so much , from directing brothers Peter and Bobby Farrelly ( Dumb and Dumber ) . The film starts with a flashback in high school , where awkward Ted Stroehmann ( Ben Stiller ) is going to senior prom with the beautiful Mary Jensen ( Golden Globe nominated Cameron Diaz ) . They never got to the prom together because Ted had a very unusual accident of catching his nuts caught in his trouser zipper ( ouch ! ) , and 13 years later , Ted still can't stop thinking of the girl he lost the chance to be with . He hires private investigator Pat Healy ( Matt Dillon ) to track her down , but soon enough he is infatuated with her as well , and he gives Ted false information to keep him away from his new love interest . Ted soon finds out about Pat's lies , and manages to walk back into Mary's life and try to rekindle a relationship . Little known to Mary , her English friend Tucker ( Lee Evans ) is in fact a faker as well , his real name is Norman ' Norm ' Phipps with a hillbilly accent and no need for crutches , and the same love the other two have . Oh , correction , that should be three , Dom Woganowski ( Scary Movie 2's Chris Elliott ) reveals his love for soon as well , and also he was the infamous ex-boyfriend " Woogie " . In the end , Mary finds out all four of them feel something for her , and she must ultimately decide which one she likes most , and this is where ( predictably ) another ex-boyfriend walks in and reveals his love , it looks like she's gonna get back with him , but there is happy ending and audience satisfaction Mary picks Ted . Also starring Lin Shaye as Magda , Jeffrey Tambor as Sully , Markie Post as Sheila Jensen , Keith David as Charlie Jensen , Scream's W . Earl Brown as Warren Jensen and Dumb and Dumber's Harland Williams as Hitchhiker . The memorable and most hilarious moments for me are Dillon trying to revive the dog from being knocked out , Stiller's dog wrestle , Evans ' traditional physical comedy ( on crutches and with those accents ) , and the most well known image , Diaz mistaking Stiller's spunk for hair gel , and having the huge quiff in her hair ( yikes ! ) . It was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Comedy / Musical . Cameron Diaz was number 65 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , and she was number 26 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols , the film was number 27 on 100 Years , 100 Laughs , and it was number 9 on The 50 Greatest Comedy Films . Very good !
Road to Perdition	From director Sam Mendes , he follows the outstanding American Beauty with this fantastic period gangster crime drama . Basically for ages young Michael Sullivan Jr . ( Tyler Hoechlin ) believed his father , Michael Sullivan ( Tom Hanks ) was a man who worked for the man who brought him up since childhood , John Rooney ( Oscar , BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Paul Newman ) . With his father , Michael goes to the funeral of one of John's friends , and there a drunk guy makes bad comments at the wake . Curious to know what his " Pa " does , Michael Jr . hides in his car , and witnesses his " Pa " killing the drunk guy , and he is caught peeking . John after this , secretly , hires assassins to kill them . They only managed to kill Michael Jr . ' s younger brother Peter ( Liam Aiken ) and mother Annie ( Jennifer Jason Leigh ) , so now him and his " Pa " are on the run from the mob , and along the way trying to find the man / men responsible . John meanwhile has hired professional hit-man Harlen Maguire ( Jude Law ) to find and kill them . It is through this journey of robberies and killing that Michael and his son get closer than they ever did before . Before finding out it was John that hired them , he also found out that John's snivelling son , Connor ( Daniel Craig , 4 years before becoming James Bond ) had been stealing from his Dad . It ends in tragedy though when after killing John , that Michael is gunned down by scarred ( from glass ) Harlen , before being shot , and he dies in his son's arms . Also starring The Terminal's Stanley Tucci as Frank Nitti , Happiness's Dylan Baker as Alexander Rance and Ciarán Hinds as Finn McGovern . Filled with marvellous action , gun firing and chase sequences , and the teary ending , it is a fantastic drama . It won the Oscar for Best Cinematography , and it was nominated the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Best Music for Thomas Newman , Best Sound and Best Sound Editing , and it won the BAFTAs for Best Cinematography and Best Production Design . Jude Law was number 60 , Paul Newman number 16 , and Tom Hanks number 3 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , Law was also number 10 on The 50 Greatest British Actors , and Hanks was also number 39 on The World's Greatest Actor . Very good !
Billy Elliot	I am quite keen on the films involving a dreaming and performing kid , and this one is no exception , from director Stephen Daldry ( The Hours ) . Basically Billy Elliot ( BAFTA winning Jamie Bell ) started out going for 50p to a boxing club , pretty normal for an eleven year old , and then he is fascinated by a ballet club , and he feels an urge to keep going . As he learns more and more moves , routine and poses from teacher Mrs . Wilkinson ( BAFTA winning , and Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Julie Walters ) she is very impressed by his talent and enthusiasm . Eventually his Dad , Jackie ( Gary Lewis ) finds out his little secret and is quite appalled , threatening and despising . But Billy keeps working to achieve his dream for auditioning to join a professional ballet school . His brother Tony ( Jamie Draven ) obviously takes longer to get any reaction or care , but his Dad eventually gives in and is behind him at his audition . There is one point here I recognised particular words that Elton John borrowed for the lyrics of his song " Electricity " for Billy Elliot : The Musical , and after this he is successful , and when he leaves that is when his brother is quite emotional , and the coal mine strikes end . The dance routines from Bell as Jamie are fantastic , he's like a mini Fred Astaire for the 20th Century , and Walters is really good as the teacher . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Writing , Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen , it won the BAFTAs for the Alexander Korda Award for Best British Film , and it was nominated for the Anthony Asquith Award for Film Music for Stephen Warbeck , Best Cinematography , Best Editing , Best Original Screenplay , Best Sound , the Carl Foreman Award for the Most Promising Newcomer for both director Stephen Daldry ( The Hours ) and writer Lee Hall , the David Lean Award for Direction and Best Film , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama . Julie Walters was number 5 on The 50 Greatest British Actresses , and she was number 2 on Britain's Finest Actresses . Very good !
On Golden Pond	I expected this to be a full drama about a daughter and her father settling their differences after years of squabbling , just like in real life , there was a little , but I think it was focusing more on the old couple's odd but likable personalities . Basically ageing couple Ethel Thayer ( Oscar and BAFTA winning , and Golden Globe nominated Katharine Hepburn ) - who almost didn't marry because the name sounded like lisping , lol - and Norman Thayer Jr . ( Oscar and Golden Globe winning , and BAFTA nominated Henry Fonda ) live together in their summer home on Golden Pond . On Norman's birthday , they are visited by his daughter Chelsea Thayer Wayne ( Oscar , BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Jane Fonda ) , who brings along fiancé Bill Ray ( Inspector Gadget's Dabney Coleman ) and his son Billy ( Doug McKeon ) , and they ask that they look after him while they go off and get married . The story explores the relationships between the old couple , both of them spending time with a new soon-to-be family member , and of course , the daughter and her father do sort out their differences towards the end . There is Norman being amusingly rude and over-opinionated , there is Ethel being dotty and always in a good mood , there is Chelsea getting on with Ethel pretty well and ( apart from the end ) ignoring her father , there is the young boy enjoying fishing trips with his new old friend , and there is a little bit of the fiancé embarrassed . Also starring William Lanteau as Charlie Martin and Christopher Rydell as Sumner Todd . Fonda and Hepburn really deserved their Oscars for both creating such a lovable old couple , with their own individual likable traits also , and both not in the greatest health at the time , remarkable . Daughter Fonda and the young McKeon also add to the film's charm , a great melodrama with all the right ingredients . It won the Oscar for Best Writing , Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium , and it was nominated for Best Cinematography , Best Director for Mark Rydell , Best Film Editing , Best Music for Dave Grusin , Best Sound and Best Picture , it was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Film , Best Direction and Best Screenplay , and it won the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Drama and Best Screenplay , and it was nominated for Best Director . Jane Fonda was number 98 , and Katherine Hepburn number 38 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , Hepburn was also number 1 on 100 Years , 100 Stars - Women , and she was number 9 on The World's Greatest Actor , " Listen to me , mister . You're my knight in in shining armour . Don't you forget it . You're going to get back on that horse , and I'm going to be right behind you , holding on tight , and away we're gonna go , go , go ! " was number 88 on 100 Years , 100 Quotes , the film was number 22 on 100 Years , 100 Passions , and it was number 45 on 100 Years , 100 Cheers . Very good !
Captain Scarlet and the Mysterons	In the 60s , there came a puppet company that made " Supermarionation " . This company was run by Gerry Anderson , the creator of Thunderbirds and Stingray . My favourite of his shows was Captain Scarlet , the tale of humans fighting against aliens on Mars . A mission to Mars with ( soon to be evil ) Captain Black involved sees a team discover an alien city and mistakingly attack it when they were greeting them . These aliens , the Mysterons , now have their revenge on the earth . Captain Scarlet ( Dracula : Prince of Darkness's Francis Matthews ) was made indestructible by the Mysteron powers of retro-metabolism battles the Mysterons . There is also the help of Cloudbase's other colour-coded staff in " Spectrum " . These include Captain Blue ( Diamonds are Forever's Ed Bishop ) , Colonel White ( Donald Gray , who appeared in Emmerdale , also does Black and The Mysterons ) , Lieutenant Green ( singer and guitarist Cy Grant ) and many others . There are also the five Angels Rhapsody , Melody , Harmony , Destiny and Symphony who fly to the rescue . Includes great transport such as the SPV ( Spectrum Pursuit Vehicle ) , Spectrum Saloon Car and Angel jets . It was number 82 on The 100 Greatest Scary Moments ( for The Mysterons booming voice ) , and it number 51 on The 100 Greatest Kids ' TV Shows . Very good !
The Greatest Show on Earth	I've hardly ever been to a real circus , so that is one reason for me seeing this film , to see an idea of what it is like at a circus . Basically it is showing some of the personal stories between performers at the circus , the relationships they share and the lives they live for the circus . Charlton Heston as Brad Braden , the manager of The Greatest Show on Earth is quite a nice guy , but sometimes he worries about his circus performers disappointing audiences . But for me , the actor that stole most of the film , never without makeup on , was James Stewart as Buttons the Clown . He really steals the show near the end of the film when the circus train crashes and he acts as a doctor . It won the Oscars for Best Picture and Best Writing , Motion Picture Story , and it was nominated for Best Costume Design , Best Film Editing and Best Director for Cecil B . DeMille , and it won the Golden Globes for Best Cinematography , Best Director and Best Motion Picture - Drama . It was number 32 on The Ultimate Film . Very good !
30 Rock	I was obviously attracted by the star of Beetle Juice being in this show , but I thought it might be funny as well . From creator Tina Fey , the show centres around Liz Lemon ( Golden Globe and SAG award winning , and Emmy nominated Fey , for acting ) , head writer of the comedy sketch show , " The Tracy Jordan Show " , formally known as " The Girlie Show " . The show basically sees her tackle many situations , mundane , monumental and sometimes bizarre involving the many members at the Universal NBC studio , and all while she is trying to run a successful TV show without losing her mind . These other characters include mentally unstable star Tracy Jordan ( Tracy Morgan ) , friend seeking co-star Jenna Maroney ( Jane Krakowski ) , Kenneth Parcell ( Jack McBrayer ) , Pete Hornberger ( Scott Adsit , Frank Rossitano ( Judah Friedlander ) , and of course , her oily boss Jack Donaghy ( Emmy , Golden Globe and twice SAG award winning , and Golden Globe nominated Alec Baldwin ) . Also on occasionally are Keith Powell as Toofer , Katrina Bowden as Cerie , Lonny Ross as Josh Girard , Kevin Brown as Dot Com and Rachel Dratch as Greta Johanssen . The style of comedy has very small moments " looking back " ( like they do in Family Guy ) , and there are sometimes some good slapstick moments , a very original comedy that does some very small element of reality seeing into the entertainment industry . Guest stars in the show have included Ghostface Killah , Conan O'Brien , Whoopi Goldberg , Paul Reubens , Isabella Rossellini , Rip Torn , LL Cool J , Nathan Lane , Men in Black's Siobhan Fallon , The Grinch's Molly Shannon , Emily Mortimer , Emmy nominated Elaine Stritch , and many more . It won the Emmy for Outstanding Comedy Series , and it was nominated for Outstanding Casting for a Comedy Series , Outstanding Directing . . . for Scott Ellis , Outstanding Original Main Title Theme Music for Jeff Richmond , Outstanding Sound Mixing for a Comedy or Drama Series ( Half-Hour ) and Animation , Outstanding Writing . . . and Outstanding Writing . . . , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Television Series - Musical or Comedy , and it was nominated the Screen Actors Guild ( SAG ) Awards for Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Comedy Series . Very good !
Blazing Saddles	I had heard about this film from actor / producer / writer / director Mel Brooks ( The Producers , Young Frankenstein ) , and I knew I couldn't miss it . It is a politically incorrect comedy , mainly because of the many racist terms , but a very funny one . Basically , it is based in the American Old West of 1874 in a town called Rock Ridge , with all but the Governor Lepetomane ( Mel Brooks , also playing an Indian chief ) with the surname Johnson . A gang of thugs , led by the dastardly Hedley Lamarr ( Harvey Korman ) , often mistaken for the actress Hedy Lamarr are invading the town , causing the townspeople demanding a new sheriff . When one comes along , they weren't expecting a Ni . . . ( that a quote by the way , " Ni . . . " ) , African American railroad worker named Bart ( BAFTA nominated newcomer Cleavon Little ) to be the new sheriff . The only friend that Bart has for a while is alcoholic gunslinger Jim ( Gene Wilder ) , once known as ' The Waco Kid ' for his fast hands . Anyway , they eventually convince the town to build a fake town to fool the bad guys , they fall for it , and they attack , and doing this happen to crash into a Hollywood studio production . The bad guys and Lamarr are defeated , Bart and Jim get to see the end of their movie , and Bart makes everyone accept coloured people . Also starring Slim Pickens as Taggart , Oscar nominated Madeline Kahn as Lili Von Shtupp ( a character with a " gweat " German accent ) , David Huddleston as Olson Johnson , Liam Dunn as Rev . Johnson , Alex Karras as Mongo , John Hillerman as Howard Johnson , George Furth as Van Johnson , Claude Ennis Starrett Jr . / Jack Starrett as Gabby Johnson , Dom DeLuise as Buddy Bizarre , Richard Collier as Dr . Sam Johnson , Count Basie , Burton Gilliam as Lyle , and apparently an uncredited Anne Bancroft as an Extra in Church Congregation . The racist jokes are amusing , the farting ( because of beans ) round the camp fire is classic , Korman and Wilder both have their moments , it may be funnier than Young Frankenstein . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Film Editing and Best Song for " Blazing Saddles " , and it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Screenplay . It was number 8 on The 50 Greatest Comedy Films , and it was number 6 on 100 Years , 100 Laughs . Very good !
Geri's Game	This short film started just before the main Disney Pixar film at the cinema , A Bug's Life . This was a brand new Pixar movie and it won Best Short Animated Film at the Oscars . It is basically a guy ( named Geri ) sat on his own with a chess set . He has no partner , so he is playing with himself . As he gets up and down to both sides of the game , you realise that he is meant to be two personalities . It is very interesting to see how changing camera positions can give you the idea of more than one person in the " game " . Also , if you have seen Toy Story 2 , you may recognise that Geri appears as the guy that repairs Woody . It was very funny , and got you even more excited to see the real film that people wanted to see . Very good !
The Sea Inside	From director Alejandro Amenábar ( The Others ) , I noticed the leading actor and the premise of the film , and the fact the critics give it five out of five , so I was definitely going to give it a go . Based on the true story , this sees Spaniad Ramón Sampedro ( Golden Globe nominated Javier Bardem , best known for his Oscar winning role in No Country For Old Men ) fighting a 30-year campaign to win the right to end his life , i . e . euthanasia , and die with dignity . When he was slightly younger he became fully paralysed ( none of his body , besides his head , can move ) from diving into a shallow bit of water and breaking his neck . The film explores his relationship with two women , lawyer Julia ( Belén Rueda ) who supports his cause , and Rosa ( Lola Dueñas ) who is trying to convince him that life is worth living . Despite wishing to die , he taught everyone he encountered the meaning , value and preciousness of life , and though he could not move himself , he had the uncanny ability to move others . Also starring Mabel Rivera as Manuela , Celso Bugallo as José , Clara Segura as Gené , Joan Dalmau as Joaquín , Alberto Jiménez as Germán and Tamar Novas as Javi . I will admit I did doze off towards the end , only because it was on at one or something in the morning till three something , but from what I did see , it is a very interesting story , and Bardem does an amazing performance , and I would definitely want to see it again for what I missed , well , and to enjoy what I didn't . It won the Oscar for Best Foreign Language Film of the Year , and it was nominated for Best Achievement in Makeup , and it won the Golden Globe for Best Foreign Language Film . Very good !
The 50 Greatest Documentaries	This countdown voted by the British public was a very interesting countdown . I had an idea of what might be number one , but I wasn't even close . Documentaries are a picture of real life in the lives of others . They had all sorts of things that were documented for TV and film . They had war , political , food issues , historical events , accidents , gun issues , and basically life . The documentaries that featured included : The Fog of War , Nanoon of the North , Driving School , The Human Body , The War Game , Spellbound ( not Hitchcock's ) , The Power of Nightmares , Wife Swap , Around the World in 80 Days ( with Michael Palin ) , Walking with Dinosaurs , Super Size Me , The Family , Farenheit , The Boy Whose Skin Fell Off , The World At War , Bowling for Columbine , Touching the Void and number one was Seven Up . With contributions by Michael Apted , Sir David Attenborough , Charles Dance , Pam Ferris , James King , Kevin Macdonald , Nell McAndrew , Michael Palin , Sir Jimmy Savile and Morgan Spurlock , and narrated by Zoë Wanamaker . Very good !
The Witches of Eastwick	This is a very good humorous horror with some great actors . Basically three witches living in the town of Eastwick , Alexandra Medford ( Cher ) , Jane Spofford ( Susan Sarandon ) and Sukie Ridgemont ( Michelle Pfeiffer ) try to live pretty ordinary lives . They only use their powers either slightly accidentally , or when they want something done , e . g . to end a band class . Anyway , they all one at a time meet the charming rich Daryl Van Horne ( Jack Nicholson ) who also possesses similar powers , he uses it on them obviously for sex . They eventually all turn friends , until they discover that he used them all . He is now on the lookout to kill them , he even turns into a huge monster thing . Also starring Alien's Veronica Cartwright as Felicia Alden . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Music for John Williams and Best Sound , and it won the BAFTA for Best Special Effects . Very good !
They Go Boom !	Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy are the most famous comedy duo in history , and deservedly so , so I am happy to see any of their films . Ollie and Stan are trying to sleep in a room-to-rent , but Ollie has the sniffles , so he can't stop coughing , and sneezing , causing a blind to unravel , and a picture to fall . Stan makes his cold worse when putting the picture back on the wall , he hammers into the drainage , causing a leak , and Ollie needs a foot bath . Stan goes to get it , and manages to get sticky stuff on his fingers , and on his sock , but he does get the foot bath , throat medicine , and mustard to go into the bath . Ollie manages to swallow the cotton filled with throat medicine , and his feet are smothered in the foot bath filled with thick mustard , and getting back into bed , he and Stan manage to flatten it with their weight , and when Ollie tries to blow it back up , he sucks in the air , expanding his front . Soon enough the Landlord comes in to tell them to be quiet , and again after they can't stay on the bed they've blown up too far and can't stay on , and the Landlord ( Charlie Hall ) manages to land into the thick mustard , and while fetching the police , Ollie and Stan get into the bed , which is slowly blowing up with more air , till it reaches the ceiling , and it explodes with Ollie's sneeze . Filled with wonderful slapstick and all classic comedy you could want from a black and white film , it is an enjoyable film . Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy were number 7 on The Comedians ' Comedian . Very good !
Bruce's Price Is Right	This used to be and when repeated still is one of my favourite game shows ever . Bruce Forsyth also used to be one of my favourite game show hosts . " It's nice to see you , to see you . . . NICE ! " He picked out four people from the audience to answer starter questions , if they get it right they go to the bigger rounds where they have to do something involving prices . If they manage to get through at least two round , or three if their lucky , they go to the final big round . In this round they just have to guess the price of all their prizes they could win , and if it is close to the real price they win all of it . A very good game show for a Saturday night . It came back a few years later , hosted by Joe Pasquale , I'm glad . Bruce Forsyth was number 5 on TV's 50 Greatest Stars . Very good !
EastEnders : Christmas Party	I can't remember the episode before it started , but anyway , if you liked it last time , you'll like another EastEnders Christmas Party . Again , Shane Richie ( Alfie Moon ) is hosting and performer in another musical , slight comedy themed hour long Christmas Eve special . Again all the cast of one of Britain's favourite soaps are in it , and there are some good moments . There's Adam Woodyatt ( Ian Beale ) playing Scrooge in a spoof of A Christmas Carol with Mike Reid ( Frank Butcher ) , and then there's Shane Richie dancing with the winner of 2004's Strcitly Come Dancing Jill Halfpenny ( Kate Mitchell ) . Look out for good guests including : Eamonn Holmes , Dame Kelly Holmes , How Clean Is Your House's Kim Woodburn and Aggie MacKenzie and John Sergeant . Only small problem , Jessie Wallace ( Kat Slater ) wasn't in it because she was pregnant , and Shaun Williamson ( Barry Evans ) had left the show . But apart from that , Very good !
Alfie	The original version is just perfect entertainment . Oscar , BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Sir Michael Caine plays a smooth talking , women loving guy obsessed by women and sex , Alfie . Throughout the entire film we see how Alfie creates loves / relationships , and he talks to us during the process . We also see the women after being with and thinking about Alfie . But it's Alfie talking to the camera that makes the film just pure genius , I do not know many films where the main character adds interest by talking to us . Sir Michael Caine has done a very good performance worthy of the sixties / seventies style of love . Look out for an appearance by Indiana Jones ' Denholm Elliot . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Supporting Actress for Vivien Merchant , Best Song for " Alfie " , Best Writing , Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium and Best Picture , it won the BAFTA for Best Newcomer for Vivien Merchant , and it was nominated for Best British Cinematography ( Colour ) , Best British Film Editing , Best British Screenplay and Best British Film and it won the Golden Globe for Best English-Language Foreign Film , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture Actor - Drama , Best Director for Lewis Gilbert ( You Only Live Twice ) , Best Song , Best Screenplay , Best Supporting Actress for Vivien Merchant and Best Supporting Actress for Shelley Winters as Ruby . Sir Michael Caine was number 44 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , and he was number 7 on The 50 Greatest British Actors , and the film was number 31 on 50 Greatest British Films . Very good !
Birdman of Alcatraz	From director John Frankenheimer ( The Manchurian Candidate [ 1962 ] , Deception ) , this is a wonderful prison drama , worthy of The Shawshank Redemption , with a very admirable leading character played by an actor in his finest role . Based on the true story , prisoner Robert Stroud ( BAFTA winning , and Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Burt Lancaster ) was convicted of murder twice , the second being a prison guard , he was sentenced to life in solitary confinement . One day , while wandering in the prison courtyard , he finds a sickly sparrow and decides to take care of it . He manages to cure it , and trains it to fly , after the new warden , replacing Harvey Shoemaker ( Karl Malden ) allows him to keep the bird , many other prisoners are allowed pet birds too , and as more and more of them are refused by other inmates , Stroud finds a new purpose for life by taking care of and studying these birds ( canaries ) . It is when they all start dying of a mysterious illness that he finds , with help , a new medicine to cure them , and it sparks the interest Stella Johnson ( Betty Field ) who wants to sell it to other bird owners . There is a point when a new appointed warden makes the rule to not allow animals into prison cells , but with the help of Stella , including marriage , which his mother Elizabeth ( Rear Window's Oscar nominated Thelma Ritter ) does not approve of , Stroud makes the front page of the newspaper . He has now become really renowned for his work with birds , i . e . ornithology , and has written a book about it , and he is just the slightest obsessive and eccentric in age as well . This bird hobby is cut short when Stroud is transferred to Alcatraz prison , where they allow no animals whatsoever , and he obviously can't appeal for it , so he is mainly quiet in his prison cell , only writing another book , until a riot threatens the lives of all prisoners , and only Stroud on the speaker to old warden Shoemaker can stop it . In the end , after stopping the Alcatraz riot , he is transferred again to a hospital , but appealing for freedom failed . Also starring Neville Brand as Bull Ransom , Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Telly Savalas as Feto Gomez , Edmond O'Brien as Tom Gaddis ( also narrating ) , Hugh Marlowe as Roy Comstock , Whit Bissell as Dr . Ellis , Crahan Denton as Kramer and James Westerfield as Jess Younger . Apparently Lancaster's portrayal wasn't much like the real man , but his performance was so good for me , I think he should have won the Oscar ( and Golden Globe ) instead of the overrated ( in my opinion ) performance by Gregory Peck in To Kill a Mockingbird . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Cinematography . Burt Lancaster was number 19 on 100 Years , 100 Stars - Men , and he was number 48 on The World's Greatest Actor , and the film was number 76 on 100 Years , 100 Cheers . Very good !
The Rock	I have said to myself I have seen many times , but I obviously haven't . Basically the villains , lead by nasty Brigadier General Francis X . Hummel , USMC ( Ed Harris ) have stolen three warheads , filled with a lethal and wide spreading VX poison nerve gas , which destroys all internal organs , along with melting flesh , and he threatens to spread these all over San Francisco , and kill the many hostages in Alcatraz prison unless he gets a ransom . He has also taken a large number of hostages touring an old Alcatraz prison . FBI chemical / biological weapons expert Dr . Stanley Goodspeed ( Nicholas Cage ) is assigned to retrieve these warheads , along with the only man known to have escaped this prison and knows most of the underground tunnels , top-secret federal prisoner , John Patrick Mason ( Sir Sean Connery ) . At first he is pretty uncooperative , causing havoc in a high speed chase , but he eventually settles to help them to stop the terrorists . The rest of the action takes place under and above ground in the Alcatraz prison , with many soldiers from both sides shooting their many weapons . The one moment I have always remembered is the bit when Cage crashes his car , and some guy said " Dude , you just f up your Ferrari " , and he replies " It's not mine ! " Also starring John Spencer as FBI Director James Womack , David Morse as Major Tom Baxter , William Forsythe as Special Agent Ernest Paxton , Michael Biehn as Commander Anderson and Candyman's Tony Todd as Captain Darrow . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Sound . Nicolas Cage was number 33 , and Sir Sean Connery number 8 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , Connery was also number 3 on The 50 Greatest British Actors . Very good !
Mommie Dearest	Based on the book by her vengeful adopted daughter , this is the true story of one of Hollywood's greatest actresses going to the bottom . Bonnie and Clyde's Faye Dunaway as Joan Crawford is the most misunderstood and dramatic characters since Alex Forrest or Annie Wilkes , and just as nasty . She is obviously a huge star , and she adopted a son and daughter to get bothy publicity and a family . It is just when she goes mad that she looks like an unfit and struggling mother , especially when her career seems to be failing . Diana Scarwid as Christina Crawford ( adult ) is great , and Mara Hobel as Christina ( child ) is also gripping . Also starring Steve Forrest as Greg Savitt , Howard Da Silva as Louis B . Mayer , Rutanya Alda as Carol Ann , Xander Berkeley as Christopher Crawford ( adult ) and Jeremy Scott Reinbolt as Christopher ( child ) . It is quite disturbing to see a Hollywood actress do the types of things she does to Christina . It was number 72 on 100 Years , 100 Quotes ( " No wire hanger , ever . " ) , and Joan Crawford ( the character ) was number 41 on 100 Years , 100 Heroes & Villains . Very good !
Matilda	This is probably one of the best examples of a book based film that I have ever seen , especially based on a Roald Dahl book . Director and star ( and narrator ) Danny DeVito has made Matilda a lovable little girl and based the whole film through the eyes of a child , an excellent idea . The Wormwoods are not very nice people , and they have given to a little girl . As a baby , and growing , this child seemed very clever , but they never noticed , they named her Matilda . Mara Wilson as Matilda is just perfect , and her parents , Harry ( DeVito ) and Zinnia Wormwood ( DeVito's real wife , Rhea Perlman ) are a really good mean mean couple . Matilda made many friends in school , including teacher Miss Jennifer ' Jenny ' Honey ( Embeth Davidtz ) . The only person she or no other kids could go near was the very good villain Miss Agatha Trunchbull ( Pam Ferris ) , who throws children for punishment ! A very good film about a wonderful girl and her magic powers , perfect family viewing . Very good !
American Idol	I knew that Pop Idol was a huge show all over the world , including America , and I have only started to see ( in 2006 ) how good , or bad , the auditions and competition can be over there . Ryan Seacrest hosts a really yank competition exactly the same concept as us , except they compete in Hollywood . One thing they couldn't create themselves was another Simon Cowell , so he's obviously there . The other two judges are the beautiful Paula Abdul and the enthusiastic Randy Jackson . As with most ( singing ) talent shows , my favourite part is the auditions , the yanks are just as bad as us . It is a good show , I never realised this is where Kelly Clarkson came from . It was nominated for 22 Emmys . Very good !
Terms of Endearment	Based on a best selling novel , this is a good directorial debut from the director of As Good as It Gets and producer of The Simpsons , James L . Brooks , he even won the Oscar , and was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Director . Basically it is all about the relationships between the Greenway and Horton family . Emma ( Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Debra Winger ) is now part of the Horton family , being married to Flap Horton ( Jeff Daniels ) , and her mother Aurora ( Oscar and Golden Globe winning , and BAFTA nominated Shirley MacLaine ) is finding it difficult to be loving . The film explores the running few years of all their lives , as each character finds different reason to be living and be happy . Aurora has a very close relationship with local cheeky retired astronaut , Garrett Breedlove ( Oscar and Golden Globe winning Jack Nicholson ) , and apparently the next neighbour as well . But the film is also a story of life , and loss , showing their loves in different ways , best summed up with the dying of Emma from the AIDS virus . Also starring Danny DeVito as Vernon Dahlart and Oscar nominated John Lithgow as Sam Burns . There are many giggly moments , but for me it is Nicholson that made the film great . It won the Oscars for Best Writing , Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium and Best Picture , and it was nominated for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Best Film Editing , Best Music for Michael Gore and Best Sound , and it won the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Drama and Best Screenplay . Jack Nicholson was number 6 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , he was number 71 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons , he was number 63 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols , and he was number 7 on The World's Greatest Actor . Very good !
The Good Samaritan	If you like TV made drama films , like Goodnight Mister Tom , Heartless and The History of Mr . Polly , then you'll love this one with practically the same kind of character we came to love him as in EastEnders ( Alfie Moon ) . Shane Richie plays Brian Guest , the nice , cheeky and likable everyman with an ordinary life and office worker job . His life is changed though when one day he gets a call from Lewis Farrell ( Brendan Coyle ) asking for the Samaritans ( he dialled one number wrong ) , threatening suicide by jumping off Brian's office block , but he thinks it's a prank by a work mate . But when an accident has occurred at the block , Brian is convinced he sent Lewis to his death . He is now planning to compensate the family , mother and wife Hannah Farrell ( Julia Ford ) and her daughters , for their " loss " . But at the same time , he also has to deal with divorcing his wife , Lucy ( Louise Delamere ) . When giving the family money , he also falls for Hannah , and Lewis is not happy , and he gives Brian a piece of his mind at one of the daughters ' wedding ( that Brian's money paid for ) . It is like a classic episode of EastEnders where characters misunderstand , never get a word in , and have to face the giggly consequences . There is a happy ending for a while where Lucy leaves Brian alone , Lewis gets what he deserves , and Hannah and Brian are happy , but Brian gets another phone call from another suicidal man . Very good !
Erin Brockovich	I can't believe the first time I saw it I thought it was crap , maybe it was because I thought there was too much chat ( which is key ) , now seeing it again I really like it , from Oscar , BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated director Steven Soderbergh ( Traffic , Ocean's Eleven ) . Anway , basically Erin Brockovich ( Oscar , BAFTA and Golden Globe winning Julia Roberts , earning her $20m salary ) has a car accident , and after failing to sue a doctor , she bullies her lawyer , Ed Masry ( Oscar , BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Albert Finney ) , to give her a job in compensation . No-one takes her seriously for a while , mainly because of her trashy clothes and language use , but that changes when she investigates a suspicious real estate case involving the Pacific Gas & Electric Company . She discovers they are quietly trying to buy land contaminated by Hexavalent Chromium , a deadly toxic waste that is illegally being dumped and going into the town's water mains . This is a true story about one of the biggest class action lawsuits in American history against a multi-million dollar corporation , pretty much taken down by one woman . Eventually they are found guilty for their crime , and have to pay over $300m for damages , almost $5m of that going to all families who have been affected by this cover-up . Also starring The Core's Aaron Eckhart as George , CSI's Marg Helgenberger as Donna Jensen , Cherry Jones as Pamela Duncan , Peter Coyote as Kurt Potter and the real Erin Brockovich-Ellis as Julia , the Waitress . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Picture ( with the help of Danny DeVito ) and Best Writing , Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen , it was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Editing , Best Original Screenplay , David Lean Award for Direction and Best Film , and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Drama . Julia Roberts was number 29 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , Erin Brockovich was number 31 on 100 Years , 100 Heroes & Villains , the film was number 73 on 100 Years , 100 Cheers , and it was number 24 on Film 4's 50 Films You Must See Before You Die . Very good !
The Emperor's New Groove	For a Walt Disney Pictures film , this is much more hipper , groovy and fun than many others . David Spade voices and narrates as Emperor Kuzco , he is the selfish young emperor who has everything he wants . He plans to build a new summer pool on a village hilltop where peasant Pacha ( John Goodman ) lives . Yzma ( Eartha Kitt ) , the villain turns Kuzco into a llama and , eventually , both him and Pacha are lost in the wilderness . They travel towards the palace , and Pacha thinks that within four days Kuzco will change his mind about the pool on his hilltop . Meanwhile Yzma is searching with her dopey sidekick Kronk ( Patrick Warburton ) for Kuzco when she finds out he is not dead . With a really good Oscar and Golden Globe nominated song by Sting , " My Funny Friend and Me " , and Sir Tom Jones singing as Kuzco's Theme Song Guy , this is great fun for all the family . Very good !
100 Years , 100 Greatest Movies	This was like one of those 100 Greatest lists , except with a different title and countdown , this was an essential list counting down 100 great movie in an edited edition of the last list , 10 years ago , this was the anniversary edition . Hosted by Morgan Freeman and with contributions by Tim Allen , Halle Berry , Peter Bogdanovich , Jeff Bridges , Mel Brooks , Cher , Billy Crystal , Richard Dreyfuss , Clint Eastwood , Laurence Fishburne , Jane Fonda , Peter Fonda , Harrison Ford , Jodie Foster , William Friedkin , Charlton Heston , Dustin Hoffman , Dennis Hopper , Samuel L . Jackson , Norman Jewison , Sir Ben Kinglsey , John Lasseter , Spike Lee , George Lucas , Shirley MacLaine , Malcolm McDowell , Eva Mendes , Liza Minnelli , Peter O'Toole , Sydney Pollack , Debbie Reynolds , Julia Roberts , Martin Scorcese , Martin Sheen , M . Night Shyamalan , Kevin Spacey , Steven Spielberg , Ben Stiller , Sharon Stone , Robin Williams , Sidney Lumet ( archive ) , Jack Lemmon ( archive ) , Sally Field , Anne Bancroft ( archive ) , Carl Weathers , Eva Marie Saint , Anjelica Huston , Cameron Crowe , Billy Wilder ( archive ) , Robert Towne ( writer of Chinatown and Mission : Impossible ) , Arthur C . Clarke ( writer of 2001 : A Space Odyssey ) , Janet Leigh ( archive ) , Stanley Donen ( co-director of Singin ' in the Rain ) and many more . The movies included Ben-Hur , Toy Story , Yankee Doodle Dandy , Blade Runner , Pulp Fiction , The French Connection , GoodFellas , Sophie's Choice , Swing Time , The Sixth Sense , Bringing Up Baby , 12 Angry Men , Platoon , A Night at the Opera , Easy Rider , Titanic , Spartacus , The Apartment , The Wild Bunch , Modern Times , All the President's Men , Forrest Gump , In the Heat of the Night , The Silence of the Lambs , Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid , The Shawshank Redemption , Saving Private Ryan , A Clockwork Orange , Tootsie , Unforgiven , Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf ? , Raiders of the Lost Ark , The African Queen , Network , Cabaret , American Graffiti , Duck Soup , The Gold Rush , Rocky , Jaws , North by Northwest , MASH , The Deer Hunter , Taxi Driver , West Side Story , The Lord of the Rings , Intolerance , Rear Window , A Streetcar Named Desire , It Happened One Night , Shane , The Philadelphia Story , Midnight Cowboy , Bonnie and Clyde , King Kong , The Sound of Music , Dr . Strangelove , The Treasure of Sierra Madre , The Best Years of Our Lives , The Bridge on the River Kwai , Annie Hall , Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs , One Flew over the Cuckoo's ; The Godfather , Part II , The Maltese Falcon , Apocalypse Now , Double Indemnity , All about Eve , High Noon , Mr . Smith Goes to Washington , To Kill a Mockingbird , E . T . the Extra-Terrestrial , The Grapes of Wrath , Some Like It Hot , Chinatown , It's a Wonderful Life , On the Waterfront , The Graduate , Sunset Boulevard , 2001 : A Space Odyssey , Psycho , Star Wars , The Searchers , City Lights , The Wizard of Oz , Vertigo , Schindler's List , Lawrence of Arabia , Gone with the Wind , Singin ' in the Rain , Raging Bull , Casablanca , The Godfather , and same as 10 years ago , number one was Citizen Kane . Very good !
House of Sand and Fog	I don't understand the meaning of the title , but who cares , this is a very good drama film with some good dramatic and unexpected moments . The film begins with the big wedding for the daughter of Iranian political refugee Amir Behrani ( Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Sir Ben Kingsley ) , an ex-colonel . After the wedding , he buys a house in an auction in the hope of investing it for higher profit . He hopes the money he earns from the house can build a new villa they used to have in North Iran , and save the rest of the money for his son Esmail's ( Jonathan Ahdout ) education . However , the former owner Kathy ( A Beautiful Mind's Jennifer Connelly ) , who was mistakenly charged for unpaid taxes , is insistent to get her house back . A policeman she meets , Lester ( Deep Impact's Ron Eldard ) , who she also starts a relationship with , wants to help her , and threatens the Behrani family with deporting them from the country if they don't leave the house . As the film comes near it's conclusion , the desperation of both sides for the house leads to tragic consequences . Kathy survives an attempted drugs suicide , but lives to see the family die , Esmail is shot , and Amir has drugged his wife , and suffocated himself , tragic . Also starring Titanic's Frances Fisher as Connie Walsh , Hollow Man's Kim Dickens as Carol Burdon , Oscar nominated Shohreh Aghdashloo as Nadi and Navi Rawat as Soraya . I can see why Kingsley was nominated the Oscar , he lost to Sean Penn in Mystic River . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Music for James Horner . Sir Ben Kingsley was number 16 on The 50 Greatest British Actors . Very good !
Shaun of the Dead	Edgar Wright used to direct the TV sci-fi comedy series starring Simon Pegg called Spaced , now they are reunited to create a great spoof or satire like horror film . A love story , with some zombies in it . Shaun ( Pegg ) is just an ordinary bloke living with his mate Ed ( Danger ! 50 , 000 Volts ! star Nick Frost ) and also Pete ( Comic Relief 2003's Terry Wogan , Peter Serafinowicz ) . He seems to have a normal life , but the next day ( although he doesn't notice at first ) the recently dead are coming back to life and eating people . He , Ed and his Mum , David ( Dylan Moran ) and Liz ( Kate Ashfield ) are on the run trying to hide from these creatures . Also starring Trisha Goddard , Bill Nighy as Philip , Vernon Kay , Martin Freeman as Declan , Tamsin Greig as Maggie , Matt Lucas as Cousin Tom and Keith Chegwin . I have seen the Dawn of the Dead remake , and this definitely has the right to spoof it ( the original is way better ) . It was nominated the BAFTA Alexander Korda Award for Best British Film , the BAFTA Interactive Award DVD and the Carl Foreman Award for the Most Promising Newcomer for Nira Park ( producer ) , and it was nominated the British Comedy Award for Best Comedy Film . It was number 3 on The 50 Greatest Comedy Films . Very good !
Virgin School	At the time that this documentary was broadcast , I could relate to the character it focused on , being a virgin myself ( and being a bit weird and not very confident ) . This documentary focused on 26-year-old James as he embarked on a four month course to improve his sexual experience and confidence . He went to the Aquarion ' school for love and leadership ' in Amsterdam , and the course would conclude with the opportunity for him to ' do it ' with one of the sex coaches . There were very weird almost uncomfortable moments where he was being introduced to an old sex therapist and having the experience of seeing her anatomy , getting his clothes off , and touching her , but thankfully , she wasn't the one he was going to ' do it ' with . The sex therapist he would was an attractive woman who has had a lot of experience with helping a man to lose his virginity . The documentary concludes with his success and happiness of not being a virgin anymore , thinking that it is not essential that other virgins ' do it ' , but it in an adventure , an admirable guy , even if he's unusual . Very good !
Ant and Dec : Where Did It All Go Right ?	I should say first off that I recognised some of the footage from a similar documentary called Showbiz Marriage , but don't worry , there was some new footage with new interviews . Anthony McPartlin and Declan Donnelly have become one of TV's favourite duos with their cheeky , funny and enjoyable personalities , and on some of the best shows on the box , and this documentary showed us their success on TV . Narrated by Fay Ripley , with contributions from Tina Baker , Tommy Cannon and Bobby Ball , Tony Blackburn , Paul Burrell , Grace Dent , John Fashanu , Neil Fox , Nicky Graham , Boyd Hilton , Eamonn Holmes , Ian Hyland , Martine McCutcheon , Tara Palmer-Tomkinson and Coronation Street's William Roache . Ant and Dec were number 56 on The 100 Worst Britons ( why ? ) , and they were number 7 on TV's 50 Greatest Stars . Very good !
Richard III	I really like the films where the main character talks to us / the audience like we already know them , and this is probably the first one where the main character is the villain . BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Sir Ian McKellen is fantastic as Richard III , he also helped produce and screenplay this well crafted film , based on the play by William Shakespeare . Richard of Glouceter is brought into the 1930s , during a civil war , and he has the evil intent to kill all in his way of becoming king of the British throne . It is all his sneering , clever manipulation , deception , lying and charm to all that know him that is getting him closer to his goal . He does get the crown , but most people will discover his evil intent and it will mean his deserved death . Also starring Annette Bening as Queen Elizabeth , Jim Broadbent as Duke of Buckingham , a " scene-stealing " ( according to the critics ) Robert Downey Jr . as Lord Rivers , The Madness of King George's Nigel Hawthorne as George , Duke of Clarence , The English Patient's Kristin Scott Thomas as Lady Anne , John Wood as King Edward IV , Dame Maggie Smith as Duchess of York , Jim Carter as Lord Hastings , Edward Hardwicke as Lord Stanley , Adrian Dunbar as James Tyrell , Dominic West as Henry , Earl of Richmond , Tim McInnerny as Catesby , Stacey Kent as Ballroom Singer and The Witches ' Bill Paterson as Ratcliffe . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration and Best Costume Design , and it won the BAFTAs for Best Costume Design and Best Production Design , and it was nominated the Alexander Korda Award for Best British Film and Best Adapted Screenplay . Sir Ian McKellen was number 4 on The 100 Greatest British Actresses , and he was number 5 on Britain's Finest Actors . Very good !
Now Pay Attention 007 !	I was quite devastated when I heard that Desmond Llewelyn was going to retire after The World Is Not Enough , but I was even more devastated when I heard of his tragic car crash not long after the film premiere . This programme was a really nice way to say goodbye to the man we all knew as Q " Major Boothroyd " Branch , the gadget man of the James Bond films . He was also the only actor to be connected with the first five Bond actors . This tribute programme had the moments that showed his great bumbling presence and genius annoyance with 007 , but it also showed him showing his life away from the screen . With contributions from Michael Apted , Pierce Brosnan , John Cleese , Bruce Feirstein , Roger Moore Michael G . Wilson and archive from Desmond Llewelyn himself . We will miss him , but John Cleese seemed to do okay in his place . Very good !
The 100 Greatest Number One Singles	This was quite a good countdown because there were many songs I was hoping would be number one . Presented by Graham Norton , this 100 Greatest list counted down the greatest number one singles , as voted by the public . Contributions by : Gloria Gaynor , Sir Bob Geldof , Jane Horrocks , Mark Kermode , Moby , Sinéad O'Connor , Yoko Ono , Lionel Richie , Fatboy Slim ( Norman Cook ) , Kate Thornton and Pete Waterman . The songs : Frankie Lane's I Believe ( record for 18 weeks ) , Soul II Soul's Back to Life ( However Do You Want Me ) , Kylie's I Should Be So Lucky , Eurythmics ' There Must Be An Angel , Elvis's Jailhouse Rock , Village People's YMCA , Travolta & Newton-John's You're The One That I Want , Bee Gee's Night Fever , Slade's Merry Xmas Everybody , Buggles ' Video Killed The Radio Star , Wet Wet Wet's Love Is All Around ( 15 weeks ) , Roy Orbison's Oh Pretty Woman , Boyzone's No Matter What , Take That's Back for Good , Frankie Goes To Hollywood's Relax , Band Aid's Do They Know It's Christmas ? , Whitney Houston's I Will Always Love You , Fatboy Slim's Praise You , Louis Armstrong's What a Wonderful World , Gloria Gaynor's I Will Survive , Madonna's Like a Prayer , Robbie Williams ' Millennium , Sinead O'Connor's Nothing Compares 2 U , Bryan Adams ' ( Everything I Do ) I Do It For You ( 16 weeks ) , Spiller's Groovejet ( If This Ain't Love ) , Oasis's Don't Look Back in Anger , Abba's Danicing Queen , The Beatles ' Hey Jude , ( could have been no . 1 ) Queen's Bohemian Rhapsody , and no . 1 John Lennon's Imagine . There were also the five most hated # 1's : Britney's Baby One More Time , Sir Elton's Candle in the Wind , Celine Dion's My Heart Will Go On , and no . 1 Spice Girls ' Wannabe . Very good !
Spider-Man 2	Director Sam Raimi ( The Evil Dead ) brings a fantastic sequel that is just as good as , if not better than the first . Basically Peter Parker ( Tobey Maguire ) is still saving the city as web swinging super hero Spider-Man , but he is also trying to stay best friends with Mary Jane Watson ( Kirsten Dunst ) , after refusing to be closer . Spider-Man is the biggest reason for his personal life problems , and pretty soon , for some reason , he starts to lose his powers , and eventually dumps the suit , oh , and Mary Jane gets engaged to Captain John Jameson ( Daniel Gillies ) . Meanwhile , ( before " quiting " ) he witnesses an experiment by Dr . Otto Octavious ( Alfred Molina ) to create new energy , " the power of the son " , and this experiment involved four mechanical arms put in his spinal cord , and when the experiment goes wrong these arms , or tentacles , are welded on him . He is now to be known as Dr . Octopus , or Doc Ock . Peter meanwhile is getting more used to a life without rescues and crime fighting , but with the threat of Doc Ock and other city problems , he sees that Spider-Man should return . There is also the story of Harry Osborn ( James Franco ) who has a grudge on Spider-Man , since he believes he killed his dad , Norman ( a brief return by Willem Dafoe ) , or Green Goblin , and with Doc Ock's help he may get the opportunity to get his revenge , and in return , Ock gets to build the disastrous energy machine again . Also starring Rosemary Harris as May Parker , J . K . Simmons as J . Jonah Jameson , Donna Murphy as Rosalie Octavius , Happiness's Dylan Baker as Dr . Curt Connors , Bill Nunn as Joseph ' Robbie ' Robertson , Cliff Robertson as a brief Ben Parker , Ted Raimi ( Sam's brother ) as Hoffman , The Evil Dead's Bruce Campbell as Snooty Usher and director John Landis as Doctor . With even better special effects , action , great music by Danny Elfman ( he also did Batman ) , and the better love story , and Mary Jane discovers Peter's big secret . It won the Oscar for Best Visual Effects , and it was nominated for Best Sound Editing and Best Sound Mixing , and it was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Special Visual Effects and Best Sound . Very good !
Demolition of a Wall	From the Lumiére Bros . comes another one minute film with another pretty normal event of demolishing a wall ( for whatever reason ) , but with a difference . I'm not sure if it shocked people to show a wall falling down and then suddenly going back up ( reversing ) , but I can understand that this was quite a new concept , to reverse time . I think it is just like the Train Pulling Into a Station film , nothing much really happens , but it still intrigues and interests people , and it probably inspired filmmakers since to do similar things . Maybe this film inspired Christopher Nolan for the opening , and maybe entire editing of Memento . Very good !
The Simpsons Movie	South Park did it perfectly , and now finally , after celebrating 20 years ( since first seen on The Tracy Ullman Show in 1987 ) and the 400th episode on TV , the greatest cartoon and sitcom family The Simpsons finally go on the big screen . The story is basically Homer ( Dan Castellaneta ) polluting Springfield lake with a huge silo of his pet pig's excrement , and the EPA ( Environmental Protection Agency ) sealing the town with a large transparent dome , and all town members want to kill the family responsible . Homer and the family manage to escape through the sink hole , and head for Alaska till things cool down , but it only gets worse when the villain , Russ Cargill ( Albert Brooks , as A . Brooks ) , who works for President Schwarzenegger ( mocking the actor / politician using the Rainier Wolfcastle character ) plans to blow the town . Homer is the one who caused the incident , but he is also the one who saves the day on a motorbike with Bart ( Nancy Cartwright ) . The story sees a couple of returns to past episode plots , including jumping Springfield gorge , Marge ( Julie Kavner ) revealing a secret wedding video ( that she tapes over ) , and after some comedy hiding ( including bubbles , flowers , kids , etc ) you finally ( and unexpectedly ) see what a Simpson penis looks like , Bart's ! There are also some small supporting stories among the big one , including Bart seeing Ned Flanders ( This Is Spinal Tap's Harry Shearer ) as a new father figure , Lisa ( Yeardley Smith ) falling for Irish boy Colin ( Tress MacNeille ) who has the same interests and knowledge as her , and many moments with supporting characters . Other characters seen at least once / twice in the whole hour and 20 minutes , some slightly side-lined ( and normally bigger ) include Abraham " Grampa " Simpson , Patty and Selma , The Flanders : Ned , Rod and Todd , Milhouse Van Houten ( Pamela Hayden ) , Apu , Ralph Wiggum , Chief Clancy Wiggum , Dr . Julius Hibbert , Martin Prince ( Russi Taylor ) , Reverand Lovejoy , Nelson Muntz , Cletus , Mr . Charles Montgomery Burns and Waylon Smithers , Lenny and Carl , Principal Seymour Skinner , Edna Krabappel ( Marcia Wallace ) , Grounsdkeeper Willie , Mayor " Diamond Joe " Quimby , Fat Tony , Comic Book Guy , Sea Captain ( MacCallister ) , Professor Frink , Krusty the Clown , Itchy and Scratchy ( in TV cartoon ) , Kent Brockman , Troy McClure , Moe the bartender , Barney Gumble , Dr . Nick Riviera . Guests include rock band Green Day , Joe Mantegna as Fat Tony and for me an unexpected Tom Hanks . Filled with some great laughs and many lovable characters , this is a fantastic family comedy film , and a treat for fans of the show . The TV series was number 6 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons , it was number 12 on The 100 Greatest Christmas Moments ( for all Christmas episodes ) , it was number 1 on The 100 Greatest TV Characters ( for Homer Simpson ) , it was number 1 on The 100 Greatest Kids ' TV Shows , and of course , it was number 1 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons . Very good !
Air Force One	If you like great action thrillers , then you'll enjoy this film from director Wolfgang Petersen ( In the Line of Fire ) . Basically the President of the United States , James Marshall ( Harrison Ford ) is heading home after making a speech in Moscow on his famous plane , Air Force One . But on the journey , the plane is hijacked by Russian terrorists , led by Ivan Korshunov ( Gary Oldman ) . The President supposedly got in the escape pod before they could get to him , but he didn't , he has stayed on , got a gun ( he has experience of battle ) and is trying to communicate to the authorities , land the plane and save his wife Grace ( Wendy Crewson ) and daughter Alice ( Liesel Matthews ) . Oh , I should mention that the guns shooting is okay , because the plane is able to withstand that sort of attack ( from the inside anyway ) . The Vice President Kathryn Bennett ( Glenn Close ) on the ground is trying to renegotiate with the terrorists ' demands to release convicted General Ivan Radek ( Jurgen Prochnow ) , but they will shoot a hostage every half hour they take to get it done . Eventually Korshunov is aware the President is still on the plane , and the one causing them problems , e . g . fuel loss and outside attacks , but Marshall manages to save the day getting many hostages off , killing those that deserve it , and getting out alive before the plane crashes . Also starring Paul Guilfoyle as Chief of Staff Lloyd ' Shep ' Shepherd , Terminator 2's Xander Berkeley as Secret Service Agent Gibbs , William H . Macy as Major Caldwell , Dean Stockwell as Defense Secretary Walter Dean , Andrew Divoff as Boris Bazylev and Bruce Almighty's Philip Baker Hall as U . S . Atty . General Andrew Ward . This is probably one of the only films where the U . S . President kicks ass instead of someone else doing it for him , e . g . bodyguard , FBI agent . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Film Editing and Best Sound . Gary Oldman was number 40 , and Harrison Ford number 5 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , Oldman was also number 11 on The 50 Greatest British Actors , and he was number 36 on The World's Greatest Actor . Very good !
Punk'd	In Britain , we have Beadle's About and Ant & Dec Undercover , in America , they have this very good programme with the same type of concept , only a bit bigger and braver . Ashton Kutcher and a gang of jokers basically choose a well-known person , celebrity , at random ( I guess ) , find where they are going , and try to fool them into making themselves look an idiot or really cross . The celebrities they have managed to fool , aka get Punk'd , include Christina Aguilera , Pamela Anderson , Pierce Brosnan , Ray Liotta , Denise Richards , Justin Timberlake , Tom Arnold , Billy Boyd , Dominic Monaghan , Brittany Murphy , Kelly Osbourne , Sharon Osbourne , Seth Green , Jessica Simpson , Jack Osbourne , Pink , Britney Spears , Missy Elliott , Tommy Lee , Katie Holmes , Ashanti , Halle Berry , Penélope Cruz , Robert Downey Jr . , Rose McGowan , Jaime Pressly , Alicia Silverstone , Beyoncé Knowles , Matthew Perry , Chris Klein , The Rock , Carmen Electra , Tara Reid , Shannon Elizabeth , Kanye West , Salma Hayek , Kirsten Dunst , Joss Stone , Simon Cowell , Randy Jackson , Tony Hawk , Thora Birch , Akon , Adrien Brody , Mischa Barton , Bam Margera , Neve Campbell , Serena and Venus Williams , Kate Beckinsale , Elijah Wood , Hugh Jackman , Brett Ratner , Rihanna and many more . Sometimes you wonder how they got away with doing some of the stunts , as some are bigger than others , but it is hilarious when they do . As far as I know , it was on The 100 Greatest Funny Moments . Very good !
The Vicar of Dibley	I didn't watch this sitcom that often , but whenever I did this is just a treat . Dibley is a local town where the church has no Vicar . When they eventually find a Vicar they discover it is a woman , British Comedy Award winning ( and nominated ) and three-time BAFTA and twice National Television Award nominated Dawn French as Geraldine Granger . Throughout the sitcom " Gerry " does services , eats chocolate , sits with friends and gets many ideas for money or fame . There are other great characters in the show , not just " Gerry " . There's simple David Horton ( Gary Waldhorn ) , the slow-minded but lovable Alice Tinker / Horton ( BAFTA winning Emma Chambers ) , the friendly sometimes dim Hugo Horton ( James Fleet ) , the confident Frank Pickle ( John Bluthal ) , Owen Newitt ( Roger Lloyd Pack ) and the repetitive Jim Trott , aka , " No , no , no , no " ( Trevor Peacock ) . It was nominated the BAFTAs for two Lew Grade Awards , Situation Comedy Award , and two Best Comedy ( Programme or Series ) awards , and it won the National Television Awards Most Popular Comedy Programme ( also nominated ) . Dawn French was number 4 on Britain's Favourite Comedian , the Christmas Specials were number 6 on The 100 Greatest Moments , and the programme was number 3 on Britain's Best Sitcom . Very good !
Jackass Number Two	Four years after the series ended , and a great movie , the boys came back for more normal camera stunts . Starring Johnny Knoxville who does nearly anything , Bam Margera who does anything , but also plays jokes on his parents Phil and April , Steve-O , Chris Pontius sometimes playing Party Boy and Bunny the Life Guard , Ryan Dunn , Ehren McGhehey , fat Preston Lacy , Jason Acuña , or Wee Man , Dave England , Jeff Tremaine ( directed the movie ) and Rick Kosick . This sequel is much more daring than the first movie . It includes a penis puppet show with starring a snake , butt chugging , sticking a hook through the side of a mouth ( for human fish bait ) , butt branding , drinking horse spunk , eating horse crap , and the most surprisingly dangerous , making a cab driver believe a terrorist was going to the airport , he got a real gun out ! With guest appearances by Tony Hawk , and film directors Spike Jonze ( Being John Malkovich ) , also producing and writing , and John Waters ( Pink Flamingos ) . Very good !
A Touch of Frost	You've probably heard of the Christmas character that makes it snow , well here is a Detective Inspector with that same name . Basically this is a cross between Inspector Morse with an Only Fools and Horses popular sitcom character . Sir David Jason plays DI William George ' Jack ' Frost ( hence the same name ) , a professional , determined and easily annoyed crime investigator . Usually every episode is either a murder or a disappearance of someone . All the cases are always gripping , the characters in the story are always good ( especially when you suspect them of the crime ) , and Jason is just the best part of it . Jason makes the role his own , adds the humour and the drama , and just makes it a watchable show . Sir David Jason was number 1 on TV's 50 Greatest Stars , D . I . Jack Frost was number 42 on The 100 Greatest TV Characters , and the programme was number 3 on ITV : 50 Greatest Shows . Very good !
An Audience with Joe Pasquale	This was the third An Audience with . . . programme that I had seen , the first two being Kylie Minogue and the very good Harry Hill . This was just as funny or entertaining as Harry Hill . The squeaky voiced comedian Joe Pasquale came back to Britain after being crowned King of the Jungle in I'm a Celebrity , Get Me Out of Here ! He obviously did some good jokes involving this . He does a good song about a hamster , paints Lisa Riley , and an okay final sequence involving the Muppet , The Great Gonzo . There are nearly all the other I'm a Celebrity contestants watching in the celebrity audience , Jennie Bond ( not with him ) , Fran Cosgrave , Sheila Ferguson , Brian Harvey and Paul Burrell helps him with a gag . This goes along with all other An Audience With programmes as number 26 on ITV's 50 Greatest Shows . Very good !
The Ren & Stimpy Show	When I was younger I remember this was the most hilarious cartoon since The Simpsons . The basic storyline was two animals ( in this case a cat and a dog ) who live together and a meant to be friends . But really , one gets really frustrated with the other . Ren was the fat idiot cat , and Stimpy was the skinny dog who was meant to be smart , but is just as stupid as Ren . Together they have some pretty weird and obviously insane episodes . They fart , they show butts , they fight , they pull their skin off , they explode things , they argue , Stimpy loses his temper nearly every episode and much , much more . If you were thinking of showing this to your kids , you might be too sensitive that it is violent or just too much stupidity , but it isn't . It was nominated for 3 Emmys , all for Outstanding Animated Program ( For Programming One Hour or Less ) . It was number 18 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons . Very good !
Jackass	This is one of the most silly but very entertaining ideas ever created . Basically a bunch of American guys perform stupid , funny and sometimes dangerous like stunts . They have had puking , bruises , broken arms and legs and some blood performing some of these stunts , but all are as funny as the first . Starring Johnny Knoxville who does nearly anything , Bam Margera who does anything , but also plays jokes on his parents Phil and April , Steve-O , Chris Pontius sometimes playing Party Boy and Bunny the Life Guard , Ryan Dunn , Ehren McGhehey , fat Preston Lacy , Jason Acuña , or Wee Man , Dave England , Jeff Tremaine ( directed the movie ) and Rick Kosick . The Christmas Special was number 49 on The 100 Greatest Christmas Moments . Very good !
The Games	This is one of the best kind-of reality celebrity competition shows I know . Hosted by Jamie Theakson The Games is very interesting This is the show taking a bunch of well or quite known celebrity names and making them perform sports . These sports include running / sprinting , javelin , swimming , hammer throw , diving , wrestling and many more rough and tough challenges . They have had a few good celebrities on the show . These people include : Pat Sharp from Fun House , Craig Charles from Robot Wars , Kirsty Gallagher from Ant vs Dec , Bobby Davro who I've seen in Rainbow ( who did a really nasty looking belly-flop ) and singer Javine . A very good kind-of reality challenge show . There was a special Champion of Champions episode in 2006 . It has been on all 100 Greatest TV Treats programmes so far . Very good !
The 50 Greatest Comedy Films	For a 50 Greatest ( instead of usual 100 Greatest ) countdown , I found this a near essential one , to find the greatest comedy film . The list included fantastic films like : Bridget Jone's Diary , The Ladykillers , Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure , Duck Soup , Team America : World Police , A Shot in the Dark , Four Weddings and a Funeral , The Odd Couple , The Full Monty , School of Rock , Dr . Strangelove , When Harry Met Sally , Ghostbusters , A Fish Called Wanda , Young Frankenstein , Meet the Parents , Dumb and Dumber , Some Like It Hot , The Naked Gun , Groundhog Day , Blues Brothers , Annie Hall , This Is Spinal Tap , There's Something About Mary , American Pie , Monty Python and the Holy Grail , South Park The Movie , Austin Powers , Shaun of the Dead , Airplane ! , and almost deserved winner , Monty Python's Life of Brian . Narrated by Stephen Fry , with contributions by Seth Green , John Landis , Leslie Nielson , Simon Pegg , Rob Reiner and Gene Wilder . Very good !
Die Hard 4 . 0	It has been 12 years since we last saw the vest-wearing , humorously rude and action loving hero in the wrong place at the wrong time , and this was the anticipated return . The first film was brilliant , the sequel was okay , the third film was better , and personally this is the much more enjoyable sequel that is just as good as the first . He may have lost his hair , and not completely the same streak of humour as before , but John McClane ( Bruce Willis ) is still a great hero . Basically , after a brief introduction of McClane's daughter Lucy ( Final Destination 3's Mary Elizabeth Winstead , cyber-terrorists led by Thomas Gabriel ( Scream 2's Timothy Olyphant ) threaten to hack America ( nowadays almost all things are run by a network ) . The only thing stopping them is all other hackers in the country , including Matt Farrell ( Jeepers Creepers ' Justin Long ) who was unexpectedly rescued by McClane , and they are now both on the run from the bad guys , and with Matt's help ( McClane hardly knows about computer technology ) hack the computers to stop their plan . Also starring Maggie Q as Mai Lihn ( Gabriel's lover and partner ) , Cliff Curtis as Bowman , Jonathan Sadowski as Trey , Andrew Friedman as Casper , Kevin Smith ( aka Silent Bob , and director of many films he appears in ) as Warlock , Yorgo Constantine as Russo , Cyril Raffaelli as Rand and Chris Palermo as Del . The odd-couple partnership of McClane and Matt , and the villain are good , the action , special effects and stunts never disappoint , the story of computer-hacking is cool , and it is ultimately a great thrill-ride . Bruce Willis was number 35 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars . Very good !
Dracula	Based on the story by Bram Stoker , this is probably the most well known of all the film adaptations , from director Tod Browning . Basically Renfield ( Dwight Frye ) is summoned to the castle of vampire Count Dracula ( Bela Lugosi ) to finalise the purchase of Carfax Abbey in London , and after which he is turned into an obedient servant . Dracula , in his coffin , travels the sea to London to suck the blood of female victims , including young Lucy Weston ( Frances Dade ) . He then turns his attentions to her friend Mina ( Helen Chandler ) , engaged to John Harker ( David Manners ) and daughter of Dr . Jack Seward ( Herbert Bunston ) . It is when Mina's health is deteriorating that Seward calls specialist Prof . Abraham Van Helsing ( Edward Van Sloan ) , who realises Dracula is a vampire , and he takes Jonathan and Seward through measures of dealing with vampires to prevent Mina becoming one of the undead . Lugosi with his strong Hungarian accent is perfect in his debut role as the Count , and being essentially the first sound horror film , it is still considered one of the great classics of cinema . Count Dracula was number 33 on 100 Years , 100 Heroes & Villains , the film was number 83 on 100 Years , 100 Quotes ( " Listen to them . Children of the night . What music they make . " ) , it was it was number 90 on The 100 Greatest Scary Moments , and it was number 85 on 100 Years , 100 Thrills . Very good !
Live 8	On July 2nd 2005 , there was both a celebration of 20 years since the first one , and then there was another musical charity concert . Sir Bob Geldof gathered many fantastic singing acts and celebrities to create another money raising event , Live 8 ( referring to the G8 Summit ) . The cities and countries shown included London , Paris , Berlin , Rome , Russia , Philadelphia and Canada , plus on the 10th of July in Edinborough . The stars that appeared on the days included : Sir Bob Geldof , Bryan Adams , The Black Eyed Peas , Lenny Henry , Richard Ashcroft , Audioslave , Dan Aykroyd , Björk , Jon Bon Jovi , Mariah Carey , Bono with U2 , Coldplay , Jennifer Connelly , Green Day , Destiny's Child , Dido , Snoop Dogg , Duran Duran , Ms . Dynamite , Pink Floyd , Ricky Gervais , Faith Hill , Sir Elton John , Brad Pitt , Alicia Keys , The Killers , Annie Lennox , Linkin Park , Madonna , Maroon 5 , Pet Shop Boys , Natalie Portman , R . E . M . , Kaiser Chiefs , Shakira , Scissor Sisters , Will Smith , The Who , Chris Tucker , Eddie Izzard , David and Victoria Beckham , Paula Abdul , Stereophonics , George Clooney , Robbie Williams , Jet , Stevie Wonder and Paul McCartney . Very good !
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets	The sequel to the highly successful family film , based on the popular books by J . K . Rowling is another great film , from director Chris Columbus ( Home Alone , Mrs . Doubtfire ) . Harry Potter ( Daniel Radcliffe ) is still living with not pleasant relatives Uncle Vernon ( Richard Griffiths ) and his Aunt Petunia ( Fiona Shaw ) and their son , and in his house he meets Dobby the House Elf ( Toby Jones ) who warns him not to go back to Hogwarts this year . Soon enough Ron Weasley ( Rupert Grint ) and his twin brothers show up in a flying blue car to take him to their place . After staying with the Weasley family , including daughter Ginny ( Bonnie Wright ) , mother Molly again ( Julie Walters ) and father Arthur ( The Fast Show's Mark Williams ) , and before going back to Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry , they pop to Diagon Alley . It is there that Harry is reunited with Hagrid ( Robbie Coltrane ) , Hermoine ( Emma Watson ) and unfortunately the mean Draco Malfoy ( Tom Felton ) , with his father Lucous ( Jason Isaacs ) . When they get back to Hogwarts , with getting through Platform 9 and 3 quarters and using the blue car , and after being told off , the lessons soon continue again . Teachers include Professor Pomona Sprout ( Miriam Margolyes ) teaching magic plant handling , and new teacher of The Dark Arts , who Harry met in Diagon Alley , the " famous " Gilderoy Lockhart ( Kenneth Branagh ) . The second Quidditch game is good because Malfoy is against Harry as the new seeker . Later , terrifying things are happening to people , they are being petrified by something , and in a lesson with Professor Minerva McGonagall ( Dame Maggie Smith ) she explains about the note left on the wall , i . e . about the Chamber of Secrets . Later , Harry finds a diary belonging to someone called Tom Riddle , and through this magical book he sees a vision about who may be responsible , Hagrid ! Oh , and Harry also finds out he can talk Parceltongue , like a Slytherin student , which comes in handy when they go looking for the beast petrifying everyone , the Basilisk . The Basilisk brings death to someone if they look in it's eyes , it's only petrified those people because they didn't look at directly , i . e . reflections or through a ghost . Harry , Ron and Lockhart , who they found out stole all his stories from other wizards , erasing their memory , anyway they find the bathroom with the entrance to the chamber , and where Moaning Myrtle ( Shirley Henderson ) was killed by the beast , and Harry battles the blinded ( by the phoenix ) Basilisk , and Tom Marvolo Riddle ( Christian Coulson , his name is mixed from the words I Am Lord Voldermort ) . The film ends happily with Hermoine and the other victims revived from being petrifying , Professor Albus Dumbledore ( Richard Harris , in his last film before dying ) returns from Azkaban prison ( faulsly arrested ) , and Hagrid is applauded when Harry makes him one of the big helps . Also starring Alan Rickman as Professor Snape , David Bradley as Argus Filch and John Cleese as Nearly Headless Nick . It won the BAFTA for Best Feature Film ( Kids ' Vote ) and it was nominated BAFTAs for Best Special Visual Effects , Best Production Design and Best Sound . Harry Potter was number 45 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons , but he was also number 35 on The 100 Worst Britons ( the only fictional person , why ? ) , and the film was number 24 on The Ultimate Film . Very good !
Bean	He first appeared on TV in 1990 , and in 1997 he finally got be the star of his own " Ultimate Disaster Movie " , from comedian director Mel Smith . Rubber-faced genius comedian Rowan Atkinson as Mr . Bean works in The Royal National Gallery as a lazy caretaker , and when his bosses want to fire him , the Chairman ( Sir John Mills ) defends him , so they instead send him on a trip to America to be the " professional " scholar for the Grierson Gallery of California to see and talk about the new purchase , Whistler's Mother . Unaware of his accident-prone personality , David Langley ( Ally McBeal's Peter MacNicol ) allows him to stay at his house , and his wife Alison ( Pamela Reed ) and kids move out for not getting rid of him . Along the way of waiting for the painting , Bean and David live up the joys of America , and Bean obviously causes all the havoc . Then when the painting does arrive , Bean destroys it , and David pretty much breaks down . Bean saves the day three times though , when he " restores " the painting , gives a good speech about it , and wakes David's daughter's after a motorcycle accident . Also starring Harris Yulin as George Grierson , Burt Reynolds as General Newton , Larry Drake as Elmer , Chris Ellis as Detective Butler , EastEnders ' June Brown as Delilah . This is a fantastic comedy film for anyone who likes slapstick , a lovable bumbling simple minded hero , and if you have the DVD , the deleted scenes are good as well , including Bean driving his green Mini through Harrods . Another Bean movie followed in 2007 , Mr . Bean's Holiday , after which Atkinson announced it was the last time he would play the character . Rowan Atkinson was number 18 on The 50 Greatest British Actors , he was number 24 on The Comedians ' Comedian , and he was number 8 on Britain's Favourite Comedian , and the film was number 53 on The 100 Greatest Family Films ( although the list may be confused with The Great Escape ) . Very good !
The Railway Children	I will admit I possibly missed tiny moments when I wasn't paying proper attention , but I got enough of the story to agree that it is a great family film , from director Lionel Jefferies , who played Grandpa Potts in Chitty Chitty Bang Bang . Basically it starts with a happy upper-middle class family living in Victorian London . One night the Father ( Iain Cuthbertson ) is visited by two strangers , and he leaves with them , and does not return . They move to a cottage in the country , and here the children ; Bobbie ( Jenny Agutter , who I first saw in Child's Play 2 ) , Phyllis ( Sally Thomsett ) and Peter ( Gary Warren ) keep their spirits up , with their fascination for the nearby railroad . Everyday they wave faithfully to the passengers in the passing trains , and with courage and vigilance they also avoid an accident and are made heroes . Their kindness makes them friends , including important people who can help find the mystery of their missing father . Also starring Dinah Sheridan as Mother / Mrs . Waterbury , Bernard Cribbins as Albert Perks , William Mervyn as Old Gentleman , Peter Bromilow as Doctor Forrest , Ann Lancaster as Ruth and Gordon Whiting as Russian . It was number 29 on The 100 Greatest Family Films . Very good !
The Big Fat Quiz of the Year 2004	If you knew your news , events , media and happenings of the year 2004 , then this was the show that you needed to watch . Hosted by Jimmy Carr this quiz gave viewers , and the celebrities the opportunity to test their knowledge of the past twelve months . This show had celebrity guests , in teams , they included : Rob Brydon , Jonathan Ross , June Sarpong , David Walliams and Simon Pegg . Other appearances included Kacey Ainsworth , BB5 winner Nadia Almada , Bono , Derren Brown , Richard and Judy Finnigan , Leigh Francis as The Bear , Nigel Harman , Kelly Holmes , Davina McCall , Kim Medcalf , Tracy-Ann Oberman , Dermot O'Leary , Shane Richie , Liza Tarbuck , Carol Vorderman and Louis Walsh . A very good quiz show with some good humour , good guests , a good host and a good chance to relive the year past . Very good !
The Simpsons : a Culture Show Special	Not long before the anticipated release of their movie , and after celebrating the 400th episode and 20 years , The Culture Show paid homage to the great success of The Simpsons with this special half-hour documentary about them . Hosted by Lauren Laverne ( who co-hosts Culture Show along with the great film critic Mark Kermode ) , this programme basically looked back from their first appearance on The Tracey Ullman Show in 1987 and episodes gone by to see why everyone loves this cartoon sitcom so much . This included the key and supporting characters , the jokes , the celebrity appearances , the writers , the mocking of everyday things , and much more , a great one-off documentary with plenty of clips , information and opinion to keep you interested . With contributions from creator Matt Groening , Ricky Gervais , Nick Park , Stephen Hawking , Phill Jupitus , Helen Fielding and Johnny Vegas . Very good !
Johnny Vegas : 18 Stone of Idiot	A bit of a rubbish opening titles with Johnny Vegas on a horse , but the show isn't . He always starts with weighing himself at 18 stone and then girls doing something quite dangerous to him while he sings . Every episode he is drunk and chats to a special guest . He also has a crap next to a grumpy monkey and we see inside his mind after the break . But in the show the best moments are TV Democracy where we see something we want to ; My Favourite Things ; What's Your Beef , Give Me The Gravy ! and Johnny jumping over the celebrity , e . g . in a pram . Guests included Ray Winstone , Timmy Mallett , Terry Nutkins , Kathy Burke , Jodie Marsh , Elvis Costello and Rhys Ifans . A very manic but highly entertaining show , Vegas can be loud , but you get used to it . Johnny Vegas was number 16 on Britain's Favourite Comedian . Very good !
The Last King of Scotland	This is one of the best biographical films ( mixed with some fiction ) I have seen in ages , from director Kevin Macdonald ( Touching the Void ) . Basically newly graduated Scottish doctor , Nicholas Garrigan ( BAFTA nominated James McAvoy ) wants to travel , and he goes to Uganda ( from landing there on a globe ) to assist in the rural hospital . Not long after arriving , he meets newly elected President Idi Amin ( Oscar , BAFTA and Golden Globe Forest Whitaker ) , who promises a new golden age for the African people . They become really good friends as the President is a fan of Scottish people , and Garrigan is given a job in the national health department and becomes one of Amin's closest advisers . However , as years pass , Garrigan notices Amin's increasingly erratic behaviour that grows beyond a legitimate fear of assassination into a murderous insanity that is driving Uganda into bloody ruin . He also will not let him go home , he realises his lunacy and needs to make crucial decisions that could mean death . I have to admit , Amin seems a nice guy for a while , but it is when he admits to a murder , and then hangs McAvoy on hooks by his nipples I know he is insane . Also starring Kerry Washington as Kay Amin , Gillian Anderson as Sarah Merrit , Simon McBurney as Nigel Stone , David Oyelowo as Dr . Junju and Abby Mukiibi Nkaaga as Masanga . Whitaker deserved to win the only Oscar nominated for playing a truly extraordinary character , and in America on a college trip , at the 22nd Santa Barbara Film Festival , I saw him win the honorary American Riviera Award . It won the BAFTA Alexander Korda Award for Best British Film , and it won Best Adapted Screenplay , and it was nominated for Best Film . Very good !
The Evil Dead	This is just another example of the genius , especially with the camera and violence work , that director Sam Raimi brought , before Spider-Man . Basically five young people , Cheryl ( Ellen Sanweiss ) , Scott ( Richard DeManincor ) , Linda ( Betsy Baker ) , Shelley ( Theresa Tilly ) and Ash ( Bruce Campbell ) have rented an empty ranch in the forest for a short holiday . After exploring the basement , they listen to a found tape with a guy reading a spell . This spell unleashes a terrifying thing ( The Evil Dead ) from the ground . It's not long before , one by one , the teens start turning into them . The only teens left over have to kill their now evil friends before they do terrible things . Blood filled pipes , chopping up bodies , raping trees , people becoming zombies and many other brilliant gory effects , this is one of the the best gore films I know , and even being deemed a video nasty , it was the most rented film of the year . It was number 12 on The 100 Greatest Scary Moments . Very good !
The Convention Crasher	The first episode seemed like just a one-off , but I'm glad it turned into a series . The lovable Friday Night Project and Flipside TV presenter Justin Lee Collins basically travels to America to take part in some of the biggest conventions . The first time he went to one was when he entered a celebrity look-a-likes convention ( contest ) , and he entered as Sir Tom Jones singing " Delilah " and " It's Not Unusual " , and the professionals were impressed . When the series returned he entered three other conventions , to become a magician ( he achieved third place ! ) , a ventriloquist ( some good comments from the judges ) , and a clown ( the audience loved it , be has was disqualified for giving an audience member a balloon - which counts as audience participation , and he could have been disqualified for his nose falling off ) . A great documentary series with a great leading character . Very good !
The British Comedy Awards 2004	As far as I've seen this has always been essential viewing because I am always wanting my favourite comedy shows to be mentioned , nominated or hopefully win . They always have a good host , usually Jonathan Ross to add comedy of his / her own . With the help of clips we see who has been nominated for certain awards and then the special guest giver announces the winner . There are awards such as Best Comedy Show , Comedy Writer , Best Comedy Actor and Actresses and many more . They have some pretty good people to give the awards as well as receive them . Not sure about Johnny Vegas , but they've had Sir Ian McKellen , Peter Kay , Jimmy Carr , Jordan ( Katie Price ) , Richard Curtis , Anthony McPartlin , Declan Donnelly , Lord Richard Attenborough and many others . Very good !
Harry Enfield and Chums	I can't really remember seeing the normal show , but I saw the Yule Log Christmas Special which was brilliant . BAFTA nominated Harry Enfield is one of the greatest sketch show people I know , and along with Paul Whitehouse ( The Fast Show ) and BAFTA nominated Kathy Burke it is a really good show . I can't really say much about the show , so I'll say about the Christmas one . The characters that really stuck out for me were : Kevin and Perry the Teenagers ( I've seen them on special video , Kevin's Guide to Being a Teenager ) ; Frank and George ( who used to be in the Hula Hoops adverts ) ; The Rich Guy ( " I am considerably richer than you ! " ) ; Honest John ; Michael Paine and many other weird and wonderful people . One of the funniest sketches of the Christmas Special for me was the Telecocknies ( a spoof of Teletubbies ) . It was nominated the BAFTA for Best Light Entertainment ( Programme or Series ) . Kevin the Teenager was number 15 on The 100 Greatest TV Characters , Waynetta Slob was number 37 on The World's Greatest Comedy Characters , The Christmas Special was number 34 on The 100 Greatest Christmas Moments , and The Slobs - Brown Baby was number 11 on The 50 Greatest Comedy Sketches . Very good !
Shrek	If you liked Toy Story as a computer animated film , you'll like this . A fairytale never told about an ogre called Shrek ( voiced by Mike Myers ) . He has lived in his swamp for a long time . Then one day he stumbles on Donkey ( loud-mouthed Eddie Murphy ) . They do not get on that well together at first but they become better friends as the film goes on . When Shrek's swamp becomes crowded with fairytale people and creatures Shrek goes to Lord Farquaad's castle . Farquaad ( John Lithgow ) is the one who made them go there . But the Lord is too busy trying to become King , to do this he decides to make a deal with Shrek to let him have his swamp back if he rescues Princess Fiona ( Cameron Diaz ) from a lava surrounded , dragon guarded castle . After he had done this he Shrek had started to have a special relationship with the Princess , until eventually they had fallen in love . A charming story with some good comedy moments . It won the Oscar for Best Animated Feature . It was number 2 on The 100 Greatest Family Films , and along with the sequel , both were number 6 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons . Very good !
Friday Night with Jonathan Ross	When there's nothing else good on Friday nights , this is probably the best show to watch . It's basically like a comedy chat show with the popular critic , actor and chat show host , slightly wobbly mouthed twice BAFTA and British Comedy Award winning , and National Television Award nominated Jonathan Ross . Throughout the show he has had many wonderful and famous people on the show , not counting Four Poofs and a Piano singing as they enter . My favourite episode so far has still been the one with Chris Tarrant , Johnny Vegas and Jim Carrey . You know what Carrey's like , they basically sang a chosen song as loud as possible and wrecked the studio . And it was the last in the Series ! Ross adds both humour and seriousness to make this show a very good award winner . It has been on all 100 Greatest TV Treats programmes so far . It won the BAFTAs for the Lew Grade Award ( also nominated ) , it won the British Comedy Awards for Best Comedy Entertainment Programme , and it was nominated the National Television Awards for Most Popular Entertainment Programme ( three times ) . Very good !
Dumber and Dumber	If you're not a fan of You've Been Framed anymore ( like I almost am ) , then you would definitely prefer this clip show with even more dangerous accidents and stupidity . Obviously being called Dumber and Dumber means that all people put on camera are idiots for whatever reason . The clips come from both America and the UK , and are all as funny as each other . There are people doing stunts , television attempts , sport things , weddings , parties and many other incidents , whether accidental or on purpose , they are all dumb . With the voice of the late great Tommy Vance made it even more cool , with his rough hard sounding voice made it even more funny , it's a shame he died . The new host Noddy Holder from Slade is pretty good in Dumber and Dumberest . Very good !
Best Ever ' Spitting Image '	It started in 1984 and ended in 1996 , and is still remembered as one of the best impression and puppet shows on television . This programme reflected people's opinion of the programme , and the best moments from the best latex puppets . Hosting this programme were two new creations made especially , Ant & Dec ! This programme had contributions from the stars of the programme , Jon Culshaw ( also voicing Ant , with Phil Cornwell as Dec ) , Ian Hislop , Harry Enfield and Alistair McGowan . It also had contributions from fans , and people who were impersonated , including : John Lloyd , Lord Neil Kinnock , Edwina Currie , David Baddiel , Lord Roy Hattersley , Sir Trevor McDonald , Desmond Lynam , Paul Daniels , Barry Norman , David Steel , Louise Gold , Chris Eubank and Bob Geldof . If you weren't on Spitting Image , you were pretty much a nobody , and even the people who didn't want to be on there ( e . g . the fantastic Margaret Thatcher puppet ) were on it . Whatever people thought of it , and the dreadful Chicken Song , it still remains a legend on TV . Very good !
The Muppet Show	This is a quality and genius puppet show . Jim Henson's department has created some lovable and laughable puppet characters in this hilarious show . He combines music , small humour , large humour , slapstick and brilliant puppetry to make really good entertainment . The voice artists are also brilliant at making the characters come alive . There's Jim Henson himself playing the star Kermit the Frog , Dr . Teeth , Waldorf , Newsman and many more . Frank Oz ( also famous for Yoda in Star Wars ) as the irrepressible Miss Piggy , Fozzie Bear , Animal , the Swedish Chef , Sam the Eagle , Janice and many more . Jerry Nelson as Camilla the chicken , Floyd , Robin the Frog ( Kermit's nephew ) , Crazy Harry , Dr . Strangepork , Lew Zealand , Rowlf and many more . Richard Hunt as Miss Piggy ( when Frank Oz was busy ) , Scooter , Statler , Sweetums , Janice ( when Frank Oz was busy ) , Beaker and many more . Steve Whitmire appeared as Rizzo the Rat . And Dave Goelz as The Great Gonzo , Dr . Bunsen Honeydew , Zoot the Sax Player , Beauregard , Fozzie Bear ( when Frank Oz was busy ) and many more . They had some fantastic guests throughout , e . g . Sir Roger Moore , John Cleese , Steve Martin , Bruce Forsyth , Emmy nominated Peter Sellers , Liza Minnelli , Sir Elton John , Alice Cooper , Mark Hamill and many more . It's just sad that Jim Henson and Richard Hunt died , they really made the show . It won 3 BAFTAs ( from 9 nominations ) and it won 4 Emmys ( from 21 nominations ) . Miss Piggy was number 29 on The 100 Greatest TV Characters , the programme was number 8 on ITV : 50 Greatest Shows , number 2 on The 100 Greatest Kids ' TV Shows , and The Muppets were number 47 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons . Very good !
Cow and Chicken	When it was on CITV and Cartoon Network , this was one of the funniest and one of my watchable cartoons . Two parents , who you never see the faces of have a cow for a daughter and a chicken for a son . Cow and Chicken have many weird and wonderful small adventure like episodes either to do with their lives or to change it . Most of the episodes are dominated sometimes by the really weird character called , The Red Guy , he looks like the devil with a big arse . That's one of the things I like about the cartoon , their use of the arse . The Red Guy , Cow , and even Pork Butts for dinner ! Very funny and very entertaining animation , possibly from the makers of Ed , Ed ' n ' Eddy . It was nominated for 2 Emmys , both for Outstanding Animated Program ( For Programming One Hour or Less ) . Very good !
PokerFace	This was apparently the idea from the hosts themselves , and it is really good one . Anthony McPartlin and Declan Donnelly host this this terrific game show that tests your knowledge , but also your ability to lie and con . It does not matter how many answers you get right , you can still be in with a chance of winning £50 , 000 . The contestants have the choice of whether to fold and take their winnings , or not , or they could stay and continue , or win nothing . The only reason they may fold is if another contestant has conned / pokerfaced them . The last two contestants in the game have the chance to win the big cash , but there is no telling if they will fold . The final of six shows the winning contestants have to gamble their £50 , 000 for a guaranteed £1 , 000 , 00 . If they don't fold and they are lowest in points , it would have all been for nothing . Ant and Dec were number 56 on The 100 Worst Britons ( why ? ) , and they were number 7 on TV's 50 Greatest Stars . Very good !
Super Size Me	He was nominated for an Oscar , and he won the Sundance Film Festival award for Best Director , and believe me Morgan Spurlock deserved it . Spurlock directs , writes , stars in and carries out the most interesting documentary experiment I have ever seen . America is the fattest nation in the world and with the biggest stuff , and fast food is really popular . People have claimed fast food , especially McDonald's is not good for you , so Spurlock carries out an experiment to see what happens if he eats nothing but McDonald's for a month . Rules : He can only ' Super Size ' the meal if asked , he can only eat and drink what McDonald's sells ( water included ) , he must have every food at least once , and he must have the three meals , Breakfast , Lunch and Dinner . Also in the black comedy documentary he gets people's and experts opinions about fast food and the industry and problems . Will Morgan survive the experiment , will his liver be okay , and will his girlfriend let him carry on ? It was number 19 on The 50 Greatest Documentaries . Very good !
Jimmy Carr : Stand Up	This was pretty much funnier than the first DVD , Jimmy Carr Live . It had more daring jokes , it had a good audience , and better than that , I saw one of these shows while he was on tour . Seeing him live was just fantastic , and one of the best jokes was a guy shouting out " Duckman " , and Carr asks why he is called that , the guys says " long story " , and it turns out his name is Lee Drake ! Anyway , this DVD of one of his shows performed during the tour is just brilliant . Also , if you have the DVD of it you get the special features of him being top of the " star in a reasonably priced car " track list ; on Top Gear , and his own Comedy Idol ( like X Factor , but for comedians ) . Jimmy Carr was number 12 on 100 Greatest Stand-Ups . Very good !
Requiem for a Dream	Trainspotting showed the pleasure of them , Blow showed the selling of them , and this clever drama shows the addiction from drugs , based on the novel by Hubert Selby Jr . Basically the story revolves around the lives of four individual characters . These are Sara Goldfarb ( The Exorcist's Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Ellen Burstyn ) who is hooked on game shows and sweet foods , desperate to lose weight with diet pills , that she gets addicted to and overdoses , causing hallucinations , increased loneliness , and eventually she goes to hospital , after going to the game show studio and looking a drugged up wreck . Then her heroin addict son Harry ( American Psycho's Jared Leto ) , along with his friend Tyrone C . Love ( Scary Movie's Marlon Wayans ) who both pawn a TV for a new one , and for drugs money , and Harry unfortunately is victim to overdose , but Tyrone pays the price being put in prison for possession . Finally , Harry's girlfriend Marion Silver ( A Beautiful Mind's Jennifer Connelly ) is helping with their drug dealing and profit , but is degrading herself by spending time at stag parties with other men . Also starring Flubber's Christopher McDonald as Tappy Tibbons , Happiness's Louise Lasser as Ada and Volcano's Keith David as Little John . This film uses clever split-screen technique , i . e . fast paced montage-like moments , especially when characters take their drugs , huge close-ups and exaggerated sound effects , all creating convincing highs and lows of drug taking . The cast is very good , the film is disturbing in places , and the theme is very powerful , an essential drug addictions film . Very good !
The Paul O'Grady Show	The weird voiced comedian best known for playing the nasty Lily Savage now his own mid-day chat show , beating Richard & Judy , it even won a BAFTA . Paul O'Grady is just the perfect host for this show who makes us laugh , gives us competitions and invites some very good guests . He obviously gets more viewers than Richard & Judy because he is more watchable , and he deserved the BAFTA ( although it would have been nice if it was TV Burp ) , he was also nominated a National Television Award . He's had Jo Brand , Simon Cowell , Donny Osmond , Martine McCutcheon , Harry Hill , Matthew Kelly , Martin Kemp , Deborah Stevenson , Lulu , Sally Lindsay , Dolly Parton , Lee Ryan , Daniel Bedingfield , Fern Britton , Phillip Schofield , Jessie Wallace , Dannii Minogue , Sir Cliff Richard , Jennie Bond , Darius , David Dickinson , Derek Acorah , Nadia Almada , Jamelia , Lesley Joseph , Richard Whiteley , Sharon Osbourne , Barbara Windsor , Lorraine Kelly , Cilla Black , McFly , Michael Ball , Kate Thornton , Todd Carty , Michael Winner , Jon Culshaw , Jan Ravens , Blue , Cat Deeley , Jade Goody , Seal , Chris Tarrant , Wendi Peters , Al Murray , Lemar , Jane Danson , Brian Blessed , Pam Ferris , Natalie Cassidy , Jools Holland , Sir Tom Jones , Kim Cattrall , John Savident , Ruby Wax , Davina McCall , James Alexandrou , Beverley Knight , Michael Parkinson , Boy George , Ricky Gervais , Ewan McGregor , Aled Jones , Ant McPartlin and Declan Donnelly , Natalie Imbruglia , Celia Imrie , Eamonn Holmes , Natasha Bedingfield , Rachel Stevens , Brian Conley , The Rock , Uma Thurman , John Travolta , Pete Waterman , Antony Cotton , Vernon Kay , Janet Street-Porter , Lauren Bacall , Jean-Christophe Novelli , Danniella Westbrook , June Sarpong , Joe Pasquale , Lucy-Jo Hudson , Martin Freeman , Bill Nighy , Jill Halfpenny , Sir Roger Moore , Shane Richie , Lenny Henry , Billy Murray , Robert Downey Jr . , Patsy Kensit , Sir Ian McKellen , Steve Brookstein , Carol Smillie , Kathy Burke , Catherine Tate , Jim Bowen , Julian Clary , Rob Brydon , Shobna Gulati , Peter Davison , Geri Halliwell , Jonathan Wilkes , Kenny Baker , Honor Blackman , Charlotte Church , William Roache , Ruby Wax , Sir Terry Wogan , Suranne Jones , Mariah Carey , Jack Dee , Sheryl Crow , Carol Vorderman , Jack Osbourne , Rob Schneider , Terry Jones , Rik Mayall , Denise Van Outen , Des Lynam , Wendy Richard , Richard Wilson , Dame Kelly Holmes , Joan Rivers , Status Quo , Martin Clunes , Sir Trevor McDonald , Stephen Mulhern , Craig David , Ricky Tomlinson , Rod Stewart , Alice Cooper , Anastacia , June Brown , Kim Woodburn and Aggie MacKenzie , Timothy Spall , Ozzy Osbourne , Neil Morrissey , Will Young , Noddy Holder . . . . Himself , Bryan Adams , Amanda Holden , Lee Evans , Nigel Harman , Dame Julie Andrews , Dawn French , Mike Reid , Charles Dance , Joan Collins , Perry Fenwick , Sanjeev Bhaskar , Art Malik , Sid Owen , Joanna Lumley , Ray Winstone , Ross Kemp , Jimmy Carr , Chris Evans , Liz Smith , Girls Aloud , Christian Slater , Shayne Ward , Sean Lock , Fearne Cotton , Danny Glover , Ronnie Corbett , Kathleen Turner , Richard E . Grant , Graham Norton , Ardal O'Hanlon , Justin Lee Collins , David Walliams and Matt Lucas , Anthony Head , Tess Daly , Lionel Richie , Jamie Oliver , Emma Bunton , Anita Dobson , Bruce Forsyth , Alan Titchmarsh , Meat Loaf , Ronni Ancona , Patrick McGuinness , Pink , Dermot O'Leary , Simon Webbe , Nelly Furtado , Mark Owen , Richard Madeley and Judy Finnigan , Gene Simmons and many more famous faces . It won the National Television Award for Most Popular Very good when I watch it !
Family Fortunes	This used be , and when it's on , still is one of my favourite family game shows on TV . Not just because of the host or the unusual families , but because it's one of those shows where you can join in . For example if they gave a certain subject where you name something , I can think of many . Some examples : a Simpson's character , a green vegetable , a thing you do before you go to bed , many other things like that . Les Dennis used to be a really good host , he was both amusing and helpful . The new host , Andy Collins is pretty good as well . In the end , it usually turned out good , even if they didn't win the car or the ten grand , they always went home with a good amount of money . It returned in 2006 with Celebrity editions hosted by Vernon Kay . It was number 50 on ITV : 50 Greatest Shows . Very good !
Moment of Truth	When I saw Blind Date I always used to think that I hated Cilla Black being so happy and cheerful with that large smiley mouth . But this Saturday night show was actually pretty good . Cilla Black hosted a family show where someone tries to do something in front of the audience without failing . If they manage to do it they won brilliant prizes for their families . One of the highlights of the show was where they bring in a family and a member is chosen to perform a task . They show a weekly diary to show how they are doing and most of the time they won . It was just pleasure to see the tasks being performed and the joy of when they succeeded . I wish they would bring it back . Very good !
Boogeymen : The Killer Compilation	I am obviously a big fan of horror films , and there is nothing I like better than a good psychotic , demonic , stalking and killing boogeyman . This special DVD ( with optional Trivia facts and commentary from Robert Englund , aka , Freddy Kreuger ) is a compilation of some of the greatest boogeymen from the last 40 years of horror films . It consists of 17 moments of archive footage , all with the specific boogeyman . First the narrator gives the name of the boogeyman , the film he / she appears in , then some short facts about them , and then we see their evil work . The boogeymen that appear on this compilation are : Pinhead from Hellraiser ( Doug Bradley ) , Freddy Krueger from A Nightmare on Elm Street ( Robert Englund ) , Wishmaster / The Djinn from Wishmaster ( Andrew Divoff , Leatherface from The Texas Chain Saw Massacre ( Gunnar Hansen ) , Ghostface from Scream ( Dane Farwell , voiced by Roger Jackson ) , Leprechaun ( Warwick Davis ) , Chucky from the Child's Play series ( voiced by Brad Dourif ) , Candyman ( Tony Todd ) , The Fisherman from I Know What You Did Last Summer ( Muse Watson ) , Camilla from The Guardian ( Jenny Seagrove ) , Dr . Alan Feinstone from The Dentist ( Corbin Bernse ) , Simon from The Ugly ( Paolo Rotondo ) , The Tall Man from Phantasm ( Angus Scrimm ) , Blade from The Puppet Master ( voiced by Bert Rosario ) , Norman Bates from Psycho ( Anthony Perkins ) , Jason Voorhees from Jason Goes To Hell : The Final Friday ( Kane Hodder ) and Michael Myers from Halloween ( Tony Moran ) , also if you can find it , there is Jack Frost ( voiced by Scott MacDonald ) . Very good !
Spirited Away	I thought Pokémon and Digimon were terrible cartoons from Japan , and then there came this film that I heard about from being number 8 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons , and quite deservedly . It is the very interesting story about a little girl going into a new world . Her parents turn into pigs and Chihiro is now looking for a way to help them . She is distracted in many ways when getting a job at the bath house lead by the mean Yubaba , but it is a fascinating journey . The film won the Oscar for Best Animated Feature for director Hayao Miyazaki . He was described by people as the Walt Disney of Japan , I can see why . It is quality animation with a very good story , I would definitely recommend it to all cartoon , especially Animé lovers . It won the BAFTA for Best Film not in the English Language ( obviously not the dubbed version ) . It was number 68 on The 100 Greatest Family Films . Very good !
Kes	I had seen the spoof of Craig David's peregrine falcon in Bo ' Selecta ! and I watched some of it in my Film Studies class when we studying independent film and here BAFTA nominated director Ken Loach , and after seeing the entire film , I can see why it is considered his best . Based on the " grim Up North " novel by Barry Hines , it tells the story of troublesome but reforming teenager Billy Casper ( BAFTA winning David Bradley , obviously , he was willing to get his clothes off ) . He is a troublemaker , but when he finds and befriends a baby kestrel , Kes , he finds solace and starts to train it to get away from his dysfunctional family and torment of school . There may not be much appearance of the bird , but this is still a good focus on a child almost anti-hero and his troubled life . The other great but horrible character is Billy's bullying older brother , Jud ( Freddie Fletcher ) who in the end is the one that ends the friendship and Billy , really cruelly and for hardly any real reason . Also starring Lynne Perrie as Mrs . Casper , BAFTA winning Colin Welland as Mr . Farthing , English Teacher , Brian Glover as Mr . Sugden , Games Teacher and Bob Bowes as Mr . Gryce , Headmaster . It was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Film , Best Screenplay and the UN Award . It was number 44 on The 100 Greatest Tearjerkers , it was number 26 on The 50 Greatest British Films , and it was number 28 on The 100 Greatest Films . Very , very good !
Dirty Tricks	Not long after Balls of Steel had finished , there was this show all about daredevil people who perform dirty tricks . There were many interesting magic trick performers , stunt men , and some just idiotic to do somethings like they did . These included Barry Jones and Stuart MacLeod performing nearly impossible magic tricks and killing Neil Fox in new ways , Jonathan Goodwin the escapologist ( who came back with Death Wish Live ) , Binde Johal with Rajan Rajput the evil hypnotist , Alistair Cook and Pete Firman . Guests on this show were Big Brother 5 winner Nadia Almada , Kim Woodburn and Aggie MacKenzie , Myleene Klass , John McCririck , Spoons ' Josie D'Arby , Debbie McGee , Zoë Ball , Steve Jones , Celebrity Big Brother's Caprice Bourret , Coronation Street's Lucy-Jo Hudson , Penn Jillette and Sarah Cawood . Also every week they replaced the guest host with a new animal and voice , they were Stephen Fry as an Owl , Mark ' Bez ' Berry as a Lemur , Jo Brand as a Pug , Nick Frost as a Monkey , Peep Show's David Mitchell and June Whitfield as a Persian Cat . I doubt they'll bring it back , but here's hoping . Very good !
Danger ! 50 , 000 Volts !	This was the first time I saw the comedian , along with an A-Z of Sexy Stuff on Channel 5 ( same channel as this programme ) , and it was brilliant . Nick Frost , star of Shaun of the Dead and Hot Fuzz hosts this cool and cunning comedy show showing us many dangers around the world that anybody could come up against , and it his job to show us how to avoid them . These dangers were Alligator Attack , Minefield Alert , Impaling , Icy Water , In the Desert - No Water , Frostbite , Bat Wielding Thug Alert , Bear Attack , Komodo Dragon Attack , Hostage Rescue Alert , Where's My Arm ? ( Losing Limbs ) , Extreme Cold , Heartstroke , Kidnap , Venomous Snake Attack , Sinking Ship , Gorilla Attack , Lost in the Dark Alert , Taxi Birth , Ice Fishing , Stuck In the Sand ( with car ) , Bugged Room Alert , Shark Attack , Infected Wound , I'm Choking , Hippo Attack , Arachnid ( e . g . spider ) Attack , Surviving the Snow , Tracker Dog Alert , Brake Failure , Elephant Attack and Nuclear Attack . The show also had " Too Dangerous To Film " material , these were Parachute Failure , Lightning , Falling Lift , Tornado , Trapped Underwater , Earthquake , Forest Fire , Quicksand , Caves , Volcanos , Bridges ( jumping from ) , Avalanche , Life Raft , Tidal Wave , Runaway Steam Train ( how to stop ) and Flash Floods . If you have the DVD there is a special episode called Danger ! 50 , 000 Zombies with Simon Pegg . The show was followed by Danger ! Incoming Attack . Very good !
Dragon's Den	Obviously when it started I ignored because I thought it was boring , then I watched one or two episodes in series four , and now I can't get enough of this great reality business programme . Originally it had the four current dragons , apart from the new one was preceded by Richard Farleigh , and even though I never saw them there were also entrepreneurs / dragons Rachel Elnaugh , Doug Richard and Simon Woodroffe . Anyway , the current dragons are new one James Caan ( not the film star ) , Duncan Bannatyne , Deborah Meaden , Theo Paphitis and Peter Jones , and still presenting and narrating is Evan Davis . Basically the programme is all about investment ; people come into the Dragon's Den with an idea , invention or business , talk about the premise of this idea / invention / business , benefits from it , sales and figures , and the dragons will decide whether they are interested in investing , or are out . The really bad ones are obviously fun and amusing to watch , but the good ones are also highlights , most I would hope become very successful in their own rights . The dragons all have their moments , the people who come in are either amusing or impressive with their concepts , and even though I don't understand all aspects of business yet , it is a very interesting reality show . It has been nominated the BAFTA Audience Award , and for Best Features ( twice ) . Very good !
Harry Enfield Presents Kevin's Guide to Being a Teenager	This special video brought all the sketches from Harry Enfield and Chums with the one character people always remember , number 15 on The 100 Greatest TV Characters , Kevin the Teenager . Basically the sketches have been put into an appropriate order to show Kevin's life as a teenager . But it is also a rule guide for teenagers to follow , 12 rules on how to be a teenager . These clips assembled to one rule concerned : Kevin's room , the family car , getting girls and teachers to like you , hating his parents Mum ( Louisa Rix ) and Dad ( Stephen Moore and Duncan Preston ) , and being with best friend Perry ( Kathy Burke ) . A very funny video from a very funny character and comedian , all taken from a very funny show . Very good !
Ruthless People	From the three directors of Airplane ! this is a fantastic comedy with two of favourite comedy actors in the lead roles . Basically Sam Stone ( Golden Globe nominated Danny DeVito ) is a clothing manufacturer , he married his wife Barbara ( a great Bette Midler ) for the money she didn't get from her dying father , who didn't die for 15 years . He planned to kill her himself , but then he gets a phone call from kidnappers Ken ( Judge Reinhold ) and Sandy ( Helen Slater ) Kessler threatening to kill her unless he pays them . Sam celebrates when he hears this , and soon enough the press have to believe that he does care about her . By the way , Ken and Sandy are not the best of kidnappers , Barbara ' more lethal . Meanwhile , Sam's girlfriend Carol Dodsworth ( Anita Morris ) secretly plans with other boyfriend Earl Mott ( Bill Pullman ) to blackmail him with a video tape of him dumping Barbara's body . The big laugh for me was all the threats to the police guy when it the video Earl filmed is in fact him having it on with a whore . A fantastic comedy with great actors , great lines and great comedy twists . Very good !
Total Recall	From director Paul Verhoeven ( RoboCop , Showgirls , Starship Troopers ) this is a fantastic science-fiction action thriller , even if it does cause questions . It is the future , 2084 , and Douglas Quaid ( Arnold Schwarzenegger ) is a normal construction worker haunted by a dream to go to the planet Mars , so one day he decides to go to the memory implant vacation company , Rekall , for a trip , he also accepts the experience of being a secret agent . It goes terribly wrong though when he has had his memory erased , is being chased by assassins , and his beautiful wife Lori ( Basic Instinct's Sharon Stone ) is an agent telling Doug his whole life is fake . After escaping the assassins , and getting a suitcase of gadgets , fake IDs and cash , and discovering he is Hauser , a former Mars Intelligence agent , he goes to the colony on Mars for answers . There he meets Melina ( Rachel Ticotin ) working for the rebels , and soon enough he finds out the assassins are working for great arsehole villain Vilos Cohaagen ( RoboCop's Ronny Cox ) . While finding answers , and questioning reality , Doug , and Melina plan to stop Cohaagen's dastardly rule of the planet by activating an alien machine ( started by hand ) that is supposed to provide oxygen for the whole of Mars . Also starring Michael Ironside as Richter , Twins ' Marshall Bell as George / Kuato , Mel Johnson Jr . as Benny , Michael Champion as Helm , Roy Brocksmith as Dr . Edgemar , Ray Baker as Bob McClane and Robert Costanzo as Harry . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Sound Effects Editing , Best Sound and a Special Achievement Award ( for Visual Effects ) , and it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Special Visual Effects . Arnold Schwarzenegger was number 54 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , and he was number 20 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons . Very good !
The 100 Greatest War Films	My brother has a big interest in anything to do with war , so it was pretty obvious that he would watch this very interesting documentary . It was basically another 100 Greatest countdown based on past and popular war films , including : The Eagle Has Landed , Cold Mountain , The Birth of a Nation , Regeneration , El Cid , Cromwell , Gone with the Wind , Ride with the Devil , Oh ! What a Loveley War , Enigma , The English Patient , From Here to Eternity , Troy , Three Kings , A Matter of Life and Death , Master and Commander : The Far Side of the World , Patton , Empire of the Sun , Lawrence of Arabia , Henry V , The Last of the Mohicans , Kelly's Heroes , All Quiet on the Western Front , The Pianist ; Good Morning , Vietnam , Casablanca , Enemy at the Gates , Spartacus , Gladiator , MASH , Where Eagles Dare , The Longest Day , Born on the Fourth of July , Dr . Strangelove , The Thin Red Line , Braveheart , The Deer Hunter , The Dam Busters , The Bridge on the River Kwai , Black Hawk Down , Zulu , A Bridge Too Far , Platoon , Full Metal Jacket , Schindler's List , The Great Escape , Apocalypse Now and deserved winner Saving Private Ryan . Narrated by Sean Pertwee and with contributions by Lord Sir Richard Attenborough , Juliette Binoche , Edwina Currie , R . Lee Ermey , Ralph Fiennes , Mark Hamill , Guy Hamilton , Ian Hart , Dennis Hopper , Karen Krizanovich , Sir Ridley Scott , Martin Sheen , Steven Spielberg , Oliver Stone , Christopher Walken and Edward Woodward . Very good !
Miracle on 34th Street	The remake starring Lord Sir Richard Attenborough , Mara Wilson and Elizabeth Perkins might be more well known , and fun for kids , but the original is more critically acclaimed , from Golden Globe winning , and Oscar nominated writer , and director George Seaton ( Airport ) . Basically the actor playing Santa for Macy's Department Store Thanksgiving Day parade is found drunk , so the special events director Doris Walker ( Maureen O'Hara ) persuades the bearded man who found him , Kris Kringle ( Oscar and Golden Globe winning Edmund Gwenn ) to take his place . He proves to be a sensation with the public , and is quickly recruited to work in the Macy's store , even claiming he is the real Santa Claus . What gives the store some good business is that they market the fact that Kris is telling customers where to find certain items , including at better prices , and he is really enlightening everyone spirits , including Doris's own daughter Susan ( young West Side Story's Natalie Wood ) , who she taught to reject any belief and fantasy . The incompetent psychologist Dr . Pierce ( James Seay ) , hired for Kris , originally saying he is harmless ( when they thought he might be crazy ) , makes him erupt in anger , ending up with Kris put into Bellevue , awaiting a trial to prove his sanity . His defender , Doris's friend Fred Gailey ( John Payne ) isn't just fighting for Kris's release , but unbelievably his sanity , by proving he is the real Santa Claus ! It is going to take a miracle for Kris to win , but thankfully they find something that clearly proves his identity , a mountain of letters addressed to " Santa Claus " , all given to Kris at Christmas , they win the case ! Oh , and Susan gets the present she wanted for Christmas , a new house . Also starring Gene Lockhart as Judge Henry X . Harper , Porter Hall as Granville Sawyer , William Frawley as Charlie Halloran , Jerome Cowan as Dist . Atty . Thomas Mara , Philip Tonge as Julian Shellhammer , Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory's Jack Albertson as Post Office Mail Sorter , Harry Antrim as Mr . R . H . Macy and Rear Window's Thelma Ritter as Peter's Mother . It is good that the remake didn't copy everything , including how they win the case , and the present that the daughter wanted , because boy did Wilson want something big ! A perfect actor playing Kris , or Santa , and obviously the signature role of his career , he deserved the Oscar for playing one of the most well known characters in the world , a very enjoyable family film . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Picture . It was number 43 on The 100 Greatest Family Films , and it was number 9 on 100 Years , 100 Cheers . Very good !
An Audience with Coronation Street	At Christmas the cast of ITV's no . 1 show made a special pantomime , and ITV is really good at having An Audience with . . . programmes , so combine the two and you have a fun evening of entertainment . I really like seeing the past clips before the programme started , and the rest was good too . Basically the evening consisted of singing cast members , questions from the audience ( two from EastEnders ' Billy Murray and children's presenter Stephen Mulhern ) , memories of the show , a special presentation of Johnny Briggs being in the show 30 years as Mike Baldwin , and much more . A good entertainment show , not like a conventional An Audience With , but good . This goes along with all other An Audience With programmes as number 26 on ITV's 50 Greatest Shows . Very good !
From Russia with Love	This was the second outing for James Bond 007 , and Sir Sean Connery playing him . This is considered one of the best of the films because of it's clever mix of moments of action and good plot and story . Basically , a decoder machine is missing , and it is Bond's job to find it before the Russians of the Cold War blame the British . Bond travels with Tatiana ' Tanya ' Romanova ( introducing Daniela Bianchi ) to find it , and with help from Columbo ( For Your Eyes Only ) like character , Kerim Bey ( Pedro Armendáriz ) . They are followed by the nasty Donald ' Red ' Grant ( Robert Shaw ) and the horrible SPECTRE # 3 Rosa Klebb ( Lotte Lenya ) during the process . Also starring Bernard Lee as M , Eunice Gayson returning from Dr . No as Sylvia Trench , Lois Maxwell as Miss Moneypenny , and the very first appearance of Desmond Llewelyn as Q , or Major Boothroyd . It won the BAFTA for Best British Cinematography . James Bond was number 3 on 100 Years , 100 Heroes & Villains , he was number 21 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols , and he was number 21 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons , and the film was number 4 on James Bond's Greatest Hits for Matt Monro's Golden Globe nominated title song , Sir Sean Connery was number 8 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , and he was number 3 on The 50 Greatest British Actors . Very good !
Dead Set	If you are a fan of Big Brother , and if you are a fan of zombie movies ( more similar to 28 Days Later , since they move fast ) , then you will love five part satirical horror series , nearly a made-for-TV ( by E4 ) movie , from journalist writer and creator Charlie Brooker . Basically during a fictional series of Big Brother , a sudden outbreak occurs , with people dying and coming back to life as zombies to devour other people . Just after Pippa ( Kathleen McDermott ) is evicted , the remaining BB house-mates : Marky ( Warren Brown ) , Veronica ( Beth Cordingly ) , Space ( Adam Deacon ) , Joplin - aka " Gollum " ( Kevin Eldon ) , Angel ( Chizzy Akudolu ) and Grayson ( Raj Ghatak ) ; are unaware of the zombie spread outside , until the protagonist Kelly ( Kidulthood's Jaime Winstone , Ray's daughter ) , a BB show runner , comes in . Now the house-mates are doing all they can to keep the zombies out of the safe house , and eventually bastard BB producer Patrick ( Severance's Andy Nyman ) and Kelly's boyfriend Riq ( Riz Ahmed ) joins them . In the end though , after getting supplies , having ideas to escape , and trying to keep the zombies out , it all ends in terror as all the survivors are massacred , but not before Kelly announces Space the winner , being the last house-mate to live . Also starring Liz May Brice as Alex , Shelley Conn as Claire , Elyes Gabel as Danny , Krishnan Guru-Murthy , and of course , featuring real Big Brother stars , obviously presenter Davina McCall , announcer Marcus Bentley , and ex-house-mates Aisleyne Horgan-Wallace ( BB7 ) , Brian Belo ( BB8 ) , Eugene Sully ( BB6 ) , Helen Adams ( BB2 ) , Imogen Thomas ( BB7 ) , Kinga Karolczak ( BB6 ) , Makosi Musambasi ( BB6 ) Paul ' Bubble ' Ferguson ( BB2 ) , Saskia Howard-Clarke ( BB6 ) and Ziggy Lichman ( BB8 ) . The series may have been low budget , but the gory effects are just as good as George A . Romero could do , the acting is very good too , especially from Winstone and Nyman , the concept is very appealing to me , and there is definitely a good satire message . Dawn of the Dead is seen as a satirical attack on American consumerism , well , the same can be said for this , it makes you think " are we the zombies for watching meaningless reality TV " , and it works very well , and even if you don't get the message , you'll just love the blood and guts all over the place , and all happening in a popular TV show . Very good !
Top Gear : Polar Special	Top Gear have done great challenges and gone many places in the world , including a caravan holiday and America , and this was one of the essential viewing ones . Basically the presenters , Jeremy Clarkson , Richard Hammond and James May ( all calling themselves Sir Ranulph whatever their surname is ) set themselves a challenge to travel across the Arctic from a base to the North Pole . They got the essential training from many experts and learnt all the dangers that could occur , including from Sir Ranulph Fiennes ( there was even a shocking image of his hand covered in blood ) . The challenge was basically a race with Clarkson and May in a specially adapted Toyota Hilux against Hammond with traditionally husky , dogs ( some kind of wolves ) and sledge . What was gripping about this special was the moments of humour , distress and almost torture , more for the car than the huskies , but it was kind of obvious that the car was going to win . Very good !
Chicago	This is probably one of the best musicals I have ever seen , in recent years . Mainly based in a prison , it tells the story of prisoner Roxie Hart ( Bridget Jones's Golden Globe winning , and Oscar and BAFTA nominated Renée Zellweger , she should have won the Oscar for this , not Cold Mountain ) and her dream to be in Chicago shows . Based in 1930s , it basically showing Roxie's dream with music and dance , with the help of other prisoner Velma Kelly ( Oscar and BAFTA winning , and Golden Globe nominated Catherine Zeta-Jones ) . But this dream cannot come true unless she somehow gets out of prison ( for murder ) , with the help of swiss lawyer , Billy Flynn ( Golden Globe winning Richard Gere ) . Also starring Oscar , BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Queen Latifah as Matron Mama Morton and Oscar and Golden Globe nominated John C . Reilly as Amos Hart . It won the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Best Costume Design , Best Editing , Best Sound and Best Picture , and it was nominated for Best Cinematography , Best Director for Rob Marshall , Best Song for " I Move On " and Best Writing , Adapted Screenplay , it won the BAFTA for Best Sound , and it was nominated the Asquith Award for Film Music for Danny Elfman , John Kander and Fred Ebb , Best Cinematography , Best Costume Design , Best Editing , Best Make Up / Hair , Best Production Design , the David Lean Award for Direction and Best Film , and it won the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Musical or Comedy , and it was nominated for Best Director and Best Screenplay . Richard Gere was number 76 , and Julia Roberts number 29 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , and he was number 43 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols , Catherine Zeta-Jones was number 10 on The 50 Greatest British Actresses , and she was number 39 on The 100 Worst Britons , " All That Jazz " was number 98 on 100 Years , 100 Songs , the film was number 12 on 100 Years of Musicals , and it was number 8 on The 100 Greatest Musicals . Very good !
Platoon	Based on his own experiences in it , Oscar , BAFTA and Golden Globe winning director / writer Oliver Stone decided that he should create a representation of the war in Vietnam from what he can remember of it , obviously mixed with a story . Basically Charlie Sheen as Pvt . Chris Taylor helps lead a team of soldiers into the country to fight against all the enemies that they can find . They suffer losing men , trying to help them , arguing about stuff , e . g . betrayal , and much more incidences . Sheen looks exactly like his Dad ( Martin , who was in the Vietnam film Apocalypse Now ) and he is the best in the film . Accompanying him are Golden Globe winning , and Oscar nominated Tom Berenger as Sgt . Bob Barnes , Oscar nominated Willem Dafoe as Sgt . Elias Grodin , Forest Whitaker as Big Harold , young Johnny Depp in his third film as Pvt . Gator Lerner and Candyman's Tony Todd as Sgt . Warren . It won the Oscar for Best Film Editing , Best Sound and Best Picture , and it was nominated Best Cinematography and Best Writing , Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen for Stone , it won the BAFTA for Best Editing , and it was nominated for Best Cinematography , and it won the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama , and it was nominated for Best Screenplay . It was number 72 on 100 Years , 100 Thrills , it was number 6 on The 100 Greatest War Films , and it was number 83 on 100 Years , 100 Movies . Very good !
Pillow Talk	I was really miffed when I missed this on TV , I'm a big fan of the lead actress , and then when it was repeated only two months or something later , I was very impressed . Basically composer Brad Allen ( Rock Hudson ) and interior decorator Jan Morrow ( Oscar nominated Doris Day , also singing the opening title song ) share a phone line , Jan makes a deal to Brad to have half hour slots for calls , after complaining he is occupying the line with too many calls to girlfriends . They have never met , but from talking to his friend , Jonathan Forbes ( Golden Globe nominated Tony Randall ) , he finds out more about her , and then eventually he gets the opportunity to get to know her . He decides though , knowing her feelings about his phone habit , to give himself a new identity as a Texan country boy , named Rex Stetson . His plan goes off without any hitches , and they do fall for each other . It is obviously Jonathan that is determined to find out more about Jan's love life , and track " Stetson " . She does find out and hate him for a while , but there is a good happy , and funny ending . Also starring Oscar nominated Rear Window star Thelma Ritter as Alma , Nick Adams as Tony Walters , Julia Meade as Marie and Allen Jenkins as Harry . Some of the best laughs come from Hudson mixing his two identities together , and making a nurse believing he has female anatomy , and it is a great love story . It won the Oscar for Best Writing , Story and Screenplay - Written Directly for the Screen , and it was nominated for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration and Best Music for Frank De Vol , and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Comedy . Doris Day was number 84 on the 100 Greatest Movie Stars , Rock Hudson was number 79 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols , and he is a gay man playing straight , and the film was number 99 on 100 Years , 100 Passions . Very good !
The 50 Greatest Comedy Sketches	This was quite an important list to me , it wasn't like 100 Greatest because obviously it was shorter . Tom Baker who narrates Little Britain narrated this programme to discover who the public had voted the number one sketch show sketch . With contributions by David Baddiel , Sanjeev Bhaskar , Tony Blackburn , John Cleese , Barry Cryer , Simon Day , Sir David Frost , Terry Gilliam , Charlie Higson , Ian Hislop , Noddy Holder , Graham Linehan , David Walliams and Matt Lucas , Rory McGrath , David Mitchell and Robert Webb , Bob Mortimer , Mike Myers , Denis Norden , Tracy-Ann Oberman , Bill Oddie , Michael Palin , Nicholas Parsons , Geoffrey Perkins , Steve Punt , Vic Reeves , Griff Rhys Jones , Joan Rivers , Tony Robinson , Cleo Rocos , Arthur Smith , Meera Syal , John Thomson , Arabella Weir and Paul Whitehouse . There were sketches from The League of Gentlemen , Monty Python's Flying Circus , Harry Enfield & Chums , The Fast Show , Little Britain and many other shows . The sketches that stood out were Daffyd Thomas , Ministry of Silly Walks , Circus Comes To Town , Ted & Ralph - The Drinking Game , Vicky Pollard - Swimming Pool , Masterchef and the winner , Lou & Andy - Swimming Pool . Very good !
V Graham Norton	This is was another excuse for gross humour on a very good chat show . The presenter of this sometimes gross adult chat show , twice British Comedy Award nominated ( one win ) Graham Norton was just the perfect gay host for another good show like this . It had one or more famous celebrities in the middle of it . They basically had an adult idea which would either humiliate or humour the guest , but every one of these ideas was gross and some not faint-hearted . They had pretty much the same material as the original show , So Graham Norton . The best episodes for me were with Dustin Hoffman and John Malkovich . This is just for adults , but enjoy it ! It was nominated for the National Television Awards for Most Popular Entertainment Programme British Comedy Awards . It was been on The 100 Greatest TV Treats for 2002 , 2003 and 2004 . Very good !
GoldenEye	The last time we saw James Bond was 1989 with Timothy Dalton . Six years later 007 finally returned with another new face , the great Irishman Pierce Brosnan . Bond is out of the cold war and now lives in the real 20th century and faces today's world filled with terrorism , tanks , bombs and missiles . He faces the nasty and well played villain Sean Bean as Alec Travalian , the big twist that he used to be his partner , hence the name Janis . Travalian has stolen a weapon called the GoldenEye ( which was the name of Ian Fleming's house ) , capable of destructing a whole country . Bond later meets the gorgeous Natalya Fyodorovna Simonova ( Polish actress Izabella Scorupco ) who assists him in finding this weapon . Also starring Famke Janssen as Xenia Onatopp , Joe Don Baker as Jack Wade ( who returned in Tomorrow Never Dies ) , Robbie Coltrane as Valentin Zukovsky ( who returned in The World Is Not Enough ) , Alan Cumming as Boris Grishenko , Desmond Llewelyn as Q , Samantha Bond as the new Miss Moneypenny , Michael Kitchen as Bill Tanner and Dame Judi Dench as the new female M . Filled with marvellous stunts , the Aston Martin DB5 , and very good action sequences this is a very good start for the new Bond . It was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Special Effects and Best Sound . James Bond was number 3 on 100 Years , 100 Heroes & Villains , he was number 21 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols , and he was number 21 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons , Dame Judi Dench was number 1 on The 50 Greatest British Actresses , she was number 1 on Britain's Finest Actresses , and she was number 8 on The World's Greatest Actor , and the film was number 11 on James Bond's Greatest Hits for Tina Turner's ( written by Bono and The Edge ) title song . Very good !
All That Jazz	From Oscar nominated director Bob Fosse ( who beat Francis Ford Coppola for The Godfather with Cabaret ) , this is quite an interesting musical film . Basically drug-taking and womanising theatrical actor / producer / dancer Joe Gideon ( Oscar , BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Roy Scheider , his second best role , after Jaws of course ) , wants to create a great musical dance show . At the same time he is editing and making changes to his film , The Standup . Unfortunately , not long before the show could go on , his illness that he takes medication for becomes worse , and they have to postpone for at least four months . During his dying he is either dreaming or hallucinating that his suffering is a musical extravaganza , this is when it gets the tiniest bit weird . But Scheider is good at singing with that black guy . Also starring Jessica Lange as Angelique , Erzsebet Foldi as Michelle Gideon and Deborah Geffner as Victoria Porter . It won the Oscars for Best Art Direction - Set Decoration , Best Costume Design , Best Film Editing and Best Music , and it was nominated for Best Cinematography , Best Director , Best Writing , Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen and Best Picture , and it won the BAFTAs for Best Cinematography and Best Editing , Best Costume Design , Best Production Design / Art Direction and Best Sound . It was number 14 on 100 Years of Musicals , and it was number 79 on The 100 Greatest Musicals . Very good !
The Apprentice	I first heard of this programme when it was featured numerous times on Harry Hill's TV Burp , and since I have started from the Comic Relief special and Series 3 , it is a very good programme , almost as good as a reality show . Every series 14 candidates are brought in , every one has quit their high paid job and left their family for the chance to get a job worth £100 , 000 . The man they have to impress to get this job is the founder of Amstrad ( Alan Michael Sugar Trading ) since 1968 , and worth over £800m , Sir Alan Sugar . They are split into two teams , normally girls vs . boys , and each week they are set a business task to make as much money as possible from the certain theme , e . g . selling coffee , dog products , sweets for zoos , art work , fun fairs , etc . At the end of each task he rewards the team that made the most money , and the losing team faces a member being fired . All this continues till 12 weeks , when one candidate will win this job , the £100 , 000 and become ' The Apprentice ' . Narrated by Mark Halliley . Very good !
The Big Fat Quiz of the Year 2005	If you knew your news , events , media and happenings of the year 2004 , then this was the show that you needed to watch . Hosted by Jimmy Carr this quiz gave viewers , and the celebrities the opportunity to test their knowledge of the past twelve months . This show had celebrity guests , in teams , they included : Rob Brydon , Jonathan Ross , Gordon Ramsay , David Mitchell , Denise Van Outen and Sharon Osbourne . Other appearances included Jordan ( Katie Price ) and Peter Andre , Su ( Susie ) Doku , David Tennant and Charlotte Church . A very good quiz show with some good humour , good guests , a good host and a good chance to relive the year past . Very good !
The British Soap Awards 2005	I am a fan of only two soaps , Coronation Street and EastEnders , but I am always going to watch this programme to see what the other soaps are like , if they deserve to win something , and what I may be missing out on . I always want to agree with the awards that are given according to the clips / photos shown , and that is what I also enjoy , watching back on the past year . For me in 2004 the highlight in Corrie was Mad Maya Monday and in EE evil Janine killing Barry . Corrie won all the deserved awards for Mad Maya , and EE did the same . The awards I always look forward to are Best Soap Actor and Actress , Best Exit , Best Villain , Best Bitch , Best Story , and of course , Soap of the Year . Very good !
Winchester ' 73	This was the first of seven films where the main star and director Anthony Mann worked together , and it is a great one . Basically the film is focused on the Winchester ' 73 , a really good gun , and also the adventures of Lin McAdam ( James Stewart ) . He competes against Waco Johnnie Dean ( Dan Duryea ) to win the gun , but loses it during a fight . The whole film is filled with gun fights , Indians and a showdown . Along the way of these occurrences , Lin meets Lola Manners ( Shelley Winters ) and Dutch Henry Brown ( Stephen McNally ) who accompany him for some of the scenes . The three highlights of the film for me are the battle to win the gun , the Indians battle , and the final showdown with Lin and Waco Johnnie Dean . Also starring Will Geer as Wyatt Earp , Jay C . Flippen as Sgt . Wilkes and Tony ( or Anthony ) Curtis as Doan . Very good !
Superman	Based on the famous DC Comics series , possibly the world's best known superhero , the Man of Steel , gets the live action film treatment with the fantastic fantasy adventure , from director Richard Donner ( Lethal Weapons 1-4 , The Omen ) . The film begins far away in the galaxy on the planet Krypton , where alien scientist Jor-El ( Marlon Brando ) is unable to convince people the planet will destroy itself , so before it is , he and his wife send their baby son Kal-El to planet Earth , taking about three / fours he gains powers under Earth's yellow sun , until finally crash landing . Raised by the Kents , young Clark ( Jeff East ) learns of his abilities , and after the death of his adoptive father , he decides to leave home to find his real routes in the North Pole , where remains of his world are located . Now all grown up , Clark Kent ( introducing BAFTA winning Christopher Reeve ) is living in Metropolis working as a journalist for the Daily Planet newspaper , where he also meets reporter Lois Lane ( Margot Kidder ) . When the opportunity comes , Clark dons his blue suit and red cape with the " S " symbol on the chest to fly and save the day , and after an interview and flying love scene with Lois , he is named Superman , saving the day numerous times with his super powers . Criminal Lex Luthor ( BAFTA nominated Gene Hackman ) is convinced he can defeat Superman , when he discovers his weakness for Kryptonite , and with this in mind , he plans to sabotage two nuclear missiles and create an earthquake to wipe out the California coastline . He does stop a large flood , but was too late to save Lois trapped in a car , so he angrily speeds around the world , to change the events of history , stop the disaster and save Lois , and after , take the wig-wearing Luthor to prison . Reeve in his first film role is superb , Hackman makes a great villain , Brando in his few minutes adds some good seriousness . The special effects for the powers of Superman , his world and the situations for him to save people from are fantastic , this was the first film to successfully make a man fly , just a fantastic comic book adaptation . It won the Oscar Special Achievement Award for visual effects , and it was nominated for Best Film Editing , Best Music for John Williams and Best Sound , it was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Cinematography , Best Production Design / Art Direction and Best Sound , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Original Score . Superman was number 26 on 100 Years , 100 Heroes & Villains , and he was number 72 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons , the film was number 52 on The 100 Greatest Family Films , and it was number 51 on The Ultimate Film . Very good !
American Graffiti	I have seen many teen movies , but this classic 70's one is a great film for both stars , writing and directing credits . The most basic plot of this story seems to be that all the key characters are driving around when they could be at a final party before leaving to get on a plane . The actors that play these key characters have become big stars in their own rights , and they deserve it after their great youthful performances . These include Curt Henderson ( Jaws ' Richard Dreyfuss , nominated for Golden Globe ) who is searching for a particular girl while hanging out with what seem to be thugs , Steve Bolander ( A Beautiful Mind director Ron Howard ) is trying to patch things up with his girlfriend , John Milner ( Golden Globe winning Paul Le Mat ) is having to look after a 16 year old and she can get annoying , and Terry ' The Toad ' Fields ( The Untouchables ' Charles Martin Smith ) seems to have finally found someone that likes him . Also in a couple of scenes is the man that the film's Oscar and Golden Globe nominated director George Lucas would eventually cast as Han Solo and Indiana Jones , Harrison Ford as Bob Falfa . Some great moments of comedy and some sentiment , my favourite character was probably Terry . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Supporting Actress for Candy Clark as Debbie Dunham , Best Film Editing , Best Writing , Story and Screenplay Based on Factual Material or Material Not Previously Published or Produced and Best Picture , it was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Supporting Actress for Cindy Williams as Laurie Henderson , and it won the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Musical / Comedy . It was number 43 on 100 Years , 100 Laughs , and it was number 77 on 100 Years , 100 Movies . Very , very good !
American Dad !	Still a similar format to Simpsons , and similar formula as South Park , and from the creator of Family Guy Seth MacFarlane comes another great cartoon . Basically the meaning of the title is a Dad , Stan Smith ( MacFarlane ) that works for the CIA and will do anything to protect his country and family . Also starring MacFarlane as Roger the Alien and Greg Corbin , Wendy Schaal as Francine Smith , Scott Grimes as Steve Smith , Rachael MacFarlane as Hayley Smith and Melanie and Dee Bradley Baker as Klaus and Tony . This could nearly be funnier than Family Guy , but thankfully their both just as good . I sometimes just wish there was no Simpsons or South Park that beats this , or Family Guy . Very good !
The British Comedy Awards 2003	As far as I've seen this has always been essential viewing because I am always wanting my favourite comedy shows to be mentioned , nominated or hopefully win . They always have a good host , usually Jonathan Ross to add comedy of his / her own . With the help of clips we see who has been nominated for certain awards and then the special guest giver announces the winner . There are awards such as Best Comedy Show , Comedy Writer , Best Comedy Actor and Actresses and many more . They have some pretty good people to give the awards as well as receive them . Not sure about Johnny Vegas , but they've had Sir Ian McKellen , Peter Kay , Jimmy Carr , Jordan ( Katie Price ) , Richard Curtis , Anthony McPartlin , Declan Donnelly , Lord Richard Attenborough and many others . Very good !
Celebrity Naked Ambition	When I first heard about this special documentary , I was only interested in the nudity content from well known stars , but it turned out also to be really good slight comedy . Hot Fuzz's Nick Frost gives us the A-Z list of words related to celebrities getting their clothes off . Examples include : A for Anderson ( Pamela ) , M for Madonna , K for Kidman ( Nicole ) , Z for Zeta-Jones ( Catherine ) and many more . It included footage from sex films , big movies and big stars . All were both successes or failures at one time or another . Stars interviewed and shown included Kim Basinger , Kathy Bates , Elizabeth Berkley , Halle Berry , Richard Gere , David Hasselhoff , Hugh Hefner , Elizabeth Hurley , Angelina Jolie , Patsy Kensit , Shelley Michelle , Helen Mirren , Demi Moore , Oliver Reed , Denise Richards , Joely Richardson , Meg Ryan , Brian Sewell , Sylvester Stallone , Pam St . Clement , Sharon Stone , Paul Verhoeven , Barbara Windsor , Kate Winslet and many more . Very good !
The Smith and Jones Sketchbook	The Two Ronnies Sketchbook was basically reuniting a brilliant comedy duo and letting them show us their past brilliance . Mel Smith and Griff Rhys Jones were reunited to show us all the best sketches and clips from Alas Smith and Jones . I wasn't born four years after the show started , and now that I have seen Sketchbook I have now seen all the brilliant sketches and characters that these two comedy geniuses created . Some memorable ones I can remember from Sketchbook were the two grown-up babies , the couple that finally have sex , and of course , the facing each other sketches . But it was mainly the comedians themselves that made the show a success . Very good !
The 100 Greatest Family Films	This was another 100 greatest countdown that people voted for on the Channel 4 website . Narrated by Bob Hoskins ( who was in the list ) this was quite essential because I was always wondering and hoping what would be number one . There were contributions from Lord Sir Richard Attenborough , some of the Coronation Street cast , Steven Spielberg and many others . The films that appeared on the list included : Stuart Little , Peter Pan , The Nutty Professor , Fantasia , Free Willy , Bend It Like Beckham , Time Bandits , Spirited Away , The Muppet Movie , Flash Gordon , King Kong , The King and I , My Fair Lady , The Iron Giant , Chicken Run , Honey I Shrunk the Kids , Pinocchio , Bean , School of Rock , Jumanji , Dumbo , Spider-Man , Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs , Beetlejuice ( certificate 15 ? ) , Bedknobs and Broomsticks , It's a Wonderful Life , Wallace & GRomit : The Curse of the Were-Rabbit , The Goonies , Edward Scissorhands , Aladdin , Gremlins ( certificate 15 ? ) , Mrs . Doubtfire , Men in Black , Home Alone , Raiders of the Lost Ark , The Jungle Book , The Sound of Music , Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone , Jurassic Park , The Lords of the Rings Trilogy , The Wizard of Oz , Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory , Back to the Future , Toy Story , Pirates of the Caribbean : The Curse of the Black Pearl , Mary Poppins , Shrek and the quite deserved number one E . T . The Extra-Terrestrial . Very good !
Imitation of Life	I have to admit I have only heard of the leading actress , and I don't know many pure melodramatic films , and I'm very glad I watched this one . Basically aspiring actress Lora Meredith ( Lana Turner ) with 6-year-old daughter Susie ( Terry Burnham ) , and homeless black woman Annie Johnson ( Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Juanita Moore ) with 8-year-old white daughter Sarah Jane ( Karin Dicker ) , and their kids , meet each other at Coney Island beach , and soon enough move in together , Annie acting as maid to maintain her keep . Lora manages to get herself an acting part , while Annie is having to cope with Sarah Jane denying her heritage . The years pass , and Lora's career has blossomed , to the point where she isn't at ( their now bigger ) home much to spend time with now 16-year-old Susie ( Sandra Dee ) . As for Annie , 18-year-old Sarah Jane ( Golden Globe winning , and Oscar nominated Susan Kohner ) is out of control with hatred for her mother being black , and she is trying everything she can to hide her origins . Eventually , once devoted mother Annie decides to let Sarah Jane live her own life as she wants , and sadly with Lola by her side , she dies from sickness . After a very heartfelt funeral song from Mahalia Jackson , Sarah Jane lets her true feelings out , blaming herself for her mother's death . Also starring Psycho's John Gavin as Steve Archer , Dan O'Herlihy as David Edwards and Robert Alda as Allen Loomis . This really uses all the emotions you can think of , but mainly the bad ones , the performances are all very good , and the racial complexities make for very essential viewing . Very good !
Live Aid	There is not one person in this country who can't remember the event that changed the world and charity forever . Live Aid , dreamt up by genius Sir Bob Geldof was the biggest fund raising charity event in 1985 , mixing live entertainment and charity together was fantastic . Everyone you can think of was singing / performing there for ten hours ! These people included : Bryan Adams , Adam Ant , Black Sabbath , Bono , David Bowie , Jeff Bridges , Tony Butler , U2 , Dick Clark , Phil Collins , Billy Connolly , Elvis Costello , David Crosby , Simon Crowe , Paul Denham , Duran Duran , Bob Dylan , Sally Field , Tony Hadley , Mick Jagger , Sir Elton John , Casey Kasem , Martin Kemp , Madonna , Queen , Paul McCartney , Wham ! ( with George Michael ) , Jack Nicholson , The Pretenders , Griff Rhys Jones , Lionel Richie , Status Quo , Mel Smith , Sting , Tina Turner , Tracey Ullman and The Who . Viewers in the crowd included Prince Charles , Princess Diana and Tony Thompson . It was number 58 on The 100 Greatest TV Programmes . Very good !
City of God	I first heard of this on a Channel 4 countdown list , then we started watching it in Film Studies , and now I have seen the entire acclaimed film , I am impressed by this great foreign film . Basically it is a three part story , based in the Brazilian slums , based on real events written in the novel by Paulo Lins . The City of God became one of the most dangerous places in Rio De Janeiro . Many characters of the story intersect , but the film is all seen through the eyes of the narrator and key character , Buscapé " Rocket " ( Alexandre Rodrigues ) . He is scared to become an outlaw and is underpaid , and grows up in the violent gun and drug based environment . But unlike other characters , he has a purpose and aspiration to become a professional photographer . Also starring Leandro Firmino Da Hora as Zé Pequeño " Li'l Ze " , Phellipe Haagensen as Bené " Beny " , Douglas Silva as Dadinho , " Li'l Dice " , Jonathan Haagensen as Cabeleira " Shaggy " , Matheus Nachtergaele as Sandro Cenoura " Carrot " , Seu Jorge as Mané Galinha , " Knockout Ned " and Jefechander Suplino as Alicate " Clipper " . Critics have compared it Goodfellas , I can see some of the similar scenes . Filled with some distinctive , and sometimes nasty moments , particularly threatening and killing young children with guns . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Cinematography , Best Director for Fernando Meirelles , Best Editing and Best Writing , Adapted Screenplay , it won the BAFTA for Best Editing , and it was nominated for Best Film not in the English Language , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Foreign Language Film . It was number 3 on Film 4's 50 Films To See Before You Die . Very , very good !
Ant & Dec's Gameshow Marathon	This programme was part of ITV's 50th birthday celebrations . Hosted by Anthonty McPartlin and Ddeclan Donnelly , this series brought back classic game shows of the channel and allowed celebrity contestants to get money for their charities . The celebrities that took part were Eamon Holmes , Ruby Wax , Conations Street's William Roache , Emmerdale's Patsy Kensit , Vernon Kay , and deserved winner Carol Vorderman . The games that they played were The Price Is Right , Take Your Pick , Bullseye , Play Your Cards Right , Sale of the Century , The Golden Shot and finally Family Fortunes . It had plenty of laughs and guests , it was a perfect birthday celebration series . Very good !
The Powerpuff Girls	" Sugar , Spice , and everything nice . These were the ingredients chosen to create the perfect little girls . But Professor Utonium accidentally added an extra ingredient to the concoction , Chemical X . Thus , the Powerfpuff Girls were born . Using their ultimate super powers , Blossom , Bubbles and Buttercup have dedicated their lives to fighting crime and the forces of evil . " Yes , these are the wise words of the narrator for this really good girls superhero show . I know there are girls in it , but who cares , their cute and courageous . Brilliant animation with some brilliant characters . There's my favourite villain Mojo Jojo , the dastardly Him , a Talking Dog , the stupid Mayor , the never seen Miss Bellum , the bitch Princess Morbucks , the selfish Fuzzy Lumpkins and many more . It won the Emmys for Outstanding Individual Achievement in Animation ( twice ) , and it was nominated for Outstanding Animated Program ( For Programming Less Than One Hour ) ( three times ) . It was number 58 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons . Very good !
An Audience with Harry Hill	This was only the second An Audience With programme , after Kylie Minogue , that I had seen , and it was a really good one . I had really gotten fond of seeing Harry Hill on TV Burp , and this was his opportunity to do live comedy again , like he used to . Hill made the simplest of jokes , but also was sophisticated to go backwards and forwards with jokes . The great examples of jokes I can remember are : an impression of Gollum for Billy Boyd ( Pippin in The Lord of the Rings ) , his Nan's funeral , singing as David Bowie and Michael Jackson , and of course , Stuphar the ( plastic ) blue cat making jokes , singing Moby and licking Miss World on the face . This goes along with all other An Audience With programmes as number 26 on ITV's 50 Greatest Shows . Very good !
Heroes	We've seen all these superhero films and programmes where most of them ( apart from Batman ) have come from other planets or have been affected by earthly accidents , but this is just purely human evolution , and a great programme . I actually saw a large poster for the show near the walk of fame when I was in America . Basically every episode see all heroes , and villains , trying to get their way in society , but will be brought together by a big fate that will affect the entire world . The characters are part of the reason why the show is such a gripping show , and even with various stories going on , there is always one that grips you and means you have to keep watching . I must admit the show started a little slowly , but the acting and great special effects more than made up , and I couldn't get enough after a couple more episodes , can't wait for more ! Starring Hayden Panettiere as Claire Bennet ( who can heal ) , her adoptive Dad , Jack Coleman as H . R . G . ( Horn Rimmed Glasses ) , later revealed as Noah Bennet ( you didn't know if he was good or bad , and his company was suspicious , but he got nicer ) , Sendhil Ramamurthy as Mohinder Suresh ( his father developed the list of every person on earth with an ability , he also narrates the show ) , Emmy and Golden Globe nominated Masi Oka as Hiro Nakamura ( who can stop , slow and travel through time / teleport ) , James Kyson Lee as his friend , Ando Masahashi , Milo Ventimiglia as Peter Petrelli ( who can absorb others powers ) , Adrian Pasdar as his brother Nathan Petrelli ( who can fly ) , Greg Grunberg as Matt Parkman ( who can hear people's thoughts ) , Ali Larter as Niki Sanders / Jessica ( suffers Multiple Personality Disorder , so can be good and bad ) , Noah Gray-Cabey as her son Micah Sanders , Zachary Quinto as Sylar ( a villain who wants to have all heroes ' abilities , and to get them he opens people's heads - we're not sure if he eats them yet ) , Ashley Crow as Noah's wife , Sandra Bennet , Cristine Rose as the brothers ' mother Angela Petrelli , Jimmy Jean-Louis as The Haitian ( who can erase parts of people's memories / make them forget certain things ) , Leonard Roberts as Micah's Dad , D . L . Hawkins ( who can go through things , e . g . walls , people ) , Santiago Cabrera as Isaac Mendez ( who could paint the future , now dead ) , Adair Tishler as Molly Walker ( who can find anybody with an ability by just thinking about them ) , Tawny Cypress as Simone Deveaux , Randall Bentley as Lyle Bennet ( Noah's son ) , Elizabeth Lackey as Matt's wife , Janice Parkman , Nora Zehetner as Eden McCain ( who could persuade people to do anything , now dead ) , Matthew John Armstrong as Ted Sprague ( who has firey / radiation / nuclear abilities ) , Clea DuVall as cop Audrey Hanson , Star Trek's George Takei as Kaito Nakamura ( Hiro's Dad ) , Missy Peregrym as Candice Wilmer ( who can become someone else , and can make people see something else ) , Eric Roberts as Thompson ( the company's boss , now dead ) , Matt Lanter as Claire's friend , Brody Mitchum , Christopher Eccleston as Claude ( with invisibility ) , Shaft's Richard Roundtree as Charles Deveaux , Malcolm McDowell as Mr . Linderman ( the big mob leader , who also had the power to bring things back to life , e . g . flower , now dead ) and many others . This is just as good as , if not better , than Lost . It has won and been nominated for numerous awards , including 8 Emmys and 2 Golden Globes . Very good !
Bill Bailey : Part Troll	Most people have commented as saying that this is the best televised live show from the Black Books and Never Mind the Buzzcocks comedian . Live at the Apollo theatre , Bill Bailey brought us probably his greatest show . It combines his great observational jokes , his musical talents with almost any instrument , and some on the spot jokes . The best jokes of this particular show though are all the musical ones . I can remember the best songs and pieces of music : " Love Song " encompassing all aspects of love ( betrayal , hatred and depression ) , " Skale of Music " with pictures of evil people to certain notes on the keyboard ( including Adolf Hitler , Edi Amin and Chris De Burgh ) , " New National Anthem " using the lyrics of " Zip-a-Dee-Doo-Dah " , " Drum ' n ' Bush " using pieces of George W . Bush's talks , a funky " BBC News " theme , " Lady x 3 " with German lyrics , and the Kraftwerk Tribute with German lyrics , using the words " Oakey Cokey " and appearing Lenny Henry in Pieces ' Martin Trenaman . It was number 21 on The 100 Greatest Funny Moments , and Bill Bailey was number 7 on 100 Greatest Stand-Ups . Very good !
Mr . Countdown : A Tribute to Richard Whiteley	When Richard Whiteley OBE died , I personally was shocked because not only and he left behind one of the best tea-time game shows , he was irreplaceable ( but Des Lynam is good too ) . This was an essential documentary focusing on the bumbling , humorous and really lovable host of the first programme to feature on Channel 4 in 1982 . With tributes from Lesley Garrett , Sir Tim Rice , and of course his co-host , Carol Vorderman . This tribute showed many of the great moments from Countdown , but also other great moments of his including his news reports , and of course , the ferret biting him ( if he is going to be remembered for something besides Countdown , it's that ) . Richard Whiteley will be sorely missed , he has left a legend behind as not only the first host of Countdown , but the first person on Channel 4 . Note : My Mum's best friend went on the show once while he was hosting . Very good !
The Pianist	From Oscar BAFTA winning director Roman Polanski , and based on a true story , this is the great story of one man's struggle to survive , and also his passion of playing the piano . Oscar winning , and BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Adrien Brody plays Wladyslaw Szpilman , an Oscar winning role , he has a passion for playing the piano . He and his family , including Father ( Frank Finlay ) and Mother ( Maureen Lipman ) are threatened and ordered about by the Nazi Germans to obey their commands , otherwise by shot . It is really disturbing to see the Germans killing Jewish people , and also the state of places after bombs and stuff . Also starring Thomas Kretschmann as Captain Wilm Hosenfeld , Emilia Fox as Dorota , Ed Stoppard as Henryk , Julia Rayner as Regina , Jessica Kate Meyer as Halina and Michal Zebrowski . The best moments for me are while Wladyslaw has a beard , and is surviving amongst the wreckage of a town , and he plays the piano for a German commander . It won the Oscar for Best Writing , Adapted Screenplay , and it was nominated for Best Cinematography , Best Costume Design , Best Editing and Best Picture , it won the BAFTA for Best Film and the David Lean Award for Direction , and it was nominated for the Anthony Asquith Award for Film Music for Wojciech Kilar , Best Cinematography , Best Adapted Screenplay and Best Sound , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama . It was number 59 on The 100 Greatest Tearjerkers , and it was number 32 on The 100 Greatest War Films . Very good !
The Good , the Bad and the Ugly	This was the third of the trilogy ( A Fistful of Dollars and A Few Dollars More ) . I can agree that this has more violence , a more interesting story and plot line , and the villain is different . Basically the film first introduces the ugly , he wasn't as ugly as one of the bad's henchmen . Then the bad is introduced , he has those eyes that villains should have . And obviously , the good is the ever popular cowboy " man with no name " played by Clint Eastwood . The final showdown is pretty interesting , three men , not two , and a good villain death , falling into an empty grave . All fighting for some hidden gold , and Clint is nice letting his friend , the ugly getting half the gold , but why nearly hang him ? Clint Eastwood was number 18 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , and he was number 61 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons , and the film was number 46 on The 100 Greatest Films . Very good ( very bad and very ugly , LOL ) !
100 Worst Pop Records	We had The 100 Greatest Number One Singles and 50 Greatest One-Hit Wonders , but this was a 100 Worst list . Whether they were number ones or not , there was always going to be songs that deserve their place . The songs I disagreed with , because I like them ( for whatever reason ) : Bwitched's C'est La Vie , Fat Les's Vindaloo , Richard Harris's MacArthur Park , Whigfield's Saturday Night , Renee and Renato's Save Your Love , PJ and Duncan's Let's Get Ready To Rumble , Wet Wet Wet's Love Is All Around , 2 Unlimited's No Limits , Christina Aguilera's Dirrty , Celine Dion's My Heart Will Go On , The Rednex's Cotton Eye Joe , Kylie's I Should Be So Lucky , USA for Africa's We Are The World , Hanson's MmmBop , England World Cup Squad's Back Home , Peter Andre's Mysterious Girl , Whitney Houston's I Will Always Love You , Joe Dolce Music Theatre's Shaddap You Face , Los Del Rio's Macarena , Cher's Believe , ( nearly ) The Tweets ' The Birdie Song , Bryan Adams ' ( Everything I Do ) I Do It For You , The Spice Girls ' Wannabe , Michael Jackson's Earth Song , Steps ' 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 ; The Fast Food Rockers ' Fast Food Song , Baha Men's Who Let The Dogs Out ? , Aqua's Barbie Girl , and even the number one , The Cheeky Girls ' The Cheeky Song ( Touch My Bum ) . The songs I agree with : Babylon Zoo's Spaceman , Madonna's American Pie , The Firm's Star Trekkin , Paul McCartney and the Frog Chorus's We All Stand Together , Bob the Builder's Can We Fix It ? , Teletubbies ' Say ' Eh-Oh ' , One True Voice's Sacred , Bombalurina feat . Timmy Mallett's Itsy Bitsy Teeny Weeny Yellow Polka Dot Bikini , Geri Halliwell's Look At Me , Mr . Blobby , Sir Elton John's Candle In The Wind , and Sir Cliff Richard's Millennium Prayer . Very good !
( Horror of ) Dracula	Christopher Lee was made very famous by playing Count Dracula in a number of Hammer Horror films , and this was the first one , from director Terrence Fisher ( Dracula : Prince of Darkness ) . Basically Jonathan Harker ( John Van Eyssen ) has taken a job working as a librarian for Count Dracula ( Christopher Lee ) , who he knows is in fact a vampire . Before he can do what he intends , Harker suffers his fate turning into one of the undead , and Dracula has plans to get his fiancée Lucy Holmwood ( Carol Marsh ) next . It is up to Harker's colleague Dr . Van Helsing ( Peter Cushing ) to protect Lucy , and he is finding it hard to convince her brother Arthur ( Batman's Michael Gough ) of the dangers concerning vampires . Soon however Arthur's sister faces her fate , and he and Van Helsing must find Dracula before Arthur's wife Mina ( Melissa Stribling ) is next , all culminating with Dracula crumbling in the sunlight . Also starring Miles Malleson as Marx the Undertaker , Valerie Gaunt as Vampire Woman and Charles Lloyd Pack as Dr . Seward . Lee only has a bit of dialogue in the first fifteen minutes , but he still manages to make his character perfectly menacing , Cushing meanwhile makes a terrific vampire expert , this is considered the best of all the Lee-Hammer-Dracula films ( the critics give it five out of five stars ) , I certainly agree with that . Christopher Lee was number 31 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , and he was number 13 on The 50 Greatest British Actors , and Count Dracula was number 33 on 100 Years , 100 Heroes & Villains . Very good !
Marathon Man	This is quite a disturbing film , and bits of it are hard to understand , but it is still a brilliant idea . Basically for a reason that he , and I personally , don't understand , Thomas Babington ' Babe ' Levy ( BAFTA nominated Dustin Hoffman ) is kidnapped by Dr . Christian ' The White Angel ' Szell ( Golden Globe winning , and Oscar nominated Lord Sir Laurence Olivier ) who keeps asking him the great quote , number 70 on 100 Years , 100 Quotes , " Is it safe ? " . I think he is referring to the large case of diamonds that he stole , and he is so obsessed by . Dr . Szell is a terrific villain , and the three memorable moments for me were when he drilled one of Hoffman's healthy teeth , slid a man's throat in the street , stabbed himself trying to rescue his beloved diamonds . Also starring Roy Scheider as Henry David ' Doc ' Levy , William Devane as Peter Janeway and Golden Globe nominated Marthe Keller as Elsa Opel . It was nominated the BAFTA for Best Film Editing , and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Director for John Schlesinger and Best Screenplay . Dustin Hoffman was number 24 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , Lord Sir Laurence Olivier was number 21 on The 50 Greatest British Actors , he was number 3 on Britain's Finest Actors , he was number 14 on 100 Years , 100 Stars - Men , and Hoffman was number 21 , and Olivier number 4 on The World's Greatest Actor , Dr . Szell was number 34 on 100 Years , 100 Heroes & Villains , the film was number 70 on 100 Years , 100 Quotes ( " Is it safe ? " ) , it was number 56 on The 100 Greatest Scary Moments , and it was number 50 on 100 Years , 100 Thrills . Very good !
Presto	This short film started just before the main Disney Pixar film at the cinema , WALL-E . Basically Alec the rabbit , that Presto stage magician will pull out of his magic top hat , has not been fed , and he refuses to go ahead with the act until he has eaten the near carrot . So whenever Presto reaches into his top hat , which the other side comes out of another little wizard hat , the rabbit makes him pull out something else in a little clever revenge on his co-star . Through the hat , Alec makes Presto bang his hand , pull out a mouse trap , an egg which splats in his face , suck his head in , pull his own trousers off and go up a huge ladder . Presto decides to smash the carrot , but Alec gets his own back by electrocuting him , until they go upstairs , and Presto accidentally hangs his feet up high , and it snaps . Alec saves him though with the hat , and he falls out the other side safe , a huge applause from the audience , and as a thank you for saving him , Presto gives the rabbit his carrot , and the poster becomes both of them together . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Short Animated Film ( I think it should it won ) . Very good !
Forrest Gump	From Oscar and Golden Globe winning , and BAFTA nominated director Robert Zemeckis ( The Back to the Future Trilogy ) , this is a remarkable comedy drama based on the novel by Winston Groom . Basically , Forrest Gump ( Oscar and Golden Globe winning , and BAFTA nominated Tom Hanks ) is the low-intelligence but friendly man on a bus stop bench , and telling his life story to all strangers who sit down . The film is basically chronicles of his life accidentally ending up in big events of America between the 1950's and the 1970's , and finding fame and fortune without wanting or asking for it . These include meeting Elvis Presley , being put on an American football team for his running speed , meeting President John F . Kennedy , joining the army for the Vietnam war , becoming a Ping Pong champion , receiving the congressional medal of honour from President Richard Nixon , becoming a shrimp boat captain with his own company and running across America for two years . Within these adventures in his life , he always thinks of those close to him , the love of his life Jenny Curran ( Golden Globe nominated Robin Wright Penn ) , friend Lt . Dan Taylor ( Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Gary Sinise ) , friend Pvt . Benjamin Buford ' Bubba ' Blue ( Mykelti Williamson ) and his mother Mrs . Gump ( BAFTA nominated Sally Field ) , and with his low-intelligence he does not realise the significance of his actions . Also starring Siobhan Fallon as Dorothy Harris , School Bus Driver , Alexander Zemeckis ( Robert's son ) as School Bus Boy , Elizabeth Hanks ( Tom's daughter ) as School Bus Girl and The Sixth Sense's Haley Joel Osment as Forrest Gump Jr . This is one of those films you cannot ignore , even if some people think not to watch it , but like Forrest says " I don't know if we each have a destiny , or if we're all just floating around accidental-like on a breeze , but I , I think maybe it's both " ( this explains the use of the feather at the beginning and end ) . Personally , this is a film I would definitely recommend to see , and not just because of Hanks in what has to be one of his best roles . It won the Oscars for Best Visual Effects , Best Film Editing , Best Writing , Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium and Best Picture , and it was nominated for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Best Cinematography , Best Sound Effects Editing , Best Makeup , Best Music for Alan Silvestri ( he should have ) and Best Sound , it won the BAFTA for Best Special Effects , and it was nominated for Best Cinematography , Best Editing , Best Adapted Screenplay , the David Lean Award for Direction and Best Film , and it won the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama , and it was nominated for Best Original Score and Best Screenplay . Tom Hanks was number 3 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , and he was number 39 on The World's Greatest Actor , the film was number 40 on 100 Years , 100 Quotes ( " Mama always said life was like a box of chocolates . You never know what you're gonna get . " ) , it was number 11 on The 100 Greatest Tearjerkers for Forrest at Jenny's grave , it was number 37 on 100 Years , 100 Cheers , and it was number 71 on 100 Years , 100 Movies . Very , very good !
The Grinch	This is the very good adaption of Dr . Seuss ' classic Christmas story about the green pest who hated Christmas . The Whos down in Whoville are preparing for Christmas , and everyone is excited and happy about it , except for the Grinch ( Golden Globe nominated Jim Carrey ) at the top of a mountain . When little Cindy Lou Who ( Taylor Momsen ) becomes curious of the Grinch , she wanders up to his lair and temps him to come down to Whoville to be the holiday Cheer Meister instead of the Mayor ( Jeffrey Tambor ) , and in front of the woman that used to have a soft spot for him , Martha May Whovier ( Christine Baranski ) . But it isn't long before the Grinch is haunted by his childhood past and he turns nastier . So he finally decides that to stop Christmas from coming , he'll steal it ! So he steals all the presents , the decorations , the food , everything Christmassy . In the end he learns that Christmas means more than all of that and turns nice , a nice ending . Also starring Bill Irwin as Lou Lou Who , Molly Shannon as Betty Lou Who , Clint Howard ( Ron's brother ) as Whobris , Austin Powers ' Mindy Sterling as Clarnella and narrated by Sir Anthony Hopkins . Filled with hilarious gags and good green make-up , director Ron Howard and producer Brian Grazer have done a great job . It won the Oscar for Best Makeup , and it was nominated for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration and Best Costume Design , and it won the BAFTA for Best Make Up / Hair . Jim Carrey was number 47 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars . Very good !
Britain's Got Talent	If you like ( reality ) entertainment shows , e . g . The X Factor , The Apprentice , Dragon's Den , etc , finding the newest talent from the country , then this is the show with it all . Hosted by Anthony McPartlin and Declan Donnelly , this new show set out to find the best talent that would have the chance to win £100 , 000 , and the chance to perform in front of The Queen at The Royal Variety Performance . The judges were ex-newspaper editor and media baron Piers Morgan , actress of stage and screen Amanda Holden ( who performed there herself ) , and the always popular music producer Simon Cowell . The show had no rules about age or act , they just wanted anyone to turn up who thought they had something to impress the judges , and the theatre audience in the auditions . The difference here is not just the audience , but the judges have the opportunity to stop the act with three X buzzers . The acts that got through to the semi-finals were all great in their own ways , and most deserved to get to the final . These included Damon Scott with Bubbles the Monkey , singer Dominic Smith , dance group MD Productions , The Freerunners , musicals performer Bessie Cursons , Kombat Breakers , male baton twirler Craig Womersley , acro-balancers Crazee Horse , ten-year-old comedian Jake Pratt , dance group The Mini-Mezzos , 6-year-old singer Connie Talbot , The Bar Wizards , singer Tony Laf , break dancer Scott Holtom , beat boxers Crew 82 , comedy impressionist Mike Garbutt , and deserved winner , opera singer Paul Potts . Ant and Dec were number 56 , and Simon Cowell number 33 on The 100 Worst Britons ( why ? ) , Cowell was number 28 , and Ant and Dec number 7 on TV's 50 Greatest Stars , and Cowell was number 67 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols . Very good !
The Omen	This is the terrifying story about a boy named Damien who had many evil powers . His parents , father Robert Thorn ( Gregory Peck ) and mother Katherine Thorn ( Lee Remick ) assumed that things were happening by coincidence , but they weren't . For example , whenever the father drives Damien ( Golden Globe nominated Harvey Stephens ) past a church , Damien screams with fear ( as the Devil would ) , so maybe Damien is a representation of the devil on earth , or his son . Keith Jennings ( David Warner ) is convinced that Damien is evil because of all the signs , or rather , all the " omens " . The only way of stopping these things happening is to kill Damien , but obviously the father has loved him for too long he cannot find courage to do it . Also starring BAFTA nominated Billie Whitelaw as the evil Mrs . Baylock and Patrick Troughton as Father Brennan . A very terrifying film with some devilish parts , including Damien causing his mother to die , and of course , Warner's beheading scene with the sheet of glass , and a good ending . The moment where he sees the three 6's on Damien's head , representing the anti-Christ , is the true moment where Peck knows the evil son . There has been a legend since the film was made of a " curse " on many people involved in the making , e . g . the guy that helped make the beheading scene had a car crash approximately 6 . 66 miles from a town called Omene , was it coincidence , or was it the devil at work ? It won the Oscar for Best Music for Jerry Goldsmith , and it was nominated for Best Song for Goldsmith's " Ave Satani " . It was number 81 on 100 Years , 100 Thrills , it was number 9 on The 100 Greatest Scary Moments , and it was number 25 on The 50 Greatest British Films . Very good !
Sweeney Todd : The Demon Barber of Fleet Street	From Golden Globe nominated director Tim Burton ( Beetle Juice , Sleepy Hollow ) comes another great Gothic masterpiece , and it is rare treat , a musical with a lot of blood ( the opening credits alone is full of it ) , in fact , it was the first 18 certificate film I saw at the cinema . Basically set in Victorian England , London , Benjamin Barker ( Golden Globe winning , and Oscar nominated Johnny Depp ) reminisces the loss of his wife Lucy and daughter from the lust of Judge Turpin ( Alan Rickman ) , who ruined their lives . He raped Lucy , who apparently poisoned herself in despair , and had Barker deported to Australia , and the daughter , Johanna ( Jayne Wisener ) is now the Judge's ward . Years later , Barker has returned ( illegally ) with the new image and name , Sweeney Todd to seek revenge , with the help of young sailor Anthony Hope ( Jamie Campbell Bower ) . Todd visits the pie shop of Mrs . ( Nellie ) Lovett ( Golden Globe nominated Helena Bonham Carter , Burton's long time girlfriend ) , in the building where above he used to rent the room to do barber work , she tells him about the wife's death and the Judge's ward , his daughter . With his " friends " , the hidden razors back , Todd decides to reopen his barbershop . On a stroll through market , Todd and Lovett stop to watch a possible rival barber ( and hair tonic salesman ) , Signor Adolfo Pirelli ( Borat's Sacha Baron Cohen ) , but Todd wins a shaving competition against him , judged by the Judge's sidekick , Beadle Bamford ( Timothy Spall ) . Pirelli comes to see Todd , and reveals that he used to work for him , and tries to blackmail him , but enraged Todd kills him , slicing his neck with his razor blade . Mrs . Lovett is of course shocked , but soon calms , and understands his reasons , but they have to dispose of the body , and they both have the fantastic scheme to use the body , as well as other customers that will follow to make meat pies . The Judge does visit for a shave , but Todd loses the opportunity to get his vengeance , so what follows is numerous neck slicing murders , and Beggar Woman ( Laura Michelle Kelly ) is the only person noticing the suspicious action in the upstairs room . A subplot story sees Anthony Hope falling for the Judge's ward , Todd's daughter , Johanna , and with the Judge telling him to keep away locks her away . It is obvious towards the end there won't be a happy ending , Todd does get to kill Bamford and his master the Judge , Johanna is caught hiding by Todd who tells her to stay put till he gets back ( that's the last time you and he see her ) , the little boy helping at the pie shop , Toby ( Ed Sanders ) discovers the dark meat secret , with a finger in his pie , Todd kills the Beggar Woman , who he didn't realise is actually Lucy ( ! ) , he throws Mrs . Lovett in the fire as revenge , and as Todd weeps over his dead wife , Toby slices his neck with his own razor blade . Phew ! Look out for a quick appearance by Anthony Head as a Man in the street . Depp is superbly sentimental and mental at the same time , same with Bonham Carter as the cannibalistic pie maker , and both are quite good at singing . There is a hell of a lot of blood , there are small humorous moments , and the songs are also very enjoyable , a true classic that I will never tire of . It won the Oscar for Best Art Direction , and it was nominated for Best Costume Design ( why wasn't Burton nominated ) , it is nominated the BAFTAs for Best Costume Design and Best Make Up & Hair , and it won the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Musical or Comedy . Very good !
Mega-Boob Olympics	I ordered the DVD from America and was expecting it within three months ( airmail time ) , but I was really shocked when it came after only a week and half . The result is the most satisfactory porn DVD in my collection . Basically six of the world's biggest boobed / breasted women : Casey James , Kayla Kleevage , SaRenna Lee , Minka , Maxi Mounds and Plenty UpTopp are all together in Florida , to perform some of the most sexy and voluptuous activities , all naked , to prove which of them has the " best boobs in the world " . These include : tape measuring ( nipples , areola and fanny ) , improvised oiled sexy dancing , naked oiled Twister , boob Dildo passing , floating boobs in water contest , throwing rings on strap-on Dildos , trying each others bras , and much more . They also have their individual moments for the male audience . The use of Dildos and some of their dirty talk ( and one of them cums ! ) is a bit much , but ultimately it is just the " film " if you ( like me ) love mega boobs . Very , very good !
There Will Be There	I knew it was about the oil business , I knew the lead actor won awards , and I vaguely remembered it was directed by Oscar BAFTA nominated Paul Thomas Anderson ( Boogie Nights , Magnolia ) , I just needed to see it . The film follows the rise to power for charismatic and ruthless oil prospector Daniel Plainview ( Oscar , BAFTA and Golden Globe winning Daniel Day-Lewis ) , driven to succeed by intense hatred of others and a psychological need to see competitors fail . Daniel is told by Paul Sunday ( BAFTA nominated Paul Dano ) that he lives on land where oil-rich land in Little Boston , California , so he goes to investigate , and quickly buys property by manipulating people , and sets up a well . He uses adopted son H . W . Plainview ( Dillon Freasier ) to project the image he is a family man , promising to build schools and make the community flourish . There is the point when H . W . is deafened by a oil eruption , and Daniel just gets him to see a teacher and translator , quickly solving the problem , and also showing his lack of care for anyone but himself . Greed becomes more apparent , and Daniel builds tension towards preacher Eli Sunday ( also Dano ) , and years later , an older H . W . ( Russell Harvard ) has been alienated , and the film ends with Daniel's big outburst , murdering Eli . Also starring Kevin J . O'Connor as Henry , Ciarán Hinds as Fletcher , Sydney McCallister as Young Mary Sunday , David Warshofsky as H . M . Tilford , Colton Woodward as William Bandy and Colleen Foy as Adult Mary Sunday . I will be honest , for a film being two and a half hours long , I preferred the first hour to the rest , after it goes a little less interesting ( well , apart from the ending ) , this is why I have taken away a star from the rating . Never-the-less , a brilliant story with a compelling Oscar worthy performance from Day-Lewis , with great direction by Anderson , and some good moments to catch your eye , definitely one to see . It won the Oscar for Best Cinematography , and it was nominated for Best Art Direction , Best Editing , BestSound Editing , Best Writing , Screenplay Based on Material Previously Produced or Published and Best Motion Picture of the Year , it was nominated BAFTA Film Award Best Cinematography , Best Music for Jonny Greenwood , Best Production Design , Best Adapted Screenplay , Best Sound and Best Film , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama . Daniel Day-Lewis was number 85 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , he was number 20 on The 50 Greatest British Actors , he was number 9 on Britain's Finest Actors , and he was number 15 on The World's Greatest Actor . Very good !
The Fast Show Farewell Tour	The Fast Show writers and performers had probably run out of ideas , or were just getting bored . So this is the very last show that they did . It included some old favourite jokes as well as one or two brand new ones with the cast that we have grown to love in the sketch show . Paul Whitehouse plays Unlucky Alf , Rowley Birkin , Jed Tucker ( Arse ! ) , Ken ( Suit You ! ) , Chris Jackson ( I'll nick it ) , Ted and many more . Charlie Higson plays Bob Fleming , Colin Hunt , Johnny the Painter , Ralph , Swiss Toni , Mickey Disco and many more . Mark Williams , my favourite , plays Jesse , a shepherd , the headmaster , Kenneth ( Suit You ! ) , Clive Thomas ( sneezer ) and many more . Arabella Weir plays basically all the women of the show , including the lesbian clitoris researcher , No Offense and many more . Simon Day plays Dave Angel , Cal Hooper and many more . There's also Rhys Thomas in it . But where's John Thomson , he was away because his wife was having a baby . Very good final act !
Hollywood Greats	I started taking notice of this programme ( in 2006 ) when they really started paying attention to the fantastic actors of Hollywood . Basically for three episodes , at least twice a year , Jonathan Ross gives all all the information we would want to know about an actor / actress , and why they were / are so admired / acclaimed by other actors , and the public . The only three episodes , or rather focused stars , I have seen so far have been Harrison Ford , Jack Lemmon and Marlon Brando , but all have been really good with attention to detail concerning their histories . I really look forward to each programme and which star is going to be discussed and focused . Very good !
Don't Try This at Home !	This used to be one of the best shows on a Saturday night ! Davina McCall hosted a show where basically they bring in professionals , and sometimes an audience member to perform something that should not be attempted at home . They even got someone to pick one of three envelopes for a special challenge near the end of the show . They had people lying on nails , walking on hot ashes , swimming with sharks , going across a rope bridge in a car , climbing very high mountains , eating breaded sheep's testicles , eating live maggots , and getting people over their fear of bugs , snakes , and bananas ? ! There were many other nasty or disgusting things to " NOT " do on the show . Very good !
Borat	This is way better than Ali G's movie , I wish he or Bruno were in it somewhere . This is a fantastic Mockumentary comedy with " Yuksmash " Borat Sagdiyev ( Golden Globe winning Sacha Baron Cohen ) of Kazakstan explaining his home life and traditions , including " Running of Jew " , they fear the Jews . Basically he travels to America , New York to film his journeys to learn the American way . He changes his mind of filming there though , when he discovers his wife has died , and finds a new love , CJ Parker / Pamela Anderson from Baywatch . So he begins a long journey to Hollywood , California , with his friend Azamat Bagatov ( Ken Davitian ) to find Pamela , and along the way encounters many hilarious antics including punks , cowboys , politician types , drunk jocks , almost insane Christian believers , and Jews ( he is obviously frightened ) . This is an unmissable film , and I have honestly never laughed so much at a film so much , at the moment when Borat and Azamat are naked and rolling around fighting and running around the hotel . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Writing , Adapted Screenplay , it won the British Comedy Award Ronnie Barker Award ( writing ) , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Musical or Comedy . Sacha Baron Cohen was number 8 for Ali G on The 100 Greatest TV Characters , Borat was number 24 on The 100 Greatest Funny moments , along with Bruno at number 77 and Ali G at number 6 , Borat was number 17 on The World's Greatest Comedy Characters , with Ali G at number 6 , and Sacha Baron Cohen ( as Ali G ) was number 12 on Britain's Favourite Comedian . Very good !
American Psycho	Based on the popular novel by Bret Easton Ellis , this is a great satirical black comedy horror drama , from ( female ! ) writer / director Mary Harron . Basically Patrick Bateman ( a brilliant Christian Bale , with a convincing American accent ) is a successful , wealthy twenty-seven-year-old Wall Street businessman with quite a good reputation , and he takes good care of himself to maintain good looks and health . No-one would suspect that he was a psychotic serial killer , but after viciously killing an innocent tramp and his dog , and then the annoying workmate , you know it . As the film continues , local cop Donald Kimball ( Willem Dafoe ) is questioning Patrick for a reliable alibi , while Patrick is having " fun " with prostitutes ( that he first whips , and later kills ) , watching pornography , and being irritated by his apparent fiancée Evelyn Williams ( Reese Witherspoon ) . Also starring Super Mario Bros . star Samantha Mathis as Courtney Rawlinson , Chloë Sevigny as Jean , Mulholland Drive's Justin Theroux as Timothy Bryce , Josh Lucas as Craig McDermott and Guinevere Turner as Elizabeth . The memorable moments for me are Patrick explaining his routine for good living ( including the poster picture of him wearing the blue ice pack mask on his eyes ) , the sleazy threesome , the human head in the fridge , Patrick running naked through the corridors with a chainsaw to kill the whore , and the murder of Paul Allen ( Jared Leto ) while talking about music ( his passion ) . The dialogue is very witty , the violence is really cool , and Bale has never been better . The ending , after his breakdown and confession of his horrific crimes , is a bit weird , you see the words " This is not an exit " on the wall , and you don't know if it is his imagination , or an insignificance to other characters , but apart from this weird ending , the rest is a must see . Very good !
Dumb and Dumber	This is one of the best comedies by the Farrelly brothers . Jim Carrey as Lloyd Christmas and Jeff Daniels as Harry Dunne are one of the best duo I have known in a film or a comedy . Mary Swanson ( Lauren Holly ) is on the way to the airport and she leaves her briefcase on the floor . Lloyd is determined to drive 2000 miles to Aspen to return it to her . On the way Harry and Lloyd cause many hilarious problems for themselves and others . For example , when Lloyd needs the toilet they don't stop and he pees in beer bottles , a one is drunk by a cop pulling them over . This hilarious hit comedy really made Jim Carrey a favourite . Jeff Daniels is pretty good too , particularly when he drinks laxative and craps himself in a broken toilet . It was number 17 on The 50 Greatest Comedy Films . Very good !
Bo ! in the US	It did have exactly the same buzz or humour as the original show , but it was still a good show . Basically Avid Merrion ( Leigh Francis ) with his wife / sister Sacha ( Barunka O'Shaughnessy ) are now living in America and own The Merrion Hotel in Los Angeles , they have also brought some celebrity guests along with them . These include old favourite characters The Bear , Keith Lemmon , Craig David , George Michael and Elton John ( new mask ) , and in their individual bits there is also Mel B , Michael Jackson , Corey Haim the film lover ( from A Bear's Tail ) , Jimmy Carr , Trisha Goddard ( new mask ) , Marilyn Manson ( new mask ) and Mick Hucknall . There are also great new characters , including Simon Cowell , Gordon Ramsay , Chris Martin from Coldplay , Pete Doherty , Alan Carr and Justin Lee Collins on The Friday Night Project , Dido , Pamela Anderson on Baywatch , Oprah Winfrey , Madonna and Dr . Huxtable from The Cosby Show , with spoofs of films Ray with Jamie Foxx , Walk the Line with Reese Witherspoon and Donnie Darko with Craig David as the rabbit . Guests included Holly Valance , Verne Troyer ( Mini Me in Austin Powers ) , Shannen Dogherty , Jenny McCarthy , Jade Goody and her Mum Jackiey ( Budden ) , Cleo Rocos , a band called Cherry Black Stone , Justin Timberlake , Fabio ( male model ) , Victoria Silvstedt , Shannon Elizabeth , Steve Guttenberg , Dean Cain , Richard Blackwood , Traci Bingham , Emma Bunton , Krishnan Guru-Murthy and Dominic Monaghan . Avid Merrion was number 27 on The World's Greatest Comedy Characters . Very good !
Oliver Twist	I've seen the Ron Moody musical version , and I saw the Sir Ben Kingsley / Roman Polanski version , but this of course is the most acclaimed version of the classic Charles Dickens tale , from director Sir David Lean ( Great Expectations , The Bridge on the River Kwai , Lawrence of Arabia ) . You probably know the story pretty well already , but just in case , I'll go through it . Basically , a Mother ( Josephine Stuart ) struggled to give birth in the workhouse , but she did , and died shortly after . 11 years later , the boy , Oliver Twist ( John Howard Davies ) is the orphan living with many lonely children , and Mr . Bumble ( Francis L . Sullivan ) sends him to a work house after he said " Please , sir , I want some more " ( gruel ) . After a little while he runs away and ends up in London , soon meeting pick pocket , the Artful Dodger ( Anthony Newley ) who takes him to the " care and comfort " of Jewish criminal Fagin ( Sir Alec Guinness ) . The rest of the film sees Oliver trying to pick pocket , and getting to many scrapes , with the likes of Nancy ( Kay Walsh ) and her abusive lover Bill Sikes ( Robert Newton ) , Chief of Police ( Maurice Denham ) and Police Official ( Henry Edwards ) , and many others , till he finds his real place of comfort , and all the bad people get what they deserve . Also starring Ralph Truman as Monks , Henry Stephenson as Mr . Brownlow and Diana Dors as Charlotte . Apparently Guinness's portrayal of Fagin was considered anti-Semetic , being banned in America , I think it is the best portrayal of the character , " My Dear " , lol . Other cast members , including young Davies ( who would go on to produce and direct shows such as Fawlty Towrers and Mr . Bean ) are very good , the story is very well put together and feels very dark , a very good adaptation by one of the finest British directors . It was nominated the BAFTA for Best British Film . Sir Alec Guinness was number 12 on The 50 Greatest British Actors , he was number 2 on Britain's Finest Actors , and he was number 11 on The World's Greatest Actor . Very good !
Mars Attacks !	Tim Burton directs an all-star cast of actors to face a load of Martians attacking the earth . Jack Nicholson is President James Dale ( and Art Land ) , who tries to make peace with the Martians , but after two attempts he decides that they are hostile . People in the White House are trying to help him , including Prof . Donald Kessler ( Pierce Brosnan ) , General Decker ( Rod Steiger ) and Jerry Ross ( Martin Short ) . Elsewhere , people are trying to survive , e . g . Byron Williams ( Jim Brown ) is trying to get back to Louise ( Jackie Brown's Pam Grier ) and her two boys . Also , the Martians are taking people and animals , they take Natalie Lake ( Sarah Jessica Parker ) and put her head in place of her dog's . Also starring Glenn Close as First Lady Marsha Dale , Annette Bening as Barbara Land , Danny DeVito as Rude Gambler , Michael J . Fox as Jason Stone , Lukas Haas as Richie Norris , Natalie Portman as Taffy Dale , Lisa Marie ( Burton's fiancée at the time ) as Martian Girl , Sylvia Sidney as Grandma Florence Norrie , Jack Black as Billy Glenn Norris , Joe Don Baker as Richie's Dad and Sir Tom Jones , who was number 87 . Martians were number 27 on 100 Years , 100 Heroes & Villains . Very good !
Unforgiven	One of the best westerns , from an actor / director made famous by some , Oscar and Golden Globe winning , and BAFTA nominated Clint Eastwood . Basically the normal life in the town of Big Whiskey is being threatened by relentless and vicious Sheriff ' Little Bill ' Daggett ( Oscar , BAFTA and Golden Globe winning Gene Hackman ) , and the whores , along with most town people , are trying to get by , but soon are desperate for some form of help after one whore is cut up . The whores put a bounty on the cowboys , i . e . will reward whoever kills them , and this attracts ' The Schofield Kid ' ( Jaimz Woolvett ) , and eventually ageing retired assassin William ' Bill ' Munny ( Eastwood ) . They also get help from Will's old friend and partner , Ned Logan ( Morgan Freeman ) , and all three ride off to kill ( two for the last time , one for the first ) . Meanwhile , back in town Bill is still causing distress for people , including ( for a while ) English Bob ( Richard Harris ) . Eventually Will's gang meet Bill , and this triggers a mini-battle , that will in time end with some deaths of key characters , in this case , first Ned , and finally Bill . Also starring Saul Rubinek as W . W . Beauchamp and Titanic's Frances Fisher as Strawberry Alice . Filled with great battle scenes , interesting chats and a great cast , this is an essential western . It won the Oscars for Best Film Editing and Best Picture , and it was nominated Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Best Cinematography , Best Sound and Best Writing , Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen , it BAFTA Film Award Best Cinematography , Best Original Screenplay , Best Sound and Best Film , and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Drama and Best Screenplay . Gene Hackman was number 42 , Morgan Freeman number 27 , and Clint Eastwood number 18 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , Eastwood was also number 61 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons , and Hackman was number 31 on The World's Greatest Actor , and the film was number 98 on 100 Years , 100 Movies . Very good !
Romancing the Stone	From director Robert Zemeckis , this is a fantastic adventure with a great jungle treasure hunt and some great tongue-in-cheek gags along the way . Basically Joan Wilder ( Kathleen Turner ) is a romance novelist , and one day receives a treasure map from his recently murdered brother-in-law , she also finds out her sister Elaine ( Mary Ellen Trainor ) and taken to Colombia , and the villains she go there to exchange the map for her sister . She gets there alright , but she finds herself stranded in the jungles , but she finds help with soldier-of-fortune Jack T . Colton ( Michael Douglas , also producing ) who agrees to bring her back to civilisation . Soon enough the villains start coming after them , and Jack now also has to deal with that , i . e . killing them and rescuing Joan . These villains include Ralph ( Danny DeVito ) and Ira ( Zack Norman ) who are determined to get that map , with hardly any concern for the ransom exchange . Soon enough Joan and Jack know that if they get to the treasure on the map first , the villains will have nothing to look for , but Ralph is on to them with that plan . Also starring Alfonso Arau as Juan , Manuel Ojeda as Zolo , Holland Taylor as Gloria , Eve Smith as Mrs . Irwin , Joe Nesnow as Super and José Chávez as Santos . The action you can't take your eyes off of , the stars all have their great giggly moments , this is just great fun ( Indiana Jones , eat your heart out ) ! A sequel , The Jewel of the Nile , followed in 1985 . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Film Editing , and it won the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Comedy / Musical . Michael Douglas was number 100 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars . Outstanding !
Anatomy of a Murder	This is one of the greatest courtroom dramas I've ever seen , from Golden Globe nominated director Otto Preminger . Basically army lieutenant Frederick Manion ( Ben Gazzara ) is arrested for the murder of a bartender , Barney Quill . He claims Quill raped and beat up his wife Laura ( The Omen's Golden Globe nominated Lee Remick ) , she supports his story , but the police surgeon finds no evidence of rape . Menion is defended by humble small-town lawyer Paul Biegler ( Oscar and BAFTA nominated James Stewart ) , and during the course of interviews , he discovers Monion's possessiveness and jealousy , and his wife apparently gives favours for other men . Paul realises the prosecution , Claude Dancer ( Patton's Oscar nominated George C . Scott ) will try to make the court believe Laura was the bartender's lover , and that Menion killed him when he saw them together . Manion pleads not guilty , but Paul who knows the case is weak needs a witness to save Manion . Also starring Oscar nominated Arthur O'Connell as Parnell Emmett McCarthy , Eve Arden as Maida Rutledge , Kathryn Grant as Mary Pilant , Orson Bean as Dr . Matthew Smith , and BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Joseph N . Welch as Judge Weaver . Apparently the film was controversial in its day for using the words " panties " and " spermatogenesis " , but today it is one of the few comedic moments of this brilliant film . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Cinematography , Best Film Editing , Best Writing , Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium and Best Picture , it was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Film from any Source , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama . James Stewart number 12 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , he was number 3 on 100 Years , 100 Stars - Men , and he was number 13 on The World's Greatest Actor . Outstanding !
The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments	This is probably one of the best countdowns for sex and nudity fans , it is a countdown of all the sexy moments on television , film and music videos . Narrated by Anna Chancellor , it is a list of popular choices including ( you can probably guess most of the moments ) : Deadly Weapons starring Chesty Morgan , The Fabulous Baker Boys for Michelle Pfeiffer on the piano , And God Created Woman , Jism ( Body ) ; Blow Up ( where Austin Powers ' photography was inspired ) , One Million Years B . C . ( bikini ) , Get Carter , To Catch a Thief , Carry On Again Doctor for Barbara Winsdor on the operating table , The Tall Guy for the sex scene with Jeff Goldblum ( interviewed ) and Emma Thompson , American Gigolo , Amélie for the 15 orgasms , Hammer Horror's Vampire Lovers ( lesbians ) , From Here to Eternity , The Hunger with Susan Sarandon ( interviewed ) as a lesbian vampire , The Mask for Cameron Diaz's sexy introduction entrance , Saturday Night Fever , David Cronenberg's Crash , The Lover's Guide , My Beautiful Laundrette for Daniel Day-Lewis's gay sex , Caligula , The Talented Mr . Ripley , Moonlighting , Don't Look Now , Nigella Bites for her sexy cooking , Risky Business , The Wicker Man ( nudity ) , Footballers ' Wives , Secretary for the bum smacking scene , Lady Chatterly starring Sean Bean and Joely Richardson , Mulholland Drive ( lesbians ) , Body Heat , Thelma & Louise ( sex ) , Buffy the Vampire Slayer and Spike together , Trainspotting ( sex and nudity ) , The Piano for Harvey Keitel rubbing Holly Hunter , Bound ( lesbians ) , True Lies ( bikini dance ) , Dangerous Liaisons , American Beauty for Kevin Spacey in bed with Mena Suvari above and petals falling , Shakespeare in Love ( sex ) , Boogie Nights ( sex ) , Women in Love ( nudity ) , Barbarella , Xena : Warrior Princess , Wild Things ( threesome ) , Ghost for pottery scene , Top Gun , Baywatch , Fatal Attraction ( sex ) , The Seven Year Itch starring Marilyn Monroe , Showgirls , Cool Hand Luke ( wet tee shirt and car ) ( also clips of One Night at McCool's with John Goodman and Liv Tyler and Janine flirting with Barry in EastEnders ) , American Pie ( nudity ) , Emmanuelle , Who Framed Roger Rabbit ? with Jessica Rabbit voiced by Kathleen Turner , Queer as Folk , 9 ½ Weeks with Kim Basinger , Basic Instinct ( up the skirt ) , Out of Sight , From Dusk Till Dawn with Salma Hayek , Cruel Intentions ( lesbian kiss ) , and winner Dr . No for the great entrance by Ursula Andress ( interviewed ) in the bikini ( she made herself ) . With contributions by Emily Booth , Jackie Collins , Bo Derek , Duran Duran , Stephen Frears , David Hemmings , Sylvia Kristel , Karen Krizanovich , Adrian Lyne , Maitland McDonagh , Jane Russell and Paul Verhoeven . Outstanding !
The 100 Greatest Movie Stars	This was probably one of the most essential 100 Greatest that I can remember , I just needed to know who the public ( including me ) had voted as the greatest movie star . Narrated by Richard E . Grant , and appearing contributions from some of the stars themselves , and Gabriel Byrne , Colin Farrell , Stephen Frears , Peter Howitt , Mark Kermode , James King , Kyle MacLachlan , Michael Madsen , Christopher Nolan , Bryan Singer , Martin Scorsese and Ray Winstone . Stars in the list are Michael Douglas , Halle Berry , Burt Reynolds ( interviewed ) , Wesley Snipes , Uma Thurman , Leonardo DiCaprio , Kevin Costner ( interviewed ) , Julie Christie ( interviewed ) , Gerard Depardieu , Gwyneth Paltrow , Juliette Binoche ( interviewed ) , Winona Ryder , Grace Kelly , Daniel Day-Lewis ( interviewed ) , Doris Day , Ralph Fiennes ( interviewed ) , Judy Garland , Fred Astaire , Dennis Hopper ( interviewed ) , Vivien Leigh , Oliver Reed , Dame Elizabeth Taylor , Richard Gere , Meg Ryan , Angelina Jolie , Hugh Grant , George Clooney , Woody Allen , River Phoenix , Eddie Murphy , Gene Kelly , Cameron Diaz , Clark Gable , Robert Downey Jr . , Robert Redford , Jude Law , John Malkovich , Meryl Streep , Peter Sellers , John Wayne , Kate Winslet , Arnold Schwarzenegger , Harvey Keitel , Sidney Poitier , Will Smith , Sir Charlie Chaplin , Bruce Lee , John Cusack , Jim Carrey , John Travolta , Sir Michael Caine ( interviewed ) , Jack Lemmon , Gene Hackman ( interviewed ) , Jackie Chan ( interviewed ) , Gary Oldman ( interviewed ) , Marilyn Monroe , Katherine Hepburn , Cate Blanchett ( interviewed ) , Humpherey Bogart , Bruce Willis , Christopher Walken ( interviewed ) , Nicholas Cage , Tom Cruise , Christopher Lee ( interviewed ) , Marlon Brando , Julia Roberts , Denzel Washington , Morgan Freeman ( interviewed ) , Russell Crowe , Susan Sarandon ( interviewed ) , Dustin Hoffman , Jodie Foster , Johnny Depp , Nicole Kidman , Sigourney Weaver ( interviewed ) , Robin Williams , Clint Eastwood , Mel Gibson , Brad Pitt , Steve McQueen , Audrey Hepburn , James Stewart , Samuel L . Jackson , Cary Grant , Ewan McGregor , Sir Sean Connery , Sir Anthony Hopkins , Jack Nicholson , Harrison Ford , Kevin Spacey , Tom Hanks , Robert De Niro , and the deserved number one Al Pacino ( interviewed ) . Outstanding !
Million Dollar Baby	The meaning of the title is more obvious in what is pretty much the " second half " , and it might make you cry more than The Bridges of Madison County . Personally , I think Clint Eastwood deserved his Oscar and Golden Globe for Best Director much more than Unforgiven ( even though that's great too ) , and it deserved Best Motion Picture of the Year as well . Basically Maggie Fitzgerald ( Oscar and Golden Globe winning Hilary Swank ) wants to become a professional female boxer , with the help of trainer and ex-manager Frankie Dunn ( Eastwood , Oscar nominated for acting ) . Frank for a while refuses to train a girl , and only his sidekick Eddie Scrap-Iron Dupris ( Oscar winning , and Golden Globe nominated Morgan Freeman ) sees a good opportunity , but eventually Frank agrees to teach her the basics , just till she gets a proper manager . However , when a manager does come along , Frank sees that she is not remembering the techniques , and stays with her throughout all her fights . She starts well and continues , knocking many out in the first round , till she is taught to leave a knockout longer . Eevntually she reaches the bigger stadiums , and a after one or two fights , she faces the Billie ' The Blue Bear ' ( Lucia Rijker ) , the most aggressive fighter known to Frank , and she is pretty hard to beat . The unexpected ( first time you see it ) moment though is when Maggie turns with Billie looking finished , and Billie throws a final blow and Maggie lands on the resting corner chair , cracking her neck and permanently damaging her spine . This is where the film gets really emotional , as Maggie , kept alive 24 hours a day by breathing apparatus , and Frank struggling to cope with the fact that he was a little responsible for getting her to the ring . After a little while , Maggie does the unthinkable and wants Frank to kill her to end her pain ( euthanasia ) . He refuses , and to try and do it herself she bites her tongue ( twice ) , and Frank eventually decides to carry out her wish . Swank and Freeman perform worthy Oscar winning performances , Eastwood is great acting and directing , it is just essential viewing for the boxing , acting and emotional power . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Editing and Best Writing , Adapted Screenplay , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama and Best Original Score for Eastwood ( ! ) . Morgan Freeman was number 27 , and Clint Eastwood number 18 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , he was also number 61 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons . Outstanding !
Harry Hill's TV Burp	I just love this show , it is simply the best comedy show I have ever seen with the wild and eccentric but excellent comedian Harry Hill . I am just always wondering which programme will be joked about on this programme . Basically he takes clips from recent shows in the last week and turn them into the joke . He takes the soaps ( EastEnders , Coronation Street ) , the dramas , the documentaries ( Wife Swap ) , the reality shows ( Big Brother , I'm a Celebrity ) , he just takes everything you can think of on TV . He always says something before or after the clip , and when it shown that is the joke . Harry Hill is brilliant and deservedly won a British Comedy Award , and the show won Best Comedy Entertainment Programme . There was also a Christmas TV Burp in 2006 . Harry Hill was number 26 on The Comedians ' Comedian . Outstanding !
Frankenstein	Based on the story by Mary Shelley , this is probably the most well known of all the film adaptations , from director James Whale . Basically Dr . Henry Frankenstein ( Colin Clive ) wants to build a man made of dead bodies , so he and assistant Fritz ( Dracula's Dwight Frye ) steal a couple of bodies , and Fritz also steals an abnormal criminal brain ( after dropping the normal one ) from Frankenstein's former teacher Dr . Waldman ( Edward Van Sloan ) . Frankenstein has completed his construction , and he is ready to bring his creation to life , with the help of electrodes and the incoming storm ( lightning ) . Worried for him , Henry's fiancée Elizabeth ( Mae Clarke ) , along with best man Victor Moritz ( John Boles ) and Dr . Waldman go to see Frankenstein , and they too witness the experiment completion . There is movement from this creature , and a few minutes later , you see The Monster ( Boris Karloff ) in person . At first , it seems very slow and obedient , but it becomes apparent that it is very aggressive , and they have to lock in a cell , which after killing Fritz , he does manage to escape from . While Frankenstein tries to proceed with his wedding , the Monster is " playing " with a little girl , who he throws in the water thinking she will float , but in fact he drowns her , and her father joins the villagers to get the Monster . Frankenstein finds it , and it takes him to the near windmill , where Henry is thrown over the side - lucky to be alive - and it appears that the Monster is burned alive in the tower . Even with it's simplicity , it is still a creepy and influential horror film , and Karloff's image is still as iconic as ever , one of the great classics of cinema . It was number 49 on 100 Years , 100 Quotes ( " It's alive ! It's alive ! " ) , it was number 72 on The 100 Greatest Scary Moments , it was number 56 on 100 Years , 100 Thrills , it was number 100 Years , 100 Movies . Outstanding !
Mrs . Miniver	17 years before the 11-Oscar-winning Ben-Hur , Oscar winning director William Wyler created this superb wartime melodrama , Winston Churchill even praised it . Basically , the Minvers are an English " middle-class " family living in World War II . Throughout the film they have to put up with dodging bombs , the Miniver's son Toby ( Christopher Severn ) is trying to get with the granddaughter of Lady Beldon ( Oscar nominated Dame May Witty ) , and a contest for the person with the best rose , one being named after the film's heroine , Mrs . Kay Miniver ( Oscar winning Greer Garson ) against Lady Beldon's . The film is basically made up of many social conversations , wartime incidents and trauma , and great sentiment . Also starring Forbidden Planet's Oscar nominated Walter Pidgeon as Clem Miniver , Oscar winning Teresa Wright as Carol Beldon Miniver , Reginald Owen as Foley , It's a Wonderful Life's Oscar nominated Henry Travers as Mr . Ballard , Richard Ney as Vin Miniver and Henry Wilcoxon as Vicar My favourite moments include the escaped German threatening Mrs . Miniver with a gun for food , only to be arrested , the bomb raid where the Miniver family are in their shelter , Travers winning the rose competition , and many plane crashes . Great acting , great effects ( for the time ) and great period drama , even the tag-line says " voted the greatest movie ever made " , I can agree it is a must see . The sequel , The Miniver Story that followed in 1950 is meant to be poor . It won Oscars for Best Cinematography , Best Writing , Screenplay and Best Picture , and it was nominated for Best Special Effects , Best Film Editing and Best Sound . Greer Garson was number 40 on The 50 Greatest British Actrsses , the film was number 79 on The 100 Greatest War Films , it was number 50 on The Ultimate Film , and it was number 40 on 100 Years , 100 Cheers . Outstanding !
Bride of Frankenstein	Director James Whale returned four years later with this follow up to the adaptation of the famous Mary Shelley story . Basically , Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley ( Elsa Lanchester ) reveals to Percy Shelley ( Douglas Walton ) and Lord Byron ( Gavin Gordon ) that neither Doctor , now Baron Henry Von Frankenstein ( Colin Clive ) , nor his Monster ( Boris Karloff ) did not die , Henry survived the fall , and the Monster went into the water . Henry wants nothing more than to relax with new wife Elizabeth ( Valerie Hobson ) , but former mentor , sinister Dr . Pretorius ( Ernest Thesiger ) shows up wanting him to help create life again , he even shows him some miniature people he has created , but Henry refuses . His monster meanwhile saves a girl from drowning , then forms a friendship with a blind Hermit ( O . P . Heggie ) who teaches him to talk , before hunters chase him away . The Monster shows up at Pretorius's place , and he thinks that Frankenstein's creation can help him with his plan . The Monster kidnaps Elizabeth , and Pretorius blackmails Henry to help him build a friend , i . e . a female creature , or a bride . So the same methods to bring the creation to life are used , electrodes and a storm ( lightning ) , and the experiment is successful . The Monster's Mate ( Lancaster again ) looks around in wonder , and then Frankenstein's Monster enters excitedly and reaches to touch her , but she screams in rejection , and after Henry gets Elizabeth , the Monster tells them to leave , while he pulls the lever to destroy the laboratory and tower . Karloff is still very engaging as the Monster , especially after learning to speak , Thesiger gives an ingenious portrayal of the perverse Professor , and the image of Monster's Mate , with that bizarre electric hairdo , is just as iconic as Karloff . The original is a fantastic , creepy influential horror classic , this sequel in my opinion is much more more brilliant , with a much more effective story , and more dark and poignant moments to enjoy . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Sound . It was number 97 on The 100 Greatest Films . Outstanding !
The Lord of the Rings : The Two Towers	The second part to the J . R . R . Tolkien book based film trilogy is more darker than the first . The fellowship is broken , Frodo ( Elijah Wood ) and Sam ( Sean Astin ) travel to Mordor accompanied by the treacherous Gollum / Sméagol ( Andy Serkis ) . Merry ( Dominic Monaghan , now known in TV's Lost ) and Pippin ( Billy Boyd ) have been kidnapped by the Urukhai , but get rescued by Treebeard ( John Rhys-Davies ) , and they plan their battle with other Ents . Aragorn ( Viggo Mortensen ) , Legolas ( Orlando Bloom ) and Gimli ( Rhys-Davies ) have joined forces with the King Theoden of Rohan ( Bernard Hill ) . Gandalf ( Sir Ian McKellen ) , now a White wizard has returned , and with Thoedon's bunch they plan the battle of Helm's Deep against Orcs and Uruks sent from Isegard by traitor White wizard Saruman ( Christopher Lee ) . BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated director Peter Jackson has done another fantastic job , and the big battle is spectacular . Also starring Liv Tyler as Arwen , Cate Blanchett as Galadriel , Hugo Weaving as Elrond , Miranda Otto as Eowyn of Rohan , Brad Dourif as Wormtongue , David Wenham as Faramir , Karl Urban as Eomer and Sean Bean as Boromir ( flashback ) . Featuring the song " Gollum's Song " by Emilíana Torrini . It won the Oscars for Best Sound Editing and Best Visual Effects , and it was nominated for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Best Editing , Best Sound and Best Picture , it won the BAFTAs for the Audience , Best Special Visual Effects and Best Costume Design , and it was nominated for the BAFTA Children's Award for Best Feature Film , Best Cinematography , Best Editing , Best Make Up / Hair , Best Production Design , Best Sound , the David Lean Award for Direction and Best Film , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama . Christopher Lee was number 31 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , he was number 13 , and Sir Ian McKellen number 4 on The 50 Greatest British Actors , and McKellen was number 5 on Britain's Finest Actors , the film was number 85 on 100 Years , 100 Quotes ( " My precious . " ) , it was number 22 on The Ultimate Film , and as part of the trilogy , all three films were number 11 on The 100 Greatest Family Films . Outstanding !
The Lord of the Rings : The Return of the King	The third and final part of J . R . R . Tolkien's most celebrated trilogy is by far the best of the three films . Oscar winning director Peter Jackson has touched hearts and created many emotions in this outstanding ending to the film . Frodo ( Elijah Wood ) and Sam ( Sean Astin ) are near to Mordor , but are heading for danger by the devilish Gollum / Sméagol ( Andy Serkis ) , the most convincing CGI character in film . White wizard Gandalf ( BAFTA nominated Sir Ian McKellen ) , Aragorn ( Viggo Mortensen ) , Legolas ( Orlando Bloom ) and Gimli ( John Rhys-Davies ) have found Merry ( Dominic Monaghan , now in TV's Lost ) and Pippin ( Billy Boyd ) and are all preparing for war against Mordors many terrifying Orcs and other beasts . I can admit the ending does drag on with teary moments , but it still manages to make me cry . Also starring Liv Tyler as Arwen , Cate Blanchett as Galadriel , Hugo Weaving as Elrond , Bernard Hill as Theoden , Sir Ian Holm as Bilbo Baggins and Sean Bean as Boromir ( flashback ) , no Christopher Lee ( at least not in the cinema version ) . This film won 11 well deserved Academy Awards ( all nominated ) , equalling Ben-Hur and Titanic . These were Best Sound Mixing , Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Best Costume Design , Best Editing , Best Makeup , Best Music for the powerful score by Howard Shore , Best Song for Annie Lennox's fantastic " Into the West " ( also won the Golden Globe ) , Best Visual Effects , Best Writing , Adapted Screenplay and Best Picture , it won the BAFTAs for the Audience Award , Best Special Visual Effects , Best Cinematography , Best Adapted Screenplay and Best Film , and it was nominated for the Anthony Asquith Award for Film Music , Best Costume Design , Best Editing , Best Make Up / Hair , Best Production Design , Best Sound and the David Lean Award for Direction , and it won the Golden Globes ( all nominated ) for Best Motion Picture - Drama and Best Original Score . Sir Ian McKellen was number 4 on The 50 Greatest British Actors , and he was number 5 on Britain's Finest Actors , the film was number 19 on The Ultimate Film , and as part of the trilogy , all three films were number 11 on The 100 Greatest Family Films . Outstanding !
Ben-Hur	This was the first film to do it , with Titanic and The Lord of the Rings , all three have won the record of 11 Oscars . From Oscar and Golden Globe winning director William Wyler , the story seems to be about both Jesus ' life , as well as the main character , it may be almost four hours , but it is worth it . Judah Ben-Hur ( Oscar and Golden Globe winning Charlton Heston ) is the hero who disagrees that slavery should continue , Quintus Arrius ( Jack Hawkins ) obviously thinks differently . Anyway , soon enough Judah is sentenced for attempted murder of the Govenor . When he is a slave rower it is quite a powerful scene watching him and all other made to row faster and faster , and he doesn't stop . But the best scene by far is the chariot race , no other scene of the film grips you as much as that . Although , it is really good when an unseen ( by face ) Jesus gives Judah water , and towards the end Judah tries to do the same before his crucifixion . Also starring Haya Harareet as Esther , Stephen Boyd as Messala , Oscar winning Hugh Griffith as Sheik Ilderim , Martha Scott as Miriam , Cathy O'Donnell as Tirzah , Sam Jaffe as Simonides , Finlay Currie as Balthasar / Narrator , George Relph as Tiberius Caesar , Robert Brown ( M in James Bond ) as Chief of Rowers and Dad's Army's John Le Mesurier as Doctor . It won the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Best Cinematography , Best Costume Design , Best Special Effects , Best Film Editing , Best Music for Miklós Rózsa , Best Sound and Best Picture , and it was nominated the Oscar for Best Writing , Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium , it won the BAFTA for Best Film from any Source , and it won the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Drama and a Special Award . It was number 21 on 100 Years of Film Scores , it was number 49 on 100 Years , 100 Thrills , it was number 30 on The Ultimate Film , it was number 56 on 100 Years , 100 Cheers , and it was number 72 on 100 Years , 100 Movies . Outstanding !
Bonnie and Clyde	Based on two real robbers , this film really illustrates the world of villains and makes us think of them nearly as heroes because of what they get away with . Basically snooping around her house , Bonnie Parker ( BAFTA winning , and Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Faye Dunaway ) meets Clyde Barrow ( Oscar , BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Warren Beatty , also producer of the film ) and they instantly feel something , not that romantic though . Soon enough they have a love for robbing banks and stealing cars . Throughout the whole film this continues , and they are joined by C . W . Moss ( BAFTA winning , and Oscar and twice Golden Globe nominated Michael J . Pollard ) , brother Buck Barrow ( Oscar nominated Gene Hackman ) and Blanche ( Oscar winning Estelle Parsons ) . There are times where they get too close to arrest or death , but they beat it . Until the great ending where our two anti-heroes are gunned down by machine gun , they deserved it . Also starring a brief introduction by Gene Wilder as Eugene Grizzard . It won the Oscar for Best Cinematography , and it was nominated for Best Costume Design , Best Director for Arthur Penn , Best Picture and Best Writing , Story and Screenplay - Written Directly for the Screen , it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Film from any Source , and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Drama , Best Director and Best Screenplay . Bonnie Parker and Clyde Barrow were number 32 on 100 Years , 100 Heroes & Villains , the film was number 41 on 100 Years , 100 Quotes ( " We rob banks . " ) , it was number 65 on 100 Years , 100 Passions , it was number 13 on 100 Years , 100 Thrills , it was number 27 on 100 Years , 100 Movies , and it was number 66 on The 100 Greatest Films . Oustanding !
Wallace & Gromit : A Close Shave	Another sequel to the Plastercine animated success was brought to us at Christmas . Wallace the inventor and Gromit return as window cleaners working for Wallace's new love interest Wendoline Ramsbottom . Wallace ( voiced by Peter Sallis ) falls in love with Wendoline ( voiced by Anne Reid ) basically because she looks like him , except with hair . They don't know it , but Wendoline and her evil dog are sheep hustlers stealing their wool . The little sheep , Shaun , is also in their house eating everything he sees , well , and around to help . Preston the robot dog is brilliant animation and Wallace and Gromit are just classic comedy from Aardman Animations . They are now in their own full length movie as well ! The quality of this animation is obviously the fact that everything moving is made of Plastercine ! It won the Oscar for Best Short Animated Film , and it won the BAFTA for Best Animation . Wallace and Gromit were number 11 on The World's Greatest Comedy Characters , and they were number 15 on The 100 Greatest Kid's TV Shows , and as part of Aardman Animations , they was number 15 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons . Outstanding !
The Lady Vanishes	For an old film this is a very good mystery film with only one necessary location . The fact that this is a film directed by Sir Alfred Hitchcock is even better . Basically Iris Matilda Henderson ( Margaret Lockwood ) makes a friend with old dotty Miss Froy , Governess ( Dame May Witty ) on a train going through Europe . All of the sudden after the woman has fallen asleep , this old woman has vanished . So basically most of the film is the woman trying to find her new friend , asking people where they last saw her , and finding the reason for her vanishing . Gilbert Redman ( Sir Michael Redgrave , father of Vanessa ) is the only man who mostly believes her and is determined to help her . Hitchcock creates the idea that this woman never existed , because of the other passengers confusion , the only one thing he doesn't explain is why she vanished , and what was going on when they were being shot at when they stopped the train . But apart from that very tiny problem , the rest of the film is perfect , although I would benefit from seeing it again . Hitchcock's cameo is the man in Victoria Station , wearing a black coat and smoking a cigarette . Sir Alfred Hitchcock was number 75 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons . Outstanding !
The Fast Show	This was the sketch show inspired by Harry Enfield . It is obviously called the Fast Show because of the speed that each sketch goes . Starring some fine comedians this is a fer-nominal comedy , it's made live shows , specials and recently had a farewell tour . These comedians include BAFTA and British Comedy Award winning Paul Whitehouse as Rowley Birkin , Ted , The 13th Duke of Winburne , Ken ( Suit You ! ) , Chris Jackson ( the one that nicks things ) , Brilliant , Unlucky Alf , Monster , Arthur Atkinson , Lyndsay Mottram , Ron Manager and many more . Charlie Higson as Colin Hunt , Ralph , Swiss Toni , Bob Fleming , Johnny the Painter , Simon Bush and many more . Simon Day as Billy Bleach , Carl Hooper ( That's Amazing ! ) , Dave Angel , Monkfish , Competitive Dad , Tommy Cockles and many more . Mark Williams as Jesse , Kenneth ( Suit You Sir ! ) , Patrick Nice , The Headmaster and many more . John Thomson as Louis Balfour ( Jazz Club ) , Professor Denzil Dexter , Chip the Deaf Stuntman and many more . And there's Arabella Weir as No Offence , Insecure Woman ( Does My Bum Look Big In This ? ) and many more . There are also characters by Rhys Thomas , Paul Shearer , Eryl Maynard and Caroline Ahearne . Guests included young Amy Winehouse and Johnny Depp . It won and was nominated the BAFTA for Best Light Entertainment ( Programme or Series ) , and it won The British Comedy Awards for Best Comedy Show and Best Comedy Series . Paul Whitehouse was number 48 on The Comedians ' Comedian , Ted and Ralph were number 19 on The 100 Greatest TV Characters , and they were number 28 on The World's Greatest Comedy Characters , the Christmas Specials were number 38 on The 100 Greatest Christmas Moments , the first Suit You sketch was number 20 , and Ted and Ralph's Drinking Game number 9 on The 50 Greatest comedy Sketches , and this appeared twice in The 50 Greatest Comedy Sketches . Outstanding !
Friends	This is probably one of , if the not the best sitcom about friendship ever made . With the lovable characters living their New York lives and having wonderfully crafted scripts and story lines , this is simply the best . The six friends are all recognisable now for doing ten years of Friends . These six are three girls : the charming Rachel Green ( Emmy winning and four-time nominated , and Golden Globe winning and nominated Jennifer Aniston ) , the sensible Monica Gellar Bing ( Courteney Cox Arquette ) and simple Phoebe Buffay ( Emmy winning and five-time nominated , and Golden Globe nominated Lisa Kudrow ) ; and three boys : the smooth Joey Tribbiani ( three-time Emmy and twice Golden Globe nominated Matt LeBlanc ) , the simple Chandler Bing ( Emmy nominated Matthew Perry ) and the nervous talking Ross Gellar ( Emmy nominated David Schwimmer ) . Throughout the ten years that they did they had love stories , children stories , specials and the relationships between the friends . They have also had some good celebrity guests including : Jon Lovitz , Helen Hunt , George Clooney , Dan Castellaneta , Julia Roberts , Brooke Shields , David Arquette , Billy Crystal , Robin Williams , Jennifer Saunders , Emmy nominated Tom Selleck , Emmy nominated Christina Pickles , Emmy winning Bruce Willis , Emmy nominated Susan Sarandon , Denise Richards , Winona Ryder , Emmy nominated Gary Oldman , Sean Penn , Emmy nominated Brad Pitt , Alec Baldwin , Emmy nominated Hank Azaria , Emmy winning and nominated Christina Applegate , Scary Movie's Anna Faris , Emmy nominated Danny DeVito and many others . After ten years they finally did a brilliantly funny and an emotional final hour-long episode . The spin-off for Joey is nowhere as good as his original show . It won the BAFTA for Foreign TV Program Award , it was nominated The British Comedy Award for Best International TV Comedy , it won 6 Emmys ( from 65 nominations ) , it was nominated for 5 Golden Globes for Best Television Series - Musical or Comedy , and it was nominated 3 National Television Awards for Most Popular Comedy Programme . It was number 27 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons , and it was on The 100 Greatest TV Treats programmes for 2002 ( when Brad Pitt was in it ) and it even got to number 1 in 2004 when it ended . Outstanding !
E . T . the Extra-Terrestrial	I remember seeing it as a kid , and the ending making me cry , and seeing it again ( properly ) , it is a great film from Oscar , BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated director Steven Spielberg . He based it mainly on his childhood , the divorce his parents and wanting a friend . Anyway , an alien is left behind on Earth , and young Elliot ( BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Henry Thomas ) befriends him , along with his older brother Michael ( Robert MacNaughton ) and younger sister Gertie ( 7-year-old BAFTA nominated Drew Barrymore ) . They teach him how to speak and keep him safe from harm of the adults ( who you see from the point of view of E . T . or a kid , i . e . mainly just legs ) . E . T . unfortunately has some kind of accident and is discovered by the government who try to save him . The bicycle flying is wonderful , especially across the Moon ( which became Amblin Entertainment's logo ) , the Oscar winning music by John Williams is magical , and E . T . is a very lovable character . The extra footage put in , and some reconstructed as part of the 20th anniversary re-release is also quite fun . It won the Oscars for Best Sound Effects Editing , Best Visual Effects and Best Sound , and it was nominated for Best Cinematography , Best Film Editing , Best Writing , Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen and Best Picture , it won the BAFTA for Best Score , and it was nominated for Best Cinematography , Best Film Editing , Best Make Up Artist , Best Production Design / Art Direction , Best Screenplay , Best Sound , Best Special Visual Effects and Best Film , and it won the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Drama and Best Original Score , and it was nominated for Best Screenplay . Steven Spielberg was number 56 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons , the film was number 15 on 100 Years , 100 Quotes ( " E . T . phone home . " ) , it was number 14 on 100 Years of Film Scores , it was number 44 on 100 Years , 100 Thrills , it was number 1 on The 100 Greatest Tearjerkers for the ending , it was number 1 on The 100 Greatest Family Films , it was number 31 on The Ultimate Film , it was number 6 on 100 Years , 100 Cheers , it was number 25 on 100 Years , 100 Movies , and it was number 21 on The 100 Greatest Films . Outstanding !
Reservoir Dogs	This debut from cult director Quentin Tarantino was very well received , and he was even nominated the Sundance Film Festival Grand Jury Prize Dramatic . The story may be mixed up with the continuing warehouse scene , and flashbacks of each individual group member , but you can give it a chronological order . Basically crime boss Joe Cabot ( Lawrence Tierney ) hires six criminals , strangers to each other , gives them false names so they don't get attached to each other and concentrate on job the diamond robbery . They are sure it will go without a hitch , but the police show up and the group members panic , shooting them and some civilians . The police did manage to kill two of them , the others are all getting together , slowly , in the rendezvous point ( the warehouse ) , and begin to suspect that the one member shot , slowly dying , is an undercover cop . Starring Harvey Keitel as Mr . White / Larry Dimmick , Tim Roth as Mr . Orange / Freddy Newandyke , Michael Madsen as Mr . Blonde / Vic Vega , Chris Penn as Nice Guy Eddie Cabot , Steve Buscemi as Mr . Pink , Edward Bunker as Mr . Blue and Tarantino as Mr . Brown . The film only had a $1 . 5m budget , and it took only five weeks to shoot , and it grossed millions worldwide , cool ! It was number 64 on The 100 Greatest Scary Moments , for the infamous ear cutting scene with the song " Stuck In The Middle " playing ( juxtaposition ) . The other great song of the film is " Little Green Bag " when introducing the actors and opening credits . Harvey Keitel was number 53 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars . Outstanding !
Vertigo	This is meant to be one of the great films directed by Sir Alfred Hitchcock , after Psycho of course . James Stewart plays Detective John ' Scottie ' Ferguson , he used to be a cop until he discovered his fear of heights , acrophobia which gives him Vertigo . He has tried to get rid of this fear but he can't . He is asked by Gavin Elster ( Tom Helmore ) to keep an eye on his mysterious wife , Madeleine ( Kim Novak ) . As he gets to know her , he sees resemblance to a woman from the past in a painting she stares at . He also falls in love with her , but their romance is cut short when Mr . Elster makes John believe that Madeleine committed suicide . After a little while , he sees a woman that bares a very close resemblance to Madeleine , Judy Barton ( Novak , of course ) . He becomes very obsessive turning Judy into Madeleine , he moves quite far from his Mr . Nice Guy image . A very imaginative story that will chill and touch . Hitchcock's cameo is a man that walks past in a grey suit carrying a small trumpet . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration and Best Sound . Sir Alfred Hitchcock was number 75 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons , James Stewart was number 12 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , he was number 3 on 100 Years , 100 Stars - Men , and he was number 13 on The World's Greatest Actor , the film was number 12 on 100 Years of Film Scores , it was number 18 on 100 Years , 100 Thrills , it was number 18 on 100 Years , 100 Passions , it was number 61 on 100 Years , 100 Movies and it was number 29 on The 100 Greatest Films . Outstanding !
Wallace & Gromit : The Wrong Trousers	This sequel to the original 1993 adventure where the man and the dog go to the moon is even funnier than ever . It is Gromit the dog's birthday and Wallace , the inventor , has a big surprise for him . The only problem that Wallace is having before giving presents is money . He has bought Gromit a new collar , and a pair of Techno Trousers . These trousers can walk on ground , walls and ceilings . One day they have a lodger wanting to rent a room at the house , but this lodger , a penguin , instead takes Gromit's room . Wallace doesn't know it , but he is the victim to stay in the trousers and help this evil and scary looking penguin steal a diamond . The train sequence is just classic comedy . The quality of this animation is obviously the fact that everything moving is made of Plastercine ! It won the Oscar for Best Short Animated Film , and it won the BAFTA for Best Animated Film . Wallace and Gromit were number 11 on The World's Greatest Comedy Characters , and they were number 15 on The 100 Greatest Kid's TV Shows , and as part of Aardman Animations , they was number 15 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons . Outstanding !
South Park	This is probably the second or third greatest cartoon ever made , after The Simpsons of course . It's also the best adult cartoon . Filled with swearing , violence , weird and wonderful ( sometimes nasty ) stories , this is a great show . The show revolves around four eight-year-old kids who live in the mountain town of South Park , Colorado . They are the sensible Stan Marsh , the sensible Jewish Kyle Broslofski , the shy , easily amused and clever Kenny McCormick , and of course , the fat , horrible , violent , ignorant and offensive , but lovable bastard character I know , not just on the show but probably on TV , Eric Cartman . Every episode they have the same kind of formula , the kids try to do something , Cartman is stupid and horrible , the towns people are stupid , and Kenny dies . There are other good characters including the slutty Mrs Cartman , the disgusting homosexual Mr . Garrison , the sociable Mr . Mackey ( always says Mmmkay ) , Big Gay Al , the festive Mr . Hankey the Christmas Poo ( yikes ) , Terrance and Phillip , Wendy , Butters , Tweek , Timmy , Officer Barbrady , Jesus , Satan , Saddam Hussein , Tom the News Reporter and many more . Creators Trey Parker and Matt Stone do almost all voices , along with Mary Kay Bergman ( till her suicide ) and Mona Marshall , and singer Isaac Hayes as Chef , guests have included : Sir Elton John , Meat Loaf , Ozzy Osbourne , Jennifer Aniston and a couple of others . But when they did have most celebrities , creators Matt Stone and Trey Parker voiced them their selves . This is just the best adult cartoon I know , and when they end it , I hope Cartman pays for everything he's done . Winner of and nominated for numerous awards including 6 Emmy nominations ( one of them won ) ! Eric Cartman was number 5 on Top Ten TV Bastards , Mr . Hankey the Christmas Poo was number 21 on The 100 Greatest Christmas Moments , and along with the film , it was number 3 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons . Outstanding !
The Day the Earth Stood Still	I first saw this classic film on a poster in McDonalds and thought it looked pretty cool , especially the thought of our planet stopping ( imagine the consequences ) . Of course when I actually saw the film it wasn't what I had in mind for the Earth standing still , but it was pretty freaky . Anyway , basically an alien craft from a distant place lands in a football field , and Klaatu ( Michael Rennie ) is the human looking alien that comes out , as well as his spooky robot Gort ( Lock Martin ) who can zap things and make them vanish . Anyway , Klaatu pretending to be Carpenter to all who don't know him , befriends some people including cute Bobby Benson ( Billy Gray ) , but he isn't on Earth to make friends , he needs to warn that the planet is in danger . To make his point and show what he is capable of to Prof . Jacob Barnhardt ( Sam Jaffe ) he freezes all electricity in the world ( apart from needed ones like hospitals and airports ) for half an hour . It nearly looks like he dies , but in the end everyone hears him out . Also starring Patricia Neal as Helen Benson and Hugh Marlowe as Tom Stevens . It won the Golden Globe for Best Film Promoting International Understanding , and it was nominated for Best Score for Bernard Herrmann . It was number 82 on 100 Years , 100 Thrills , and it was number 67 on 100 Years , 100 Cheers . Outstanding !
Charade	From Stanley Donen ( Gene Kelly's co-director of Singin ' in the Rain ) this is a superb film with enough suaveness , sophistication and " cool " you need for a film , especially with a BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Cary Grant . Regina ' Reggie ' Lampert ( a great BAFTA winning , and Golden Globe nominated Audrey Hepburn ) has recently found out that her husband ( that she was going to divorce ) has been murdered ( thrown from a train ) . She is now trying to find a quarter of a million dollars that he apparently left for her . During this she meets Grant , who does give himself five different names , but the cast list reads only Peter Joshua ( the first name he gives ) . They encounter other people who knew her husband as part of an organisation , including Tex Panthollow ( James Coburn ) , Herman Scobie ( George Kennedy ) and Leopold W . Gideon ( Ned Glass ) . One by one they get murdered by an unknown killer as they continue the search for this money , but H . Bartholemew ( a serious Walter Matthau ) is by their side to help sometimes . With some great moments , including Grant's shower still clothed , and the climax of Grant chasing Hepburn , and you don't know if he's good or bad , but don't worry , you will . Grant died two more films after this , and this I have to say was probably one of his best ! It was nominated the Oscar for Best Song for " Charade " . Audrey Hepburn was number 13 , and Cary Grant number 10 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , Grant was number 19 on The 50 Greatest British Actors , Grant was number 4 on Britain's Finest Actors , Hepburn was number 3 on Britain's Finest Actresses , Hepburn was number 3 on 100 Years , 100 Stars - Women , Grant was number 2 on 100 Years , 100 Stars - Men , and he was number 23 on The World's Greatest Actor . Outstanding !
I'm a Celebrity , Get Me Out of Here !	This is probably the second best reality show I know ( after Big Brother ) . They put ten-twelve celebrities and dump them in the middle of an Australian jungle , there is a camp where they eat and sleep . Anthony McPartlin and Declan Donnelly host this show , and they also tell the celebrities who is doing the special Bushtucker trials and who is leaving , and make good gags . They have had some good celebrities , but most of the time we don't know them , they just want to boost their careers . They have had : Siân Lloyd , Christine Hamilton , Uri Gellar , Nell McAndrew , Tara Palmer-Tomkinson , winner Tony Blackburn , Daniella Westbrook , Toyah Willcox , Anthony Worrall Thompson , John Fashanu , winner Phil Tufnell , Jordan ( Katie Price ) and Peter Andre ( who are now married ) , Johnny " Rotten " Lydon , Jennie Bond , winner Kerry Katona ( McFadden ) , Natalie Appleton , Paul Burrell , winner Joe Pasquale , David Dickinson , Jimmy Osmond , Sid Owen , Sheree Murphy , winner Carol Thatcher , Toby Anstis , Jason Donovan , David Gest , Myleene Klass , winner Matt Willis and many more . Jordan ( Katie Price ) was number 2 on The 100 Worst Britons , the programme was number 40 on The 100 Greatest Funny Moments , it was number 6 on ITV : 50 Greatest Shows , and it has been on all 100 Greatest TV Treats programmes so far . Outstanding !
The 100 Greatest Kids ' TV Shows	This was the very first and quite essential 100 Greatest list I saw on Channel 4 . The quite good and amusing Jamie Theakston hosted the list to find the most popular kids ' show for the public . It had some interviews from Gerry Anderson , Todd Carty , Dan Castellaneta ( Homer Simpson's voice ) , Fred Dinenage , Anthony McPartlin , Declan Donnelly , Cat Deeley , Ricky Gervais , Geoffrey Hayes ( from Rainbow ) , Terry Jones , Casey Kasem , Timmy Mallett , Neil Morrissey , Nick Park , Chris Tarrant , Burt Ward and many more . The shows that appeared on this brilliant list included Button Moon , The Herbs , Sesame Street , Bob the Builder , Teletubbies , Tweenies , The Snowman , Captain Scarlet , Thunderbirds , Scooby-Doo , Batman , Postman Pat , Doctor Who , Tom and Jerry , Wallace and Gromit , Worzel Gummidge , Rainbow , The Muppet Show , and the obvious and deserved winner , The Simpsons ( not just for kids ) . Outstanding !
Worzel Gummidge	When I was a kid , and still now , the story of the walking , talking scarecrow is still quality entertainment . The story begins with John and Sue the children and their Dad travelling to Tenacre Farm ( to live ) . On the way they meet the Crowman , played by Geoffrey Balydon , and ask him for directions , he seems weird . Later , it happens , John and Sue eventually meet a new friend who knows the Crowman . They meet Worzel Hedgerow Gummidge played by the brilliant Jon Pertwee . Throughout the show Worzel and his friends have many adventures concerning the village , members of the local community , e . g . Mrs Bloomsbury-Barton , the farm with Mr and Mrs Braithwaite , and with Worzel's love interest , Aunt Sally ( Una Stubbs ) . They had guests such as Barbara Windsor , Mike Reid and Billy Connolly . It was number 20 on The 100 Greatest Kids ' TV Shows . Outstanding !
Carrie	Director Brian De Palma ( The Untouchables , Scarface ) adapts the first Stephen King book to the screen very well indeed . It is a very convincing creepy story of a very troubled girl . Basically this is the story of Carrie White ( Oscar nominated Sissy Spacek ) , the non-threatening ( until threatened ) girl that is horribly treated by other people . Carrie doesn't know it until she researches , but when she gets angry she can create incidents , i . e . telekinesis . Her psychotic religious mother Margaret ( Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Piper Laurie ) punishes her for some of the smallest things , that could be part of why she has developed this power too . Anyway , she goes to the prom , and she doesn't know it , but the girl who hates her most has planted a bucket of pig's blood above the stage , and she gets it poured over her head , during her winning moments as the prom's Queen , that is when Carrie goes insane . She makes doors close , people get electrocuted , ceilings collapse and kill people , and a car crash and blow up . When she gets home , her mother does too go insane , and ends up with her daughter having to kill her , and the house finally coming down on them . But it doesn't end there , there is a final moment where Carrie's mourner places flowers , and Carrie's bloody arm lunges out of the rubble , a nightmare , that probably haunts her for ages . Also starring Amy Irving as Sue Snell , William Katt as Tommy Ross , Betty Buckley as Miss Collins , young John Travolta as Billy Nolan , Halloween's P . J . Soles as Norma Watson and One Flew over the Cuckoo's Nest's Sydney Lassick as Charlie Cheswick ( same surname as Cuckoo's Nest ) . A very disturbing but brilliantly creepy film . It was number 46 on 100 Years , 100 Thrills , and it was number 27 on The 100 Greatest Scary Moments . Outstanding !
The Birds	This is one of the most terrifying films I have seen in years , and what's great about it is that it's a work by one of the greatest cinema directors , Sir Alfred Hitchcock . The story is that Melanie Daniels ( introducing Golden Globe nominated Tippi Hedren ) meets Mitch Brenner ( Rod Taylor ) in a bird shop where is trying to buy love birds for his little sister's birthday . So Melanie decides to take some to him herself . Suddenly before returning to shore after delivering the birds she is attacked . Not long after birds start to attack many other innocent people , until finally the entire town of Bodega Bay is overrun by these horrifying birds . A gripping story with some blood involved and some very good effects . Hitchcock himself said that this is probably his most terrifying film ever ! Also starring Driving Miss Daisy's Jessica Tandy as Lydia Brenner , Suzanne Pleshette as Annie Hayworth , Alien's Veronica Cartwright as Cathy Brenner , and Hitchcock's cameo is the man leaving the pet shop with two white Sealyham terriers past Hedren . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Special Visual Effects . Sir Alfred Hitchcock was number 75 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons , the film was number 43 on The 100 Greatest Scary Moments , and it was number 7 on 100 Years , 100 Thrills . Outstanding !
Ant & Dec's Saturday Night Takeaway	Hosted by PJ and Duncan of Byker Grove and the stars of SM : TV Ant McPartlin and Declan Donnely , this is brilliant . They do many hilarious and wonderful things to themselves , celebrities , the audience and us at home . There is always the chance for us at home to win fantastic prizes in Grab The Ads or Jiggy Bank , and to get into the studio audience to Win the Ads , or even get picked out for something . There has been many good things on the show . Little Ant and Dec interviewing many famous people . The part of the show unrehearsed or trained for called What's Next ? and Ant vs Dec . And already-filmed parts , Ant & Dec Undercover , where they set up a famous person in disguise , and Beat the Boys , where TV duos race the boys . A brilliant show that deserves it's awards and hosts credit . With Ant & Dec there would be no Saturday night in ! It was nominated the Lew Grade Award at the BAFTAS , it won 3 British Comedy Awards from 4 nominations , and it won 3 National Television Awards from 4 nominations . Ant and Dec were number 56 on The 100 Worst Britons ( why ? ) , and they were number 7 on TV's 50 Greatest Stars , the programme was number 87 on The 100 Greatest Funny Moments for the Simon Cowell Undercover , it was number 2 on ITV : 50 Greatest Shows , and was number 60 on The 100 Greatest TV Treats 2003 . Outstanding !
The Exorcist	From Golden Globe winning , and Oscar nominated Willaim Friedkin director ( The French Connection ) , this a masterpiece , and probably the greatest horror film ever made , based on the novel by William Peter Blatty ( also did Oscar winning Screenplay ) . An innocent 12-year-old girl ( Oscar nominated , and Golden Globe winning - and nominated for Best Newcomer - Linda Blair ) is becoming " sick " , then later it becomes more violent and there are no doctors or psychiatrists who can help her . The mother ( Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Ellen Burstyn ) is so upset and horrified by this " sickness " that she tries everything to help her poor daughter . She then hears about " exorcism " and decides to let priest Father Damien Karras ( Oscar nominated Jason Miller ) have a look at her . He discovers the girl is possessed by the devil himself . He gets permission from the church to perform the exorcism with the help of the very old Father Lankester Merrin ( Flash Gordon's Ming , Golden Globe nominated Max Von Sydow ) . An essential film filled with horrifying effects and lots of devilish moments , including projectile vomiting , head twisting , strong swearing ( the ' c ' word ) , masturbating with a crucifix and stuffing her mother's head up her blood covered skirt , pretty hard to deal with , but it is the devil . Some people were so shocked they were fainting and vomiting , or walking out the cinema . It won the Oscars for Best Sound and Best Writing , Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium , and it was nominated for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Best Cinematography , Best Film Editing and Best Picture , it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Sound Track , and it won the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Drama and Best Screenplay . Regan MacNeil was number 9 on 100 Years , 100 Heroes & Villains , the film was number 3 on 100 Years , 100 Thrills , it was number 2 on The 100 Greatest Scary Moments , it was number 91 on The Ultimate , and it was number 49 on The 100 Greatest Films . Outstanding !
Raiders of the Lost Ark	This is the first of the great trilogy by a great director , Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Steven Spielberg . Harrison Ford ( originally meant to be Tom Selleck ) stars as Indiana Jones , a hero with a felt hat and a whip . The film begins with a great scene where Indy tries to get an ancient gold statue . Then obviously the main story comes , some U . S . government have heard that the German Nazis ( oh , this is 1936 , during World War II ) are searching for religious artifacts in Cairo , more prominently the Lost Ark ( the Ark of the Covenant , the chest that carried the Ten Commandments ) . It is Indy's job to stop them from getting this Ark , otherwise they could unleash an unnatural force that can probably wipe out anything and everything . Indy is accompanied by his past girlfriend Marion Ravenwood ( Karen Allen ) who has something to get him started with his search . He doesn't know it yet , but the man mainly responsible for helping out and leading this dig , along with French Major Arnold Toht ( Ronald Lacey ) , is his old enemy ( the one who nicked his gold statue ) , Dr . Rene Belloq ( Paul Freeman ) . What follows is obviously lots of gun play , a lot of German Nazis , some explosions and a little bit of fantasy . Also starring John Rhys-Davies as Sallah , BAFTA nominated Denholm Elliott as Dr . Marcus Brody , Alfred Molina as Satipo and Wolf Kahler as Colonel Dietrich . This is a fantastic start to the great trilogy , the third film is still my favourite , but you must see the one that started it all . It won the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Best Visual Effects , Best Film Editing and Best Sound , and it was nominated for Best Cinematography , Best Music for John Williams , a Special Achievement Award and Best Picture , and it won the BAFTA for Best Production Design / Art Direction , and it was nominated the Anthony Asquith Award for Film Music , Best Cinematography , Best Editing , Best Sound and Best Film . Steven Spielberg was number 56 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons , Harrison Ford was number 5 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , Indiana Jones was number 2 on 100 Years , 100 Heroes & Villains , the film was number 10 on 100 Years , 100 Thrills , it was number 20 on The 100 Greatest Family Films , and it was number 60 on 100 Years , 100 Movies . Outstanding !
The African Queen	This is dominated by the two main stars on the boat , but it does not need any other characters as they are so gripping and so brilliant to watch together . Oscar winning , and BAFTA nominated Humphrey Bogart as Charlie Allnut and Oscar nominated Katharine Hepburn as Rose Sayer are just spectacular together as they travel down an African river to destroy a war vessel , the Louisa , planning to attack England or something . Charlie knows a way to make torpedoes from oxygen and timers , and Rose knows where the boat is going . Along the way the encounter rapids , bugs , storms , the Louisa and of course , each other ( both in the good and bad way ) . In the end they do find the Louisa , but are sentenced to hanging . Before they die they request marriage , and there good misfortune , they crash into the wrecked African Queen ( their boat ) and the torpedoes . One of the best film endings ever when they blow up the Louisa and swim away together . Also starring Robert Morley as Rev . Samuel Sayer and Peter Bull as Captain of Louisa . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Director for John Huston and Best Writing , Screenplay , and it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Film from any Source . Katherine Hepburn was number 38 , and Humpherey Bogart number 36 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , Bogart was also number 1 on 100 Years , 100 Stars - Men , Hepburn was also number 1 on 100 Years , 100 Stars - Women , Bogart was number 27 , and Hepburn number 9 on The World's Greatest Actor , the film was number 14 on 100 Years , 100 Passions , it was number 48 on 100 Years , 100 Cheers , it was number 17 on 100 Years , 100 Movies , and it was number 89 on The 100 Greatest Films . Outstanding !
Alien	Director Sir Ridley Scott here creates one of the best science-fiction films ever made , with some horror , action and thriller moments thrown in . Basically , the commercial towing vehicle , Nostromo , is heading back to Earth , when they receive an SOS signal from a nearby planet , and they are under obligation to investigate . They have a bad landing , but three of the crew members , Dallas ( Tom Skeritt ) , Lambert ( Veronica Cartwright ) and Kane ( BAFTA nominated John Hurt ) leave the ship to investigate . There they discover a hive colony of unknown creatures , the computer message was not an SOS , it was a warning . One of the eggs is disturbed , and a parasite ( face hugger ) attacks and attaches itself to Kane's face . Dallas and Ash ( Sir Ian Holm ) do try to get it off , but it's defense mechanism of acid for blood and the possibility of killing Kane ( because it is feeding him oxygen ) stops them . Soon though , he seems fine and this creature has detached and died . The pinnacle scene is where all the crew have dinner , and Kane starts coughing and struggling in pain , till his stomach suddenly gushes blood , and the alien ( or Xenomorph ) is born ( looking pretty phallic ) . It grows very quickly , and Brett ( Harry Dean Stanton ) is first to be attacked by the big , double-mouthed , acid dribbling alien . The crew plan to kill the creature and escape in the shuttle , and one by one die trying to find it . Ash also grossly reveals himself to be a android with the " special order " to bring this alien to Earth for scientific discovery . Eventually the other crew members , Lambert and Parker ( Yaphet Kotto ) are killed , till the commanding officer , Ripley ( BAFTA nominated Sigoureny Weaver ) ( who grew a bigger character as everyone else died ) is the lone survivor , along with cat Jones , and sets the Nostromo to self destruct and escapes in the shuttle . The alien was not destroyed though , but eventually she gets it out of the blast door , sucked into outer space , and blasted by the shuttle rockets . She concludes by making a report of the situation , with hope she will be picked up by the company , and she and Jones go into the pod for hibernation . I have also seen the 2003 Director's Cut version , but the only real major change is seeing Dallas cocooned , and a few chats , and many interesting scenes and moments cut out , I think the original version is much more interesting and essential . It won the Oscar for Best Visual Effects , and it was nominated for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , it won the BAFTAs for Best Production Design and Best Sound Track , and it was nominated for the Anthony Asquith Award for Film Music for Jerry Goldsmith , Best Costume Design and Best Editing , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Original Score . Sigourney Weaver was number 20 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , John Hurt was number 27 on The 100 Greatest British Actors , Ellen Ripley was number 8 ( Hero ) and The Alien number 14 ( Villain ) on 100 Years , 100 Heroes and Villains , the film was number 6 on 100 Years , 100 Thrills , it was number 4 on The 100 Greatest Scary Moments , it was number 11 on Film 4's 50 Films To See Before You Die , and it was number 36 on The 100 Greatest Films . Outstanding !
The Public Enemy	I always like a good gangster film , e . g . Goodfellas , The Untouchables and The Godfather , and this is one of those classic ones made in the period . Basically it's all about not a man , not a character , but a problem we all have to face , the public enemy . The enemy is Tom Powers , played brilliantly by James Cagney . When he was younger with his brother Mike they were little scoundrels , and as they grew , they became more ruthless . They worked for Putty Nose ( Murray Kinnell ) , killed him after betrayal , shot a horse for killing Nails Nathan ( Leslie Fenton ) and became rich men for doing many other nasty things . Also starring Jean Harlow as Gwen Allen , Edward Woods as Matt Doyle , Joan Blondell as Mamie , Donald Cook as Mike Powers , Beryl Mercer as Ma Powers and Robert O'Connor as Paddy Ryan . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Writing , Original Story . James Cagney was number 8 on 100 Years , 100 Stars - Men , and Tom Powers was number 42 on 100 Years , 100 Heroes & Villains . Outstanding !
North by Northwest	I had no idea what was going on the first time I saw this " classic masterpiece " from the great Sir Alfred Hitchcock , but paying much closer attention the second time I can see why it is given that title . Basically Roger O . Thornhill ( Cary Grant ) has ended a normal day of work , and suddenly he is abducted at gunpoint by two henchmen mistaking him for a government agent named George Kaplan . After meeting their boss ( unknown for the moment ) , he is intoxicated and put driving in a car . He manages to escape charges , as long as he can prove his innocence , so he is now following all leads and clues that can lead either back to the abductors , or this " Kaplan " . Many crimes happen around him , and he is photographed as being the key suspect , but he manages to find a friendly girl , Eve Kendall ( Eva Marie Saint ) on a train , who is instantly attracted to him and says she will help him with his search for answers . At one point Kaplan passes a message to meet Roger on an almost remote road with some crop fields , and this sees one of the most memorable scenes , with him being attacked by the crop dusting plane . After escaping this , he heads to the hotel where he believes Kaplan is staying , and there he finds Eve again , and this is when he starts suspecting she is part of the act . He is right , there is a point that the villains he met before are with her . But he eventually meets The Professor ( Leo G . Carroll ) who reveals she is working for the government agency trying to find out information about them stealing microfilm secrets , oh , and also that Kaplan is fictional , it's Eve . The conclusion of the film sees Roger going to the house where the villain , Phillip Vandamm ( James Mason ) , and his henchman Leonard ( Martin Landau ) are staying , near the Mount Rushmore monument , and this sees the second most memorable scene , climbing all over the four presidents ( LOL ) . In the end the villains fall to their deaths , the microfilm is recovered , and Roger and Eve are newlyweds . Also starring Jessie Royce Landis as Clara Thornhill , and Hitchcock's cameo is the man missing a bus . Grant is fantastically charming , the direction is impeccable , and it is just a film you can't miss . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Best Film Editing and Best Writing , Story and Screenplay - Written Directly for the Screen . Sir Alfred Hitchcock was number 75 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons , Cary Grant number 10 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , he was number 19 on The 50 Greatest British Actors , he was number 4 on Britain's Finest Actors , he was number 2 on 100 Years , 100 Stars - Men , and he was number 23 on The World's Greatest Actor , the film was number 4 on 100 Years , 100 Thrills , it was number 40 on 100 Years , 100 Movies , and it was number 7 on Film 4's 50 Films To See Before You Die . Outstanding !
100 Years , 100 Heroes & Villains	This was like one of those 100 Greatest lists , except with a different title and countdown , this was an essential list counting down 50 great movie heroes , and 50 great movie villains . Hosted by Arnold Schwarzenegger and with contributions by Hayden Christensen ( young Darth Vader ) , Glenn Close , Wes Craven , Geena Davis , Kirk Douglas , Kathy Bates , Robert Englund , Sally Field , Louise Fletcher , Harrison Ford , Milos Forman , Jodie Foster , William Friedkin , Dennis Hopper , Michael Keaton , Frank Langella , Angela Lansbury , Janet Leigh , George Lucas , Roger Moore , Christopher Reeve , Susan Sarandon , Ridley Scott , Sylvester Stallone , Sigourney Weaver and many more . The heroes included General Maximus ( Gladiator ) , Andrew Beckett ( Philadelphia ) , Terminator ( 2 ) , Batman , Zorro , Jimmy " Popeye " Doyle ( The French Connection ) , Obi-Won Kenobi ( Star Wars ) , Tarzan , Marge Gunderson ( Fargo ) , Erin Brockovich , Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein ( All the President's Men ) , Superman , Thelma Dickerson and Louise Sawyer , Terry Malloy ( On the Waterfront ) , Spartacus , Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid , Virgil Tibbs ( In the Heat of the Night ) , Robin Hood , Harry Callahan ( Dirty Harry ) , Han Solo ( Star Wars ) , Oskar Schindler ( Schindler's List ) , T . E . Lawrence ( Lawrence of Arabia ) , George Bailey ( It's a Wonderful Life ) , Ellen Ripley ( Alien films ) , Clarice Starling ( The Silence of the Lambs ) , Will Kane ( High Noon ) , Rick Blaine ( Casablanca ) , James Bond , Indiana Jones and winner Atticus Finch ( To Kill a Mockingbird ) . The villains included Auric Goldfinger , Verbal Kint ( The Usual Suspects ) , Hans Gruber ( Die Hard ) , The Joker ( Batman ) , Tom Powers ( The Public Enemy ) , Joan Crawford ( Mommie Dearest ) , Freddy Krueger ( Nightmare on Elm Steet films ) , Cruella De Vil ( 101 Dalmatians ) , Harry Lime ( The Third Man ) , Frank Booth ( Blue Velvet ) , Dr . Szell ( Marathon Man ) , Count Dracula , Bonnie Parker and Clyde Barrow , Mrs . Danvers ( Rebecca ) , Travis Bickle ( Taxi Driver ) , Martians ( The War of the Worlds , Mars Attacks ! ) , Jack Torrance ( The Shining ) , Gordon Gekko ( Wall Street ) , Terminator ( 1 ) , Man ( Bambi ) , The Shark ( Jaws ) , Annie Wilkins ( Misery ) , Noah Cross ( Chinatown ) , Amon Goeth ( Schindler's List ) , Alien , HAL 9000 ( 2001 : A Space Odyssey ) , Alex De Large ( A Clockwork Orange ) , Michael Corleone ( The Godfather Trilogy ) , The Queen ( Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs ) , Regan MacNeil ( The Exorcist ) , Phyllis Dietrichson ( Double Indemnity ) , Alex Forrest ( Fatal Attraction ) , Mr . Potter ( It's a Wonderful Life ) , Nurse Ratched ( One Flew over the Cuckoo's Nest ) , The Wicked Witch of the West ( The Wizard of Oz ) , Darth Vader ( Star Wars ) , Norman Bates ( Psycho ) and the winner Hannibal Lecter . Outstanding !
Comic Relief Does University Challenge	This was part of the long night of entertainment for Comic Relief 2003 , but I have only seen highlights of it . Angus Deayton hosted the special celebrity edition of University Challenge . The guests that appeared in this show were Clive Anderson , David Baddiel , Danny Baker , Jeremy Beadle , Stephen Fry , Frank Skinner , Johnny Vaughn and Gina Yashere . Basically they just played it like University Challenge , except they added comedy humour to it , since it was Comic Relief . I remember that it was Danny Baker's team that won , I would have thought it would have been Stephen Fry . Outstanding comedy entertainment as part of Comic Relief 2003 !
The Adventures of Robin Hood	One of the very first films to have Technicolor ( after The Wizard of Oz of course ) , this is a fantastic version of Robin Hood , Prince of Thieves . There is still the question of whether he really existed and the legends are true , but that's not important . Basically it tells the story from the very beginning . Robin Hood ( the well casted Errol Flynn ) and Will Scarlett ( Patric Knowles ) assembled the merry men , including Little John ( Alan Hale ) and Friar Tuck ( Eugene Palette ) . Sir Robin of Lockesley as he used to be known makes an enemy of Prince John ( Claude Rains ) , Sir Guy of Gisbourne ( Basil Rathbone ) and High Sheriff of Nottingham ( Melville Cooper ) . And of course , Robin met the beautiful Olivia De Havilland as Maid Marian . Also starring Ian Hunter as King Richard the Lion Heart . Filled with swashbuckling , a lot of sword fights and arrows flying , a good small amount of a love story and terrific performances , this is essential viewing , kids and adults alike will enjoy it , way better than Disney cartoon , and Kevin Costner's . It won the Oscars for Best Art Direction , Best Film Editing and Best Music , Original Score , and it was nominated for Best Picture . Robin Hood was number 18 on 100 Years , 100 Heroes & Villains , the film was number 11 on 100 Years of Film Scores , it was number 100 on 100 Years , 100 Thrills , and it was number 84 on The 100 Greatest Films . Outstanding !
Rain Man	From Oscar winning , and Golden Globe nominated director Barry Levinson ( Good Morning , Vietnam ) , this is an excellent road movie and drama film . Basically selfish hustler Charlie Babbitt ( Tom Cruise ) has found out his father , who threw him out as a teenager , has died . He has only left him an antique convertible , and everything else is going to the older brother he never knew he had . His brother , Raymond ( Oscar and Golden Globe winning , and BAFTA nominated Dustin Hoffman ) is an autistic man ( with Asperger's Disorder / Sydrome ) , and he has no knowledge with the concept of money . Charlie is very displeased with no fortune , and a brother his father never told him of , so he decides to " kidnap " Raymond . But Raymond is too scared to fly , apart from Qantas , so they start a long road trip . Along the way Charlie does have his rages at Raymond , but at one point he discovers that he is a friend he thought was imaginary in childhood , the Rain Man , and that he can calculate complicated mathematical problems in his head with great speed and accuracy , he starts to have real affection for his brother . The best scenes are the gambling ( poker ) spree , and those where Raymond and Charlie get on well , the ending of course when Raymond goes back with the carers or whatever is quite emotional . I can have some understanding of the character of Raymond ( not in exactly the same way ) , because I myself have Asperger's Syndrome . Cruise is terrific as the suffering and later loving brother , Hoffman is not only admirable , but he is sympathetic when he is terrified and slapping himself , but also sometimes funny ( I admit that ) with his talking to himself and genius , it is just a great film . It won the Oscar for Best Writing , Original Screenplay and Best Picture , and it was nominated for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Best Cinematography , Best Film Editing and Best Music for Hans Zimmer , it was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Editing and Best Original Screenplay , and it won the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama , and it was nominated for Best Screenplay . Tom Cruise was number 32 , and Dustin Hoffman number 24 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , Cruise was also number 25 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols , and he was number 81 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons , and Hoffman was number 21 on The World's Greatest Actor , and the film was number 63 on 100 Years , 100 Cheers . Outstanding !
The Great Escape	This is best known as one of everyone's favourite war films , not just for the actors but the thought of hope and escape , based on a true story . It is basically all about prisoners in a German PoW ( Prisoner of War ) camp trying everything they can to escape , e . g . hiding in trucks with trees in them , dressing as Russians being released , and many other attempts . Then everyone has the idea of a tunnel , but to make certain they can still escape , they make three tunnels in different locations with different names . Eventually after long hours of digging , keeping quiet , and diversions , they do manage to succeed in getting at least 70 men out , but some are killed , and the ending is a very amusing one . Starring Steve McQueen as Capt . Virgil ' The Cooler King ' Hilts ( most of the motorbike sequence is really him ) , James Garner as Flight Lt . Bob Anthony ' The Scrounger ' Hendley , Lord Sir Richard Attenborough as Squadron Leader Roger ' Big X ' Bartlett , James Donald as Group Capt . Rupert ' The SBO ' Ramsey , Charles Bronson as Flight . Lt . Danny ' The Tunnel King ' Velinski , Donald Pleasence as Flight Lt . Colin ' The Forger ' Blythe , James Coburn as Flying Officer Louis ' The Manufacturer ' Sedgwick and Gordon Jackson as Flight Lt . Sandy MacDonald ( Intelligence ) . It was nominated for the Oscar for Best Film Editing , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama . Steve McQueen was number 14 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , he was number 49 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols , he was number 62 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons , and he was number 43 on The World's Greatest Actor , Lord Sir Richard Attenborough was number 34 on The 50 Greatest British Actors , the film was number 19 on 100 Years , 100 Thrills , it was number 53 on The 100 Greatest Family Films ( although the list may be confused with Bean ) , it was number 3 on The 100 Greatest War Films , and it was number 39 on The 100 Greatest Films . Outstanding !
British Film Forever	To celebrate 100 years of film making from Britain , BBC2 started the Summer of British Film , and this seven part weekly series was the most essential viewing for me , besides the films of course . In this series , narrated by Jessica Stevenson , it looked back on all the great ( and some not so great ) British films according to the specific genres . Guns , Gangsters & Getaways - The Story of the British Thriller included : The 39 Steps , Brighton Rock , Casino Royale , From Russia with Love , Goldfinger , The Ipcress File , The Krays , The Lady Vanishes , The Long Good Friday , The Lodger ; Lock , Stock and Two Smoking Barrels and Shallow Grave . Longing , Loving & Leg-overs - The Story of the British Romance included : Alfie , Black Narcissus , Bridget Jones's Diary , Brief Encounter , Darling , Educating Rita , Four Weddings and a Funeral ; Goodbye , Mr . Chips , Gregory's Girl , Love Actually , Notting Hill , The Red Shoes , The Seventh Veil , Shirley Valentine , The Stud , Whistle Down The Wind and Women in Love . Hard Luck , Humour & Working Class Heroes - The Story of Social Realism included : All Or Nothing , Billy Elliot , Billy Liar , A Clockwork Orange , Kes , Nil by Mouth , Saturday Night and Sunday Morning , Secrets & Lies , Sweet Sixteen , This Sporting Life , Trainspotting and Twenty Four Seven . Corsets , Cleavage & Country Houses - The Story of Costume Drama included : Carry On Henry , Chariots of Fire , A Cock And Bull Story , Gandhi , Great Expectations , Henry V ( 1944 ) , Henry V ( 1988 ) , Jude , Lawrence of Arabia , Much Ado About Nothing , Mrs . Brown , A Night To Remember , The Railway Children , A Room with a View , Shakespeare in Love , Tom Jones and Topsy-Turvy . Magic , Murder & Monsters - The Story of Horror & Fantasy included : 28 Days Later , Brazil , Doctor Who and the Daleks , The Elephant Man , many Hammer Horror films , Harry Potter , The Quatermass Xperiment , Shaun of the Dead , The Wicker Man and Witchfinder General . Bullets , Bombs & Bridges - The Story of the War Film included : The Bridge on the River Kwai , A Bridge Too Far , The Colditz Story , The Dam Busters , Dr . Strangelove , Enigma , In Which We Serve , The Life and Death of Colonel Blimp , A Matter of Life and Death , United 93 , The Wooden Horse and Zulu . Sauce , Satire & Silliness - The Story of the Comedy Film included : Bend It Like Beckham , many Carry On films , Chicken Run , many Ealing Studios comedies , A Fish Called Wanda , The Full Monty , Wallace and Gromit and Withnail & I . With contributions from Lord Sir Richard Attenborough , Danny Baker , Mischa Barton , Jamie Bell , Sanjeev Bhaskar , Danny Boyle , Sir Michael Caine , Simon Callow , Andrew Collins , Pauline Collins , Martin Compston , Steve Coogan , Brian Cox , Daniel Craig , Richard Curtis , Jim Dale , Phil Daniels , Amanda Donohoe , Fenella Fielding , Martin Freeman , Mark Gatiss , Lewis Gilbert , Terry Gilliam , Richard E . Grant , Sir Anthony Hopkins , Bob Hoskins , John Hurt , Phill Jupitus , Martin Kemp , Karen Krizanovich , John Landis , Mike Leigh , Malcolm McDowell , Ewan McGregor , Al Murray , Paul O'Grady , Nick Park , Simon Pegg , Leslie Phillips , Guy Richie , Rufus Sewell , John Sergeant , Timothy Spall , Johnny Vegas , Kate Winslet , Sir Norman Wisdom . A brilliant documentary series with fantastic celebrity interviews and clips of some great British films , I loved it ! Outstanding !
The Matrix	From writers , producers and director Andy and Larry Wachowski , aka The Wachowski Brothers ( Bound ) this was , and still is a milestone with imagination and digital effects technology . Basically Thomas Anderson ( Speed's Keanu Reeves ) lives an ordinary life as a computer programmer by day , and by night as a malevolent hacker known as Neo . Then one day he finds himself warned by Trinity ( Memento's Carrie-Anne Moss ) and chased by police and agents . Thomas has always questioned the reality he lives in , but when he eventually meets like-minded Rebel warrior Morpheus ( Boyz n the Hood's Laurence Fishburne ) the truth is revealed far beyond his imagination . Morpheus tells him he has been living in the artificial reality world of The Matrix , basically everything we see , hear , feel etc is a big program , and the human race are all slaves . Anyway , Thomas , now mainly known as Neo is woken into the real world , a ravaged wasteland with most of humanity captured by the race of machines that live off their body heat and imprison their minds in The Matrix . Neo is taught all about The Matrix , the real world and more importantly trains him to go back into The Matrix to battle with the agents , including leader Agent Smith ( The Lord of the Rings ' Hugo Weaving ) , who are super powerful computer programs dedicated to snuffing out Neo and the entire human rebellion . The Oracle ( Gloria Foster ) at one point in the film told Neo he was not " The One " like Morpheus says , but of course this was to boost his confidence to make him believe more , and confirm that he actually is . Also starring Memento's Joe Pantoliano as Cypher , Belinda McClory as Switch , Julian Arahanga as Apoc , Matt Doran as Mouse , Marcus Chong as Tank , Paul Goddard as Agent Brown , Robert Taylor as Agent Jones and Anthony Ray Parker as Dozer . The action and stunts are fantastic , the actors are all well cast , the use of colour ( to remind you where you are particularly ) is impressive , it is just an unmissable action thriller film for science-fiction fans . It won the Oscars for Best Editing , Best Sound Effects Editing , Best Visual Effects and Best Sound , and it won the BAFTAs for Best Special Visual Effects and Best Sound , and it was nominated for Best Cinematography , Best Editing and Best Production Design . It was number 66 on 100 Years , 100 Thrills , and it was number 15 on The 100 Greatest Films . Outstanding !
Lenny Henry in Pieces	This is probably my favourite sketch show ever . Lenny Henry acts and shows up telling well written jokes and plays hilarious characters . In the old series Lenny didn't talk to us , but he did in the next . He told really good jokes about getting old , the radio , obesity and many more . The characters he played were just as good as Lenny himself , they really showed his talent . The characters that stick out for me are : " It's cos ' I'm a black man innit " , Donovan Bogard , Gloria the Services Shop Window Woman , Weekend Dad , Inappropriate Fights , the Farting Guys ( that die ) , Grandpa , the Polar Bears , Undercover Cop , Hotel Porters , Homeless Guy , Stuntman , and many other wonderful creations . Also starring Tony Gardner ( My Parents are Aliens ) , Omid Djalili , Roger Griffiths ( has appeared in EastEnders and Holby City ) , Tracy-Ann Oberman ( played Chrissie Watts in EastEnders ) , Gresby Nash , Ellen Thomas , Martin Trenaman and Fiona Welburn . Guest stars have included Uri Gellar and Richard E . Grant . Lenny Henry was number 9 on Britain's Favourite Comedian , and he was number 51 on 100 Greatest Stand-Ups . Outstanding !
Stand by Me	Following the success of This Is Spinal Tap , Golden Globe nominated director Rob Reiner ( Misery , A Few Good Men ) brought out this fantastic coming-of-age drama . Based on a book called " The Body " by Stephen King , this film has Gordie Lachance , or The Writer ( Richard Dreyfuss ) looking back on his younger days when he and three close friends go on an adventure to find the body of a missing kid , presumed dead . The four characters are all lovable , including leader and best friend Chris Chambers ( Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade's River Phoenix ) , Gordie himself ( Wil Wheaton ) , quite smart glasses wearing Teddy Duchamp ( The Goonies ' Corey Feldman ) , and large wimpy and simple minded Vern Tessio ( Scream 2's Jerry O'Connell ) . Along the way , they encounter the junk yard owner and his legendary dog Chopper , a speeding train on a bridge they are walking on which they jump from , camp fire chats ( including the hilarious Larass barfing story ) , crossing the lake of leeches , and ultimately , they become closer than they did before , if only it lasted . They are also being followed by older boys , trying to get their first , including hateful leader Ace Merrill ( Kiefer Sutherland ) . Also starring Casey Siemaszko as Billy Tessio , Gary Riley as Charlie Hogan , Bradley Gregg as Eyeball Chambers , Jason Oliver as Vince Desjardins and then quite unknown John Cusack as Denny Lachance . They do eventually find the body , but cover it back up and respect it , and all kids hardly see each other afterwards , even after their close bonds . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Writing , Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama . River Phoenix was number 69 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars . Outstanding
Rear Window	Oscar nominated Sir Alfred Hitchcock has created another masterpiece , my second favourite after Psycho . Basically L . B . " Jeff " Jefferies ( the great James Stewart ) is the reporter who is spending his last weeks in his apartment with a broken leg , and all he can do to pass the time is stare out the window watching his neighbours enjoying the hot weather ( with no blinds down ) . During his time though , he is occasionally visited by the nurse Stella ( Thelma Ritter ) , and his model girlfriend , Lisa Carol Fremont ( the beautiful Grace Kelly ) . While he is watching the individual occupants of the windows , he has given them all nicknames and is consumed by their private dramas . But one particularly window has caught his attention , when Lars Thorwald ( Raymond Burr ) is looking very suspicious with knives , saws and ropes , going out late at night , and his nagging wife has disappeared . Jeff is convinced that he has murdered his wife , and is constantly trying to watch the action , and prove Throwald's guilt . Det . Lt . Thomas J . Doyle ( Wendell Corey ) is convinced he is overreacting , but more and more incidents with Thorwald make Jeff , and you ( the audience ) believe this accusation . The best moments are when Jeff gives Thorwald a note and a phone call , the investigation of the patio , and the concluding fight . Hitchcock's cameo is the man in the songwriter / pianist's studio winding a clock . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Cinematography , Best Sound and Best Writing , Screenplay , and it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Film from any Source . Grace Kelly was number 86 , and James Stewart number 12 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , Stewart was also number 3 on 100 Years , 100 Stars - Men , Kelly was number 13 on 100 Years , 100 Stars - Women , Stewart was number 13 on The World's Greatest Actor , Hitchcock was number 75 , and Kelly number 92 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons , the film was number 14 on 100 Years , 100 Thrills , and it was number 42 on 100 Years , 100 Movies . Outstanding !
The Hound of the Baskervilles	I have seen the Basil Rathbone version , and personally this remake from British Hammer ( Horror ) Studios deserves it's 10 points ( and five stars from critics ) because it is much more exciting ( especially in colour ) , from director Terence Fisher ( Dracula : Prince of Darkness ) . Basically , the Baskerville Manor has had many members of the family being victim to a legendary creature , known as the Hound of Baskerville , and the opening scene with Sir Hugo Baskerville ( David Oxley ) is an example of this monster . Famous detective Sherlock Holmes ( Star Wars ' Peter Cushing ) and his assistant Dr . John Watson ( André Morell ) are brought in to investigate , and keep an eye on who seems to be the last family member , Sir Henry Baskerville ( Christopher Lee ) . As characters ignore the rule of stay away from the moors after dark , more clues emerge in the investigation , and Holmes thinks he is getting closer to finding who , or what is responsible for these attacks and deaths . In the end , there really was a hound ( dog-type creature , I expected a werewolf ) , and Cecile Stapleton ( Marla Landi ) , " feary " daughter of Stapleton ( Ewen Solon ) is part of this terror that hunts the family on the moors , she is also victim to die when the hound is killed and the case is solved . Also starring Francis De Wolff as Dr . Richard Mortimer , Miles Malleson as Bishop Frankland and Dad's Army's John Le Mesurier as Barrymore . Cushing and Morell make a great double act as Holmes and Watson , Lee is good as Sir Henry , and the film has great moments of case solving and questioning with the many clues that pop up . The line I was hoping to hear , " Elementary , my dear , Watson " was in it , and it is number 65 on 100 Years , 100 Quotes . Outstanding !
Trainspotting	This is the story of some drug takers in Scotland , they live for drugs . They do a bit of train spotting , but only a bit . It's mostly the affects and stories of drugs that are the focus . The film focuses mainly on Mark Renton ( Scotland BAFTA winner Ewan McGregor ) and his attempt to give up his heroin habit , and how the latter affects his relationship with family and friends : Sean Connery wannabe Sick Boy ( Johnny Lee Miller ) , dim bulb Spud ( Ewen Bremner ) , psycho Begbie ( Scotland BAFTA nominated Robert Carlyle ) , 14-year-old girlfriend Diane ( Scotland BAFTA nominated Kelly Macdonald ) , and clean-cut ( only curious about drugs ) athlete Tommy ( Kevin McKidd ) . There are humorous moments , e . g . brown stuff in bed sheets , going down a toilet , and disturbing moments , e . g . the baby dying , and Renton seeing it back from the dead crawling on the ceiling . There's also McGregor naked , and you see him take off a condom , he is very good at not being shy , this was number 36 on The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments . Also starring Shirley Henderson as Gail . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Writing , Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium , it won the BAFTA for Best Adapted Screenplay , and it was nominated for the Alexander Korda Award for Best British Film , and it won the Scotland BAFTA for Best Feature Film , and it was nominated for Best Writer . It was number 1 on The 50 Greatest British Films , and it was number 33 on The 100 Greatest Films . Outstanding !
Comic Relief Does University Challenge	This was part of the long night of entertainment for Comic Relief 2005 . Angus Deayton hosted the special celebrity edition of University Challenge . The guests that appeared in this show were Smack the Pony's Sarah Alexander , Lenny Henry in Pieces ' Omid Djalili , Stephen Fry , movie star Hugh Grant , Men Behaving Badly's Neil Morrissey , Colin Murray and The Fast Show's John Thomson . Basically they just played it like University Challenge , except they added comedy humour to it , since it was Comic Relief . It was Armando Iannucci's team that won , Neil Morrissey I remember was very disappointed . Outstanding comedy entertainment as part of Comic Relief 2005 !
Insomnia	Memento was a brilliant inventive thriller from director Christopher Nolan , and this next film from him has the same impact . Basically Will Dormer ( Al Pacino ) is sent from the city to investigate the murder of a teenage girl in a small Alaskan town , along with his accomplice Ellie Burr ( Hilary Swank ) , and partner Hap Eckhart ( Martin Donovan ) . When they go to the scene of the crime , they see a man in the fog , and Dormer follows him in the fog with Eckhart , and unfortunately , he accidentally shoots his partner instead of the man . Instead of admitting to his guilt , he covers his tracks and makes an alibi . As he tries to sleep he is both thinking of his dead partner and what he has done , this is the insomnia . But soon his sleep will become less achievable when the man he tried to shoot , and the teenager's murderer calls and blackmails him . They eventually arrange to meet secretly , the man is local book writer Walter Finch ( a non-comedic Robin Williams ) who claims to share the same problem as Dormer , he accidentally killed the teenager . Also starring Liar Liar's Maura Tierney as Rachel Clement and Nicky Katt as Fred Duggar . There are some fantastic chase sequences , Pacino and Williams chatting , and great concluding scenes where Williams is at his sinister best . Robin Williams was number 19 , and Al Pacino number 1 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , Pacino was also number 26 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons , and number 5 ( along with Robert De Niro ) on The World's Greatest Actor . Outstanding !
Big Brother	This is just the best reality show that there has ever been . Every show they put in a bunch of people and we watch them 24-7 . They have to also perform tasks to get their rewards , e . g . shopping , food , booze , fags , etc . It is basically like a pantomime , if you are the biggest character in the house it is more likely that you would win the show and £100 , 000 , and you are booed or cheered . All the other house mates get evicted , it's us that decides who stays and who goes . Recently Big Brother turned evil and produced the best of the series so far in BB5 . That is when I started to like it , since BB5 it has still been a great show . BB5 had the courageous winner Nadia , the nudity of Shell and Michelle , the camp Marco , and my favourite Victor , the slick man . BB6 had some okay people including Science , Roberto , Derek , Makosi , Eugene and winner Anthony . BB7 had some fantastic people including Grace , Lea , Nikki , Aisleyne Glyn and winner Pete . I would have loved to have seen Craig Phillips , Nasty Nick Bateman , Brian Dowling , Jade Goody ( who returned in Celebrity Big Brother 2007 with Mum Jackiey and boyfriend Jack ) , Kate Lawler , Alex Sibley and Jon Tickle . Hosted by Davina McCall and Dermot O'Leary , and narrated by Marcus Bentley . Davina McCall was number 95 and Jade Goody number 4 on The 100 Worst Britons , and it has been on all 100 Greatest TV Treats programmes so far . Outstanding !
Shine	This debut from Australian actor Geoffrey Rush , star of Pirates of the Caribbean , originally a stage actor , is a brilliant one in a fantastic biographical drama . The film tells the story of gifted but deeply troubled Autralian pianist David Helfgott , who's talent grew from childhood ( played by Alex Rafalowicz ) to adolescence ( played by Noah Taylor ) . Hie was driven by his teachers , but more by his strict and abusive father Peter ( Armin Mueller-Stahl ) , who never let him make his own decisions , especially when it concerns leaving home . Finally though David stands up to his father and goes to study overseas , but he suffers a breakdown , and returns to Australia to live life in an institution . Years later , adult David ( Oscar , BAFTA and Golden Globe winning Rush ) , who has developed a very fast vocabulary , is released , and visiting a restaurant one day , he plays the piano again , and his career is reborn , before finally returning to the concert hall , and marrying Gillian ( Lynn Redgrave ) . Also starring John Gielgud as Cecil Parkes , Googie Withers as Katharine Susannah Prichard , Sonia Todd as Sylvia , Nicholas Bell as Ben Rosen , Justin Braine as Tony and Chris Haywood as Sam . Rush is both sympathetic and comedic , and with wonderful piano music , even featuring the real of Helfgott in the background , this is definitely a must see . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Director for Scott Hicks , Best Film Editing , Best Music for David Hirschfelder , Best Writing , Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen and Best Picture , it won the BAFTA for Best Sound , and it was nominated for the Anthony Asquith Award for Film Music , Best Editing , Best Original Screenplay , the David Lean Award for Direction and Best Film , and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Director , Best Original Score , Best Screenplay and Best Motion Picture - Drama . Outstanding !
Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs	This is the very first of the legendary Walt Disney full length animated films . The story of the evil woman who wanted to be " fairest in the land " , and her stepdaughter that was ruining her dream . When the stepdaughter , Snow White finds out that her stepmother , The Queen wants her dead she runs away to hide . She manages to find an empty little cottage in the forest . Later she finds out that it belongs to seven little men , dwarfs . They all have very funny names matching their traits : Doc , Sleepy , Bashful , Happy , Grumpy , Dopey and Sneezy . Living with these seven men Snow White has a lot of fun . But later this fun is ruined when the Queen finds out that Snow White isn't dead and turns herself into a witch to find her . She poisons her with a red apple ( oh , and then dies ) . The dwarfs place her in a coffin , and then the prince rescues her with love's first kiss ( the cure of the poison death ) . A very good film with some very good animation ! Walt Disney deservedly won an Honorary Oscar , accompanied by seven miniature statuettes . The Queen was number 10 on 100 Years , 100 Heroes & Villains , ( " Some Day My Prince Will Come " was number 19 on 100 Years , 100 Songs , the film was number 43 on The 100 Greatest Musicals , it was number 80 on The 100 Greatest Scary Moments for the Queen's transformation , it was number 42 on The 100 Greatest Family Films , it was number 60 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons , it was number 3 on The Ultimate Film , it was number 49 on 100 Years , 100 Movies , and it was number 80 on The 100 Greatest Films . Outstanding !
Scream	If you like scary movies , then you'll love this homage to them from director Wes Craven ( The Hills Have Eyes ( original ) , A Nightmare on Elm Street ) . It begins with the great opening with Casey Becker ( Drew Barrymore ) having a phone call from an unknown caller ( voiced by Roger Jackson ) that grips you with the words " I wanna know I'm looking at " and ends with her being gutted from the tree swing . Then it moves to the key story in the town of Woodsboro where Sidney Precott ( Neve Campbell ) is . A year ago , in a day's time , her mother Maureen was raped and murdered , and after getting a call from the killer herself she is under close watch by suspicious boyfriend Billy Loomis ( Skeet Ulrich ) , best friend Tatum ( Rose McGowan ) , reporter Gale Weathers ( Courtney Cox Arquette ) and young police Deputy Dewey Riley ( David Arquette ) . It soon turns into a curfew as the cops search for the killer , " Ghostface " . Also starring the humorous Jamie Kennedy as Randy , Liev Schreiber as a brief Cotton Weary , Henry Winkler as Principal Arthur Himbry and look out for The Exorcist's Linda Blair and Craven himself . What makes this a great horror film is not only the comedy elements , but the inter-textual references , i . e . the characters talking about horror films , and they are in one . To be honest , I only knew of and wanted to see it because I saw the spoof in Scary Movie before it . It was number 22 on The 100 Greatest Scary Moments . Outstanding !
Four Weddings and a Funeral	From BAFTA nominated director Mike Newell , and Oscar , BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Blackadder writer Richard Curtis comes this excellent all-star cast romantic comedy . Basically the story follows Charles ( BAFTA and Golden Globe winning Hugh Grant ) and his friends , Tom ( James Fleet ) , Gareth ( BAFTA nominated Simon Callow ) , Matthew ( BAFTA nominated John Hannah ) , Fiona ( BAFTA winning Kristin Scott Thomas ) , Scarlett ( Worzel Gummidge's BAFTA nominated Charlotte Coleman , and deaf brother David ( David Bower ) as they repeatedly meet at weddings , and try to find their perfect partners . At wedding one for Angus ( Timothy Walker ) and Laura ( Sara Crowe ) , Charles is smitten by the attractive American , Carrie ( Golden Globe nominated Andie MacDowell ) , and they sleep together . After wedding two for Bernard ( David Haig ) and Lydia ( Sophie Thompson ) , performed by inexperienced vicar Father Gerald ( Rowan Atkinson ) , Charles starts to develop stronger feelings and she tells about all her sex exploits , but she is engaged to Hamish ( Corin Redgrave ) . Wedding three is the one that crushes Charles , Carrie and Hamish , and he didn't interfear . It is also there that Gareth dies ( heart attack ) , and soon after everyone is gathered at the funeral , and Gareth's close friend Matthew is tearfully reading a poem to express his feelings . Eventually , the fourth wedding comes along , it is Charles and Henrietta / " Duckface " ( Anna Chancellor ) , but Charles will be shattered and embarrassed when Carrie shows up and says she has now left Hamish , and he eventually ends the wedding with the ' punch ' . There is the happy ending though , not just for Charles and Carrie , but there are also flashes of photographs from following weddings for the other characters . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Writing , Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen and Best Picture , it won the BAFTAs for Best Film and the David Lean Award for Direction for Mike Newell , and it was nominated for the Anthony Asquith Award for Film Music for Richard Rodney Bennett , Best Costume Design , Best Editing and Best Original Screenplay , it won the British Comedy Award for Best Comedy Film , and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Comedy / Musical and Best Screenplay . Hugh Grant was number 73 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , and he was number 8 on The 50 Greatest British Actors , Kristin Scott Thomas was number 22 on The 50 Greatest British Actresses , the film was number 26 on The 100 Greatest Tearjerkers for the funeral , it was number 75 on The Ultimate Film , it was number 36 on The 50 Greatest Comedy Films , it was number 3 on The 100 Greatest British Films , and it was number 42 on The 100 Greatest Films . Outstanding !
Notting Hill	If you liked Four Weddings and a Funeral , then this follow up from writer Richard Curtis is a fantastic romantic comedy . Golden Globe nominated Hugh Grant returns from Four Weddings and a Funeral as William Thacker , an everyday normal unknown guy who works a pretty ordinary job in a travel book shop with Martin ( James Dreyfus ) , and lives in Notting Hill with a curious flatmate named Spike ( BAFTA nominated Rhys Ifans ) . ( Oh , he had seen her films before he met her ) Then one day the girl of his dreams , American movie star Anna Scott ( Golden Globe nominated Julia Roberts , pretty much playing herself ) walks into the shop , and they meet a second bumping into each other ( and spilling orange juice ) in the street . It is this second meeting that leads her to unexpectedly kiss him . A phone call from her is what allows another meeting , and a chance for them to set a date , when she's not busy , at William's younger sister's birthday , His friends , Max ( Tim McInnerny ) and his wife , disabled sister Bella ( Gina McKee ) , Bernie ( Hugh Bonneville ) , and of course , younger sister Honey ( The Vicar of Dibley's Emma Chambers ) , who is most pleased to meet her . Many of the problems with fame crop up when they are together however , including some bastards ( including Sanjeev Bhaskar ) in a restaurant talking about her , autograph hunters , celebrity interviews , and for a little while worst of all , a secret boyfriend named Jeff King ( Alec Baldwin in a cameo ) . Eventually though she comes back to his place when some new photos appear in all the newspapers , and she wants to escape the press for a while , this is when they get closer ( and finally sleep together ) . But a little Spike chats to some mates in the pub , the press find her again , and they are apart again , it happens again at a film set for a new film where William overhears her shut him out in a conversation with a co-star . In the end though , after he finds his way into a press conference about the new film , he manages to seal their love , and they have a happy ending with a marriage , and all that comes with it , being a celebrity . Also starring , in order of appearance , Dylan Moran as Rufus the Thief , Mischa Barton as 12-Year-Old Actress , and if you look carefully you'll see Simon Callow as Himself in Film within Film , Omid Djalili as Cashier at Coffee Shop and EastEnders ' Michael Higgs as Man at Market . This is not only a great comedy of embarrassing occurrences , involving two great stars , but it is good insight into the life of a celebrity , all that they have to go through in life when they are that famous , tough ! It won the BAFTA for the Audience Award , and it was nominated for the Alexander Korda Award for Best British Film , it won the British Comedy Award for Best Comedy Film , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Comedy / Musical . Hugh Grant was number 73 , and Julia Roberts number 29 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , Grant was also number 8 on The 50 Greatest British Films , and the film was number 95 on The Ultimate Film . Very good !
The Lavender Hill Mob	After seeing Kind Hearts and Coronets , I was definitely looking forward to seeing another Ealing Studios comedy , especially with the great Star Wars star again . Henry Holland ( Oscar nominated Sir Alec Guinness ) is the shy retiring dreaming of riches and a good life , and he has faithfully worked as a bank transfer agent for the delivery of gold . He becomes friends with souvenir maker Alfred Pendlebury ( Stanley Holloway ) and Holland remarks that they could forge gold to look like the Eiffel Tower souvenirs , and smuggle it from England to Paris . They get the help from co-criminals Lackery ( Carry On's Sid James ) and Shorty Fisher ( Alfie Bass ) , but there are many twists and turns when some of the towers fall into the wrong hands . Also starring then unknown Audrey Hepburn as Chiquita . Filled with some good giggles and great concluding chases , this is a fantastic classic comedy . It won the Oscar for Best Writing , Story and Screenplay , it won the BAFTA for Best British Film , and it was nominated for Best Film from any Source , and it was nominated the Venice Film Festival Golden Lion Award for director Charles Crichton ( A Fish Called Wanda ) . Sir Alec Guinness number 12 on The 50 Greatest British Actors , he was number 2 on Britain's Finest Actors , and he was number 11 on The World's Greatest Actor Oustanding !
The Godfather , Part II	This is equally as great as the first , and another success for Oscar and Golden Globe winning director Francis Ford Coppola ( he could have won the Oscar for the first ) . This film tells two stories of the Corleones , it tells the current events of the new Godfather , Michael Corleone , and the story of young Vito Corleone . BAFTA winning , and Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Al Pacino is brilliant at being a villain , the worst thing he did as the character was to kill his own brother . But it's Oscar and BAFTA winning Robert DeNiro as young Vito that's my favourite of the whole film , because he is very good at impersonating Brando , and being just as mean as him . He is just as good at being the Godfather as the late , great Marlon Brando was . Also starring Diane Keaton as Kay Corleone , John Cazale as Fredo Corleone , Oscar nominated Talia Shire as Connie Corleone , Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Lee Strasberg as Hyman Roth and Oscar nominated Michael V . Gazzo as Frankie Pentangeli . A lot more interesting and complex than the first , a masterpiece sequel , I only wish it was left here and there was no third film . It won the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Best Music for Nino Rota , Best Writing , Screenplay Adapted From Other Material and Best Picture , and it was nominated for Best Costume Design , it was nominated the BAFTAs for the Anthony Asquith Award for Film Music and Best Film Editing , and it as nominated the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Drama , Best Original Score and Best Screenplay . Robert De Niro was number 2 , and Al Pacino number 1 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , De Niro was number 50 , and Pacino number 26 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons , and Pacino and De Niro together were number 5 on The World's Greatest Actor , Michael Corleone was number 11 on 100 Years , 100 Heroes & Villains , the film was number 58 on 100 Years , 100 Quotes ( " Keep your friends close , but your enemies closer . " ) , and along with the first film , both were number 2 on The 100 Greatest Films . Outstanding !
Little Britain	There is just no way to describe how brilliant this sketch show is , but it just is . Two of the funniest comedians that have come around in years , BAFTA and British Comedy Award winning and nominated performers David Walliams and Matt Lucas have created the most hilarious and outstanding comedy ever . Basically every episode begins ( and continues ) with Tom Baker's narration , and then we see all the many characters living in Great Britain . The best characters include Lou and Andy , Sebastian and The Prime Minister ( Special Guest Anthony Head ) , Daffyd Thomas ( the only gay in the village , apparently ) , Vicky Pollard , Mr . Mann and shopkeeper Roy , Kenny Craig , Judy and Maggie ( pukers ) , Carol Beer ( Computer Says No ) , Marjorie Dawes , Bubbles De Vere , Harvey ( Bitty ) , Emily Howard ( the crap transvestite ) with friend Florence , Dennis Waterman and Jeremy Rent , and many more . You would be insane to miss this show , I even saw it on stage ! It won the BAFTAs for Comedy Programme or Series Award , Best Make Up & Hair Design and Best TV Comedy , it won the British Comedy Award for Best TV Comedy and The People's Choice , and it won the National Television Awards twice for Most Popular Comedy Programme . There have also been Little Britain Abroad , and the live shows ( including for Comic Relief ) . David Walliams was number 78 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols , Daffyd Thomas was number 35 , and Vivki Pollard number 15 on The World's Greatest Comedy Characters , Daffyd's Coming Out was number 17 , Vicky Pollard - Swimming Pool was number 4 and Lou and Andy - Swimming Pool was number 1 on The 50 Greatest Comedy Sketches , and the programme has been on all 100 Greatest TV Treats programmes so far . Outstanding !
Distraction	This is one of the best game shows there has ever been . One of my favourite comedians , the excellent Jimmy Carr hosts this amazing show . Three contestants are brought in to the studio , we get to know some silly , weird or sometimes gross things about them or their life . Then they go through three or four rounds where they answer simple questions about a chosen topic . The only thing is they are getting " punished " . There is always something sick or hilarious distracting them from answering the questions . These include pressing a prickly buzzer , snapping a ruler in their faces , having bubbles blown in their faces while wearing cheek retractors , being wrestled doing an obstacle course with two or three ugly naked people . The last round is the chance to win cash or a car , if they answer a question about a chosen topic wrong they have something done to their prize , e . g . smashed , sprayed on , burned , thrown in a concrete mixer , etc . It was number 64 on The 100 Greatest TV Treats 2003 . Outstanding !
Ed Wood	I have always liked director Tim Burton films ( here he was nominated the Cannes Film Festival Golden Palm Award ) , and this biography showing his love for classic sci-fi films is another terrific example of his distinctive style . We saw him in Edward Scissorhands , and then Golden Globe nominated Johnny Depp played director Edward D . Wood . If you have heard of Wood , he considered himself a great director of great films , mostly horror , but in fact he was voted one of the worst film directors of all time . He also had a habit for dressing as a woman , ever since childhood . Anyway , this film basically shows the process of making his ridiculous and utterly awful films , and relationships with people , including his wife ( for a while ) , Dolores Fuller ( Sarah Jessica Parker ) , his new girlfriend Kathy O'Hara ( Patricia Arquette ) , and his favourite actor that he worked with , Dracula's Bela Lugosi ( Oscar and Golden Globe winning , and BAFTA nominated Martin Landau ) . Also starring Jeffrey Jones as Criswell , Vincent D'Onofrio as Orson Welles , Bill Murray as Bunny Breckinridge , Mike Starr as Georgie Weiss , Lisa Marie ( Burton's fiancée at the time ) as Vampira and Juliet Landau ( Martin's daughter ) as Loretta King . Landau is fantastic , Depp is funny and there are some fantastic giggles . It won the Oscar for Best Makeup , it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Make Up / Hair , it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Comedy / Musical . Johnny Depp was number 22 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , he was number 9 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols , and he number 2 on The World's Greatest Actor . Outstanding !
Changeling	The dictionary defines " changeling " as a child surreptitiously or unintentionally substituted for another , a clever title for this drama film from BAFTA nominated director Clint Eastwood . Set in 1920's Los Angeles , this film Christine Collins ( Oscar and BAFTA nominated Angelina Jolie ) , a telephone operator come home to find her son Walter ( Gattlin Griffith ) has disappeared , and it is only in the morning that the police come over for descriptions and stuff . Finally after weeks the police are convinced they have found the boy matching Christine's description , but she knows it is not her son , and she is definite when she sees he is not the right height , and has been circumcised . She also gets confirmation from two people who know him well , his dentist and school teacher , but Capt . J . J . Jones ( Jeffrey Donovan ) thinks Christine is going crazy with her accusations of the police being wrong , they go to extreme lengths to protect their reputation , they place her in a mental hospital under " Code 12 " ( attacking police reputation ) . Eventually she is released after a young boy hands himself into the police , and confesses to helping a man commit brutal murders of young boys , and one of the boys may be Walter ! After released , Christine , with the help of local activist Rev . Gustav A . Briegleb ( John Malkovich ) is determined to punish those imprisoned her and others under Code 12 , and also the man who murdered the young boys , Gordon Stewart Northcott ( Jason Butler Harner ) , oh , and the fake " Walter " gets what he deserves to . In one of the last scenes , Christine sees one of the young boys who escaped Northcott with the police , and he knew Walter , as he was the one who helped him escape , but he never knew where he went , it says in the end text that Christine never stopped searching for Walter . Also starring Colm Feore as Chief James E . Davis , Amy Ryan as Carol Dexter , Michael Kelly as Detective Lester Ybarra , Devon Conti as Arthur Hutchins and Eddie Alderson as Sanford Clark . Jolie is magnificent as the suffering and sometimes hysterical but determined mother , and Malcovich has his moments as the publicist against the police , and of course Eastwood is the perfect director for this very compelling mystery thriller . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Art Direction and Best Cinematography , it was nominated the BAFTAs Film Award Best Cinematography , Best Costume Design , Best Editing , Best Production Design , Best Original Screenplay and Best Sound , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Original Score for Eastwood . Angelina Jolie was number 74 , and John Malkovich number 59 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , and Malkovich was number 53 , and Jolie number 1 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols . Outstanding !
Aliens	Director James Cameron ( Terminators 1 + 2 , Titanic ) brought the superlative sequel to Sir Ridley Scott's science-fiction action horror thriller seven years later , and in terms of spectacle , this is much more elaborate . Basically , Ripley ( Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Sigourney Weaver ) is finally picked up by her company , 57 years later , which shocks her , she also has many nightmares of her past experience . But she soon agrees with Carter Burke ( Paul Reiser ) who asks her to be an adviser ( " that's all " ) when a team of heavily armed soldiers are going to the unknown planet ( LV-426 ) Ripley and the Nostromo landed on , which has over the years she has been in hibernation , been colonised ( i . e . made breathable atmosphere and buildings made ) . Their mission seems to be to destroy the aliens ( or Xenomorph ) after contact with the planet is lost , but Ripley is eventually dragged into the action as more and more of the soldiers are being killed . Along the way , they finds a survivor , Rebecca ' Newt ' Jorden ( Carrie Henn ) , and not long after they are stranded on the planet , with no communication to the company , and no shuttle to escape . They do make sure that the doors are secure so the aliens , and parasites ( facehuggers ) cannot get in , while android Bishop ( Lance Henriksen ) tries to get a shuttle to pick them up . They do eventually get close to escape , but Ripley , looking for captured Newt does get to meet the mother alien , destroy her egg nest and sack , before escaping and the place being destroyed . There is one final encounter with the alien mother not long after landing to safety , where in the Exosuit " power-loader " , uttering the great line " Get away from her , you bitch ! " Eventually she gets rid of the alien mother by throwing her into the blast doors and forcing her into outer space ( just like the first one ) . In the end , injured Cpl . Dwayne Hicks ( The Terminator's Michael Biehn ) , ripped-up Bishop , Newt and Ripley are the last survivors , all put into pods for hibernation . Also starring Bill Paxton as Pvt . Hudson , William Hope as Lt . Gorman , Jenette Goldstein as Pvt . Vasquez , Al Matthews as Sgt . Apone , Mark Rolston as Pvt . Drake and Wishmaster's Ricco Ross as Pvt . Frost . The special effects are much more impressive , and the action more intense and gripping , a brilliant sequel . I have also seen the extended 2 and a half hour version , that director Cameron prefers , but the extra material is either unnecessary or ridiculous , e . g . Ripley's dead grandma daughter , and where Newt came from , the original version is much more interesting and essential . It won the Oscars for Best Sound Effects Editing and Best Visual Effects , and it was nominated for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Best Film Editing , Best Music for James Horner and Best Sound , and it won the BAFTA for Best Special Visual Effects , and it was nominated for Best Make Up Artist , Best Production Design and Best Sound . Sigourney Weaver was number 20 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , and Ellen Ripley was number 8 on 100 Years , 100 Heroes & Villains . Outstanding !
Comic Relief 2003	I didn't actually see all the show , but I saw the Comic Relief Highlights show , it was just brilliant . It must have been a brilliant night to raise money with love and laughter brought comedy and so many generous comedians and celebrities . There were many highlights that stuck out : Harry Potter and the Secret Chamberpot of Azerbajan starring Dawn French , Jennifer Saunders , Miranda Richardson , Basil Brush , Robbie Coltrane ( voice ) , Jeremy Irons , Ronnie Corbett and Alex Ferns . Lying To Michael Jackson starring Lenny Henry and Rowan Atkinson . Comic Relief Does University Challenge starring Angus Deayton , Danny Baker , Jeremy Beadle , Gina Yashere , Stephen Fry , David Baddiel and Frank Skinner . Celebrity Driving School starring Paul O'Grady , Simon Day , EastEnders ' Natalie Cassidy , Jade Goody , Gareth Gates , EastEnders ' Charlie Brooks , Paul Whitehouse and Mark Williams . The EastEnders happy edition with all the cast smiling and Singing in the Rain . The lost episode of Blankety Black starring Peter Serafinowicz , Martin Freeman , Sarah Alexander , David Walliams , Matt Lucas , Nick Frost and Simon Pegg . Jack Dee stood on a high pole . And finally the Gareth Gates and The Kumars version of Spirit in the Sky . Also starring Jonathan Ross , Ant McPartlin , Declan Donnelly , Carol Vorderman , Ali G ( Sacha Baron Cohen ) , George Clooney , Richard Curtis ( Comic Relief manager ) , Vanessa Feltz , Robbie Williams , Ricky Gervais , Blue , Julie Walters and many more generous celebrities . Outstanding !
Easter Parade	From beginning to end , this is probably one of my most enjoyable and favourite musical films ever . There is the wonderful acting , singing , and of course dancing talent of Fred Astaire . There is also the wonderful looks , charm , singing and a bit of dancing from Judy Garland . Basically Don Hewes ( Astaire ) is a theatre producer who is looking for a star for his shows , he obviously chooses talented Hannah Brown ( Garland ) . Together they perform fun filled singing and dancing shows in front of many audiences . The only tiny problem is Hannah worrying about too much fame , and her boss being picky , e . g . about costumes . The beginning sequence where Astaire is buying presents is the best sequence of the film . It won the Oscar for Best Music , Scoring of a Musical Picture for Johnny Green and Roger Edens . Judy Garland was number 82 Fred Astaire was number 81 , and on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , Garland was also number 85 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , and she was number 28 on The World's Greatest Actor , and the film was number 64 on The 100 Greatest Musicals . Outstanding !
Memento	This is one of the most clever and gripping films I have seen for ages , especially from director / writer Christopher Nolan ( Insomnia , Batman Begins ) . The film starts with the reverse of Leonard ' Lenny ' Shelby ( Guy Pearce ) shooting John Edward " Teddy " Gammell ( Joe Pantoliano ) , which would be the end of the film . Then you see what would be the beginning of the film in black and white . As the the film goes on the colour sections go backwards from a specific moment , and the black and white sections go in the correct order , then both obviously meet to make what would be the middle of the film , but is actually the end . This editing gives you almost an idea of what it is like to be the character Lenny , with his rare amnesia , he forgets things in about 12 seconds . Anyway , the story ( if in the right order ) is that Lenny's wife was murdered by someone , Pantoliano ( obviously ) , and he is using all sources possible , including Natalie ( Carrie-Anne Moss ) , to find the man responsible , not just for his wife , but also his amnesia . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Editing and Best Writing , Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Screenplay . Outstanding !
The Fisher King	From Monty Python star and Golden Globe nominated director Terry Gilliam this is a great fantasy drama . Basically Jack Lucas ( Golden Globe nominated Jeff Bridges ) is a talk DJ , and was in a TV sitcom , and one night he is almost suicidal , but was stopped when thugs attacked and almost burned him . But he was saved by crazy street living tramp , Parry ( Golden Globe winning , and Oscar nominated Robin Williams ) . Parry tells Jack he is on a quest to find the " Holy Grail " ( a cup trophy ) , but Jack tries to help him by giving him money , that he doesn't know what to use on . Parry also suffers from terrifying hallucinations of a Red Knight , mixed with the memory of his wife's death . But then Parry tells Jack of the woman he has been seeing for so long , the woman he has fallen for and been following for ages . They find out her name is Lydia Sinclair ( Pulp Fiction's BAFTA nominated Amanda Plummer ) , and they convince her she has won a new card , and with the help of Anne Napolitano ( Oscar and Golden Globe winning Mercedes Ruehl ) and her nail varnishing , they set a date for a dinner . Parry and Lydia get on really well , and were practically made for each other with their traits , but it soon goes wrong when Parry's flashbacks come back and he is beaten by the thugs , and put into a home . In the end though , Jack helps him by stealing the " Grail " , from a suicidal man , and both couples , i . e . Lydia and Parry , and Jack and Anne live happily ever after . Also starring David Hyde Pierce as Lou Rosen , Kathy Najimy as Crazed video customer , This Is Spinal Tap's Harry Shearer as Sitcom actor Ben Starr and Michael Jeter as Homeless cabaret singer . With great comedy moments , particularly from the fantastic Williams , this is essential for fans or him and Bridges . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Best Music for George Fenton and Best Writing , Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen , it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Original Screenplay , and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Comedy / Musical . Robin Williams was number 19 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars . Outstanding !
The Untouchables	This is the true and excellent story of the man who wanted to put away a crime king named Al Capone ( a very well cast Robert De Niro ) , from director Brian De Palma ( Carrie , Scarface ) . Eliot Ness ( Kevin Costner ) has been trying to prove that Capone is a bad man for a long time . Now he is assembling a bunch of men to help him prove it once and for all . These men include George Stone ( Andy Garcia ) , Agent Wallace ( Charles Martin Smith ) and the excellently played and very intelligent Malone ( Oscar and Golden Globe winning , and BAFTA nominated Sir Sean Connery ) . Malone is the one with all information of where bad stuff happens , and ways of proving facts about Capone and his empire , they media name them The Untouchables . Unfortunately , when Wallace and Malone are assassinated Ness has to carry out the court case himself with some help from his left over " Untouchable " . An excellent story full of crime , drama , giggles and fantastic actors . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Best Costume Design and Best Music for Ennio Morricone , it won the BAFTA for Best Score , and it was nominated for Best Costume Design and Best Production Design , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Original Score . Kevin Costner was number 93 , and Sir Sean Connery number 8 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , and Connery was number 3 on The 50 Greatest British Actors . Outstanding !
Bo ' Selecta !	This is one of my favourite anti-impression comedy programmes . Written by and starring BAFTA and British Comedy Award nominated Leigh Francis as Avid Merrion and many famous masked faces . This is basically a gross impression programme with only a glint of realness to the people . As himself , Avid is a celebrity stalker who keeps Craig Phillips ( from Big Brother 1 ) and his dead mother in his cupboards and always jumps to the opportunity to " meet " a celebrity . He also plays Craig David , The Bear , Mel B , Michael Jackson , Davina McCall , The Osbournes , Sir Elton John , Jonathan Ross ( or " Woss " ) , Vernon Kay , Marilyn Manson , Will Young , Gareth Gates , Jordan or Jodie Marsh's tit , Harry Hill , Kat Slater and many more hilarious and gross celebrities . Guests have included : John Fashanu , EastEnders ' Perry Fenwick , Jordan ( Katie Price ) , Rod Stewart , Rachel Stevens , Kerry Katona ( McFadden ) , the real Jonathan Ross , Drew Barrymore , Edith Bowman , Cameron Diaz , Beyoncé Knowles , Lucy Liu , the real Craig David , Neil Fox , the real Vernon Kay , Meat Loaf , the real Davina McCall , Dermot O'Leary , Emma Bunton , Kirsty Gallacher , Patsy Kensit , Peter Andre , Bob Mortimer , Melanie Brown ( Mel B ) , Jamie Oliver , the real Osbournes ( Ozzy , Jack , Kelly and Sharon ) Mike Read , June Sarpong , Sean Pertwee , Jimmy Carr , Corrie's Samia Ghadie and Suranne Jones , Abi Titmuss , Jodie Marsh , Neil Ruddock and many , many more . It is sometimes disgusting , but still a hilarious entertainment sketch show . It was nominated the BAFTA for Comedy Programme or Series Award , and it was nominated the British Comedy Award for Best TV Comedy . Many spin-offs and special have followed , including Ho Ho Ho Selecta ! which was number 87 on The 100 Greatest Christmas Moments . Craig David on Tour was number 32 and Michael Jackson's Crib number 19 on The 50 Greatest Comedy Sketches , the programme was number 11 on The 100 Greatest Funny Moments , it has been on all 100 Greatest TV Treats programmes so far , and Avid Merrion was number 27 on The World's Greatest Comedy Characters . Outstanding !
Taxi Driver	It has been described as one of his greatest films , and I could agree that this about BAFTA nominated director Martin Scorsese . Oscar , BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Robert De Niro plays Travis Bickle , a mentally unstable Vietnam veteran who has taken a job in New York city as taxi driver because he suffers insomnia . He grows increasingly disgusted by the lowlifes , scum and " trash " in the city at night , and this obviously doesn't help his attempt to get somewhere with Betsy ( Cybill Shepherd ) , who represents the vote for Senator Charles Palantine ( Leonard Harris ) , he even takes her to a porn movie on the first date ! He fails also to help 12-year-old prostitute Iris ( twice BAFTA winning newcomer Jodie Foster ) to desert her pimp ' Sport ' Matthew ( Harvey Keitel ) . Driven to insanity of powerlessness he buys four handguns and is intent on assassinating the Senator . Donning a Mohawk hairdo he is ready , but when he can't get close enough , he is gunned down in the end after killing Matthew , oh , he didn't die , and he returned to being a taxi driver . Also starring Peter Boyle as Wizard and Albert Brooks as Tom . I think the main reason to see this film ( and the most memorable and notable scene ) is for the great improvised line when De Niro is talking to himself in the mirror , number 10 on 100 Years , 100 Quotes , " You talking ' to me ? " . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Music for Bernard Herrmann and Best Picture , it won the BAFTA for the Anthony Asquith Award for Film Music , and it was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Film and Best Film Editing , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Screenplay . Harvey Keitel was number 53 , Robert De Niro number 2 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , De Niro was also number 50 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons , and he was number 5 ( along with Al Pacino ) on The World's Greatest Actor , Travis Bickle was number 30 on 100 Years , 100 Heroes & Villains , the film was number 22 on 100 Years , 100 Thrills , it was number 47 on 100 Years , 100 Movies , and it was number 22 on The 100 Greatest Films . Outstanding !
The Sound of Music	It has been hailed as the greatest musical of all time , it has been on TV every year ( especially at Christmas ) , and it is still one of the most seen films in cinema , from Oscar winning , and Golden Globe nominated director Robert Wise ( The Day the Earth Stood Still ) . The film begins with the spinning and singing " The Hills Are Alive " from Maria ( Golden Globe winning , and Oscar and BAFTA nominated Dame Julie Andrews ) . She is the nun sent by Mother Abbess ( Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Peggy Wood ) to the Von Trapp family to become the new governess , mainly to look after the seven children of Captain Georg Von Trapp ( Christopher Plummer ) . As the story goes , Maria falls in love with the wonderful children , Georg turns from grouchy to cheerful , and of course , he and Maria get married . The film is not all happy though , it is after the wedding that you are reminded of the time period the film is based in , World War II , where Georg refuses to be part of the war , and the concluding scenes have the family escaping the Nazis through the monastery . It won the Oscars for Best Film Editing , Best Music for Irwin Kostal , Best Sound and Best Picture , and it was nominated for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Best Cinematography and Best Costume Design , and it won the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Musical / Comedy . " Do Re Mi " was number 88 , number 64 for " My Favourite Things " was number 64 , and " The Sound of Music " was number 10 on 100 Years , 100 Songs , other songs include " ( How Do You Solve a Problem Like ) Maria " , " Sixteen Going On Seventeen " , " The Lonely Goatherd " , " So Long , Farewell " and " Climb Ev'ry Mountain " . Dame Julie Andrews was number 6 on The 50 Greatest British Actresses , the film was number 4 on 100 Years of Musicals , it was number 26 on The 100 Greatest Christmas Moments , it was number 27 on 100 Years , 100 Passions , it was number 18 on The 100 Greatest Family Films , it was number 2 on The Ultimate Film , it was number 41 on 100 Years , 100 Cheers , it was number 55 on 100 Years , 100 Movies , it was number 43 on The 100 Greatest Films , and number 2 on The 100 Greatest Musicals . Outstanding !
The Ladykillers	This original comedy is one of the early examples of dumb behaviour comedies , kind of like Airplane ! It was also the first Ealing Studios film I ever saw , before the one I knew was one , Kind Hearts and Coronets . Basically , a normal old woman , Mrs . Wilberforce ( Katie Johnson ) , lives in London , she is one day visited by a silly looking man called Professor Marcus ( an excellent Sir Alec Guinness ) . He asks if he and his band can rent the vacant room , and they soon all arrive . The band includes Claude ( Cecil Parker ) , Louis ( Herbert Lom ) , Harry ( young Peter Sellers ) and One-Round ( Danny Green ) . Mrs . Wilberforce doesn't know it , but they are not a band , and they are planning to rob a bank . When she finds out that they have stolen a lot of money , she intends to tell the police . The gang now have to decide who is going to kill her so she doesn't blab . They all die one by one in the process of attempting to kill her , or getaway with the money . Peter Sellers was number 57 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , he was number 22 , and Sir Alec Guinness number 12 on The 50 Greatest British Actors , Sellers was number 7 , and Guinness number 2 on Britain's Finest Actors , and Sellers was number 24 , and Guinness number 11 on The World's Greatest Actor , the film was number 43 on The 50 Greatest Comedy Films , it was number 35 on Film 4's 50 Films To See Before You Die , and it was number 23 on The 50 Greatest British Films . Outstanding !
The Mask	When I was younger this used to be a fantastic family comedy film , and it still is . Basically Stanley Ipkiss ( Golden Globe nominated Jim Carrey is the mild-mannered bank clerk working with best friend Charlie ( Richard Jeni ) , and one day he meets and is instantly attracted to the beautiful Tina Carlyle ( introducing Cameron Diaz ) . They see each other again ( after he has been soaked ) at the Coco Bongo Club , and it is on his way home that he discovers an ancient green wooden mask inhabited by the spirit of mischievous god , Loki . When he puts this mask on , he is transformed into a green faced uncontrollable wacky cartoony alter-ego superhero . When Tina eventually meets " The Mask " , she is instantly attracted to him and has no idea it is Stanley . Meanwhile , Stanley has to deal with Lt . Mitch Kellaway ( Peter Riegert ) who has reason to believe Stanley is this " Mask " . Eventually , Stanley has bigger problems when Tina's villainous gangster boyfriend Dorian Tyrell ( Pulp Fiction's Peter Greene ) gets hold of the mask , and plans to take over Edge City with his new found power . The concluding scenes in the Coco Bongo Club , fighting for the mask , including dog Milo putting it on , are fantastically funny . Also starring Amy Yasbeck as Peggy Brandt , Orestes Matacena as Niko , Nancy Fish as Mrs . Peenman , Jim Doughan as Detective Doyle , Denis Forest as Sweet Eddy and Ben Stein as Dr . Arthur Neuman . The cartoonish special effects are amazing , Carrey is hilarious as The Mask , Diaz's debut is great , this is just a must-see family film . It was nominated for the Oscar for Best Visual Effects , it was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Make Up / Hair , Best Production Design and Best Special Effects . Cameron Diaz was number 65 , and Jim Carrey number 47 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , Diaz was also number 26 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols , and the film was number 68 on The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments for Diaz's great introductory entrance . Outstanding !
Metropolis	It was in my book " 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die " , I knew it was a silent film , but when I got the opportunity to try it , I am very pleased I did , from director Fritz Lang ( M , The Big Heat ) . I should mention the film was originally 2 hours and 23 minutes in length when it was released , much of the footage has been lost , but with what has remained , this shortened ( 1 hour and 59 minutes ) version of the sci-fi masterpiece is still an inspiration . Anyway , set in the future ( 2000 , or 2026 , both of which far away back then ) in the city of Metropolis , and the humans are divided into two groups : thinkers ( who enjoy the life in the city , not knowing how anything works ) , and the workers ( who run the city from underground , and achieve all the goals ) . One thinker , Freder ( Gustav Fröhlich ) , son of the city's running man John Fredersen ( Alfred Abel ) , dares to go below after following his love interest Maria ( Brigitte Helm ) , and after experiencing their world for himself , he joins her cause to try and get both worlds together . Meanwhile , Freder's father discovers scientist C . A . Rotwang ( Rudolf Klein-Rogge ) has created a robot , that will take the form of Maria , to get control of the underworld back , and get Freder out the way . The real Maria is imprisoned by Rotwang , while her copy is appearing on stage ( in the city ) as an exotic dancer . Unfortunately the Maria copy returns to the underworld , and plans for all the workers to rebel , and destroy the " Heart Machine " that powers the city . Neither Freder nor Grot ( Heinrich George ) , the machine's foreman , can stop them , and as a result , the machine is destroyed , and the city becomes flooded with both revolting workers and water . In the end , Grot and all the workers finds Maria , who the hold responsible , and they burn her to death , thankfully , it was her copy , and her creator Rotwang also gets what he deserves , and Freder fulfils his role as the " Mediator " . Also starring Fritz Rasp as Slim , Theodor Loos as Josaphat and Erwin Biswanger as worker 11811 . The visuals are magnificent , costing back then an estimated $1 , 300 , 000 ( imagine how much that would be in today's money ) , the cityscapes , underground caverns and little special effects are wonderful to look at , the iconic robot ( which inspired the look for C-3PO in Star Wars ) looks great , and the film features brilliant music by Gottfried Huppertz , one of the best influential silent films ever made . Outstanding !
Dr . No	Bond , James Bond in his very first outing , unless you consider the new Casino Royale . Sir Sean Connery begins the 007 collection in style and excellence . He is suave and cool , not many gadgets yet , but still cool . Set during the cold war , when spies were most known , an unknown power of S . P . E . C . T . R . E . ( Special Executive for Counter Intelligence , Terrorism , Revenge and Extortion ) is planning to attack US space launches . Dr . No ( Joseph Wiseman ) and Crab Quay are the only links that Bond and MI6 have to go on to solve this investigation . This is probably the Bond film with the best Bond girl , her entrance was number 1 on The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments , Golden Globe winning Ursual Andress as Honey Ryder coming out of the sea in the white bikini . Also starring Jack Lord as Felix Leiter , Bernard Lee as M , Anthony Dawson as Professor Dent , Zena Marshall as Miss Taro , John Kitzmiller as Quarrel , Eunice Gayson as Sylvia Trench , Lois Maxwell as Miss Moneypenny and Peter Burton as ( the original ) Major Boothroyd . A classic story filled with action and adventure for one of the greatest movie heroes . It was number 8 on James Bond's Greatest Hits for the James Bond Theme ( they also mentioned Moby's remix ) , it was number 22 on 100 Years , 100 Quotes ( " Bond . James Bond . " ) , James Bond was number 3 on 100 Years , 100 Heroes & Villains , he was number 21 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols , and he was number 21 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons , Sir Sean Connery was number 8 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , and he was number 3 on The 50 Greatest British Actors . Outstanding !
Lee Evans : XL Tour Live 2005	I saw him live on stage when he did this tour , so I was obviously going to buy this show on DVD . I thought I heard Lee Evans on Jonathan Ross that he was thinking of quitting comedy , but I was obviously wrong , he returned with this fantastic huge audience stage stand up show . He is still creating some fantastic , true to life and utterly hilarious jokes with both his mouth and his body . Some of the best moments are when he is using his body to do the talking , and he is sweating like mad . When I saw him on stage he was brilliant , and nothing compares to stage , but this straight-to-DVD show is just as good as seeing him in person . Lee Evans was number 23 on 100 Greatest Stand-Ups , and he was number 14 on Britain's Favourite Comedian . Outstanding !
A Fish Called Wanda	One of the greatest comedy films ever made . BAFTA winning , and Golden Globe nominated John Cleese plays Archie Leach ( Cary Grant's real name ) , a lawyer who has met and fallen in love with Wanda ( BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Jamie Lee Curtis ) . Archie is defending the man that helped Wanda and Otto ( Oscar winning , and BAFTA nominated Kevin Kline ) with the robbery . Also stuttering Ken ( BAFTA winning Michael Palin ) is trying to kill the woman who was a witness after the robbery . John Cleese has done a very good job of both playing his character and writing ( and directing ) the film . Kevin Kline does an amazing job as the dangerous and hilarious Otto , he deserves his Oscar . Michael Palin has done a very good job of stuttering and having chips shoved up his nose , he deserves his BAFTA . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Director for Charles Crichton and Best Writing , Original Screenplay , it was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Supporting Actress for Maria Aitken as Wendy , Best Direction , Best Editing , Best Original Screenplay and Best Film , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Comedy / Musical . John Cleese was number 14 on The 50 Greatest British Actors , Jamie Lee Curtis was number 52 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols , the film was number 23 on The 50 Greatest Comedy Films , and it was number 21 on 100 Years , 100 Laughs . Outstanding !
