Reverse-Racism At Its Most Obvious	Here's a good example of a racist film - reverse racism in which white people are all the villains , portrayed as either stupid rednecks or just plain dumb people from any area of the country . All are talked down to in a patronizing way by the good-guy Wesley Snipes who only respects his black superior . Imagine if this was made with the reverse colors and all black people were made to look stupid . However , in the Liberal PC world of today , racism like this is okay . Go figure . In addition , this is another of these low-grade action films where almost all the characters are what you would NOT find in the real world , such as airline executives looking and talking like low-life hoods . To further insult our intelligence , we have bullet-after-bullet fired at close range at Snipes and never hitting him ! One of the most insulting , stupid movies ever made and an wonderful exhibit of how bad Hollywood can get .
A Good Movie For Punks & Religious Bigots	The release date says " 1984 " but it might as well say some year in the 1970s because it had that sleazy look and hate-filled , anti-religious bias that was so prevalent in films in that decade . It usually didn't take these filmmakers long to get their religious cheap shots in , and that's the case here , too . Within 15 minutes , the was the usual dig against TV evangelists ( give it a rest ! ) and the people who listen to them , three usages of the Lord's name in vain and a ton of other profanities . it had that scummy ' 70s atmosphere right from the start . The lead character , " Otto Maddox , " ( Emilo Estavez ) is a real punk , too . This is another good example of Hollywood's hypocrisy of being " tolerant " to every group but Christians . Even if the bias doesn't bother you , the absence of a plot and the stupid dialog should . This is nothing but garbage . Punk-rockers , and just plain punks , love this film , and that should tell you something .
Weird And Stupid - Don't Be Suckered In	I lost track on how many times I got suckered into renting some movie because Leonard Maltin gave it three stars in his video review book . This was a perfect example , an Italian horror movie from 1984 that stinks . It's plodding , it's stupid and a bit disgusting . A woman who has a strange relationship with insects ? Why oh why did I ever watch this ? Maybe it was to get another glimpse at a young Jennifer Connelly . The facts are that ( 1 ) the dialog is incredibly stupid ; ( 2 ) the acting is horrible ; ( 3 ) the film is just Grade B all the way . . . . . maybe Grade C , if there is such a thing . Sometimes the weirder the movie , the more national critics like it . They have seen so many films that only something totally bizarre excites them . That's my guess here , because I didn't see anything worth recommending this film . . . . especially since we've seen almost 25 years of blood and shock since this was made . It's no big deal .
A ' Disturbing ' Movie For Sick People	You know , I like a good crime movie and not that squeamish about seeing some blood having watched CSI programs for six years . I watched a lot of gangster films from Jimmy Cagney and the early 1930s to what's out there today . I'd have to say this is one of the most disgusting , horrible films I've ever . With all the rave reviews ( which shows you how sick these nationally-known film critics are ) , I gave this a second chance about 10 years later . Same result : couldn't finish the film . You want to take a shower after about 30 minutes of this sordid story by one of the most tasteless filmmakers in Hollywood history : Quentin Tarantino . The latter collected some of the most sleazy actors he could find , too , to fill out the cast , guys like Harvey Keitel , Tim Roth , Michael Madsen , Christopher Penn and Steve Buscemi . Only the latter , because of some animated film voice work , has redeemed himself . These other actors have made a career out of playing ultra-profane low-life's . This movie is so unpleasant to watch - right from the start - I still can't believe it has the following it does . What kind of person sits through nothing but torture , mayhem , screaming , blood everywhere , constant obscenities and horrifying images ? Beware when you see the word " disturbing " attached to a film . It's a sad comment how many disturbing people who are out there who like this movie . No wonder violence is on the rise when it's glorified by sickos like Tarantino . And all that dialog ? Hip , huh ? ? ? No , just sick like the rest of the film .
Is ' Ronnie ' Replacing ' Sara ? '	A minister is a former sex offender and nutcase . Gee , what's new in Hollywood ? Does Hollywood every portray an honest , hardworking , God-like minister ( or priest ) ? Of course not . Here we are again with the bad guy being a pastor . This guy also is a registered sex offender ! Come on . Give me a break . I don't know who the actor is who played him but he looks and sounds a lot like Chris Rock . I'm not even to comment further of the typical bias against clergy shown on TV and in the movies , but this episode is a good example of it . On another note , are we seeing " Sara Sidle's " replacement ? It's getting obvious that Jorja Fox's role here is going to end . . . . . a real shame . We have a new CSI and she's played by the stunningly-pretty Jessica Lucas , a young Canadian actress . She plays " Ronnie . " She's new and idealistic and is given a few constructive lectures by Sara , who obviously is getting cynical about the job . In real life , Sara wouldn't even be working ; she would be taking time off from her horrible recent ordeal in which she almost died . Yet , here she is , working on another case - the second crime story in this episode , and it's not an uplifting one , that's for sure .
A Perfect Example Of How Out-Of-Touch Critics Are	How many times have you read rave reviews - one after the other - and then seen the film and discovered it was horrible ? How many " critics favorites " are total bombs with the public ? ( Answer : thousands . ) This is Exhibit A of that , a terribly incoherent , unappealing , slimy mess of a film that did very poorly at the box office . . . . and was loved by the critics , of course . " Sick , " not " slick " is one adjective to describe this Tarantino-wannabe crime movie . It also smacked of too many " in jokes " in which these snobby Hollywood elitists got their jollies . FACT - Film makers don't care if the public likes their films , only if their peers do . This is why you get so much of this unpopular garbage cranked out every year - they don't care ! That's especially true about films in which Hollywood is part of the story , like this one involving screenwriters . Gene Hackman is one of the finest actors of his day but dark comedy , obviously , is not his forte . Rene Russo's resume says all you need to know about her hard-boiled personality and character as a human being . Ditto for John Travolta , a good actor but a man who will never be mistaken for someone of strong moral fiber . He can smirk , however , with the best of them . . . . as he does in this film . With a hundred f-words and 30 blatant abuses of the Lord's name in vain along with other comedic touches , this is real classy material . As one reviewer here aptly puts it : this is " trash culture at it's peak . "
My Vote For Most Disgusting & Repellent Movie Of All Time	This is one of the few movies - maybe the only - that truly haunted me for years . It was the first I had ever seen people tortured , so much that blood was flowing of their mouths from gritting their teeth and screaming , etc . It was brutal ; the worst thing I had ever seen on film . Dr . Clement Molloch , played by Joseph Mayer , is still one of the most evil characters I've ever seen on film , and I've viewed thousands . He was so sadistic that I would never watch this movie again , nor would I recommend it . He makes Hannibal Lecter look like Mr . Rogers . If seeing people tortured is not your idea of fun , then stay away from this film . I know there are a lot of sick people out there , many of them professional film critics , who probably enjoyed this sordid , sick story . It's a " B " movie , anyway , with stupid dialog and some wooden acting by Charles Bronson . This is not one of his better efforts . Even if it was , there so many horrendous scenes in here you wouldn't want to watch . Trust me on this one .
Bad Then , Even Worse Now	I know a lot of people loved this movie , right from the start when they first saw it in the early 1970s at the theaters . I hated it then , and I hated it 25 years later when I gave it another chance on VHS . It was even worse now because you added " dated " to this list of negative adjectives describing this movie . Stories about teenage jerks are not what I call entertaining . The only thing worse than the usual " coming of age " movie is one that involves the kids of the 1960s , the worst decade in American history . Ron Howard and Cindy Williams played pretty decent kids but nerd-looking Charles Martin Smith and friend Paul LeMat were super annoying . I didn't appreciate the language in here , either . I didn't expect The Mickey Mouse Club or Opie from Mayberry , but six usages of the Lord's name in vain in the first half hour along with a bunch of other profanities didn't turn me on to this " comedy . " I also didn't get any laughs , either . Was this supposed to be a comedy ? I hope not . Nothing much happens anyway , just the life of these dorks who drive around all night trying to impress bimbos . Wow , this is " deep . " . The only enjoyment I got out of this film was listening to the voice of " Wolfman Jack , " the legendary rock deejay .
Another Sad Example Of Today's Comedies	Here's yet one more example of a modern-day comedy that has its funny moments but unfortunately , to me , was more of a sleaze-fest that a parody or a straight comedy . This movie is spoofing horror films . That's cool , I like a good spoof , but why all the irreverence and sex jokes ? Why is that necessary ? Don't writers today have the intelligence to make people laugh using clean material ? This is just one R-rated scene after another . The language is brutal , too : tons of profanity in this film . Funny , but comedies for years made the public laugh without having to resort to profanity and sex remarks , like this film does . The really sickening part is that movie was geared for a young audience . The film business has no shame . What passes for comedy films today is , by and large , low-class material . This movie is Exhibit A .
In A Word : Embarrassing	Wow , what can you say about an episode like this ? I could say a lot , but I think I'll keep it pretty short : this was an embarrassment to watch . Don't these writers and actors have any dignity ? This is the kind of perverted humor that is so over-baked that it isn't funny ; it's like " Blades of Glory " or " The Love Guru . " It's just one sleazy joke after another . Hey , I love dark humor but not ten sex jokes every minute , especially on a crime show . Everyone on this episode but Warrick , I think , had some wise-guy remark about everything in here . Sex jokes are okay but come on , man - is this HBO with all this stuff ? After last year's great season with " The Miniature Killer , " I had hoped the CSI Las Vegas show and turned the corner from the gutter and gotten classy again . Wrong . Maybe this is why Jorja Fox , Gary Dourdan and William Petersen have all left the show .
Herbie Goes To Hell	The best thing about this horrible movie is the opening scene which shows real-life footage of large buildings being demolished . The worst thing is the theology behind the story , as espoused by no less an actress than veteran Helen Hayes whose character claims that everything has a soul and a life to it - and that's why the car , he organ , the train all can understand each other and human minds ! ! This is Walt Disney " New Age " baloney 20 years ahead of it's time . Later on , spells are cast , etc , typical of Disney films . Walt was a big fan of the occult and believed in all that sort of thing . Pretty pathetic . We know where Herbie's " soul " is right now : Junkyard Hell , where it belongs !
Over-hyped Insult To Anyone Of Intelligence	I remember this film getting a lot of hype before it came out . You could see advertisements promoting it all over television for a few weeks . Well , I got sucked in and was anxious to see it , myself . As usual , it didn't live up to the hype . It wasn't bad ; just not as good as I had hoped . One thing that turned me off was the typical government-is-the-bad guy storyline again . Holy smokes - isn't this getting a bit tiresome , especially by an industry which makes billions of dollars in this country ? ( Nothing like a grateful attitude and true patriotism - that's today's left-wing world of film . ) ' It's not good to kill the trees , " says another eco-nut who traces the U . S . ' s mistakes in attempting to wipe out an Africa virus . Of course , if the military had hugged the trees , none of this human carnage would have happened ! Really ? Dustin Hoffman , Kevin Spacey , Morgan Freeman , Donald Sutherland and Rene Russo are old hands at playing in slanted political stories . The left-wing slants in this film keep coming , just like the plague : reverse-racism ( a General who's conscience doesn't agree with his government is naturally a black man . The villain military guy , naturally , is the Caucasian . When have you ever seen the reverse ? It's always the same in modern-day films . Look it up . In addition , we get more Hollywood clichés at the end with the typical overdone chase scene , which is so stupid I just laughed out loud at parts of it . Entertaining ? Yes . An insult to anyone's intelligence ? Oh , yeah !
Anoher Reason For The Disney Boycott	You wonder why there was a big boycott of Walt Disney films and Disney World in the mid ' 90s and shortly thereafter . It wasn't just " Gay Days " at the theme park : it was Liberal revisionist " history " movies like this . Instead of the real story of Pocahontas , who became famous by being the first Native American converted to Christianity , we get ridiculous New Age mumbo - jumbo here . Yeah , it's the typical Disney brainwashing ( this film is for young kids ) in which the message is to worship ( not just take care of ) trees , earth , and all living things . The Disney empire is so strong on its heavy-handed left-wing agenda that it can't even remotely tell the truth about a story in an animated film . At the very least , since they abhor Christianity , they should have just stuck with a pretty animated movie ( which this is ) and centered it around romance and young America . . . but Liberals can't stop being in your face all the time , pushing their secular agendas on the rest of us . This movie is " Exhibit A " of that - a disgrace .
Big Bad Bigotry	The early 1970s has some of the most blatant anti-Christian messages ever put out by Hollywood filmmakers and this is Exhibit A . You can just feel the hatred of these atheists pouring out in this movie . There are not one but two separate instances of picturing phony and blasphemous preachers in here . That , plus a ton of GDs , mostly said by Angie Dickinson , make this a despicable , extremely bigoted film . Dickinson , and this era when movie makers had just gotten their freedom to spew all this bias , are about as low at it gets and sleazy with a capital " S . " It isn't just the hatred and the sleaze and gratuitous nudity in here , it's just the pathetic immaturity of Hollywood during this period . Of course , it's more than just anti-religious bias . We get the usual elitist Left Wing agenda with a myriad of plugs for socialism , too . This is pitiful trash and so typical of the early-to-mid-70s .
Shameful Way To Preach Left-Wing Beliefs	Wow , was I shocked at the overwhelming Left Wing agenda in this film and particularly the anti-Christian bigotry . It's pretty sad when Liberal Hollywood has to stoop to brainwashing little kids ' movies to get their bias across . This is about as low as it gets . Hey , all I wanted a funny , cute animated film and I got all this other junk thrown in my face . Every single " religious " reference in this film , and there are a number especially around the one-hour mark when " Mumble " appears before " The Elders . " Then , you hear a slew of Biblical words ( " brethren , " " backsliding , " " sin , " " pagan , " etc . ) all used by unlikeable old fuddy-duddies who are portrayed in a very negative light . The idea is obvious : associate anything religious with " bad " or " restrictive " or " mean " and the opposite - secular thought - with " free " and " good " and " happy , " on and on . This is brutally heavy-handed propaganda , and its subtle but relentlessly inserted throughout this movie , not just in that one scene . Secularists will have no clue nor an ear to hear this bias , but it's there . If this were as anti-black , or anti-gay as it is anti-religious , you would have heard a huge outcry . The whole movie is so politically correct , it's sickening , yet these Liberal writers are so clueless ( a la Don Imus ) , they stereotype Hispanics something fierce . Many times I thought Al Gore made this movie , with the in-your-face environmental baloney . Did I mention all the sexual innuendos , too , with this " cute little penguin " movie ? There should have been an outcry against this hypocritical sick mess . Perhaps even worse than this script is the apathy of the viewers to see this bigotry for what it is . Thankfully , some reviewers here saw it , too . Good for them for speaking out . More people should have been offended at this piece of crap .
About As Stupid & Insultng As It Gets	What a disappointment . As someone who loves unique visuals , great color , I was led to believe in previews that the super visual aspect of this movie would be major part of it - that this was going to be like nothing you ever seen ! Well , some parts were , but precious few . What dominated , instead , was one of the dumbest stories and theologically - insulting ones to anyone who has any Biblical knowledge I have ever seen . I have should have known Hollywood would invent their own strange and weird version of heaven and hell . It's sad so many ignorant people buy into whatever Hollywood puts up on a big screen as being Truth , when it's usually the opposite they are seeing and hearing . This movie is a perfect example . Suffice to say , without going into all the details , people are using the Lord's name in vain in heaven ; God is mentioned only once and that of a " distant " person " somewhere up there " and the main theology preached is re - incarnation . Secular humanism also is prevalent and in this movie , if you set your mind to it , you can bring your loved ones up from hell to heaven ! Wow , who needs Jesus ? Not people in the film world , that's for sure . No wonder this film bombed . Even the agnostics and atheists who are our national film critics knew this movie was stupid .
What Was The Purpose Of This ' Tour ? '	This was the first time I've been very disappointed with one of Justine Shapiro's " tours " in these " Globe-Trekker " DVDs . This was a disgrace . Shapiro normally is a lot more mature than what she demonstrated here . She came with an " attitude " and showed unbelievable poor taste , as did the people who put this together . I watched this - as I presume most other people did - to see the magnificent Southwest scenery , particularly the Grand Canyon , not have most it ignored in favor of showing us scene after scene of whacked out New Agers , psychics , aged hippies from the ' 60s , alien space worshipers , on and on - all of which seemed to turn on our young host . Shapiro - I am not exaggerating - showed exactly 5-7 seconds of the Grand Canyon from her helicopter ride . That was it ! The most magnificent , famous sight probably in all of the U . S . and that's what we got . Meanwhile , we were " treated " to minutes and minutes of a " channeling " session , UFO discussions , naked men with their penises hanging out dancing around a bonfire , etc . In addition , the first 20 minutes of this 50-minute show , Shapiro did nothing but complain about everything . She didn't like a hotel , her car ride , she complained about certain things in the Amtrak ride , she totally trashed the city of Sante Fe . . . . . she didn't like anything . She didn't disguise her attitude or ignorance , right from the opening sentence of the show . She said , " I really was never interesting in coming here . I thought the only scenery worthwhile was outside the country . " Oh , really ! Never thought the Grand Canyon was anything worth seeing or the U . S had nothing to offer ? I guess that sort gives you an idea how bad this episode was , and the producers ought to be ashamed putting out a " travel " disc like this . Since a British company makes these , maybe this is another form of USA-bashing . All this turned out to be was a San Francisco wacko with a real elitist attitude showing us what interested her , not the audience .
The Cast Kind Of Tells You Something	I guess it says something when you realize this was Anna Nicole Smith's first picture and O . J . Simpson's last . The fact they are both in this picture kind of defines what this film stands for : not the highest class of comedy . Same on Leslie Nielsen to be part of this " comedy " which has a pastor yelling out Jesus Christ's name as a profanity at one point and then mocking Mother Teresa in another scene . That sort of cheap-shot stuff is still " politically correct , " but don't try it on other religions other than Christianity . It's pretty sad that Jewish people - many of them victims of hate - wrote , produced and directed this bigoted hateful " satiric " material . I didn't see any other religions made the butt of jokes in this movie . That , and five other blasphemes , numerous sex innuendos make this a real sleazy comedy , more like the stuff that was produced in the 1970s than 1994 . I like good parodies but this was too much below-the-belt stuff that wasn't funny . I am not surprised this ended the " Naked Gun " series . They should have quit while they were ahead .
No Excuses For This	This wasn't up to the quality of the Otto Messmer years of Felix The Cat , from the early 1920s , so inexperience in this animation genre was no excuse for making a lousy Felix The Cat cartoon like this one . This is a lame effort , even for 1930 . I wondered if this wasn't going to be a lemon right off the bat when they held the opening title page on screen for 20 seconds without a change . It turned to be a forbearer of things to come . I've never a cartoon before where they held scenes for so long as they do in spots here . We see dancing bears , or a tree or a crow on a telephone wire go on and on and on . It makes for something rare : a boring cartoon that seems to go on forever .
Yet Another Waste Of Celluloid	This was a New Age-type tale which turned me off quickly , thanks to some Bible-bashing right in the beginning of the film by Anthony Edwards and Robert Mitchum , both downgrading the value of reading " The Book . " From there , the lead character demonstrates his amazing ability to heal people because electricity runs through his body and can be transmitted to those people he touches . Hollywood takes that stuff seriously but makes fun of the Bible ? Give me a break . Sad to see a good cast ( this also includes Lauren Bacall , Harry Dean Stanton , Anjelica Huston , Mary Stuart Masterson , Virginia Madsen and David Warner ) wasted on tripe like this .
Shoulda Just Read The Book	Wow , right from the start this movie is a real downer , not exactly an uplifting film ! This is really depressing . William Hurt , Robert Duvall , Raul Julia , Sandrine Bonnaire and Jean-Marc Barr star in a film dealing with a plague that is infecting a South American city . It sounds interesting , which is why I rented it , along with the great cast . However , I found this very disappointing , not only because it was so depressing but it's too talky , the photography disappointed me and I think it tries to be a lot " smarter " than it comes across . I can't see a lot of people enjoying this film . Half the cast members don't seem to be into this story , either , especially Duvall who usually gives great performances . A friend of mine suggested I read the book and forget the movie . I should have taken her advice . At least the author was famous .
I Never Did Like John Ritter	This was supposed to be " a hilarious farce , " according to reviews of the day . It just shows you how unreliable are the movie critics you read in the newspaper . The only " farce " was that this film was lauded . The first dozen minutes along totally turned me off . In that period . John Ritter used the Lord's name in vain at least three times . That , and hundred of other " Oh , God " this and " Oh , God " that were just way too much and too annoying . I usually like Michael Caine but he's had his share of lemons , as other actors have , and this is one of them . Add in the usually-annoying Carol Burnett , Julie Hagerty and Ritter and this is easy movie to dislike . From what I hear , the stage play was far better than this flat farce .
Brutally Profane	Can you say the " f-word ? ? " They can here - 353 times , according to Entertainment Weekly . This movie , as few others , will assault your senses and make you numb by the time it's over . Constant bickering , yelling , and Sharon Stone's out-of-control character the last hour will have you uttering a few expletives yourself after this Martin Scorcese sleaze-fest mercifully ends . As bad a character as Stone plays , the all-time champion profaner is - no surprise - the one played by Joe Pecsi , who must use the f-word every other sentence . Robert De Niro comes across as a choir boy compared to these other two jokers . The sad thing is , this could have been a decent movie , if Scorcese wasn't just so preoccupied with being so verbally degenerate ( see " Goodfellas , " " Raging Bull , " etc ) . If the film had been cut down 45 minutes from 3 hours ( too much of it dwells on the marital problems involving Stone ) and cut back on the profanity , you might have had an interesting crime story with some very colorful cinematography and good narration . However , Scorcese can't seem to make a crime film without all the excess . " Brutal " might be a good word to describe this movie . It's too much for anyone above trailer trash morals to endure .
A Liberal's Dream Story	Considering the great cast and reputation , this was very disappointing . I guess the reputation comes from the national critics , all of whom are very liberal and this movie is Left Winger's dream . You see a weak preacher ( Hollywood's only kind ) , you hear some of the Liberals favorite words like like " repression , " and " narrow-mindedness , " and you can get in on all the small-town gossip and secrets . This movie is so catty-womanish , it's sickening . What a shame considering the talents of Ann Sheridan , Ronald Reagan , Bob Cummings , Charles Coburn , Claude Rains and more . Reagan , by the way , was a very charismatic politician but didn't have that aura on screen . Not only is it awful , it's long - 126 minutes . To sit through this again or have another root canal at the dentist's is a tossup .
Take A U-Turn On This Street	Having watched a number of ( director ) Martin Scorecese's profane / violent crime films - some good , some bad - his first entry here is very different from the rest in one crucial aspect : it's boring ! ! Love him or hate him , you can't say that about his other films . This film just doesn't have much life to it . Yes , there is some action but something is missing , perhaps characters that one could care about . After a while , I found I just did not care what happened . . . period . I canned it with 40 minutes to go . A dozen years later , I gave it another shot , and it was still just as boring and unappealing . The only interesting facet was to see such young-and-skinny well-known actors like Harvey Keitel and Robert De Niro . Otherwise , these " mean streets " are nothing but a dead end , so turn around and head in another direction . Don't waste your gas .
Can''t Live Up To Its Great Title	This is the classic case of a fabulous title to a film but a horrible movie . With a name like " Sorority Babes At The Slimeball Bowl-O-Rama , " I just had to check this film out . If you think the film sounds cheesy , it is - in spades . It's a sleazy horror spoof that wasn't funny and only offered some nice boobs to watch ( for us guys ) . That's about it . The two main characters were just plain annoying and too profane and , for a horror flick , it was anything but scary . I guess it was more of a comedy but outside of the " imp , " not too much of the humor was good stuff . The film showed promise early on , but once they got to the bowling lanes the film rolled a gutter ball . Oh , well . . . . it's still my favorite movie title of all time .
This Cartoon " Bites "	This is a cartoon warning about the evils of gambling , featuring The Gambling Bug , a creature I've never seen before in a Loony Tunes short . The bug - kind of flying ant - takes a day off and observes a big dog trying to talk a cat ( which looks like a Dr . Seuss drawing ) into gambling . The cat wants nothing to do with gambling , until the bug goes over and bites him . They play for " penalties , " and of course the cat loses . His penalty is " gesundheit . " The cat goes back and loses two more times with other penalties . This was really lame and not funny in the slightest . Why it would be included in a quality DVD " golden " or " spotlight " collections is beyond me .
Should Have Known From The Recommendation	The fact that " Cosmopolitan " magazine wrote this movie was " terrific " should have warned me to stay away but , like a sap , I gave it a look . What a waste of a trip to the rental store back in the late ' 90s . " Horrible " would have been a better one-word description of this profane-laden soap opera about a bunch of losers at a diner . Well , if you are a loser and like to watch people moping around like the main character in this movie - a fat momma's boy - watching a story that really has little plot or substance , this is your cup of tea . It does one thing , though : it will depress you , and a lot of sickos out there like movies that depress them . Go figure . They can relate to this " realistic " story , sad to say . I would have more compassion , but the characters in here , almost all of them , are nothing but annoying . No wonder " Cosmo " loved it .
Safe For Kids ? I Don't Think So ! ! ! !	I assumed this was a safe movie for kids , one about a young girls soccer team . Well , it WAS about the soccer team but it also had numerous sex jokes and innuendos , along with a lot of profanity and just plain sleazy remarks . Whoever wrote this script must be a real sleazebag . I should have noticed the PG-13 label , but somehow missed it . That would have tipped me off . For those who disagree with my remarks , tell me why they had to rate it PG-13 if it is such a sweet and innocent film ? ? ? . The main kid in here is a foul-mouthed brat , too . Rodney Dangerfield , the adult star of this prize-winner , has some funny lines but the general tone of this " kids " movie turned me off , big-time . Do not show this to your little girls .
You'll Become A ' Grouch ' Watching This - It's Not Funny	This short feature stars " The Grouch Club . " Jack Lescoulie Jr . plays the " Grouchmaster . " The story was written by Nat Hiken of " Bilko " television fame . That program was a lot funnier than this little film . The group is meeting to discuss the latest application for membership . Lescoulie gives the definition of a grouch ( I think I qualify ! ) and then goes over the application with the four other guys in the room . That's the last we see of him until the end . The bulk of the story is about " F . T . Smith " and his trials and tribulations of trying to take out a book at the public library . They make it about impossible with one obstacle after another . Arthur Bryan is Smith and Nancy Evans is the librarian . Detmar Poppen ( nice name ) is the library manager who keeps threatening to kick Smith out of the library for being too loud . Frankly , I saw nothing humorous in this skit - nothing . I can't believe this would make people laugh , but I guess humor was a lot different back in 1938 .
Nothing But Noise - Big Disappointment	I thought maybe it was just old age creeping up on me . The Jimi Hendrix that I remember from my youth sounded a whole lot better than what I saw on this DVD . I thought I had just changed my tastes and wasn't into his songs anymore . Then I read some reviews here . . . . and I feel better . It wasn't me : it was this concert - it sucked ! I just wanted to have something on film of one of the most famous guitar players of all time , so I thought this long concert would do it . Well , this disc has already been traded for something else . All it turned out to be was noise , which was really disappointing considering the songs I liked best from him were all included in this concert . Unfortunately , they were hardly recognizable . If anyone knows of a really good Hendrix DVD , please PM me . Thanks .
He's Not Your ' Average Joe , ' Thankfully !	Well , how about two hours of film footage about a chain-smoking , drug-taking , wife - cheating , hard-drinking , profane guy ? Sound like fun ? I don't think so . Roy Scheider plays " Joe Gideon , " who is really Ray Fosse , the famous dance choreographer . The story is based on Fosse's life . . . . and it isn't a pretty one . I really liked the photography in this movie - that IS pretty , but the main character , as described above , was not a fun guy to watch . " Sordid " is an apt word for this biography . I'm sorry , but I am not attracted to depressing stories about people who are losers . It has nothing to do with Scheider , either , who I have always found to play interesting roles . This is painful story to watch and it's long : two-and-a-half hours . It could have been edited in a number spots , although it still would have been too sleazy a story for me .
A Failed Experiment	We begin with a meeting of the Women Haters Club , dedicated to the idea that " romance is a crime ! " What's unusual about this short movie is that all the dialog is done in rhyme . I thought it would be kind of stupid but , to be honest , a lot of it is very clever - for about five minutes . Whoever wrote this did a pretty good job . The music is nice , too , but five minutes was enough . It's cool at first but wears thin in a hurry . The emphasis on poetry and song drastically diminished the slapstick humor , the normal wisecracks and the atmosphere that made The Three Stooges what they were . I can see why this early experiment was just that : an experiment , and thankfully a one-time experience . Just give me back the Stooges as they are - crude , violent , stupid and funny - with Curly and his squeaky voice , not singing poets , for cryin ' out loud . This turned out to be one of the longest 20 minutes I've ever endured .
Ryan's Laugh Was Stupid & Ruined The Film	Why one famous critic called this " possibly the greatest Western ever made " is mind - boggling . Not only is it NOT that , it's not even a good movie . In fact , it stinks ! The first 15 minutes leads you to believe this might be a great western , but by halfway through this yawner I had lost my interest . . . . both times I tried . Yeah , I gave it two attempts . What ruined the film ? Robert Ryan's laugh . Ryan , playing his usual villain role , laughed every time he talked . At first , that was kind of different and almost fun to hear but , man , did that wear thin quickly . In no time , Ryan got so annoying to hear that any pleasure from watching this movie was disappearing fast . The sad thing was the rest of the attractive cast was comprised on unlikeable characters , too ! You would think you could root for someone here . Whether it was James Stewart , Janet Leigh or Ralph Meeker playing a character , there wasn't a " good guy " in the bunch . There are hundreds of westerns better than this one .
Yup , Another ' Disaster ' From Early ' 70s	A disaster is right - this film is a disaster , thanks to Ava Gardner , to begin with . The first word of dialog in this film , which shows you what kind of profane pig this woman was , is " GD ! " screamed out by her . She must have given hubby Frank Sintra an earful a few times . Three minutes later , Gardner blasphemes again . This film seemed to be a haven for a few washed-up stars like her , Charleton Heston , Lorne Greene , Barry Sullivan , Lloyd Nolan , etc . Speaking of the 1970s , this was typical early ' 70s schlock , a half decade of the some of the scummiest , worst films ever made . A handful of films each year from 1970-75 were excellent but for every " Godfather " there were 200 total clunkers and generally-depressing films . It was a bad time for moviegoers . Things started to get better in 1976 . Disaster movies were the rage and many of them turned out to be nothing but long-winded soap operas , like the airplanes-ready to crash and big boat-sinkings , skyscrapers on fire stories , etc . This movie got huge hype like the rest , but has little substance , only terrific special-effects in a few spots . I have to hand it to them for that : they didn't computers to do most of the work . Like Gardner , Heston must have been desperate to keep his film career going , too . As a fan of Heston's , I was sorry to see him in this movie . At least he was better than Richard " Shaft " Rountree and George " I never saw a disaster role I could turn down " Kennedy . The special-effects look either great or stupid , depending on the scene . I guarantee you one thing : the people IN the disasters look idiotic . In real life , all people would either freeze in horror or run like hell . Witness the reaction at 9-11 . They don't stand there and scream or jump up and down waving their arms , like they do in this film ! It's almost laughable . Actually , it is laughable . This film , like most of the disaster films of the early ' 70s , might have had great dramatic impact back then but look so hokey now it makes you shake your head in disbelief . Also , all that melodrama and just plain slow pace , would be totally intolerable today . That's probably the main drawback : too much soap and not enough suds .
Great Visuals & Sound , Affected Dialog & Characters	This movie is great to look at but tough to hear . The photography is magnificent , but the characters in this film are so shallow , pretentious , insufferably soap - opera sudsy , it makes the movie hard to watch . Nobody exhibits those unlikable and annoying qualities more than " Daisy , " played in over-the-top fashion by Mia Farrow . " Daisy " is Audrey Hepburn-like affected speech , accent and mannerisms to the nth degree . I mean , how many " dahlings , " snobby sentences can a viewer be expected to endure ? For me , it was about an hour's worth . . Almost the same could be said for Karen Black , an actress who played a lot of trashy roles in the ' 70s . In here , she went overboard as " Myrtle . " In addition , one had to constantly look at extreme close-ups of both women's hideously - overdone facial makeup . It looked like the 1960s all over again . These women had more eye shadow on than Lily Munster . The male characters weren't exactly appealing , either . I am fan of Bruce Dern , but , is it my imagination or did he look way out of place in his role ? Meanwhile , Sam Waterston ( " Nick Carraway " ) did nothing but smile meekly at everyone and give us one of the drabbest characters I've ever seen and heard on film . I am used to interesting narration , from the film noirs of the ' 40s to today's films . . . . . not the monotone drivel he used in this film . Robert Redford , playing the main character " Gatsby " was a mysterious guy , but he doesn't enter the movie until 35 minutes have gone by and then slips in and out , not sure how to woo " Daisy , " and appears wimpy himself . It's always interesting to go back in time and see a young version of an actor we know well . Here , it's Redford without all the wrinkles in his face . I've always found Redford to play interesting roles and he was the only one who qualified for that status here , although one could never figure out why he would pursue someone like the annoying Daisy . It didn't make sense . On the PLUS side , the music in here is tremendous . Nelson Riddle did an outstanding job with this score and it's fun to hear , all the way through . That , and the great Charleston dancing scenes , fantastic sets and costumes , will really have you feeling as if you were in the middle of the 1920s America , even if it is smack in the middle of upper-crust Long Island . Recommended only to hard-core soap fans .
Can You Say , ' Left Wing Propaganda ? '	The good and the bad of this animated film are extreme . THE GOOD - Bright , beautiful colors make this film a real visual treat . The 5 . 1 digital sound provides great audio , too , with surround coming out of all five speakers and a sub-woofer , especially when the huge iron robot walks , really makes the sound dynamite . THE BAD - The story is disgusting , beginning with the annoying lead kid who , in typical Hollywood style , lies and deceives and yet is the hero . The film is chock full of liberal leanings such as anti-FBI ( no FBI agent would be this bad ) , anti-gun ( " guns kill " is repeated over and over ) , anti-hunting , anti - authority , pro-Communist , pro-rebel , etc , etc . All of the Liberal mindset . A lot of this preaching comes in the name of " exposing the 1950s paranoia , " according to the director of the film , who verified my opinion in an accompanying documentary feature on the DVD . Throw in the fact this is an animated film for kids yet there are a dozen exclamations of the God's name and very little humor and you have a film suited only for ACLU types .
Don''t Bring Me The Sleaze Of Peckinpauh & Co .	I remember that Batman film in which our hero fights a villain called " Mr . Freeze , " played by Arnold Schwarzenegger . Well , if they ever had a character called " Mr . Sleaze , " especially in the ' 70s , I can't think of actor who better looked and acted the part than Warren Oates . He demonstrates that sordid face and personality perfecting in this film ( as he did in other films in this period , like Badlands , Dillinger , etc . ) Anyway , Oates , as " Bennie , " enters the picture some 15 minutes into it , and look out : here come the heavy does of meanness , nastiness , ugliness and extreme profanity . He's just the kind of character another low-life , director Sam Peckinpauh , loved to portray in his films . Isela Vegas , playing the female lead , added only two things to the film : her breasts , which she wasn't shy about showing . Even clean-cut Gig Young played a bad guy in this Peckinpaugh puke-fest .
Modern-Day Comedy Sleaze	Sorry , but I didn't think this was as good as most people did . Many moviegoers thought this was hilarious ; I didn't . Oh , I laughed hard at a few scenes , of course , but the main attraction for me was Cameron Diaz ' face more than the comedy . The humor is a little too sleazy for my tastes . I love comedy and own a bunch of DVDs of that genre , but I don't need excessive profanity and sex to make me laugh . Why would they put so many f-words in a comedy ? Just asking . There has to be at least 40 in here plus a dozen abuses of the Lord's name in vain . You know , if it's a crime movie I can understand , but a comedy ? It's another sad comment on the movie business and our society that a movie like this can be a box office success , and that so many young people enjoyed this . A woman with semen in her hair ? Wow , now that's classy entertainment !
Couldn't ' Wait ' For The End	Maybe heaven could wait . . . . but I couldn't . Watching half of this drivel was enough for me . This was a very disappointing film with annoying characters and stupid humor . Oh , there were some laughs , to be fair , but certainly not enough to keep my interest . That , and the ridiculous theology turned me off fast . Imagine ( being serious , too ) calling The Devil " Your Excellency " and portraying him as a fair - minded gentleman ! Even for secular Hollywood , that is carrying things a bit too far . There is more , too , but enough preaching . If you want to know how to go to heaven , read the Bible , don't get your theology from Hollywood . The only " redeeming " quality of this film is the nice color in here . They didn't make many color films in the 1940s , but when they did , they were beautiful .
Sorry , But It's Too Much Of A Stretch	This has to be a favorite of all the hippie , left-wing loonies of the ' 60s ( of which I was one ) with its slants and sleazy atmosphere . But worse than the above-normal political psycho - babble was the credibility regarding Linda Hunt's character , " Billy Kwan . " We are expected to believe that Linda is a man ? Huh ? Excuse me ? You aren't serious , are you ? Yeah , they were . . . . she's supposed to be a man we are supposed to go along with the idea . In the movie , she fools everyone . Come on ! Okay , for awhile Hunt was interesting to watch but the whole situation got ludicrous in no time . Along with that we get all this Third World poverty - so - let's - bring - in - Communism - to - save - the-day propaganda and a ton of just sordid atmospheric conditions . Somehow I wanted the take a shower after watching the first 40 minutes . In the end , this turns out to be just another example of low-class Liberal agenda bull-crap that we so often see in the world of films .
Like A Bad David Lynch Film	The first third of this film was very interesting , but mainly because of the good black-and - white closeup photography in that first 30-45 minutes . Then the story began to get very distasteful with characters I could not care about , and I doubt most people could . The story is a bit disjointed and sordid about a dwarf who has some sort of relationship with a older , fat and married woman , all the while he is serving divorce papers . . . . at least that's what it sounded like . It wasn't all that clear after an hour , and by then I had lost interest trying figure everything out . In the meantime , the dwarf also was attracted to this little girl at the circus . It's all very strange . . . . and not a satisfying story . One review I read somewhere said this film reminded him of early David Lynch movies , and I think that's an apt description . I love a couple of Lynch films , but some of his stuff stinks , too . ( i . e . Eraserhead , Lost Highway , to name two ) .
Shame On Stewart	What a shock to see Jimmy Stewart play an anti-Christian role , although he did similar Believing-bashing roles in the ' 50s and ' 60s , not subtly but they were there , such as Charles Lindburg ( who scoffed that prayer would help him on his long journey , etc . ) . Nevertheless , Stewart has such a clean image that it was still a surprise to hear him reluctantly and sarcastically say grace before a meal with the sentence ' I raised all these kids myself and we worked darn hard for years to grow all this food ourselves . . . . but thanks anyway . " Maybe this is where the writers of " The Simpsons " got their ideas as young Bart offered the same irreverent " prayer " in one of that TV series earlier episodes . Shortly thereafter the family goes to church and the pastor is seen as an impatient boob who tells Stewart after the service , " I don't even know why you bother to come to church . " No minister , folks , would say that . That's only in the movies and was a good example of things to come in Hollywood . In a few years , it was " everything goes , " and Christian-bashing went full bore in the ' 70s . It was " open season " on Bible believers .
If You've Made It Through Fifth Grade , This Movie May Insult Your Intelligence	I don't know if any big budget hit movie will be ever be as dumb as " Independence Day , " but this movie gives it a run for the money . This is so stupid , such an insult to anyone who has passed fifth grade or more , I gave up on it after an hour . When a guy and his ex-wife are able to go into the Oval Office of the President of the United States without any problem , rifle through the President's desk without the bimbo-White House aide in the room hearing him , and then later kidnap the President with the just the aid of his elderly father . . . . . that was enough for me . I actually didn't make it through the kidnapping . The desk scene was enough to convince me that being annoyed for another 50 minutes with the ludicrously-stupid story wasn't worth the aggravation . I thought the original " National Treasure " was kind of dumb , too , but this sequel is beyond that . It isn't just the White House baloney ; it's the dumb dialog throughout with the typical Disney humor which means bickering spouses and enough political correctness you make you barf in your box of popcorn . Yes , it's not boring and if you're a moron who believes anything , especially outrageous conspiracy theories which make no sense and are not factual in the least , you might find this entertaining enough to watch all two hours . You'd probably believe all of this was possible , too ! For the rest of you who have a modicum of intelligence , don't waste your time with this film .
An Insult To Anyone's Intelligence	I was more-than-willing to give this a good shot and enjoy a nice feel-good film starring the likable Freddie Highmore ( " Charlie , " of " Charlie and the Chocolate Factory " fame ) . However , when I start hearing 10 - year-old uneducated street urchins talking with vocabularies like college professors and saying things that no little kid would say , I get turned off . Add to that more Hollywood politically-correctness and low morality . . . . . and so much for the nice , feel-good story . The sweet-looking " good girl " of the story meets a guy on the roof of a building , sleeps with 20 minutes later . They agree to meet somewhere the next day but her parents whisk her back to where she came from , and the two don't connect . Nine months later the baby arrives right when the mother has a car accident . The father says the kid died but really he had given the boy to child services . Meanwhile , the boy - now 11 and living in an orphanage - runs off to New York City somehow figuring that magically , through hearing music , he'll meet his parents . Sound a little far out ? Yeah , it is , and even more so as you see if play out . It's a nice message of young boy never losing faith that he would meet his parents some day but the way he eventually does is so ridiculous , so far out , so unrealistic . . . . . that it insults your intelligence . This turns out to be an Oliver Twist wannabe that isn't even close to the latter in quality and believability . Robin Williams as a " wizard " ( " Fagin " in " Oliver Twist " ) ought to tell you something . Meanwhile , " Evan " ( Highmore ) meets up with this street kid ( " Arthur , " played by Leon Thomas ) is verbally annoying as hell . . . and things progress from there . There are so many plot holes and contrivances in this film , you couldn't count them all . Examples ? Well , the kid learns about sheet music one day and two hours later he's written compositions that would make Beethoven proud . Later , he gets accepted to the Julliard School of Music despite the fact he has no credentials or background on who he is and where he's from ! ! If you have any brain at all , this movie is a slap-in-the-face to you .
A Movie For Sourpusses	Here's another overrated " critics favorite . " Many of the critics complain about how this film got little notice when it came out " but it was really a gem . " Well , the public was right and they were wrong . It deserved the lousy reception it got . This is a boring piece of junk with mean edge to it . . . . too mean an edge , which is probably why the critics liked it . They relate better to movies featuring evil , which this does . Lee J . Cobb's gang is crude , nasty and just plain no fun to watch . Cobb rants and raves most of the film , which gets aggravating in a hurry . An aging Gary Cooper has a sour face most of the way through which pretty sums up most people's feeling about this sour movie .
This Isn't About Baseball	I love baseball games , stories , novels and , yes , movies about the sport . However , there are exceptions to most things and that's the case here ( and " Major League " ) because it's not really a baseball story . . . . . just a tale about low-life people . It's no surprise that Susan Sarandon , Tim Robbins and Kevin Costner play the leading roles in this sleazy film . It goes right along with their real-life backgrounds , especially Sarandon and Robbins . Soo . . . . instead of an old-fashioned nice sports story , or a clean comedy about baseball , all you get is sleazy dialogue about a female owner of a team whose sole aim is to jump in bed with this promising rookie . And " promising " doesn't mean his baseball talent . The sport takes a back seat to sex in this movie , plain and simple . The dialog is very profane filled with blasphemy and all of that seems to be the real focus of this film , nothing else . It's almost like an " in " joke among these elitist Hollywood people who made this . I am sorry that Costner , who does have some reverence for the game and knows how to play it , lowered himself to play this role . Making fun of baseball , or its owners or players is fine - but this is just below-the-belt humor and not really very funny . This movie is praised way more than it's deserved to be .
Another George Romero Disappointment	For over an hour , this was fairly interesting but by the time the last 30-40 minutes had arrived , the unlikeable characters and general nature of the film made me not want to see much more . I did stick it out for the ending , climactic scenes but wouldn't watch this movie again . It just wasn't as good as I had hoped . For some reason , I had high expectations . However , like other of George Romero's horror films , this has profane and very stupid dialog , attitudes , so-so special-effects and a Class B-feel to it . Why I expected better , I don't know . Romero almost always disappoints me . The only redeeming quality of this film was seeing the beautiful face of Joyce VanPatten , a natural beauty if I ever saw one .
Political Propaganda That's Full Of Beans	This started off so well , with some absolutely beautiful New Mexico scenery , I had high hopes . Unfortunately , they were dashed the rest of the way as director Robert Redford had to shout his Left Wing politics loud and clear in our face . So what we wind up with is a low-down , dishonest greedy Right Wing big businessman running the poor little guys out of town and only those good-guy liberal activist minorities saving the day . We even get a dose of Christian bigotry here where those poor picked-on-pagan gods are run out by Christians ! Well , you just know what side is going to win : yes , those wonderful left wingers , adored by the film industry . This VHS went into a garbage can where it belonged . Adios ! !
Songs Hide The Real Agenda Of This Film	Janet McTeer plays a 1960s " musicologist : who goes to the Smokey Mountains , loves the music and wants to document it . Along the way to paying tribute to this historic and wonderful mountain music , the story gets sidetrack by one major issue : out-of-control feminist bias . Hey , you want to make a " chick flick , " fine - there are a number of them out there , but don't disguise this agenda by passing it off as some tribute to music , or the mountains . No , this is out-and-out male bashing , complete with only one decent male character ( played by Aiden Quinn ) , the rest all being unlikeable guys . The women are all wonderful , of course , and we can even see two of them kissing . Oh , wow ! ! ! Hey , loved the music and the scenery , but this is nothing but a Lesbian propaganda piece and - even worse - it's simply a boring film .
Child Abuse Doesn't Make For Fun Movie	Even though this was a well-told story , I found it too unpleasant . The main subject is child abuse , which is never fun to see - a sordid topic . Add to that a lot of profanity by the drunker-abuser husband and a GD by a little kid , no less - and this movie turned me off as far as ever seeing it again . Also portrayed in here were punks picking on the two little boys , another unpleasant viewing experience . The realism of the story takes a swan dive when one of the boys flies away on a home-made airplane ! Give me a break ! The only positive , enjoyable part of this movie is seeing the nice , loving and touching relationship between the two young brothers , played by Elijah Wood and Joseph Mazello . The latter became a familiar face in the next couple of years with big roles in Jurassic Park , Shadlowlands and The River Wild . Wood , of course , didn't hit it big until a decade later but , he made it very big In The Lord Of The Rings trilogy . Those two kids , and narration by an unbilled Tom Hanks , are the only facets of this film I liked .
Lotsa Hype , But Little To Show For It	This was a highly-hyped movie prior to its release , but turned out to be a dud . I never talked to one person who ever liked this movie . I agree : I didn't like it , either . Perhaps one big reason it wasn't a box office success was that it had nothing but unappealing characters in the story . For awhile there - I don't know if this is still true - I hadn't any movie in which Laura Linney or Dylan Walsh played anything BUT annoying characters . That , and a stupid story , make this film a big disappointment , especially considering that big buildup . Did the filmmakers , with dialog this dumb , really think this was going to be a hit ?
Not Creepy In This Day-And-Age	Thinking this was a horror movie ( billed as such ) and starring guys like Bela Lugosi and Lionel Atwill , I wound up disappointed . . . . . even more so because this movie started off pretty well and had promise . However , that " promise " was never delivered . There wasn't enough suspense or action to keep my interesting after the first hour . It got way too talky for what it should have been . Fans of the two guys mentioned above will be very disappointed . Lugosi plays the butler and does very little and Atwill literally disappears halfway through . Yet , both men got pretty good billing on the opening credits . It's misleading . The story isn't bad but , outside of some good sound effects like the frogs and the crickets , is not the creepy movie it's advertised as being . Maybe in 1942 this creeped out audiences , but it wouldn't today . Then again , I only saw this movie when it was on TV and commercials were continually interrupting things . That's a big reason I don't even watch TV shows any more unless they are on DVD . Perhaps if this film ever comes out on disc , I'd give it another shot .
The Weakest In The Series	This was the first really weak effort I've seen in this animated series . It's not horrible , but the jokes are not funny , just flat , and the story is too ridiculous to entertain anyone over the age of five . A little green man from Mars comes by in a spaceship and kidnaps The Commissioner . Moments later , The Inspector and Deux-Deux find a spaceship and head out to save him . The two are parachuted to the planet , discover their boss in some big underground tunnel and try to rescue him . It's all really juvenile ; not the normal fare . Not all of the 17 cartoons I have seen in this series were winners . Some were disappointing , but this probably the weakest effort in the lot .
A Weak Entry In The Messmer Series	After being booted out of the fish market trying to sneak some fish to eat , Felix salutes the owner but comes right back and sees a barrel that says " Fresh today . " He thinks , " this is too easy , " and finds out it is after a lobster grabs hold of his tail and won't let go . Felix hi-tails ( pun intended ) it out of there and comes up with an ingenious plan to rid himself of the clinging lobster . Our hero cat comes up with one of those corny lines they loved back in the Silent Film Era : " I'm so hungry I could eat a date off a calendar . " He winds up howling in hunger . A man nearby hears Felix wailing , summons him over and tells him , " You mind him ( a baby ) for an hour and I'll give you a swell feed . " That sets up the title of the story about Felix minding the kid , which is not an easy assignment . This kid howls a lot and things really get hairy when the kid inhales a balloon and flies out the window ! Overall , this was the first weak entry I have seen so far in the collection of " Presenting Felix The Cat - The Otto Messmer Classics - 1919-1924 " DVD . There wasn't much funny in here and it also was the first bad print . The contrast was bad and it had a lot of black coming out of the top of the picture . You could see what was going on but it was a poor print . It must have been barely salvageable to be included in this set .
' Belle ' Is Beautiful But Boring	Here's another one of those " shocking " movies of yesteryear that is absolutely nothing now . . . . . just mainly boring . You wonder what the fuss was all about . The critics all called it " erotic . " I call it " boring . " Judge for yourself . This is a story about a wife who becomes a prostitute secretly for several hours each afternoon . In the first hour of this film , I saw no nudity , almost no profanity and , quite frankly , was so bored with the story that I lost interest in watching the last 40 minutes . Catherine Deenuve's beautiful face , even with those awful overdone 1960s fake eyelashes , was about the only thing I enjoyed in here .
Not What It's ' Cracked ' Up To Be	This was a weak effort , to be honest . It started out promising , with Humpty Dumpty Jr . , yes , the famous egg's kid . Dumpty falls from the ledge , gets caught by mother and gets a lecture on not being dumb like his father who wound up falling " and getting cracked . " What we wind up with in this story is " Junior " falling for a female egg and having to fight off " the bad egg " to get her . It drags on a bit too much with a predictable ending . In the middle and at the end we get a song about " spooning . " Overall , this wasn't one of the better efforts in the collection of a DVD called " Cartoons That Time Forget : The UB Iwerks Collection Vol . 1 . "
Too Much Yak , Yak , Yak	The first 30 to 40 minutes made me think this was a sleeper , better than what I had anticipated . It had me intrigued . Then it went " talky " - yak , yak yak . I kept waiting for something dramatic to happen . . . . . anything ! After 70 minutes , there was still nothing , and I gave up . I never found Jane Russell to be pretty enough to enjoy looking at , anyway . Robert Mitchum was good and had a number of clever film-noir type lines . Vincent Price was supposed to play a fascinating far-out character ( according to critics ) but I didn't find him to be anybody entertaining , just stupid and boring . As I said , this film had promise but . . . . . .
Please Don't Compare This Poorly-Acted Clunker To ' Awakenings '	For some reason , perhaps a review I read prior to watching this , I thought this might be an " Awakenings " - type story , so I was enthused about watching it . Well , it's not a tenth as good as " Awakenings " and shouldn't even be mentioned in the same breath as that fine film . If you read someone comparing the two films , don't believe it . One was intelligent and fascinating ; one was stupid and boring . This is just awful . It's about a blind man who temporarily regains his sight , and then loses it again . That sounds interesting but the film , in a nutshell , turned out to be nothing but a long , soap opera with an extremely irritating female lead : Mia Sorvino , as " Amy Benic . " Val Kilmer's character , " Virg Anderson , " might have lost his sight but Sorvino obviously had lost her brains . What a bimbo ! It doesn't help she blurts out OMG every third sentence , which makes her sound even more stupid . Kilmer , meanwhile , should stick with crime movies or westerns . He's very good in those kind of films . He stinks at melodrama . This movie did not need to go over two hours , either . In the end , it's just not a memorable story and it should have been , as " Awakenings " certainly wound up .
A Liberal Treasure Chest Of Clichés !	Ah , another Liberal-slanted anti-death penalty propaganda piece ! Here we see a liberal college professor who campaigns against the death penalty in Texas . ( It wouldn't be a dig against former Texas Governor George W . Bush , would it ? ) . The professor , in turn , is given the death penalty for murder and a reporter tries to prove his innocence . Man , this movie abounds with Liberal clichés ! It is , to be far , an interesting film that moves fast but , like Mulholland Drive , leave a lot of unanswered questions at the end . So I guess the viewer is just supposed to enjoy the story , not try to figure out or make sense of much . What else can we expect out of a Kevin Spacey-Kate Winslett-Laura Linney-acted film . . . . all unlikeable Liberals to begin with ! !
I Agree : Sadistic Mouse No ' Good Guy '	( NOTE : I thought I'd be the only one writing what I did below , but I see the others here agree . I guess it was pretty obvious - this was overdoing the bait-the-cat bit . Anyway , here is what I had written : ) The owners have left on vacation for two weeks - a trip to California - leaving the cat ( Sylvester ) all alone and locked in the house . That means no milk , but the cat , to his relief , does find a bunch of canned tuna . However , to his dismay , he can't find the opener . It turns out the little mouse in the house has it . . . and baits the cat with it . This is a mean rodent who keeps teasing Sylvester with the opener and then yanking it away at the last second . Sylvester tries everything possible to open the can of tuna but can't do it . This is a frustrating story , and why they make the sadistic mouse the " good guy " is beyond me . It's like some of the Tom & Jerry cartoons where poor Tom always gets the worst of it even though many times the little mouse starts the conflict !
Not Too ' Keen ' On This Story	This was a strange kind of film about a low-lifes in New York City and centering around a main character ( the title name , played by Brad Pitt ) who thinks he''s a Ricky Nelson-type musician , except he has no real talent . It's kind of fun to watch until a profane tough New York City-type woman with horrible accent enters the picture and takes over . That ruined the film for me . It must have been Catherine Keener , who usually plays tough and garbage-mouthed women . The hairdo on Pitt - an exaggerated Pompadour - was fun to look at . I can picture Johnny Depp playing this role better . One last note : it odd to hear a film made in 1992 ( other than Woody Allen's ) with just mono sound .
Put A ( Lens ) Cap On It !	Here's another example of critics ' comments on the back of a VHS box being very misleading to us unsuspecting buyers . Comments on the video box made this movie sound fascinating , a big visual treat and an interesting story with a suspenseful finish . . Sadly , it was none of those things . By the way , for English-speaker viewers , this film is called " Camera Buff . " In truth , it was very boring film with unlikeable characters giving you nobody to root for or care about . The man character is a nerd who would rather watch others than do anything with his life . This won the grand prize at the Moscow Film Festival , which shows you how bad things still were in Russia in the early ' 90s . I know things have gotten better .
One-Seventh Of The ' Magnificent Seven '	I don't mind sequels ; sometimes they're better than the original . However , many times the originals are best left alone . . . . especially when you can't duplicate the cast . One of the big reasons " The Magnificent Seven " was such a hit was the very popular cast . This is hardly the " magnificent seven , " when only Yul Brynner returns as one of the members of that famous group in " The Magnificent Seven . " With six of the seven guys absent and replaced by much lesser-known actors , this loses its appeal in a hurry . In other words , except for Brynner , these guys have no charisma ! This is a like a championship sports team fielding all substitutes except one . Brynner is good , once again : fun to watch , fun to hear with that distinctive deep voice of his , but the story , not just the rest of the crew , is lame . This movie should never have been made . In the original , we cared about the " seven ; " in here , we couldn't care less .
Bracco Single-Handedly Ruins This Movie	I had high hopes for this film , listening to the hype made about it prior to release . I looked forward to seeing it . Sean Connery uses makes good movies , so I was upbeat going into this . THE GOOD - Nice jungle scenery , decent surround sound . Connery was his normal entertaining self in the lead , this time as " Dr . Robert Campbell . " THE BAD - Lorraine Bracco as " Dr . Crane " was a pain , to say the least . What reasonable , sane male could put up with this woman ? ! Talk about a mouth , both in words and tone , that is abrasive ! Wow ! She single-handedly ruined this movie . Who could take listening to her for the full - - minutes of this film ? Not me . What a horrible woman .
This Is What Happens With Small Budget	It's these kind of movies that continue to give Christian film-making a bad name , meaning sub-par acting , poor special-effects and just an overall " B " film feeling to the whole project . The reason , is course , is money . When you don't have a big budget and support from the Hollywood community on all phases of the film , how are you going to make a classy movie ? You have to be some multi-millionaire with clout like Mel Gibson or Robert Duvall , otherwise you are going to wind up with something like this . Mainstream Hollywood hasn't made a pro - Christian film is 40 years and probably won't for another 40 . Just check out the early scene with the planes flying overhead . I thought I was a watching a 1950s low-budget sci-fi show . Yes , kudos for someone at least trying to make an earnest effort to re-create the suspense based on the best-selling " Left Behind " books , but this is not the answer . Big bucks and top special-effects people are needed for high production values and to attract top actors . This is what you get when you don't have that kind of budget . Hollywood is too atheistically-biased to produce Biblical movies anymore . Goodness , what would their peers think ?
Worse Than The Original	This film , like the first one ( " The Man From Snowy River " ) has the same good and bad features , perhaps even more so than the original . Unfortunately , the bad outweighs the good . The GOOD - Magnificent scenery , better than the first film . I love those high country shots in Australia . Tom Burlinson is still a likable guy , as " Jim Craig . " Bruce Rowland did a nice job with the music , too . The BAD - Once again we get an extremely obnoxious feminist heroine " Jessica " ( Sigrid Thornton ) who is a world-class pouter with an extremely annoying face and manner about her . In this film , we also get a big downgrade in who pays the father . Previously it was Kirk Douglas , now replaced by the always - profane Brian Dennehy . Speaking of that , it is a disgrace that a Walt Disney film would includes usages of the Lord's name in vain . That was one reason was almost totally down the tubes in the 1980s . This film , like the first one
A Dumb Idea That Didn't Work	Well , I have to agree with the critics on this one , who all said " leave it alone . " Why they had to make this re-make of the 1960 " Psycho , " I don't know . My guess is they wanted to reach a new audience and thought color and modern-day actors were the answer , since those were the main changes . The dialog was the same and the story the same . On one hand , I applaud them for not making this over with a lot of profanity and nudity and making it a sleazy film . Yet , if they were going to keep everything the same , why bother when you weren't going to improve on Tony Perkins , Janet Leigh and the original cast ? Did they honestly think Vince Vaughn was going to be as good or better than Perkins ? Are you kidding ? Ann Heche , with her short mannish-haircut , is going to be better than Leigh ? I don't think so ! Yes , the colors were pretty in here but it's the black-and-white photography that helped make the 1960 version so creepy to begin with . It's perfect for the story , not a bunch of greens and pinks ! Once again , I guess the filmmakers were banking on an audience that never saw the original . This was just a stupid project that never should have gotten off the ground .
Starts Fine But Gets Increasingly Ugly	What an odd story . It was a good one for the first two-thirds of the film but the last third got so sick - at least to me and what little standards I possess , it lost favor with me . I got rid of it for that reason : overall - just too sick and too strange . It gets ugly because a 12-year-old kid , whom the story is centered around , starts to lose it . He tries to kill his uncle , begins using way too much profanity , and says and does things that no 12-year-old boy would say / do . The story just gets out of hand . Everyone in this film except the boy's mother is very odd with most of them winding up in a mental institution . I often laugh at dark humor but this is way too black , way too dark . People think Hollywood is morally bankrupt . . . . well , the rest of the world , especially in the film-making business , is worse and this is a prime example .
The Disappearing Cast Of CSI	This might be - except for the final minute - the first time I've ever seen a season-concluding CSI episode that , frankly , was boring . That's unheard of for all three of these shows : Las Vegas , Miami and New York . Granted , something dramatic happens which keeps you hanging until the new fall season , but here it only happens in the final seconds . At that was no shock , thanks to word leaking out that " Warrick " would be knocked off and another CSI member leaves the show . No sense going into detail about the episode ; you already know it . Warrick is accused of a crime he didn't commit : the murder of a big mob boss " Lou Gedda . " The main question is how the CSI team will prove he is innocent . With constant flashbacks of an incoherent " Warrick " at the murder scene , the show drags on and on with a lot of unanswered questions that should have been ( if the normal CSI / police work had been done , as it has in most of the previous episodes through the years . ) . I have watched the last four seasons on DVD , skipping the live advertisement-ridden shows , so I knew in advance - thanks to CBS in late summer - that " Brown " was history . I also watched " Sara Sidle " and have since found out - thanks to CBS promoting it in December - that Grissom is gone now , too . Speaking of that , another reviewer here poses a good question : " what happened to " Sofia " ( Louise Lombard ) ? " She disappeared after the 2007 season with no explanation . How's that for treating longtime fans of the show ? Not even the courtesy of telling us what happened to her ! Overall , it wasn't just this bad episode that was disappointing ; the whole season was weak , after a great year the season before with the memorable " Miniature Killer . " Now , half the cast is gone . One wonders if this will CSI will ever be as good .
Was Jane Russell Ever In A Good Movie ?	I'm still waiting to discover a good movie in which Jane Russell starred . I haven't seen one yet . If you know of one , let me know . Best as I can tell , Howard Hughes tried to make her a star for two reasons : her breasts . It couldn't have been for her acting ability or that her presence would enhance a quality film . Those just didn't happen . Her films were a bust ( pun intended . ) You would think it would be almost impossible to shoot a boring film that also included Robert Mitchum , William Bendix , Thomas Gomez and Gloria Grahame . . . . but here it is ! The screen time of Bendix and Grahame are woefully small , otherwise this might have been more interesting . The other ( lead ) characters in this movie are simply not people you care about . The fault of this movie , in addition to unlikeable lead characters , is that it simply isn't entertaining . It's dull , folks , almost as drab as it gets . What a shame . It sure didn't have to be with that cast . Mitchum and Bendix were fun to watch in " The Big Steal , " but the only steal in this film is your money to buy or rent this movie . I love film noir , and I liked the exotic setting in here , but this story is so bad I hate to even classify it in that genre ( noir ) . Director Josef Von Sternberg was at the end of his career . . . . and it shows . In fact , he didn't finish this movie . They had to call in Nicholas Ray to do that . This film , in a way , was a poor man's " Morocco , " I say " poor man " because Jane Russell was no Marlene Dietrich and " Macao " is no " Morocco . " The only saving grace is that the running time is short . You only have to suffer for 81 minutes . I wouldn't even recommend that .
See The Re-Make Instead	Here's one case where the re-make is far , far better than the original . This also is another case of a vastly overrated science-fiction film of the ' 50s . Most sci-fi films of that period , including this one , have such primitive special effects that they destroy any credibility of presenting a scary story . In this particular film , the main drawback is not the dated effects but the sheer boredom of the story . It's too slow . A fly moves a lot faster than this flick . One odd thing about the cast . The two stars of the film were " no-names " ( Al Hedison and Patricia Owens ) and the two supporting cast members were big names ( Vincent Price and Herbert Marshall ) . One plus for the film that you certainly didn't see in the re-make is they give God His due realizing that human beings are not supposed to " play God " and they state just that . Of course , that was edited out in the 1986 version . However , if you are looking for a straight horror / sci-fi thriller , watch that ' 86 re-make with Jeff Goldblum and Geena Davis . It is far better than this snoozer .
Yeah , It's True What They Are Writing Here	I was hoping to like this movie , to give it a better review than most might give it . . . . but I couldn't . In the end , I had to agree with the reviewers here on IMDb , that this movie stinks . It's true . It's also one of those films that starts off okay , lures you in , and then deteriorates . With 40 minutes to go in the two-hour film , you're ready to walk out but since you've invested 80 minutes you figure , " I might as well see it through the end . " The last half hour then becomes like a session at the dentist's office in which you can't wait for the experience to be over . Credibility is probably the worst aspect of this film . Seeing people 10 , 000 years ago in buildings that look pretty well-made and would do an architect proud today , and hearing people speak with British and other assorted accents - in the same tribe - for the time and place ( Mideast or Northern Africa in 10 , 000 B . C . ) almost makes one laugh out loud in spots . . . . . yet this is supposed to be a serious movie . The special-effects were weak , especially with the saber-toothed tiger which not only looks very fake but is proportionally ludicrous . The mammoths didn't look at hokey , but they moved very woodenly , computer-like . This was mainly the reason I watched . I knew it might be stupid but I thought it might at least be fun with eye-popping effects . No , nothing was eye-popping here . It was just dumb . . . . and I didn't even get to the story part , if you want to call it that . Actually , that was the worst part of this film . The screenplay was embarrassingly bad . If you want details on the holes in this story and all the things that were impossible but shown here , check out the other reviews . Folks : you can believe all the negative reviews here on IMDb . They are not lying .
2010 : Not A Good Year	Once again , we see ( 1 ) a sequel that isn't even close to the greatness of the original film ; ( 2 ) Hollywood once again bashing the U . S . government with conspiracy theories ; ( 3 ) low-class people playing astronauts ; ( 4 ) another left-wing agenda promoting a secular version of the origin of man ; ( 5 ) another horrible movie in which John Lithgow starred . Yup , 1 - The original film , 2001 : A Space Odyssey is much better ; 2 - they claim the government hid something from the good guys and caused the current problem in this story ; 3 - in addition , the promote life being on other planets , another ludicrous secular hope ; 4 - when have you ever heard a real-life astronaut talk like the dirt-bags in this film ( or the " Alien " films , Pitch Black , etc . ) ; 5 - I stand corrected : Lithgow actually was good in one movie in his career , but that's it . The only redeeming quality of this movie was the brief scene with 2001 star Keir Dullea , the co-star of the first film . That was a nice touch . Overall : a very disappointing sequel .
One Suspenseful Scene - That Was It	This film is part of the Val Lewton Horror Collection , released on DVD a short time ago . Each disc contains two feature films . This one was with " The Ghost Ship . " I found the latter far more entertaining than this movie . I first saw this movie in the mid ' 90s , was not that impressed , but gave it another look when I acquired the Lewton set . On the second viewing , I lost interest halfway through and stopped it . After a great start , with an extremely suspenseful scene with a woman outdoors alone on a dark street with a panther loose , but after this dramatic part the film bogs down big-time . . . . down to a crawl at times . If only the second half had kept that early momentum up . There are a lot of nighttime scenes , as was the case with a lot of Lewton's atmospheric films . Since I still own it , I'll give it another look . Who knows ? Maybe the third time will be a charm .
How NOT To Make A Shirley Temple Film	The year 1934 was when Shirley Temple played three major movies and really began to make a name for herself . Unfortunately , the studios had to experiment to see what the public best liked about here . Two of those things were singing and dancing . Another was a short , interesting film that kept people's attention and got their minds off The Depression . You know the other keys to Shirley's successful films . This film achieved none of the above , despite the star presences of Gary Cooper and Carole Lombard and despite a very good director in Henry Hathaway . In addition , there are too many talky parts in here which become simply boring , and too many arguments between a sullen Lombard and Cooper . To top it off , you didn't get the normal feel-good ending which is what the public wants . I guess they learned after this movie .
Sorry To See Irene Dunne Exit Like This	Irene Dunne finished her illustrious career with this so-so movie . She should have gone out with a bang , being the classy actress she was , not in this unmemorable , almost unknown film . This lightweight comedy is okay , but nothing special . The first half of it is far better as it gets pretty stupid in the second half . Maybe Irene could see the handwriting on the wall and quit . Even her high-pitched voice got a bit annoying in here . Rumor has it she was not happy with this film . One can see why . The story reminded me of a 1950s television sitcom . Speaking of that , I thought David Nelson from the Ozzie & Harriet TV show was in this movie but it turned out to be a very young Richard Crenna . He looked and sounded just like Nelson . Overall , so-so at best and a sub-par ending for a great actress .
Sulking Is Entertainment ?	This is a Japanese film but there is quite a bit of English also spoken in here . It's a pretty film , with nice visuals , featuring the scenic beauty of Hawaii . However , that was the only redeeming quality for me . The story was generally boring . Who wants to watch a young woman sulk for 90 percent of the film because her " picture " husband is a lot older than he advertised he was ? Granted , that could be a bummer . . . . . . but get over it ! Only in the last 10 minutes does she do an about-face and become fond of him . By then , for most viewers , it was too little-too late . We'd fallen asleep by then .
Benji ( The Movie ) Bites Big-Time	You know the movie could have been a lot better when the animal - in this case , a little dog - is the best actor on the screen ! The acting in this film is so bad , so amateurish , by dog got embarrassed watching this . He ( " Rusty , " our Golden Retreiver ) could have done a better job than the people in here . By now this is almost a trite story : kid finds animal , pet is not liked nor wanted by one of the parents but the " pet " winds up saving one the kids and is now a hero and an official member of the family . Sound familiar ? I remember this movie being a big hit , but never got around to seeing it until the mid ' 90s on VHS . I was shocked how bad it was . Why so much fuss over a film ? Was it because there was so much sleaze in the early ' 70s that a nice family film stood out in the crowd ? Possibly . There wasn't a whole lot of wholesome entertainment in the decade of the ' 70s plus a lot of people are suckers for cute little animal stories . Who could resist this cute little dog ? Not me . But the movie I can resist : it's a Grade B storyline with horrible acting . Recommended only for small-dog animal lovers and I mean " lovers " because even the average pet owner will fall asleep trying to watch this film in this day-and-age .
The Poor Man's ' Bourne Identity '	Most of what you read here in the user-comments is true : this is basically a check-your - brains-at-the-door flick , filled with mindless violence . However , it isn't all stupid . You do have use some brainpower to try follow this little " conspiracy " twist which is kind of a ripoff of the " Bourne Identity " stories where a hired hit-man is crossed up and both sides are looking for him . He also winds up , as " Jason Bourne " did , with an exotic-looking female getting involved with him and his deadly cat-and-mouse affair with government officials . Unlike the Bourne stories , this female was already involved with the situation . The character in here , too , is very sleazy with a ton of eye makeup that makes her even more cheap-looking . So , instead of Matt Damon and Franka Potente , we have Timothy Olyphant and Olga Kurylenko , neither of which has ever been in a hit movie . We also get a look at Russia and a little bit of Turkey as the supposed " good guy " ( Agent 47 ) gets set up after he had completed his mission , which was to kill the Russian Premier . ( The fact that the hero is a cold-blooded killer is a sad comment in itself . ) The action scenes , I assume , are supposed to be the attraction to the viewers . It certainly isn't the dialog , which is so stupid it gets insulting after awhile . The first part of the film isn't bad but the second half is really rife with stupid lines , many said by the girl . It got so bad that with a half hour left in the film , I didn't care if saw the ending or not . By then , I had lost interest in any of the characters . By the way , I am reviewing this strictly as a movie . I know it's based on a video game , but not familiar with video games anymore . I only know this story here from what I see on film . It looked like a pleasant surprise after the first 15 minutes but goes downhill more and more as it goes on , making me totally agree with you other reviewers who commented on the low mentality of this script .
The Good & Bad Of ' Clockstoppers '	GOOD NEWS - This had a very interesting premise : having time stopped , except for one person wearing a special watch enabling he or she to move around and do anything while everyone else was frozen in time . There were fun special-effects in here , too . BAD NEWS - The dialog and the humor in here was so stupid , so California-like teeny - bopperish that it was almost impossible to watch the entire film . . . . if you are past the age of 18 or have a brain . It was filled with annoying no-name teen actors and filled with plugs for scuzzy magazines like " Cosmopolitan " and other assorted other soft-sleaze stuff . OVERALL - An extremely unlikeable , overrated movie unless you from the age of 11-14 and have poor parents as role models .
Not A Good Vehicle For Monroe	" Don't bother to watch this film " would be better advice , if you like Marilyn Monroe in her other roles . This was a huge disappointment considering the great cast , not just Marilyn . The story was just nothing , certainly nothing like described on the VHS box , of course . There simply was no suspense , precious little excitement and too many dull spots , most of them trying to show why " Nellie " ( Monroe ) was so messed up . This was not a good role for Monroe , even though I didn't need to see this character to know she could act . " Some Like It Hot " alone was good enough evidence for me . But this role just didn't fit her and it's no surprise it wasn't one of her more popular films . It's also too bad a film had the waste of the talents of actors like Richard Widmark , Anne Bancroft , Elisha Cook Jr . , Jeanne Cagney , Donna Cocoran and others . Summary : it's not entertaining and entertainment is the name of the game .
What Was The Point Of This Popeye Sing-Å-Long ?	This early Popeye cartoon is not the normal fare for him . You know that when you first discover this is only two minutes long ! After we see the sailor man exhibit his strength on-board a ship , as he sings , it turns into a sing-a-long for all of us . " Sing along we me , " Popeye exhorts and the screen turns black with the lyrics printed and , yes , we are to follow the bouncing ball . " I'm Popeye The Sailor Man ( toot ) I'm Popeye The Sailor Man ( toot ) I Am What I Am And That's All What I Yam I'm Popeye The Sailor Man ( toot , toot ) " We then get other verses which are unfamiliar but uninteresting . I don't know what the point of this was outside of introducing this cartoon character to audiences , although I am pretty sure Popeye cartoons began the year before in 1933 .
Beware Of Misleading Reviews & Overrated Movies	Wow , what an overrated movie this turned out to be ! It was supposed to be " an extremely suspenseful tale of a crazed killer holding a woman hostage and in terror in her home . " Well , I doubt it terrorized audiences in the early ' 50s and I know it would put today's audiences asleep . " Sends shivers down the spine , " proclaims the New York Times . No , the only shivers I get is that anyone is left on the planet who believes anything the N . Y . Times prints about anything . Well , it was about a deranged man who held a woman hostage for a short time in her house but the man . " Howard Wilton " ( Robert Ryan ) was actually harmless and friendly . In fact , this was one of the nicest roles Ryan ever played ! Yes , " Wilton " was nuts but he never harmed the woman and only wanted a friend to trust . The film even turned boring after awhile with very little going on except a lot of yakking . Beware , my reader . . . . . this sucks .
Very Disappointing Considering The Cast	A big disappointment , this " save the newspaper story with one big expose against a corrupt politician " was boring - the ultimate sin in a film . Also , I found none of the characters likable : no one to root for , despite the presence of some famous actors I like . The cast includes Humphrey Bogart , Ethel Barrymore , Kim Hunter , Ed Begley , Warren Stevens and Jim Backus . Most of them simply talk too much and do too little . It also has a blasphemous scene early on when they hold a " wake " for the paper and smugly use Christian terms ( i . e . " saved " ) irreverently , just to get some cheap laughs . I'm surprised they got away with this since the Hays Code was still very much in effect in 1952 .
Very Disappointing	With the title , I thought I'd see a parody of the great Jimmy Cagney film , " Yankee Doodle Dandy , " but that wasn't the case . The story was just Daffy trying to impress a movie studio mogul ( Porky Pig ) to get a starring role in a film . He holds Porky captive in the office for awhile and then follows him in a plane and even falling from the airplane , disguised as a parachute . All the while , Daffy performs his songs and impersonations . The only one I thought was funny was of Carmen Miranda , the lady who made fruit-laden hats famous . Overall , however , this just wasn't funny , which is very unusual for a Daffy Duck cartoon . Hey , ya can't win ' em all !
Not A Concert But A Documentary	Certain reviews ( not on this website ) misled me about this film and so I was expecting a great concert of up-tempo Gospel music . That's what I got it for - the music . The advertisement said , " jubilant , revitalizing musical . " Well , there are songs in here but they don't last long . Mostly , this is a documentary on Willie Mae Ford Smith and Tomas A . Dorsey , pioneers in black gospel music . They are wonderful people - solid Christians - but the documentary , quite frankly , is boring . If one is a big fan of these two , it might be a jewel , but to fans who simply want a concert of gospel music , this isn't it .
Not The Usual Rugged Rutger	This turned out to be more of a women's romance-soap-suspense film than what I hoped it was . . . . simply a tense thriller . Yes , the final 20 minutes were suspenseful but much of the previous 75 bordered on being just plain tedious . Ruter Hauer was a little too subdued , not playing his normal intense character . Natasha Richardson sports somewhat of a dumb look most of the time and her character was very unappealing . The story is so-so . It's not as bad as I'm making out , but it sure isn't anything I'd watch again , and the back of the VHS describing this movie was misleading .
Too Complex For Its Own Good , And A Bad Ending	This is one of those stories in which is is almost impossible to tell what the truth is and thus , keeps you scratching your head . Usually with these kind of movies , the reviewer is left at the end either very disappointed or thinking , " Huh ? How can that be ? " This most is almost in that category . It's just very complex . John Travolta , as usual , is fascinating to watch and the story keep your interest throughout . The rest of the cast is okay , too , and I enjoyed the surround sound in here . The main problem I had was I felt , overall , it was an unsatisfying story . I guess I was one of those disappointed at that ending . . . . . and felt , overall , the film could have been better .
Arbo Okay But Films Needed More Of Charlie	This Spanish version of the 1931 Charlie Chan film , " Charlie Chan Carries On " was fair to poor . . . . . closer to poor because Charlie didn't show up in the film until it was over half over . I've never seen that in any of the English-speaking Chan films . He's always front-and-center . This movie wasn't horrible but it was boring for several fairly-long stretches . It just isn't the same without Chan , and he's only in on screen in about 33 percent of the movie . I had no trouble with Manuel Arbo's " take " on Chan . He's a little more subdued than Warner Oland or Sidney Toler but very comparable . His proverbs were fun and profound , as always . He was fine . The rest of the cast was so-so and a bit dated and silly with romance angles , gangster angles and an assortment of characters all of whom look guilty , of course . As he did in some other episodes , Chan traps the murderer in the end with a clever scheme . The subtitles were easy to read but , as one reviewer said , this is more of a curiosity piece than anything else . It's for very , very hard-line Chan fans only . This was a bit boring even for me , and I love Charlie Chan films .
Hollywood Insists On Playing The Race Card	When I watched this back in 1996 , I enjoyed it was an interesting story , had two charismatic lead actors in Gene Hackman and Denzel Washington , good photography and sound and a nice feel-good ending . It still had all of that watching it five years later but then , after seeing literally several thousand films in that five-period , the reverse-racism of it disgusted me . Why is it that in every film I see in which the two main characters are white and black , the white guy is always the villain ? ? Talk about racism ! The white guy is always like Hackman's character was in here . When are the filmmakers , all of whom are Liberals , going to stop treating one race better than another ? Answers - when skin color doesn't matter anymore . Man , if this PC nonsense were the reverse , there would be a big outcry . One other complaint about the film : the ending was way too contrived . Once again , we have the clichéd ending where the " countdown " to nuclear disaster literally goes down to the last second or two .
The Penguin Should Have Had A Bigger Role	This was an extremely silly ( downright stupid in spots ) farce of a comedy-adventure that gets by because it's so fast-moving and generally entertaining despite the cornball material . Even by Bob Hope standards - and his films were not the highlight of his incredible career - this film is not that funny . A major part of the problem is simply that the humor is too dated . This kind of slapstick isn't the clever stuff some of older silent comics performed , which is still great material . This is just plain dumb . The adventure part deals with Hope and British spy " Karen Bentley " ( Madeline Carroll ) and her attempts to stay one step ahead of the Nazis and the police as she transports valuable microfilm . Hope is along to help her and provide laughter . Hope's pet penguin was a lot funnier than Bob in this film . Dressed up in different outfits , the little creature was hilarious to view and made this film tolerable enough to sit through some 60 years later . In fact , this would have been a keeper if they had made the penguin the star , instead of the two dopey lead actors !
Heavy-Handed British Snobbery Film	The first 45 minutes of this was great , thanks to some wonderful cinematography , which is no surprise since it is directed by one of the best ever : David Lean . The muted colors were pleasing to the eye in a very peaceful way . However , once the trip to the caves got underway , the movie began to become unappealing . The gist of the story - a young woman ( Judy Davis ) accusing an Indian of raping her in the cave - doesn't happen until halfway through this 163 - minute film and even that is under question because nothing is ever shown . The rest of the film is a talky bore with the typical theme is so many of modern-day British films : class snobbery . Also , Alec Guiness , no matter how much makeup he puts on , does not pass for a credible Indian man . It reminded me of all the white men playing American Indians back in the ' 30s-50s . In addition , we get the heavy-handed plug for re - incarnation and other obvious Liberal theological leanings . An overblown , overrated English literary piece . Stick with the Merchant-Ivory films for similar but much better efforts .
Muni's Accent Makes It Tough To Enjoy	If you can't understand what the lead actor is saying half the time , it's kind of hard to enjoy the film ! That's what I encountered trying to watch this as Paul Muni , as a Polish coal mine worker , speaks in such a heavy accent I couldn't decipher what he was saying . It gets to be a frustrating experience . If this would come out on DVD with English subtitles , I'd be glad to give it another look . Muni , almost always a fascinating actor , plays good-guy Joe Radek , a Pennsylvania coal miner who is used by his bosses to help them break the union . ( This film is very pro-union , pro-working man . ) . They got Barton MacLane to play the heavy , something he was always good at doing . MacLane played the company boss . I always laugh at how these billionaire film makers always try to make management or the rich guys the evil ones . Maybe it's a guilty conscience from all the money they have made , but I see them more as big hypocrites . However , I find no fault in any movie trying to help the coal miners who did , in fact , had it bad and deserved better . It was dirty job and a dangerous one . It still is , as far as I know , but conditions have to be a whole lot better than a hundred years ago so don't misinterpret what I said earlier : in many cases , management was " the bad guy " way back then . It's just that , in most cases , it has been the opposite case the last 50 years and now it's tough to be sympathetic to union causesAnyway , Muni plays an interesting guy who you have to root for . . . . if you can understand what he is saying with that accent .
Nice Premise & Locale , But Story Lacks Spark	As someone who loves African scenery and doesn't mind ogling Kim Bassinger , either , I was looking forward to seeing this film . It turned out to be disappointing . The scenery wasn't nearly what I had hoped , certainly no " Out Of Africa , " and the story was , in a word : boring . I never quite understood , or was told , a number of things in here , such as how the leading lady " Kuki Gallman " ) in this movie and her husband , financially survived . He was out fishing and hunting with his buddies all the time and she was home building some sort of wildlife conversation . One almost got to the point of asking , " What's the point of this story ? " outside of being some sort of travelogue . That's the feel I got ; an overly-long documentary about living in Kenya . It gets boring quickly . Given the circumstances and scenery , this movie should have been fascinating , but it tedious . I'm not surprised it flopped at the box office and video stores .
Both Appealing And Unappealing	For someone who loves wild visuals , I should have loved this film , but I found it too far out and simply very unappealing . Yes , it's visually stunning but the story is disjointed . to say the least . If a viewer - and I am not alone in this opinion - is almost totally lost as to what's going on for almost the entire film , you don't care after awhile . And when you don't care what's going on , you lose interest no matter how good the visuals are . At least , that's how I found this movie . Now I am judging this on the VHS version . Perhaps the DVD makes this so stunning that I wouldn't care about the story , just being entertained by the visuals . . . . but I haven't seen it on disc yet so I don't have an answer to that . I do remember the characters being too grungy and no one being particularly likable . The dubbing in here also was horrible . Hopefully , the DVD offers subtitles , instead . One reviewer here said to give this movie a second chance , and perhaps that's the answer . If I do , and like the film , I'll delete this review .
Three Stories In One , But None Noteworthy	This cartoon was divided into three two-minutes stories and none of them were that good , to be honest . The first two minutes show a frog and a monkey playing clarinet-like instruments and having a good time until teed-owl who wants to sleep , puts an end to it . . The next two stories involve the oppressive heat . By the way , the 1930s had some of the hottest weather on record in the U . S . One scene - the best one of the cartoon - has three little mice scaring a fat lady at the beach , while the last scene has an old man just trying to get a cold drink of some concoction to cool himself off . Once again , the little mice spoil things . What's really odd was after the cartoon was over and the ending credits came on . We see a cat reading an Aesop's fable book which reads " Hair , brains and skirts are short this season . " He laughs , and a mouse comes by and hits him on the head . End of cartoon . Strange . The Iron Man This really didn't offer very much . The middle part with the old man battle two big birds is probably the only good segment . After that , the old geezer receives a big package and it's a robot . I didn't know they had robots , or even thought out them way back when this cartoon was made , but obviously so . Anyway , the old man dances with the robot , which later enlarges itself to gargantuan propositions and explodes , raining nuts and bolts on the man . At the end , we get " Aesop said 2 , 600 years ago : an oyster is a fish dressed up like a nut ! "
Hey , Like Hope's One-Liners , Not All Are Winners	This is a typical Bob Hope movie in which " ole ski nose " delivers a lot of one - liners and plays his usual coward-turned-hero . ( In this story , a burlesque comic turned spy . ) The leading lady for this one was Hedy Lamarr . By 1951 , the famous glamor girl of the Golden Age looked like she was a few years past her prime . She had very little sex appeal left . Hope plays a dual role : " Peanuts White " and " Eric Augustine . " He does a fine job with both , although in one of those roles he said very little . In all , not one of his more memorable movies , or funnier films , but it has enough decent laughs to somewhat entertain . . . . but mainly , if you are a die-hard Bob Hope fan ; otherwise , skip it . Bob did a lot of other films that were much better .
Likes & Dislikes Of ' South Pacific '	With musicals , people are very subjective . The film might be a decent one ; the story might be pretty good , but if the viewer doesn't like the songs , he or she is not going to like the movie . That was the case here with me , which is why I changed the headline from " The Good & Bad " to " Likes & Dislikes . " LIKES - Unique cinematography gimmick using orange or yellow filters . . . . Mitzi Gaynor as " Ens . Nellie Forbush " was pretty and had some figure ! Wow ! A couple of songs everybody ( even me ) likes : " Some Enchanted Evening " and " Wash That Man Right Out Of My Hair . " Overall sets and production values pretty high . DISLIKES - Rossano Brazzi , as " Emile de Becque , " didn't strike me as a great actor or singer ; Juanita Hall's character , " Bloody Mary , " gets really annoying after awhile . ( I do like her name , though . ) . . . . at almost three hours , this is WAY too long . . . . . Gaynor's character whimpers too much ; Brazzi . . . . . story now seems dated . . . overall did not like the songs .
Decent Visuals , Poor Sound , Weak Story	This is a short that came with the " A Tale Of Two Cities " DVD , an animated movie starring " Bosko , " a character movie audiences in the early ' 30s had seen before but not in color . This is " cinecolor , " whatever that was , and the visuals were fine . In fact , they were the best of the cartoon with some of the backgrounds looking almost like Bambi-esquire watercolor ( but not that good ! ) . The story was nothing that funny , comprised entirely of rhyme and song . I found the sound weak , making it difficult to understand all the lyrics , which was frustrating . In this story , Bosko induces characters from Mother Goose - all of whom are poor ( even Old King Cole ) and have no food - to begin growing food on a farm so they can eat . That's it - that simple . As I said , really not funny and not something I'd watch again , although it has some charming moments .
Who Made This ? Hogan's Press Secretary ?	Being a golfer and a fan of the sport for many years , I was very interested in seeing this , which I did when the VHS first came out . Later , I saw it again because of the same reason plus I usually find Glenn Ford's films entertaining . Well , the story moves well , it didn't bore me , but I did have problems with the accuracy of it and the general theme of the film , telling us that Hogan really was a nice guy who cared lot about what the public thought . From every account I have read , and from a couple of people who met him or knew him , that was not true . The fact is that he was a mean SOB and remained that way most of his life . This movie looks like it was made by his press agent . It's ridiculous and ruins what otherwise is an inspiring story . No one can deny Hogan's achievements on the links and his incredible desire to win against all odds . The fact he could come back and play after a near-fatal auto accident was amazing . . . . but I would not watch this again because it was too subjective and just not the truth .
How Times - And We - Change	Boy , did I love this movie in the Sixties when I was a left-wing radical college student . Everything about goofy Morgan ( David Warner ) was funny or likable or just plain cool , in a weird sort of way . This movie was so ' 60s with its mores and humor . If they had VHS tapes back then , I would have bought this in a heartbeat . When I began seriously collecting movies in the mid ' 90s , I was excited to see this again . Wow , what a disappointment . What was so great back then now looks so incredibly stupid . The film was so bad , and Warner was so annoying ( hardly ' fab ' anymore ) , I couldn't finish the film . I couldn't believe how incredibly inane this was and how much I used to like it . Like another ' 60s period piece , " Easy Rider , " it's amazing how differently we see things depending on our age and / or how we have changed culturally , politically or religiously . I wonder if Warner looks back at this film and cringes , too .
Too Much George Brett In Here	Overall , this bonus feature on the " Field Of Dreams " two-disc " Anniversary Edition " DVD was a bit disappointing . I had high hopes of some interesting comments with Kevin Costner talking baseball with three Hall Of Fame players . However , nothing really memorable was said and one of the players , to me , " hogged " the show . That was George Brett , who certainly loves a microphone . I would much rather have heard more from the other three guys , particularly the best player of the three : Johnny Bench . Brett Saberhagen was a good guy and seems to come off as the most intelligent of the three ballplayers . Costner was excellent , a humble host for the three players . His analysis of the movie was far better than any of the players but that's understandable since the ballplayers were simply fans of the movie while Costner lived-and - breathed the movie by making it . It was more interesting seeing some of the movie's star house . It's pretty nice , as you could imagine . Anyway , I would recommend all of the other bonus features on this DVD package before this one . People who love baseball history , as I do , aren't going to get any insight in this one .
When The Author Hates The Movie , Well . . . . . Still , It Had Its Moments	The film is supposedly based on a short novel by Stephen King . I say " supposedly " because when he saw what they did to his book , King demanded his name be removed from any association of this film ! When an author does that , it's kind of a tip-off that someone has made a bad movie . I also wonder if Pierce Brosnan ever looks back and winces when he recalls being the star of this film ? Actually , maybe he shouldn't because it's not that bad a premise . The film is no award-winner , but it is intriguing in its originality . I mean , how many films deal with a slightly-retarded gardener who becomes an experiment with a into-your-brain video game ? Jeff Fahey is pretty interesting as " the lawnmower man . " Being someone who is fascinated with special-effects , I watched the film probably normally would have considering some of the bias ( see below ) . What I objected to - and nobody else ever seems to - is another cheap shot at a cleric , where I see in almost every Stephen King story , whether he authorizes it or not . In this movie , we see a priest let the wandering mower-man live in a little shack in back of his church , and then he whips the man ! Rule number one in a King adaptation - or in the movies , in general , seems to be : always show a Christian figure as a villain . At that point , I joined King and disavowed any association with this garbage .
Not Horrible , But The Original Is Still Far Better	It was hard to watch this film and be totally fair and objective since I am a big fan the original 1944 movie . That , to me and many others , is one of the greatest film noirs ever made . Realizing this is simply a shortened made-for-TV film and that most people had trashed it , I didn't expect much , but you can't help but compare this with the ' 44 film . Scene after scene , I found myself comparing what I was looking at it , and remembering how it played out with Fred MacMurray , Barbara Stanwyck , Edward G . Robinson and others . Now I was seeing these famous actors playing their famous roles replaced by Richard Crenna , Samantha Eggar and Lee J . Cobb . When it was all over , I found it wasn't as bad as I had expected but it's no match for the 1944 original . The two main areas in which this made-for-TV film wasn't as good were ( 1 ) the electricity between the two leads was missing and ( 2 ) being only 90 minutes , they rushed the story with hardly time to develop the plot , characters and chemistry between those leads . Crenna and Eggar were flat , and simply no match for MacMurray and Stanwyck as " Walter Neff " and " Phyllis Dietrichson , " respectively . Where this re-make held its own was in the other characters , such as " Barton Keyes " and " Edward Norton . " Cobb was terrific as Keyes and Robert Webber as Norton , head of the insurance company . It also was somewhat interesting to see the time frame changed , so the houses , cars , telephones , dictating machines , etc . , were all early ' 70s instead of mid ' 40s . Otherwise , the storyline was very similar , just rushed . However , one viewing was enough and I will happily go back to the original version for the rest of my viewings of this classic story and film .
Hard To Take Seriously When You See Toy Boats	The major problem with watching these 1940s films about World War II is how slow they now appear . When released , most films were of similar ilk and moviegoers were used to hearing a lot of talk , having characters developed , suspense built up and not a whole of action . That's fine , but it doesn't work today and particularly for a war movie . Hey , guys - the main audience for action films - want to see some of just action : action . Instead , what you get here , at least in the first hour which is all I remember nodding off , is talk , talk and more talk . We get characterizations of every major figure on the ship . Combine that with horrible special-effects ( this WAS made almost 65 years ago ) and you have a bad movie . Looking at an obvious scale model of submarine takes away from the story . I mean when you are laughing and recalling the days of playing with toys like this in your bathtub as a kid , it's hard to take the movie seriously . I don't mean to sound this harsh but after viewing " Master and Commander : Far Side Of The World " and " Das Boat " and a several other films involving ships and submarines , It's tough to go back and watch something that looks this unrealistic , despite a good cast and decent script . I will defend this film - and others of the period , however , for its patriotism . What a sad day it is when an American film made during WWII is now derisively insultingly called " propaganda " by a number of critics here . What do they want , a pro-Japanese or a pro - Nazi movie ? Probably .
A Weak Start To This Short Series	Well , after reading a couple of the other reviews here , I feel a little better . I thought maybe I missed something , thinking this animated short was pretty weak . Apparently , others agree . It might have been a landmark of sorts with the introduction of Claude The Cat and the two mice , Hubie ( his name wasn't mentioned in this cartoon ) and Bertie , but that doesn't mean it was entertaining . It wasn't , except for some of the artwork . This was the first of seven " Hubie and Bertie " cartoons . Claude was just not-funny stupid , and sadistic . Forced to fend for himself after " Meadows " the butler quits after being abused by the cat , Claude finds himself clueless . He has no idea how to do anything for himself . Apparently he doesn't even know what a mouse or a dog looks like , despite the fact there is a dog in the house . When he encounters the mice , he is scared out of his mind and runs for the hills . Finally , he winds up talking to them and they take advantage of the situation . Overall , this offers almost nothing in the way of laughs except one quick scene when Claude first meets the bulldog , face-to-face .
Worth Seeing Only For Lupe Velez	I got a kick out of this film for the first half of it , but it got so stupid with the main characters that I had a hard time finishing it . However , it was still worth a look to see Lupe Valez . I had read what a strange character she was in real life , and that she was sexy woman , so at least I have now seen her . She was a very pretty lady and not shy , either . This film just made it under the wire before the Hays Code came along , so Lupe showed us about all of her breasts . They weren't anything noteworthy , but she certainly showed what she had and a year later , she would have been forced to cover up . Stu Erwin plays the boxer " Joe Palooka . " He plays a really inept fighter and stupid guy in general who is endearing for awhile but wears thin . The same goes for Jimmy Durante's role of fight manager " Knobby Walsh . " He really wears thin . Anyway , this is typical early ' 30s material which means very corny and dated in the humor and romance department , sometimes hilarious and a bit racy and edgy but one that bogs down midway through .
Didn't Get Much Of A ' Buzz ' From It	This cartoon story turns into a competition to see how can build a better house : the Pink Panther or his rival , The Little White Man . At first , they have the same project site but each doesn't like the other guy's designs . The Man has blueprints for a standard house while the PP's plans call for some futuristic design . Most of the story involves the PP playing havoc with the White Man's attempts to build the house . The Panther also gets effective assistance from a runaway buzz saw . This was " okay , " nothing super , and , sad to say , marred by the always-insult laugh track , something totally uncalled-for in a cartoon . We can decide when to laugh , thank you . I wound up playing most of this with the sound off , so as not be annoyed . However , I missed hearing the sound-effects .
What You Think Of Bullfighting Will Determine What You Think Of This	Robert Stack with blonde hair ? Could that really be " Elliot Ness ? " Well , it was the early ' 50s , before Stack made a name for himself with the TV hit , " The Untouchables . For those looking back at this film for the first time , as I did in the 1990s , this was a weird sight . Blonde or not , the main question which might answer if you will enjoy this film is , " Does bullfighting interest you ? " If it does , you'll like this ; if it doesn't , you're going to be bored . II saw the two-hour " restored " version and it looked nicely-photographed in black-and-white and very detailed about the sport of bullfighting . There were a number of scenes where I started to get bored , to be honest , and I hard time sticking with it but I have no interest in bullfighting , either . It leaves me cold . If I had interest , well , I would have a totally different outlook on the film . Kudos to Stack for doing - at least in some spots - his own bullfighting . That was impressive and shows me the man had guts . The skeet-shooting scene also was real as he was a pretty good marksman . The romantic scenes , as expected , were so-so as " Chuck Regan " ( Stack ) pursues his bullfighting coach's daughter , " Anita de la Vega " ( Joy Page ) If you love bullfighting , this film would be a " must-have " because it goes into the " sport " in some detail and even mixes in some live footage ( in the long version ) . I would suggest the longer version , anyway , because that's the way the filmmaker intended the audience to see his work . Given a choice , always see the longer version and then make up your own mind whether it should have been cut or not .
Weak Effort At Being Another ' The Thin Man '	The cast is attractive , the premise is intriguing . . . . but the film is blah . It looked like a poor man's " The Thin Man , " or tried to be , but all it wound up was " poor . " The humor was average at best , and it took way , way too long to get to any action and suspense . By halfway through , I can imagine most of the audience in the theater half asleep . Being a fan of classic films , especially during the 1990s when I couldn't watch enough of these old movies , I was pumped up to see a film starring Joan Crawford , Fred MacMurray , Conrad Veidt , Basil Rathbone and Reginald Owen . That's some cast . But this story is just plain ludicrous . Do they honestly believe the British Foreign Office and newlywed and her husband - with no experience - to go inside Nazi Germany and be an effective spy ? Well , maybe that's where the humor came in , but it's " Thin Man " quality and Crawford and MacMurray , although fine actors , are no Myrna Loy and William Powell in playing these kind of roles . The " Thin Man " movies had far more sophistication than this film . No , this just doesn't cut it in any aspect : humor , suspense or credibility .
Another Plug For ' Gold Diggers Of 1933 '	Here is another cartoon by Warner Brothers that is plugging a song from its movie , " Gold Diggers Of 1933 . " This one doesn't have a tenth of the clever and zany scenes ' I've Got To Sing A Torch Song " did , and so it doesn't offer much in the way of entertainment except for the catchy title song . I have to admit I like the title song and it's the highlight of the short animated film . What we get are birds of all kinds and a few people kissing in the park and singing , followed by a diving contest between several big birds , and then a swimming race , which has the best humor in the cartoon . Seeing the ostrich run through the water is pretty funny . Oveall , however , the cartoon is no big deal .
The Old Lady In The Men's Lavatory	I acknowledge the uniqueness of this film , but that doesn't mean I enjoyed it . At least I'm being honest about it . The visuals were the most interesting facet , along with this old lady's face . Wow , what a face : a million wrinkles , most of them with a story . It was interesting that the present day part of this short film was in black-and-white and the flashbacks were in color . You would think the director would do the opposite . However , the director here is not your ordinary filmmaker . He's Roman Polanski , and this is one of his last short films before he began feature-length ones . I've never heard of a female attendant in a men's lavatory , but that's what we have here . It's a depressing job , one in which one usually sits all day and has hour to contemplate . For this old woman , it was unpleasant memories of the past as each new customer reminds her of something tragic in her past . The acting in here was poor but I'm sure young Polanski didn't have much of a budget to work with . It wasn't exactly like working with Jack Nicholson and Faye Dunaway . Like most of his short films , there is little to no dialog . . . . . but it's really not needed . However , the sudden scene shifts from her apparent memories to scenes which she couldn't have witnessed ( i . e . World War I battle scenes ) were confusing . Maybe it just didn't get it . However , I appreciated the sentimentality in here , even if I didn't understand some of it . To those who haven't seen any of Polanski's short films , be warned : this is quite different from films you are used to seeing . They used to have " art houses " where they would show " arty " films like this . I wonder if they are still around ?
Same Old-Same Old Even For Beginning ' Hitch '	Back in the long era of VHS tapes , I never found a clear tape of this movie , so I could not fully appreciate it since the visuals and the sound were always so poor . That made it tough to decipher the dialog . This started off interesting but began to bog down with a " It Happened One Night " - type of romance with more comedic lines in here than suspense , which is what I thought the film was supposed to be . The film also is overrated because critics seem to all love Alfred Hitchcock . This was one of Hitch's first efforts , obviously , but had his familiar trademarks of anti-Biblical bias and innocent man-on-the-run theme . Here , he shows the religious man ( a Scot in whose home Robert Donat hid ) as untrustworthy and simply no good . Also , I found it interesting to hear a 1935 film the word " damn " said a half-dozen times . I guess the British didn't have the same moral code American had that year . All in all , a " fair " and definitely overrated movie . However , now that's it out on DVD maybe I would be a lot kinder with this after seeing a good print of it .
How To Get An Audience Ansty	With a cast that features Audrey Hepburn , Peter O'Toole , Eli Wallach , Charles Boyer and Hugh Griffith , you'd think this movie would be more interesting . The problem was that at slightly over two hours , it had too many parts that lagged . It took over an hour just to set up the heist . By then , a lot of viewers - at least in the theater where I saw this - were getting antsy . I couldn't blame them . It's a heist movie but it's mainly a comedy . I liked the subtle humor in here but there wasn't enough of it to sustain interest . Eli Wallach also looked out of place . I guess I was used to seeing him as a Mexican bandit , not in a role like this ! Hepburn's accent can be very annoying at times , too , unless you are a big fan of her's . As for O'Toole : he should have stayed in the desert .
The Premise Was Better Than The Actuality	A vampires versus werewolves story sounded like fun , especially with the pretty Kate Bekinsdale starring . However , I was disappointed with this overall . Beckinsdale frowned the entire movie , trying to act tough all the time . Why do these pretty young women try to act like men ? She is not likable in here , nor is anyone else . It would have been nice to have someone to root for ! There also is - no surprise - too much violence and bloodshed . It's not " Van Helsing " in that regard ( overdone action ) but it isn't far removed . This is a long , grim story . On the plus side , the special-effects are good and there are some interesting twists in the end regarding some of the good and the bad characters .
Agree With Polanski	I have to agree with filmmaker Roman Polanski , who didn't especially care for this early effort of his . I didn't either , although I did appreciate the wonderful shadows of the many dolls ' faces and the eerie whispering later in the film . Outside of that , it wasn't anything that appealing . Basically , the film is an exercise in camera panning . We are inside a toymaker's shop where we see a man fixing a doll's head . He's working at night with the light of lamp aiding him . Then , for most of the rest of the movie , the camera slow scans at all the dolls in the store , some completed , some worn and beaten up , but most with haunting expressions . None of the faces move but we hear whispers and it's as if these little things are real and having conversations . Hopefully , they weren't planning arson . If you see the film , you'll know what I mean . You can see this early Polanski effort on disc number 2 of the " Knife In The Water " DVD .
Slick But Spiked With Too Much Bias	Here we go with more Spike Lee bias . I'm not talking blacks vs . whites . We've come to expect that with Lee's films . What I'm referring to in this picture is another thing Lee does in many of his films - take cheap shots at Christians . What better stage than this one about a man who leaves his Christian roots and converts to Islam ? Here , Lee goes out of his way to have the KKK mentioned several times and how they are " good Christians . " An accomplice to many of Lee's bigoted films , unfortunately , is the fine actor Denzel Washington . Check how often Washington and Lee collaborate on films and how many of them play the " race card . " Too bad because Denzel is a likable guy and a great actor . Lee is neither . At 201 minutes this a long film but an interesting one nonetheless . I can't say I was ever bored watching this . It's also beautifully photographed with some slick visuals . You can tell a lot of love went into this movie . Too bad Lee can't put this much effort into a biography of , let's say , Martin Luther King , Mother Teresa or Billy Graham .
Glad ' For The Birds ' Beat This Out	I agree totally with another of the reviewers here who was pleased " For The Birds " won the Oscar in 2002 for " Best Animated Short , " not this sick material , which is pretentious at best and appealing to anyone , of course , who has no belief in heaven or hell . The animation was good , but so are a lot of animated shorts . And , by the way , I love dark humor but this just was unappealing from the start . As for the story here : a guy walking around and surrounded by nothing but grey ( symbolism here ) is told by a TV set ( which appears every few hundred yards away ) that he is in either heaven , hell , or purgatory . Each time he puts a gun to his head and shoots himself after hearing the news . I guess that would be funny in two of the three instances .
Were Our Expectations Too High ? Certainly , But With Reason	I remember a lot of people , not just me , being disappointed in this film . With Burt Reynolds and Clint Eastwood in the starring roles , we all excepted a really entertaining , good movie . All the publicity made us even more anxious to see it . Well , it never lived up to the hype . I don't know anyone who left the theater satisfied when this was over . This points out an important fact : screen writing is more important than the cast . You can have two charismatic actors , as we have here who are big box-office draws , but if the script stinks the movie is going to be a flop . I don't blame Reynolds or Eastwood . They didn't write this story which is dismal , makes no sense in a few parts ( disjointed ) and simply is not entertaining . It's pretty hard to have two stars , a good premise , the 1930s as a backdrop , and still have a unlikeable movie ! To be fair , part of the problem was the expectation . It obviously was too high for this film , which didn't deliver to meet everyone's high expectations . Maybe if you've never seen and keep your expectations low , you'll enjoy it . And - if for no other reason - it's still interesting to see those guys star in the same film .
A Frustrating Life For Pluto	Mickey is giving Pluto a birthday party . He rolls out a cake under a backyard gazebo . The cake has little fire hydrants on it ! It looks good to the dog , who is salivating looking at the cake . Unfortunately , he has to take a bath first , and then has to wait for the guests to arrive . When those have taken place , poor Pluto gets a lot more frustration as the kids toss him around and torment him , not in a nasty way but it comes out that way to the poor dog . Man , if this is a normal Pluto cartoon - and I've seen a few them - I don't want to see too many more because you feel the dog's frustration in each story . Pluto is always been teased and tormented by somebody . It's a wonder the dog didn't turn into a mental case . Yes , all's well that end's well , but for 98 percent of these Pluto cartoons , things don't go so well .
Yet Another Example Of Overkill	Here is another " Class A exhibit " on how to turn a successful , appealing movie into a ludicrous stupid one with a sequel that overkills everything that worked in the first movie . When the 1999 film , " The Mummy " came out , it features a likable family : husband , wife and young son - battling all kinds of strange and fascinating foes in ancient Egypt . It was simply a fun movie with awesome special-effects that dazzled millions of theater-goers . The story was ludicrous but took a back seat to the astounding visuals and the nice family whom we could root for . Then the sequel comes out - Mummy 2 , if you will - and now ( a ) the wife ( played by Rachel Weisz ) has turned macho ; ( b ) the kid is now a mouthy snot ; ( c ) the action scenes have gone from a good number to an excessive amount where it is two hours of non-stop mayhem ; ( d ) the sound has gone from loud to ear-shattering . In other words , here we go again with " excess " " or " overkill , . " It's too much . . . . way too much . . . . and so poorly done I am not surprised a third in the series hasn't been released , although rumors have it there will be another in 2008 . I can't imagine how bad that one will be if imitates this one .
Dancing To The Music Not Really Funny	" This is our interpretation of the familiar tale of ' The Big Bad Wolf And The Three Little Pigs . ' " An announcer is telling this to an audience , of which we are privy . He adds this story " is set to the delightful music of Joann Brahm's ' Hungarian Dances . ' " So that's what we get : this fairy tale set to music . The announcer , butchering Brahms ' name , is funny , but not a lot of other things are in here . In fact , that might be it . What you mainly have here is a cartoon in which the actions of the people , from walking to dancing and prancing to the wolf chasing the pigs all is set to the music . Maybe it's just me , but I prefer humor in my cartoons . This was not something I'd watch again .
Too Many Plugs For Occult Ruined This	If you saw Shirley Temple's version of this story , which was okay - nothing great - this movie , in comparison , is disgusting . In this remake , the occult takes center stage : witches spells , Hindu magic , etc . In other words , it has Liberal written all over it , which is one reason Roger Ebert loved it . The head mistress and one of the little girls , both playing villains , overdoes it . The ending is stupid , too . The best part of the film is its looks : it's beautifully films with lots of nice golden and brown hues . The sound is excellent , too . Liesel Matthews does a fine job in the lead role as the modern-day Shirley Temple . Eleanor Bron is effective as the mean woman . This would have been a fine re-make if it hadn't gone overboard on the occult baloney .
Film Noir Is " Fair " and Features Too Many Flashbacks	This film noir story is told mostly in the form of flashbacks . It begins to drag a bit in the second half and one gets a little antsy waiting to find out how the good guy gets off in the end , which we assume he does . Oddly , the main actor in this film , John Russell - the hero of the movie - is not listed on the back on the video box , in critics reviews or even in the film ! The most interesting character in " Nick Mansani , " played by Luther Adler . Meanwhile , Claire Trevor plays her normal film noir role of the unhappy woman , in this case the " scorned woman . " Forrest Tucker was pretty good as the hot - headed hit man , too . However , overall this was just fair as film noirs go ; nothing special to make it stand out . In truth , too many flashbacks ruined this film .
Turned Out To Be The Minor League	I should have really liked this movie , but it did nothing for me . I enjoy films with characters that have super-human powers , and this has a bunch of them . I usually enjoy Sean Connery's films . This has both , so what's the problem ? I'm not exactly sure , except I know I never got involved enough to care about any of these characters , which is important . Connery just didn't have his normal spark , either , although he was all right . The special-effects were a bit disappointing , too . Sometimes they were great ; other times they looked hokey . In this day-and-age , they should NEVER look hokey . I gave this two chances but didn't even finish it the second time . What a disappointment .
The Movie That Killed Dillinger , So To Speak	Famous , as about every film buff knows , for being the movie in which infamous gangster John Dillinger and " The Lady In Red " exited from and Dillinger was gunned down shortly after leaving the theater . The real-life occurrence is far more exciting than the movie . The story was not unlike others made during the ' 30s and ' 40s about two pals growing up together and one winds up a gangster and the other a priest or a lawman . In this case , it was a lawman played by William Powell . The gangster is played by Clark Gable . As a boy , Mickey Rooney plays him . Add Myrna Loy to the mix and you an interesting cast , but the story was really not that much .
Hudson's Character Spoiled The Film	One person - not entirely , but mainly - ruined this movie : Jennifer Hudson . Her character , " Effie White , " is loud , abrasive , offensive , vain , jealous , shallow , shrill , etc . , etc . That woman is entertaining ? ! I don't think so ! Hudson may have had the undisputed best voice in the film but that doesn't mean she's good to watch . The same applies for another of the singing trio that is featured in this movie : Anika Noni Rose whose " Lorrell Robinson " was annoyingly juvenile . Listening to an 18-year - old pontificate about how " she's a woman now " when she has the maturity of an eight-year - old is not entertaining . Only Beyonce Knowles as " Deena Jones " was a good person to watch , and not because of her beauty but her character was mature . Of the men , Eddie Murphy stood out as " James ' Thunder ' Early " and I can see why he won acclaim for his performance . He was really fun to watch and hear . His singing stunned me . Just when I thought his career was in the dumper , he gives us this performance . Jamie Foxx and Danny Glover were both fine . I'm not surprised the screenwriter here was the same guy who did " Chicago . " Both films had tons of glitz , glamor but an extremely annoying character were ruined both films . For " Chicago , " it was Rene Zellweger , here it's Hudson . Both films both dazzled and disgusted me . The music was decent and certainly plentiful , and that's no complaint . The music and the colorful visuals were the highlight of the movie .
Murphy Good , But Story Wears Thin Fast	Why this got the good reviews it did in the books I read , is a mystery . It's basically a " one - angle " story in which a hired killer enters a town and the whole place goes wildly paranoid wondering who is going to be the man's victim . That sounds fairly interesting but it didn't play that way , getting tiresome very quickly . Then again , some people like this kind of suspense-but nothing-happens type of story , sort of like the popular " High Noon . " Audie Murphy ( " John Gant " ) is interesting to watch as the cool-attitude killer but I couldn't much else to get excited about here . The rest of the cast combined can't equal Murphy's effort here . This is more of a melodrama than a western , which may suit a lot of people , but I was looking for a good " western , " which usually means a little more action than this dull film .
A Shirley Temple-Wannabe & Her Horse	A little girl and a racehorse . That's all you need to know , so it should come as no surprise this - minute-short is very predictable . Along the way it is filled with the familiar characters : a young girl who can relate to a horse as no one else can ; a kindhearted father who is killed in an auto accident at the track , leaving her the owner of the horse " Wonder Boy . " There are other good people on her side and a greedy couple who are out to sabotage the Peach's horse so their nag can win the big prize . The big prize is first-place earnings in the $100 , 000 race at Santa Anita . Back in the 1930s , the era of " Seabiscuit , " the " hundred grander , " as they called it , was always the big race of the Santa Anita season . Sybil Jason as " Peaches , " yes even the names are corny , gives it her all in a Shirley Temple - like performance . She even sings a song . The South African-born little actress did play in a couple of Shirley's films in the following two years but then called it a career in 1940A shock came halfway through this when we saw celebrities enter their box seats at the track and most of them actually delivered lines . This wasn't stock footage . First there was the couple of Al Jolson and Ruby Keeler , then Olivia de Havilland with Edward G . Robinson , followed by Frank McHugh , Bette Davis , Hugh Herbert , Allen Jenkins and others . This short feature can be seen as on the DVD , " Each Dawn I Die , " a film that starred James Cagney and George Raft .
Smith's Smug Attitude Too Much For Me	Here's a typical Will Smith movie which means lightweight action , him proclaiming he is Mr . Macho throughout the film , a dumb story . . . . . but an entertaining film in a number of spots and fun to watch ONCE . That about sums up a lot of his films , one or two of which are a little better and a couple are far worse . Overall , this is pretty good . . . . but there is only so much I can take of smug people ( can you say , Chevy Chase ? ) . You can thank the special effects team for bailing out Smth's arrogant butt and making this movie fun to watch here and there . There were some very entertaining gadgets in here , especially the robots . The movie makes little sense , has no credibility and is a just a vehicle for mindless entertainment , which is fine at times . There is a place for that , for those who need a break from too-serious films . This also is an excellent vehicle for the DVD format because the visuals are razor-sharp and colorful and the surround sound effective . This is a combination sci-fi / western / comedy rolled into one and is almost a cartoon in nature . The villain , played by Kenneth Branagh , is so ludicrous that he's almost comical . Kevin Kline , as Smith's partner , is a likable guy and Hayek is there for her usual purpose : show off her ample boobs . It's entertaining but I liked the old television show of this much better , the one featuring Robert Conrad and Ross Martin .
Prophetic , But Predictably Prejudiced	This movie tells the story of " spin doctors " who create a diversion to get heat off the President of the U . S . In this case , the President was accused of having sex with a young girl in the White House ( ironically , this was made before the Monica Lewinsky-Bill Clinton affair ! ) so a spin doctor - played by Robert De Niro - is hired to find a way out of the predicament before election day . His answer is to create a fake war with Albania . Lest you think this is the rarest of all Hollywood films - anti-Democrat , or even politically impartial story - no , it stays true to form by making disparaging remarks only about Conservatives ( Reagan , Bush , Nixon , etc . ) . There is nothing said about Liberals / Democrats , of course . Don't hold your breath ever waiting for impartiality from the film world or the media . Note : There are a lot of f-words in here , for those who are offended by that . Otherwise , it's a talky movie in general , much like a play , and it's too talky . That may be the main reason this movie was not a box-office success .
Great Ending , But Not Worth Your Time Overall	Buster Keaton plays a guy who runs " " Ye Old Clockee Shoppe " and one wonders how he can stay in business since he's completely inept at fixing timepieces . This film starts off very slowly . , taking almost half of the total time to just to set up the premise of Buster trying to win the affections of Dorothy Sebastian over a rival , played by George J . Lewis . . " Elmer " ( Keaton ) is enamored with " Paula " ( Sebastian ) the moment she walks into his shop , and the two play off each other with mild and drawn-out slapstick gags , none of which are really that funny , to be honest . After nine-and-a-half minutes , the action perks up a bit as Buster takes her to the circus on a date . Unfortunately , she's immediately taken by the trapeze artist . Poor Buster ; he can't catch a break . . She asks Buster - rather tells him - to go get an autograph from the trapeze artist who tells him , " tell the woman to come by herself . If she's good-looking , maybe I'll give her my autograph . " That tells you what kind of jerk " Apollo The Wonderful " is , which makes " Elmer " look all the better . The best parts of the film are all in the last 6-7 minutes with Buster attempting to learn how to be a trapeze artist by rigging up things in his backyard . . . . . with humorous results . The ending - the final 2-3 minutes - is almost shocking because it becomes very dramatic with Buster's lady-friend trapped in a deadly fire . . . . and you - - know-who turns out to be the hero ! I mention the end , with the spoilers alert , rather than not say anything only to warn you this really isn't a good Buster Keaton film to watch . You are far , far better off watching one of his silent films where he exhibits his comic genius . He only does that in here in those final few minutes .
More Drama Than Comedy	Well , this is different , and usually I like that but I can't give this animated classic short more than " fair " marks . The first two-and-a-half minutes of this cartoon is live action showing a little kid feeding ducks , then following one of the ducks who strayed to a nearby a pond . At that point , an animated frog appears , starts singing to the kid and then relays a story to him . The story is far more dramatic than it is humorous , about the frog reaching from underneath the water , tickling the stomach of duck swimming by , and accidentally causing the duck to almost drown . The frog then has to turn into Johnny Weissmuller and swim frantically to save the duck's life . Then he's a hero to everyone in that duck's family . It's actually pretty suspenseful and probably scary a very little kid . The film ends back with real-life footage with the frog saying , " If you don't believe me , ask him ! " We a see big duck next to the kid , who then laughs . Wow , talk about dated . I might have made this sound better than it is , because it's not very good .
Great Start , But ' Santa ' Dropped The Sleigh	This movie started off great ; the first 30 minutes are very funny and clever with some interesting characters . That's the good news . The bad news is that the film then gets too repetitive and then it gets downright stupid . What we wind up getting is a Santa Claus with " magical " powers with a lot of New Age baloney thrown in the mix . It's just ridiculous and hardly the kind of " Christmas movie " I would expect from Jim Varney's " Ernest . " To be fair , it still had a decent amount of laughs and is profanity-free but just not a film I could recommend .
Some Good , Some Bad Equals ' Just Fair '	So far , I have to agree with what each of the four previous reviewers said , meaning some good , some bad . THE BAD - Not much of a story . . . . . supporting actor Frank McHugh in an annoying role ( annoying with his singing the same stupid song after every sentence ) . . . . . . James Cagney with a laugh that gets annoying after awhile . . . . . a weak romantic angle . . . . showing " training exercises " as part of the climactic scene was somewhat interesting but provided no drama if these fliers were facing an enemy at war . . . . . . Pat O'Brien an unrealistically too good a sport at the end . ( He proposes to Lindsay who turns him down and then incredulously asks , " I didn't hurt your feelings did I ? " duh . . . And he answers something like , " No , it''s okay . " Yeah , right ! THE GOOD - The same cocky Cagney character who is always entertaining , always elevating a film . . . Some wonderful aerial shots and stunt flying in some terrific-looking bi-planes . . . . . . . . . Margaret Lindsay's wisecracks and pretty face . . . . Two dramatic scenes with Cagney trying to land a damaged plane . Summary ; So-so entertainment , more if you are an airplane enthusiast or a Cagney fan ( which I am ) but certainly on the lower of echelon of his films .
Very Entertaining But Too Low-Class	I found lots of entertainment value in this but way overdone with the violence , profanity and the totally-implausible scenes . It's just so darn interesting with so many good stunts that it's hard to totally ignore this film despite the stupidity . It's almost like a very good Steven Seagal , Jean-Claude Van Damme or Sylvester Stallone no-brainer-but-fun action flick , except it's Bruce Willis . Willis and co-star Samuel Jackson are incapable of uttering a sentence without profanity . But , sometimes they are funny and they certainly aren't boring . The violence will wear you out by the time 2 hours and change are over . Recommended only for those who like their entertainment non-stop and aren't offended by anything hitting their eardrums .
Too Far-Fetched For Any Kind Of Credibility	An astronaut , nearing a mission , is at a girlfriend's place where she reveals to him that he's in chapter five of her new book . Apparently , it's a sexy book . Since the astronaut may also be running for political soon , he obviously don't want this book published . I say " obviously " because he is shown putting poison in her drink . Five days later , a maid comes in and sees the dead woman hanging . It didn't take a genius to see this wasn't a suicide . Even Capt . Stottlemeyer deduces this in a hurry . So , how do they find out it's the astronaut who killed the woman ? A so-so episode that started off very promising but wound up with a bunch of unrealistic and stupid scenes , such as the classroom scene , the exaggerated character of the astronaut ( played well , however , by Jeffrey Donovan ) throughout and the ending - none of which were very credible .
A Very Silly ( Too Silly ) Episode	Mr . Monk , the cheapskate , is broke as usual , negligent is paying Natalie , as usual , reluctant to ask for a raise , as usual , and is solving cases for free , as usual . All of this has Natalie upset , naturally , until she sees that there is a one million dollar reward for anyone who solves the recent heist from a local museum of a diamond worth $20 million . Monk has competition for the reward money : three goof-ball stereotypes ( a retired Scotland Yard man , a nerd-like skinny young guy and a crude Dog-like bounty hunter , complete with pony tail . They follow Monk every step of the way , hoping to cash in on his intelligence , since Monk is the only one figuring things out . This was a fun episode until the last dozen minutes when it got really silly , too silly , with an unsatisfying ending .
There Were A Bit Too Mild In 1942	The year 1942 , the first full year of these Tom and Jerry cartoons and , as many of them were this year , are nothing special . What makes these two guys click are their famous chases and inventive ways to getting at each other . Those were just starting to surface the first season or two . In this cartoon , that " chase " doesn't begin until less than three minutes remain . Before that , we just get the normal Tom toying with Jerry and than acting goofy trying to impress a new female cat , which was let in the house by the maid , " Mammy Two Shoes . " She , too , was a fixture in 1942 but didn't last too long . Meanwhile , Tom tries to impress the visiting feline with his looks and with presents but she's a hard sell . When he presents Jerry , the mouse has to put up with some humiliations . He finally figures a way to stopped being used , pokes Tom in the butt with a big needle . . . and the chase is on . There was one funny bit , with Tom on top of a record player , spinning around to whatever tune Jerry would play . Overall , though , it was so-so material that was done much better in a few years to come .
Dancing Great ; Story Stinks	This movie features some of the most famous dance scenes by Fred Astaire , such as the one where he dances on the walls and ceiling . That particularly dance is impressive because the special-effects made it look realistic . Kudos to the filmmakers for doing that in a film that is 55 years old . Astaire also did a clever number earlier with a hat rack and did two entertaining dances with Jane Powell . The dancing was the only good thing in the film . Most of the story deals with romances between Powell and Peter Lawford and Astaire and Sarah Churchill . The latter look a little old for the normal young-romance type angles viewers are used to seeing in films . Facially , Fred looked like he had been ill . He just didn't look good . Powell looked fine but her soprano voice almost broke my TV tube . It was brutal . Since those famous Astaire dances can be seen on " That's Entertainment " tapes or DVDs , there was no reason to keep this film .
Staying Upbeat	Popeye and Brutus are exchanging insults and Olive gets tired of listening to it . She asks them to stop arguing and do something worthwhile . " Why don't you make your stamp on eternity ? " " Give us a for-instance , " asks Bluto . Olive is leaning on a statue of Admiral Perry , discoverer of the North Pole . " Why don't you guys discover something like he did ? " she replies . Popeye promises not only to discover something " but bring it back here ! " Olive says she'll go out with the " first guy who brings me the North Pole . " The two boobs ( they must be , to compete for her ) go racing off . Brutus builds a rocket ; Popeye , an air balloon . You know who wins . I liked Popeye's attitude in here . No matter how bad things got , he just kept sining to himself and feeling optimistic . His scat-music singing was the best part of the cartoon !
Popeye's ' Submarini ' Sandwich	Overall , despite one funny scene , this was pretty lame and a prime example of how these 1960-61 Popeye editions put out by King Features seemed to be made with five-year-old children as its target audience , certainly not us adults who loved the Popeye cartoons from the 1930s through the 1050s . Popeye is asked to watch the diner while Wimpy leaves to run an errand . That's fine with the sailor man because that means some good eats . He begins by " making my favorite , one of them submarini sandwiches ! " The way he makes his " submarini " is humorous . The sandwich indirectly winds up the " hero " of the story , too ! Brutus comes in the restaurant and forces Popeye - through a physical beating - to accept his jukebox as entertainment instead of the usual organ grinder and monkey , who are dispatched to the refrigerator . Meanwhile , Brutus grabs Olive , who is the cook , and runs off with her . How Popeye rescues her and beats the bully is the rest of the short story .
Insider's Jokes Don't Necessarily Connect With General Audience	A ton of celebrity cameos was the main thing that made this movie fun to watch , but once was enough . I wouldn't watch it again because there simply aren't enough " good guys " to suit me . The film is entertaining but has too nasty a tone to it . The language was rougher than it needed to be , but that's no surprise when you have Tim Robbins and Whoopi Goldberg starring . The story gives a look at many of the shallow people who run Hollywood . That automatically earns high praise from national film critics . Despite their innate love of Hollywood and films they somehow always love it when a film trashes the business ! Go figure . This black comedy mainly spoofs film executives . The filming is different in that you see one long scene with the camera on a crane taking turns following different people . Some of that is very clever , like the story , but I found a general smugness in this film that bordered on hypocrisy . The people who made this sometimes come off - through the film - like the folks they're criticizing . . . . . if that makes sense . Robbins is good at coming across as smug . . . . almost too good . It seems natural for him . ( I can say the same about Chevy Chase and his roles . ) Also , I find most films about Hollywood like this one : too much an inside joke for us non-film folks to really enjoy . It's like they made this film for themselves . I'm not surprised this movie was a box-office dud , since I don't think they really cared what the average guy in the seats thought about it - only their film peers .
Unique , But Not That Funny	Bugs is the guest conductor of the Warner Brothers Symphony Orchestra , playing " Morning , Noon and Night in Vienna by Franz Von Suppe . " The whole cartoon is a spoof of overly-dramatic conductors . Bugs exaggerates most of his moves with the orchestra delivering what he's doing . Some of it is funny , some too far - fetched , but that was the idea . Also , the music cleverly also was in sync with little things happening to Bugs ' apparel as it fell off here and there , giving him problems . In all , this short is more clever than it is funny . It's definitely a unique one for Bugs Money and I give them an " A " for originality but a " D " for laughs . Since most of us watch these animations for laughs , clever-or-not this was not up to par .
Great Acting , But Overdone Stereotypes & Bias	This was a very intense story about three missing civil rights workers in 1964 and the U . S . government looking into that disappearance ( and murder ) in Mississippi , where it happened . On first viewing , I really enjoyed this because of the top-rated performance by the lead actors Gene Hackman and Willem Dafoe and the fact that the story was interesting . However , on subsequent viewings , the ultra-Liberal bias of the people making this movie became more and more evident . Typical of Liberal elitists , they make every Southerner in this film ( but one ) look like very stupid , extremely racist hicks - the kind of people who want to strangle yourself . Hey , no one argues that racism is bad , bad thing but this goes to ridiculous extremes while giving cheap shots to Christians , as well . That's another typical feature of liberal bias . They have no problem showing us those slimeballs who are anti-Semitic , as also portrayed here , but at the same time the people who make the films can't hide their own anti-Christian bias . Too bad because Hackman and Dafoe are superb and the story moves very well . It's a fast two hours of film " entertainment . " Note : beware the language is very rough with way too many usages of the Lord's name in vain .
Mutt & Jeff Oldie Needs More Refinement	Wow , this is an oldie , and sometimes it looks it . It was my first look , actually , at a Mutt and Jeff cartoon but I remember reading them in comic fashion as a kid for many years . Anyway , they are cowboys and apparently a team in entertaining folks , perhaps , in a rodeo because we see them practicing their act . Mutt is a little rough on Jeff , making his dance by shooting the ground and then whipping him ! I didn't find much humor is this cartoon , and I hope other Mutt and Jeff's are better than this . I realize it was silent movie era but the noises the two guys made in place of talking ( whistles and hoots ) was a little annoying . I'd rather they used title cards or " balloons with words " than those dumb incoherent noises . The color in this movie is fair , about what you'd expect for something re - released in the 1930s under the " Kromcolor " process . The artwork is pretty primitive but , hey , it's 80 years old !
Would Have Been Better Had Steiger Not Overacted Again	This is a pretty interesting film but really not all that memorable and one that you think afterward should have been a lot better . It was like watching an old television show - better , I'm sure , 50 years ago than watching it today . The story is not boring , but something was missing . Perhaps it just needed more spark . . . . and less ranting and raving from Rod Steiger who played the title character . Steiger wears thin after awhile . He has been a fine actor over the years but he tends overact in a number of his roles , too . His exaggerated anger and loudness in here ruined this film for me . Fay Spain , Martin Balsam , Nehemiah Persoff , Murvyn Vye , James Gregory and more all added excellent support , though , and I enjoyed watching them . I wish I could say the same for Steiger .
Involving , But Only So-So Overall	This was a fairly involving story , although it's better in the first half . After that , the kid gets annoying but then the film picks back up in the last 15 minutes . The story is about this teen boy " Jeff Grant " ( River Phoenix ) who discovers his parents are " sleepr " KGB agents , spies are out of the business . They have come to the United States to start over with their kid . Meanwhile , an assassin is killing those former , or " sleeper , " if you will , agents . " Roy Parmenter " ( Sidney Poitier ) , an FBI man , is after anyone it seems . That last part is a bit confusing . The story taxes ones believability here and there but is interesting most of the way . However , I thought Phoenix overacts in a number of scenes . This was far from his best performance in his abbreviated film career .
Is This A Prison Or A Country Club ?	" Federal Agent Buddy " receives a telegram stating , " Conduct secret investigation as to the treatment accorded prisoners by ward at Sing Song Prison . signed , Fuller Pepp , chief . " Buddy dons his mustache disguise and brings along his dog , who is dressed like Sherlock Holmes , to the police station where a big crowd watches the bad guy get escorted to Sing Song prison . Buddy follows and takes notes while he's in prison . The warden is named " Otto B . Kinder , " and he's a nasty guy . Buddy recommends he be fired . The government agrees and puts Buddy in charge ! The ultra-liberal buddy gives the prisoners manicures , shoe shines , ice cream cones - anything they want . It's so great in there that no one wants to leave and the whole town is almost barging down the door to get it . Buddy happily hangs a " no vacancy " sign on the building and waves at the crowd . End of cartoon ! What a stupid message ! Liberals have always been liberals , I guess , meaning as naive as Buddy demonstrates here . I enjoyed the music in this cartoon . They had several short songs beginning with the prisoners singing " Lulu's Back In Town . "
A ' Planet Of The Apes ' Animated Takeoff	This is an animated film made 45 years ago ( 1973 ) by the French , has the English title of " Fantastic Planet . " Early on , it reminded me of the " Planet of the Apes " story in which " human " were the captives and someone else ( aliens , here , called " Draags " ) were the " masters . " He , we are the " humanoids , " the visitors , so to speak on a foreign planet . In this story , the aliens are huge and appear not to be hostile . The humans are very small , people who can fit in the palms of the Draags ' hands . The humanoids , however , are really slaves on this " fantastic planet " until one of them learns the local language and unites his fellow captives . That's putting it in a nutshell , since I don't want to say too much to spoil the ending , which is the best part of the film . . A lot of people rave about the artwork but I didn't think it was anything that great . It's very primitive , and maybe that's part of the attraction . Then again , it was made 35 years ago , so you aren't going to get the artistic slickness you see today . ( However , " Yellow Submarine " was made before this animated movie and that was pretty mind-blowing animation ! ) It would definitely remind you minimalist artists .
Two Words : Overkill & Excessive	First of all , let me just say how impressed I was with the first two movies in this trilogy . They were outstanding films and deserving of all the awards they received . Perhaps that is one reason I was so disappointed in this movie ; it wasn't nearly as interesting as the first two . The main reason can be summed up in one word : OVERKILL . Director Peter Jackson made the same mistake he made in the film he did right after this one : " King Kong , " where the action was way too much , too the point of ludicrousness and an insult to viewers ' intelligence . So was this film , the third in the LOTR series . It was too much action , so much that after halfway through this 3 hour , 20-minute movie I was numb by then and could care less what happened from that point . I stuck with it , but it just got worse and worse with more ridiculous action scenes going on one after the other with absolutely no credibility to any of them . Examples of what I mean regarding " credibility " are scenes in which humongous monsters and machines 100 times the size and strength of the " good guys " would always lose . Even females and little Hobbitts disposed of these-supposedly indestructible creatures , time after time . It was so Rambo-like , so stupidly juvenile it was insulting to watch . After awhile , it wasn't even entertaining . . . . the worst sin of them all for fantasy-adventure movie . To use another descriptive word , this film - like Jackson's subsequent King Kong - was EXCESSIVE . By overdoing the action , the awesome-looking creatures and the wonderful special-effects that captured the LOTR audiences for the first two movies , ended this trilogy on a sour note . Too much violence translates into " boring . " I also got tired of seeing a 99-percent dead " Frodo " somehow still managing to go on and on with these never-ending agonizing looks on his face and his little tearful buddies crying their eyes out constantly . Enough already ! Finish the story ! This was overkill of the worst magnitude and an almost needless last three hours of a great story .
' Ol Man Winter Gets Buzzed	Overall , this was a decent cartoon , nothing extraordinary but one that had some very good individual moments . You'd see something really cool , and then not much would happen for a minute or two and then something dramatic and fascinating would be shown again . The artwork in the beginning was original with trees slowing turning into sexy shapes of dancing women . We see minotaurs ( half bull-half man Greek mythological creatures ) playing polo and everyone is happy that winter has been changed to summer . However , a violent and nasty ' Ol Man Winter returns and the only way to stop him was bees ! Huh ? Hey , it's a cartoon . This cartoon was viewed on a DVD called " Cartoons That Time Forget : The UB Iwerks Collection Vol . 1 . "
A Nice Film , But Dull & Preachy	What started out as an exciting adventure story wound up being nothing but a preachy environmental film . You could have almost made this into a documentary with the obvious agenda of the filmmakers . Hey , I'm all for keeping the beautiful and helping the horses , too , but that's that what this is advertised . The film begins with some beautiful Colorado scenery and an intense , intriguing scene of a small lane scaring two kids and some wild horses . It quickly levels off into a boring " Save The Wild Mustangs " environmental message and the film totally loses steam by the halfway point . By then , it should have been " Save This Film . " At least , unlike most films in the early ' 70s , it's a nice movie with no objectionable language . It wasn't horrible ; it just needed some punching up after that good start .
The Good & Bad Of ' Charlie Chan In Egypt '	I did not like this one on the first viewing , but I had a very bad tape which didn't help . With the DVD ( part of recent Chan Collection that came out in 2006 ) I enjoyed this more , thanks , in part to have the option of English subtitles . I still think this is a slightly sub-par Warner Oland-edition Charlie Chan , but only because I think so highly of the other films . It did have some excellent suspense and strange characters and is known because of the appearance of young Rita Cansino who would go on to star status as Rita Hayworth . THE BAD - None of Charlie's kids are here to help him out , and that's a loss . Instead , for humor , we have Stepin Fetchit with his mumbling drawl and unfunny character ( unlike Mantan Moreland in later Chans , even though both are horrible black stereotypes of the day . ) Worse than the above , we have a shrill , hysterical female lead character , " Carol Arnold " ( Pat Paterson ) who got on my nerves , big-time ! That's almost another stereotype of the period : women who fall apart easily and act like overemotional cripples . After a few of these outbursts , I just hit the mute button when she went into her act . She had a brother in here who was almost as bad except he had far fewer lines . Also in here was the typical thing you saw more of in the ' 30s than in modern films : stories that dealt with the occult and a lot of superstitions . THE GOOD - The action was pretty good and this story gave us more of the weird suspects than what is normally provided . Not only weird people but strange scenes . Combine those with the usual Chan witticism's , profound statements and uncommon courtesy he gives everyone , and it's an entertaining film . I would never have recognized Hayworth if I hadn't been informed it was her . She played a dark-haired Egyptian woman . If you froze some frames and looked carefully enough , you could be convinced it was her , but it wasn't easy . She certainly wasn't the incredible beauty she would be in the next decade .
Want To Like This . . . . . But I Can't	Touch Of Evil I should really like movie since I am big fan of film noir and I like Charleton Heston , Janet Leigh and Orson Welles . . . . yet I did not , and I gave it several chances . It's just too grungy for me , leaving a bad taste in my mouth . Maybe it's Welles character that turns me off so much . He is one of the most repulsive-looking villains I've ever seen on film , a disgusting , ugly , fat dirty cop with this horrible voice who oozes slime . Yechh ! Villains can fun to watch but this guy is no fun , believe me . Pass the mouthwash ! The story was unpleasant , too , filled with innocent people being accused of crimes , women with kidnapped and drugged . . . . just a very sordid feel throughout this film . Some people like sordid stories . I don't . The best part of this film , at least to me , was the camera-work . With Orson Welles , you always get interesting camera angles and great photography . That I appreciated . I appreciated the cast , too , but never could buy into Heston playing a Mexican . It just doesn't look or sound credible . Leigh is a pleasure to watch , however , and it was great to see Akim Tamiroff , Paul Douglas and Marlene Dietrich all making contributions . I wish I could like this film . I really do .
The Only Below-Par Bocelli DV	The popular opera-pop singer gives tribute to his home town and his family in a series of videos accompanied by almost a dozen songs . This is pretty short at 53 minutes and I found it not up to the standards of his concert programs . However , all the songs are nice , mellow and well-sung , as usual . But , to me , some of the songs are marred by sounds from the accompanying video , such as horses making noises , people talking . This goes on during the middle of some songs and is too distracting . I want to hear Bocelli's voice - period , not horses whinnying at the same time ! There are some nice shots of the Italian scenery All in all , decent but nothing spectacular and below-par as far as a Bocelli offering .
Great . . . . Up Until Bias Reared Its Ugly Head Once Again	This was on its way to becoming part of my DVD collection until the last 30-40 minutes when religious bigotry reared its ugly head once again . All the villains turn out to be Christians ( Catholics ) . Every bad , every evil person is shown with a cross on them which is distinctly shown to make its point equating Belief with evil . All those villains mention God and prayers , of course . Atheists , whether they are French - as in the case of filmmakers here - or some other nationality , are never too subtle about their anti-God agenda . Meanwhile , the heroes - one in particular - had supernatural powers that heal and even resurrect ! In other words , that voodoo magic works - that's something you can believe in - but the prayers of thoughts of Believers , well , what a waste of time . The photography was magnificent , too . The dubbing on the DVD version I had was decent . This was a fine , horror-type Last Of the Mohicans story but with all the religious people shown as the bad and ignorant ones . Too bad they had to have all that bias because the story was interesting and moved well , especially for a long film .
Okay , But Certainly Not One Of Hope's Best	This was fairly interesting story with some decent laughs . . . . nothing to really dislike but nothing that would make rush out and buy the film , either . The characters were colorful in here and Bob Hope ( it's his movie ) had a number of funny lines , yet I didn't think the film moved that fast for some reason . Although not considered a musical , there were several songs in here by Hope and Marilyn Maxwell , none memorable . It did have a decent cast with name actors such as Lloyd Nolan and Jane Darwell and a bunch of ' character actors ' like Ben Weldon , Jay C . Flippen , Sid Melton and William Frawley ( of " I Love Lucy " fame ) . Overall , I wouldn't spend more than a dollar to rent it .
As A Character Study It Was Very Good , But Then . . . . . . .	Here is a yet another sordid , profane film of the 1970s . Within a few minutes , I can always tell a movie from the 1970s . It will have a grainy ( gritty ) look to it , have women with too much makeup , have an extreme hatred for Christianity and feature a lot of usage of the Lord's name in vain , also feature mostly scummy people and many times glorify them . Like " Magic , " the ' 70s - the first decade immature Hollywood could do what it wanted - went to excess . This movie is a great example of it . About a decade later , film writers calmed down on the religious bigotry and all the GDs and concentrated more on f - words and gore . They are a noble lot ! Even Ann-Margaret and a young Anthony Hopkins succumbed to the times , with an adulterous and potty-mouth performance , respectively , in this thriller . As for the story , a lame actor ( " Corky , " played by Hopkins ) trying to be a ventriloquist , only advances his career when the dummy becomes profane and nasty . Then , the NBC executive in the audience is impressed ! Well , some things never change . The movie did have some genuinely frightening moments as all horror films with " dummies " seem to have ( i . e . " Chuckie " ) . There is something really scary about a wooden dummy coming to life and terrorizing people , or its owner . If you really stop and analyze this story , there are gaping holes in it , especially when the dummy becomes alive . Before that , the film showed more intelligence by making the ventriloquist the mental case and the dummy just being what it is - an inanimate object . By stressing the character study of " Corky , " it was pretty fascinating . But then , it turned into what we would see later in those " Chuckie " films and subtleness and intelligence went out the window .
Fantastic Visuals But Very Sordid , Unpleasant Story	This film has some of the wildest visuals I'd seen up to the time of my first viewing of this in April of 2001 . The visuals were easily the highlight of the film . It isn't the story because that's too much on the sordid side . Sometimes , it's just plain too uncomfortable . It's another demented serial killer story , this one as sick an individual as I've seen , although , thankfully , there are not a lot of scenes with him . The switch is that he is captured early on but is in a catatonic-like state and unable to talk . His latest victim must be found quickly or she will die as the others did . The only way to find where this woman is stashed is by going inside his brain and try to solve the puzzle . That's Jennifer Lopez's role here as " Catherine Deane . " When she enters , the visuals are perhaps like someone on LSD , and they are very interesting , along with good sound effects . It's a bizarre story that keeps your attention , although gruesome at times . I haven't seen this film since 2002 and since then became a fan of Vincent D'Onofrio's detective character in Law and Order : Criminal Intent . I'm not sure I want to go back and see him as this sick killer now that I am used to seeing him as a " good guy . " However , I am curious about that . The bad points of the film , to me , were ( 1 ) a definite anti-Christian cheap shot in which it is shown that the killer was first " tortured " when he was baptized through immersion and held too long under water by his sadistic father . In addition to the obvious bias , it also shows you how theologically ignorant Hollywood is , thinking the parent does the baptizing . Wrong . Anway , in conjunction with that , the killer is shown ore as a young boy than any other period and then is seen to be a sympathetic figure ! Only with Liberals , is there sympathy for the sadistic killer more than his victims ! ! At least there is one cop in here who states that a horrible childhood doesn't have to turn someone into a sick killer . So th question for me wound up being : are the visuals worth putting up with the unpleasant story . The answer wound up being " no . "
' Mickey ' Best On The Court	Billy Crystal was his normal funny self , evoking a number of laughs in here BUT , lest you think this is a comedy , it's more of a drama . . . . much more . I say that because much of this shows a courtship and a marriage . The courtship is romantic and cute , of course , but the marriage are not . Things don't work out between Crystal's " Mickey Gordon - " and Debra Winger's " Ellen " and many of the scenes with them arguing are not fun to watch . It fact , some are downright uncomfortable . I'm not a fan of Winger's low and raspy voice , nor seeing marriages crumble . Thus , my favorite parts of this film were all in the beginning , especially when " Mickey " was an NBA referee . A few basketball stars got a chance to act , too , showing they should stick with sports . Crystal is a big sports fan so I'm sure enjoyed that segment of the movie . Also commendable are the nice shots of Paris . I never get tired of looking at that city , no matter what film .
Watch This Instead Of Taking Sleeping Pills	I need to see this again . I only saw it once and was disappointed . Perhaps another look would help . In a nutshell , I loved the camera-work but was totally bored with the story . It's no surprise I liked the cinematography since Orson Welles directed . Actually , he not only directed but produced , wrote the script and narrated it ! He had his usual assortment of closeups and different camera angles , which I always enjoy . This story , an unpleasant tale of a selfish young man and his deteriorating family , drags more and more as the story unfolds . The nice people in the story , played by Joseph Cotten and Anne Baxter , are pleasant but on the bland side . Tim Holt's character is effectively annoying and Agnes Moorhead's is just plain annoying . I doubt how many people today would watch something like this unless they had insomnia problems .
Very Rich Colors Are Fantastic ; Mouse Is Great ; Humans Not So	I agree this Blu-Ray transfer is stunning , magnificent to view in many spots with very , very rich colors . Yet , I couldn't get into this story and was turned off my several of the main characters . I gave it two shots : on regular DVD and Blu-Ray and both times I never finished the film . I just interest . Only the mouse was likable enough for me . The humans were all too annoying to enjoy the film . These other characters were either too loud , obnoxious , nasty or irritating including the kid whom the rat helped ! In other words - except for the mouse - both the good and bad guys were unlikable . All they these characters did was give me a headache with all their yelling and screaming . You have to love the silent mouse , though .
I'm Sure 3-D Would Have Made This A Lot Better	Casper sees " the man in the moon " and he looks friendly , so he flies up there to meet him . When he gets there , he discovers the moon is just a bunch of rocks and craters . " Wow , " I am thinking , " the writers of this cartoon are way ahead of everyone since that's exactly correct as we found out for sure decades later . " However , as a tired Casper takes a nap , a bunch of little men spot him and capture him , a la " Gulliver's Travels , " except they take the " giant " in a crate When posting this review , I noticed under " trivia " that the king in this movie , " King Bomba , " was in Gulliver's Travels so I guess my analogy was right on . The story , as most Casper stories tended to be , is geared strictly for little kids . I understand this was made in 3-D which would have made it fun for adults to view , too , but I only saw it on a cheap DVD where the picture was decent but not noteworthy , and obviously not in 3-D . I swear I recognize some of the adult voices in here but the " cast " is not listed in on the title page . I would love to have seen this in 3-D . I'm sure it would have elevated my rating considerably . Otherwise , this is strictly for very young kids .
Liked The Slang , But Little Else	I love to hear the slang of the day , whatever decade , and this one has a lot of it of the ' 40s beginning with the title . For those you don't know , " hep " used to mean " hip " or " cool " or whatever . Here , it's cat who struts his stuff in words , song and dance . He spots this hot female feline and is smitten . The trouble is this stupid dog - and he is portrayed as really stupid at times , clever at other times - keeps interfering . Getting back to the slang : just read the note the Hep Cat receives one day : " Dear Gorgeous Hunk , If you would like to pitch some woo - come back to the fence for a rendezvous ! " I love it ! Words like " hunk , " come back around every other generation but " woo " has been out of our vocabulary since about 1950 . Unfortunately , this was the only funny thing in the cartoon . I enjoyed the artwork and the direction the humor was not much . There seems to be a big difference in a lot of these Looney Tunes , depending on the decade . The early ' 50s still hold up well today , but some of these ' 40s are too dated to be funny .
Lee Is Fine , But It's Still Grade-B Marital Arts Fare	I'm not into a lot of these martial-arts pictures pre - " Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon " years , but Brandon Lee was a cool guy to watch . What a shame this son of the famous Bruce Lee died so young . This picture was good . . . . for the first 15 minutes . Then it descended into the Rambo - mentality mode in which the good guys don't get harmed but all the bad guys do , despite 1 , 000-1 odds on that happening . In other words , this had no credibility . For example , six people are firing machine guns at Lee while our hero has no weapons . . . . . yet he escapes unharmed . Some of the action scenes look hokey , too . They are so much better these days . No disrespect for Mr . Lee , but it is this kind of movie that gave martial arts films a bad name in the general public for a long time .
The Good & Bad Of ' Night Court's ' First Episode	In this opening episode of a successful television show , we see the entrance of the new judge , a laid-back , blue-jean-ed young guy that is not what the other employees of a Manhattan arraignment court expected to see : judge Harold T . Stone , played by Harry Anderson . In fact , when he arrives the court clerk " Lana Wagner " thinks he's just a delivery boy bringing some of the new judge's belongings . " Harry " unveils himself as the kind of guy he is immediately with some rubber snake gag . When the first trial scene is ready to begin , the judge is a minute late and " District Attorney Dan Fielding " ( John Laroquette ) when asked what's holding him up , answers " probably a diaper change " which tells you how the others first looked at the boyish judge . Not having seen this show in a number of years , everyone looked pretty young to me , especially the guy who made the wisecrack : Laroquette . There were tons of one-liners in this show , some of them funny . No judge . obviously , would start his first case by asking everyone , " How the hell is everyone ? " That's the irreverence of the show and Anderson's character , a little too Liberal at times for my tastes . The main case is a woman trying to kill her husband after he's caught cheating with a prostitute . Harry takes the ultra-liberal approach which doesn't work but then does better when Harry becomes more of a marital counsel during the trial than a judge . The canned laughter was overdone with applause also added in a number of times , which is pushing it a little . Karen Austin overacted in her role as " Lana " and God's name was abused five times , which is one reason I haven't watch sitcoms in years .
Spectacular Scenery ; So-So Story	THE GOOD - Spectacular scenery , the kind outdoors-man Robert Redford appreciates ( and so do I ) : plenty of green in the beautiful mountains , streams , woods of Montana . Nature doesn't get a whole lot prettier than this . The minister in here ( Tom Skerritt ) is shown in a kindly light , which is a bit unusual with the secular film business . THE BAD - The story gets boring in spots , there is too much usage of the Lord's name in vain , mainly by the two sons of the minister , particularly Brad Pitt's character . The minister's sermons sound like secular humanistic poetry readings , nothing about Christ . It sounds like Redford wrote the sermons .
This Has To Be One Of The Most Overrated Films In History	I think I made more of an effort to try to really like this movie than any film I can think of . . . . and I finally have given up . There is something just unappealing about this story . I know two things : 1 - It's vastly overrated ; 2 - It's too slow . Jimmy Stewart is fine in the lead role . That's no surprise . But his character is anything but fine , having an affair with a married woman ( which never portrayed wrong by Hitchcock ) and doing a few other things that left the viewers scratching their heads in credulity . " How could he be doing this if . . . . ? " Wait , that doesn't make sense , " etc . were just some of the comments I've heard from people watching this film . Yet , despite the credibility this films holds a big fascination for a lot of people . I gave it several looks just to see if I wasn't missing som thing , that the story would become more attractive as I became more familiar with it . Well , it did piece a few things together but the movie never got appealing . The only attractive part was actress Kim Novak and the cinematography , especially the scenes under the Golden Gate bridge . That , and I always enjoy seeing Barbara Bel Geddes . I was sorry her role was so short in here . Overall , I still don't see what the fuss is about concerning this movie . The story leaves me as cold as the San Francisco fog .
Powerful Drama But Hard To Watch	It's been over 20 years since I saw this film and parts of it still haunt me . . . . . brutal , emotional scenes which I do NOT want to see ever again . It's just too gut-wrenching and uncomfortable to sit through a second time . Generally , it's two hours of suffering and torture . Who wants to watch that ? It IS a powerful story , though , based on the true life adventures of Dith Pran ( played by Haing S . Ngor ) who somehow survived the unbelievably-brutal regime of Cambodia dictator Pol Pot . Other reviewers here have detailed the storyline , so there is no sense me rehashing that . Suffice to say this is a movie that - be warned - is very tough to view in many spots - but will leave you emotionally drained . Ngor's harrowing performance is one to remember , as is the horrible story of what happened in the mid ' 70s in Cambodia under the Khmer Rouge . This movie was filmed with Thailand and the scenery there , along with the excellent cinematography , makes this a visual treat . Some have complained that the film is too slow for them . Others didn't like this because it was overtly anti-American in some regards ( the bombing of Cambodia ) . I can understand those complaints . What bothered me most was that I just found the whole based-on-a-true happening story too sad .
Last Segment Totally Destroys The Film	I really enjoyed this movie for the first hour . It was quirky and totally unpredictable , thanks to Pierce Brosnan's strange character , " Julian . " However , when Julian knocked on the door late at the night in Denver , Colorado , at the house of his buddy " Danny Wright " ( Greg Kinnear ) , the film began to turn sour , and went down the dumper in a hurry . Julian now had overstepped his obnoxiousness and become unappealing . He had flirted with that throughout the first hour but always survived , but now he was downright rude and a pain in the butt . Making this really bad was Hope Davis , playing Danny's wife , " Carolyn . " Her character , in a flash , went from devoted , nice wife and ultra - profane " who is THIS person ? " and was insulting to any viewer with a brain . For ( about ) 20 years of marriage , she was clean-mouthed , and all of a sudden come a half dozen f-words out of her in about 20 seconds ? That typifies the whole last segment of this film , which really ruined a promising story that was looking good up until then . In a word : it has been " entertaining . " It was a stretch from the beginning , however , that a straight businessman like Wright would ever give the time of day to a drunken , super-rude swine like Julian , but I went along with it because it was fun to watch despite a few questionable homo-erotic scenes . However , when the film takes an abrupt left turn in Colorado , it lost its appeal with characters that had zero credibility .
This Picture Says It All	This movie should be in a time capsule . What better example to show the great progress Liberal thinking and influence had on the USA in the 1960s and 1970s ? By this time , it was official : anything bad is " ccol " and good is really bad . Got it ? This has it all : getting drunk every night is the goal ; vandalizing is fun ; being totally obnoxious and a slob is the only way to act and be cool ; make fun of any kind of authority , especially anyone connected to the ( ugh ) military ; make fun of anyone who is religious and party til you puke ! ! ! This is what life is all about and who better to show this than John Belushi . . . . the ultimate party slob ( until he overdosed on drugs and killed himself but , hey , at least he wasn't a phony actor just playing a role ) . Animal House - ah , the benefits of higher education !
Great Start , But Disappointing After That	This starts off powerfully , with a very interesting scene and some excellent film - noir photography , but after the witness dies , so does the movie in many respects . From that point on , it's just a bunch of flashbacks . When the " live " scenes reappear , they are not always easy to discern what's going on . The film also becomes too talky too often . However , the characters are tough and generally interesting , with some good acting . Film-noir-wise , despite the presence of superstar Humphrey Bogart along with guys like Zero Mostel , Everett Sloane and Ted de Corsia , it's average fare for the day . it could - and should - have been better .
Sadistic Ghosts A Little Strong For Little Kids Viewing	This is a " ghost ship " story and not really anything that funny , at least nowhere as good as the normal Popeye cartoon by this time . It might be even a little bit too scary for small kids . Popeye , Olive and Wimpy come across this ghostly ship one day . ( The three of them seem to go out boating a lot , and wind up on desert islands . ) The boat has some humorous features , such as neon-type signs that change and floorboards which move up and down making music , but then its a mite sadistic as ghosts tie up our three pals and torture them , although not in any gruesome way . Yet still , as mentioned , it's a little dark for small kids to be watching . I sometimes think these early Popeye cartoons were made more for adults . Popeye then finally figures a way to fight these sadistic spirits , but isn't done in his normally-humorous fashion .
Being Blown Up Only Gets Him Dirty	This was okay , but nothing super and certainly not as good as the first two on the DVD " The Pink Panther Classic Cartoon Collection , Vol . 6 - Inspector Cartoons . One thing it had that the first two didn't have was a laugh track which is stupid beyond belief . I don't need to be told when to laugh at a cartoon . Fortunately , it was subdued , but the principle of it annoys me . This is a one-joke cartoon , that of " The Mad Bomber , " a little furry creature , planting bombs all over the place to blow up the Commissioner , the inspector's boss and the man who put the " boomer , " as Clouseau pronounces it , behind bars . The Commish gets blown up many times , but outside of getting soot all over him , he seems to survive each one with no problem . The best part of this cartoon , by far , was the artwork . There are some really good drawings in here , both of a big mansion and at the French Riviera and other places . It may not provide a lot of laughs , but it was a treat for the eyes .
Helium-Filled Moe Highlights This So-So Effort	The boys must produce a new " revolutionary " airplane , as promised , or they will be drafted into the military . This " short " has the semi-famous Moe-as-a-big black-balloon skit in which he first floats to the top of the room and eventually out a skylight window has to be shot out of the sky by Curly . It takes just over half the movie for the " Wrong Brothers " to get their plane , " The Buzzard , " out of the hangar . Before that are bunch of verbal jokes and a lot of slapstick where the guys take turns taking a beating from something or someone . There's the old " Oh , oh , oh . . . . . . oh , look " as we see the blades of saw all ruined after they were used on his head . That sort of thing . With all three of these bozos in the small cockpit as the same time , you know their flight is going to wind up a disaster . I was disappointed , however , to see the final three minutes is not original , a scene from a previous Stooges film called " Boobs In Arms . " There is no need for that kind of cheapness from Columbia Pictures . If you like the Three Stooges , you'll like this because it incorporates most of their sight gags and slapstick all within a 17-minute time frame , even if that last part is a " repeat , " which still is inexcusable and makes me downgrade my final rating of this .
Okay , But Not Really A ' Temple ' Movie	This is a billed as a " Shirley Temple film , " but it really isn't because she hardly appears in it . In fact , she doesn't appear until after 20 minutes have gone by , and then after the scene and a subsequent dance routine with James Dunn , disappears again until the very end . When she's here , she's as cute as ever , especially being so young . Warner Baxter had the main role as " Lawrence Cromwell . " He was assisted by his secretary played by a very pretty Madge Evans , whom I didn't know until trying to find out on this website because the video box doesn't even have her listed in the billing . The rest of the cast included a couple of people I was familiar with from other roles , such as Nigel Bruce , who played Dr . Watson to Basil Rathbone's Sherlock Holmes . We also have a lady who played Aunt Jemima and Stepin Fetchit , both a couple of embarrassing stereotypes of the period . I was never a fan of Fetchin , not for PC reasons but simply because of his whiny voice and stupid characters he played . He was the same here except when he dove into a fish tank , which made gave me a big laugh . This film had a good share of strange characters but , despite that , overall isn't anything that memorable . . . . perhaps because Shirley had such a small role .
Surprisingly-Boring For A Season-0pener	I can't recall , although there must have been at least one , any CSI episode that I could label as " boring . " The stories might get a little too wacky here and there - especially this Las Vegas one - but they never dragged . . . . . . until this one . Usually , a lot is going on in a CSI episode , whether it is one crime being solved or three at once . Here , however , it's just trying to find a person : CSI employee " Sara Sidle , " who is trapped underneath a car somewhere out in the desert . The question is " where ? " The only person who knows is the " Miniature Killer " who is in some sort of mental state in which she's unable to communicate . Thus , the whole show is trying to find out where Sara is , plus showing Sara trying to get out from underneath the car . Being a regular on the show since Day One , you know Jorja Fox ( " Sara " ) is going to make it , so I didn't feel much suspense . One just observes how she's found , and it's a very slow , drawn out story with very little , frankly , happening .
Not As Clever As The Earlier Ones	This was one of those cartoons that amused audiences a lot more 80 years ago than it does today . Oddly , I found that the Koko The Clown cartoons earlier in the decade a lot more clever than this late silent-film entry . Maybe Max and Dave had run out of ideas on how to make Koko and the " Out of the Inkwell " material entertaining as much as they were in the previous years . Who knows . However , it wasn't long after the " talkies " began that these guys hit it big with Popeye The Sailor Man , beginning in 1933 . Most of this story is simply about Koko and some other little creature - kind of strange - looking pup - going backwards and then making time actually go backwards for everyone else , animated or real ! It sounds better than it played . ( Showing slow scenes of everyday life : smoke going into a chimney , traffic going backwards , people walking backwards , etc . , really isn't humorous . . . . at least not in 2007 . Hey , you can't win ' em all . Most of these Koko cartoons I've watched have been super .
A Grim Subject	This is a movie made in India about a young boy who is forced out into the streets of Bombay , where he sells tea , associates with drug dealers , has his money stolen , on and on , good and bad - mostly bad . It's a depressing story with little to offer on the bright side . The video box said there is no sex , no violence and no objectionable language . Well , two-of-three ain't bad . I would consider the f-word perhaps " objectionable " to a few people . Amazing how out of touch movie producers and critics are . Speaking of critics , this film always gets high marks from them , so you know it's overrated . However , it is an interesting study of a depressing subject . That's the best I can describe it .
Life Is More Than ' Chance '	This is an animated story about " chance " and " coincidence " ruling our lives , something the author apparently believes because it's stated by narrator in the first few sentences of the film that " we are all just seeds floating up there in the space waiting for someone to get us . " With an atheistic outlook like that , it's no wonder this won an Oscar for " best animated short . " Had the opposite belief been put into film , it wouldn't have stood a chance to be nominated . Anyway , Torill Kove , a Norwegian animator / filmmaker and current resident of Canada , gives us this " cute " story in which a series of circumstances all make for a happy ending . The illustrations are half the fun of watching this 15-minute award-winning short . They artwork is clean and colorful and a treat for the eyes . Liv Ullman does a nice job of narrating the film but I would have rather had a variety of voices . Having a female voice all the male characters sounded out of place . I wouldn't be surprised if Miss Kove did this story tongue-in-cheek , knowing that actually everything happens for a reason , not that all of life is sheer chance . No one is dumb enough to believe that , which is why this is a good fairy tale .
Some Nice Suprrises But Just So-So	After not seeing this film for almost 30 years , I was surprised how good the cinematography was , since I had mainly just remembered this as another Western with a good cast of famous tough guys . The rugged Mexican countryside took my attention as much as the story . Another big surprise was Robert Ryan . Noted for playing almost nothing but sadistic villains , Ryan turned an about-face here and plays the most humane person in the group , in contrast to other male leads ' Burt Lancaster , Lee Marvin and Woody Strode . All of these actors are fun to watch and Claudia Cardinale , although not the greatest of actresses , also fun to ogle . This is one of those transitional films of the mid 1960s , one that still was under a morals code but was pushing it to the limit . Another year or two and it would be gone altogether . So , language started to get rougher including the Lord's name in vain which slips in here a couple of times ; a plug for evolution ( Big Bang theory ) is given by Lancaster and there is a scene in which you see the side view of a woman's breast - all things that would prevalent in films in just a few more years . All in all , just a so-so story elevated by the presence of some very well-known tough-guy actors .
Not Your Family Scrooge Story , But Has Its Moments With Murray	This was a pretty entertaining update of the famous " Scrooge " story . Unfortunately , however , that update includes profanity which certainly isn't necessary for this famous story . When the special-effects start , the movie kicks in . Bill Murray is convincing in his role as the bad guy - Bill usually is entertaining , like him or not - and Karen Allen is winsome when she flashes that pretty smile . Two minor characters are decidedly not funny : Carol Kane as the ghost is just plain annoying and Bob Goldthwait's voice is irritating . Like other versions of Scrooge , this one also has a touching ending . In fact , there are several very touching moments in this film despite the edginess to it . Then again , that's the message of the story .
Much Prefer This One To Re-Make	This was a nice film , nothing special , but certainly better than the terrible Disney re-make in 1994 . The baseball scenes were pretty good and they should have stayed more with that . They had footage from real-life Pittsburgh Pirates games and that helped make it look more genuine than most sports films that Hollywood made back in the 1940s . Paul Douglas was pretty funny , especially when he started " swearing , " mixing his sentences together so you couldn't understand anything he said . Once again , as was the case in a number of classic films , the story was going along pretty well and then a sappy romance ruins things . I'm all for romance but they are done so stupidly in most films , it's an insult to your intelligence . The little girl in the movie , " Bridget White , " ( Donna Corcoran ) was a cute , sweet little thing . She lives in an orphanage run by nuns ( Spring Byington and Ellen Corby are featured ) . It's interesting to note that all the pro-religious scenes in here were deleted in the 1994 Disney version . The villain of this movie turns out to be the baseball announcer , of all things . Keenan Wynn plays the role so effectively you want to reach through the television and punch this guy out !
Sleaze In Stylish Form	I waited a long time before I saw this award-winning movie . Everything I had read about it led me to believe it was a depressing film . Most films about alcoholics aren't pretty and this was about an alcoholic AND a down-and-out hooker , so how much fun could it be ? Maybe because I expected the worst , I found it a pleasant surprise . Sure , the two people weren't exactly " winners " in life but the movie wasn't that depressing , was it ? And the film had style and good acting performances from the two leads Nicholas Cage and Elisabeth Shue , right ? Yes , but " on further review , " as they say in the pro football telecasts , my review has changed 180 degrees . I must have had too many drinks like " Ben " to like this movie in first place . Hey , I am far from any prude but this is nothing but slickly-wrapped soft porn . It's Sleaze with , yes , a capital " S . " I can't even describe half the stuff Shue described in this movie , casually discussing almost every sexual act you can think of . Maybe that's cool to critics like Ebert , who thought this was the number one movie of the year . it's just another example of the sick state of mind in the film world , from filmmakers to actors to critics , where " pushing the envelope " is the way to go . It started escalating with " Midnight Cowboy " getting the Academy Award and keeps going , through American Beauty and the sleazy films you saw nominated for this year's Best Picture . Cage won the Academy Award for Best Actor here , and I don't have a problem with that . Shue was equally as good but I found out more than one viewing is like having too many drinks - " not good . " It's sad to see soft-porn sordidness because stylish .
Hey , Man !	This was an appropriate movie for the 1970s where long hair , drugs , wild clothing , war protests and just all-around rebellion against authority was the cool thing to do , although that's been a part of society since Adam and Eve . In this film , we have the famous Hippie " brothers " of the era : Cheech Marin and Tommy Chong ( " Cheech and Chong , " as they were known back then ) with a story strictly about getting stoned . Actually , there are some very funny scenes in here , such as these two clowns smoking the huge , huge joint while driving down the road . Then , we see the car almost white with smoke and the two guys so stoned they don't realize they are parked . That , and a couple of other scenes were funny but overall it's predictable in the negative aspects : language ( Strother Martin uses the Lord's name in vain four times in the opening minute of the film ) ; sleazy sex and nudity ( I think " gratuitous " is the word ) and the general irreverence of the period ( ' 60s and ' 70s " counterculture " ) . And . . . oh , yeah , the two boys finish every sentence with the word " man . " Well , all I can say is the film had it's day , man , but is a bit dated by now , man !
Riveting Back In ' 59 ; Not Much Now	When I was a very young teen , I saw this in the theater and was just awed . The different segments were very dramatic and stayed with me for decades . So after a long , long absence , seeing this again in the late ' 90s turned out to be a major disappointment . As a kid , this movie was exciting , but it sure isn't now . It's two-and-a-half hours long and moves pretty well but too much time is spent on the marriage of Jimmy Stewart-Vera Miles ( " Chip and Lucy Ann Hardesty " ) . As one who watches a lot of modern - day crime movies , it was odd to see one with absolutely no profanity in it and very little blood , but that's because it's a 1959 film . We see the FBI cracking down on the KKK , anti - Native Americans , the Communists , spies , etc . Some of those parts are exciting , but nothing like when it came out almost 50 years ago . Now , it's almost ho-hum stuff . For me now , this movie is more of a nostalgia piece than anything else . Frankly , I doubt if I would watch it again .
Yes , Rita Never Looked Lovelier , But Story Was Never As Stupid !	Boy , here we go again . It's too bad they had to have just stupid stories in these Fred Astaire movies , especially with the gorgeous and talented Rita Hayworth as his partner . Ginger Rogers was great in her roles as Astaire's most-often dance partner but nobody looked as awesome as Hayworth in the early-to-mid ' 40s . In one of the numbers here , she wears a short mini-type skirt so you also get to enjoy her great legs . Her dance scenes with Astaire are almost worth the price of the film . I say " almost " because , as usual , the story was stupid , insulting anyone's intelligence and not fun to watch . Adolphe Menjou spent the entire movie being gruff and crabby , anything but entertaining . The romance angle was typical for it's film era , which is not a compliment . Just fast-forward to the dance scenes and you have a film that's watchable .
Memorable , But ' Ugly '	I saw this 15 years ago in the theater and while I never had the desire to see it again , it always stuck with me . Maybe that's because ( 1 ) I love baseball ; ( 2 ) hate to see arrogant ballplayers ; and ( 3 ) cringe if I see someone not representing my country in a positive light . That's what you get in this film as Tom Selleck plays a crude , profane , " ugly American " ballplayer who's talents have been outlived in the Major Leagues and he's now relegated to play in Japan . ( Ironically , Japan is just starting to make some inroads the other way around , especially with Daisuke Matsuzaka and the Red Sox . ) Anyway , " Jack Elliott " ( Selleck ) pouts his way around Japan until he gets involved in a romance , which is portrayed somewhat stupidly and leads to a predictable ending . Other characters in here were interesting to watch , such as the stern manager , played by Ken Takakura . One of the other American players has turned out to be a star in his own right , acting-wise : Dennis Haybert of " 24 " and now " The Unit . " There are a lot better baseball movies out there , but you could do worse , too . It was okay , but as an American , I get to see enough arrogant pro athletes play here every day . All I have to do is turn on the TV .
You Need 3-D Glassses To Have Fun With This	The first part of this movie short is an interesting segment explaining , in part , how we see things . How two eyes give us depth ; why we see double , focusing and other things . It's all part of a lead-in to show us those goofy cardboard glasses of yesteryear in which people wore them at the theater for 3-D movies . Typical Pete Ímith dialog spruces up the eye lecture with lines like : Here's a nifty dame with a pair of flashy lamps . " ( translation : " Here's a woman with a pair of pretty eyes . " ) The second half of this is a demonstration of 3-D , which would have been great had we the glasses , but there is no effect just looking at this normally on our TV set . This would have been a lot of fun to see in 3-D . But , without them , why would anyone watch short this more than once ?
Who Dresses Elmer ?	It's still odd for me to watch these old Bugs Bunny cartoons and see an elongated Bugs and a huge Elmer Fudd . Nonetheless , that's what we get here as Elmer is racing through the forest with a shotgun after Bugs . By the way - what kind of hunting outfit is that : a bowler hat , reddish-pink shirt and green tie ? ? ? ! Just as Bugs is about to get it , a telegram boy on a scooter arrives with a telegram for Elmer , stating that Uncle Louie is giving him three million dollars ! But there is a " P . S . " that says " You don't get one cent if hurt any animals , especially rabbits . " You just know Bugs , who is reading this over Elmer's shoulder , is going to make life miserable for him ( at least in the next six minutes of this eight-minute cartoon ) . The rabbit wastes no time , either . By the time Elmer races home , the " wascally wabbit " is already in his shower ! r Bugs knows a good thing when he sees it - blackmail , to get food and other goodies ( or " I'll call Uncle Louie " ) . I almost felt sorry for the poor sap Fudd as Bugs puts on his " Academy Award " dramatic performance but , in the end , both guys wind up losers as the cartoon writers used the familiar " taxes " bit on the inheritance . Overall , the humor was too dated and not really ready-for-prime time stuff ( the 1950s ) but the restoration job on this Golden Collection disc was tremendous . That artwork made Elmer's house look pretty impressive . He might have been a dumb dodo but he had nice - looking furnished house .
An Era Where Liquor Was Always The Answer	I can see why this was so popular in its day but would lose its appeal in today's age where smarter people realize drinking alcohol ALL the time is not cool , is not funny and is just plain dumb . In this series , especially in this debut film , William Powell is obsessed with drinking . " Have a drink " is the answer to everything ! That , and a plot this is difficult to understand at times ( who is who and what is what ) took away from the enjoyment of this for me . However , I did like several of the sequels , just not this movie . " The Thin Man , " and all the sequels had witty dialog and charming rapport between Powell and his wife , played by Myrna Loy . " Nick and Nora Charles " were definitely a fun couple . For added fun , there was their famous dog , " Asta . " But all that booze and smoke looks absurd in this day-and-age .
A Powerful Story But Also Too FrustratingTo Be ' Entertaining '	The first half hour of this supposed true-life story was just excellent . The visuals were terrific , the kid was nice and the story very interesting . Then it began to go downhill . It bogged down because went into too much detail of the boy's illness , using technical explanation after explanation . Then , frustration sets in when the caring family couldn't find others - including parents in the same boat - with the dedication they had in finding a cure . The kid then started to have epileptic-type fits which were anything but fun to watch . ( This is a depressing film . ) There was still almost an hour to go with this pathetic situation just getting worse by the minute . Add to that Nick Nolte's fake Italian accent in which you can't understand half of what he says . . . . and this film ceased to be entertaining . Yes , it's a great message of perseverance for the right reasons and inspirational in that regard , but it's a frustrating experience to watch , is all I am saying .
The Interesting-But Not-That-Funny History Of Bugs Bunny	This is a bit different from most Bugs Bunny cartoons : the life story of Bugs , from when he knew he was " a bit different " ( the rest of the babies were humans and he was a rabbit ) to his beginnings in the world of show business . However , the latter doesn't pan out . Bugs is down on his luck and moping around on a park bench , when Elmer Fudd passes by and says , " Why are you hanging around with these guys ? They'll never amount to anything . " ( They are Al Jolson , Jack Benny , Eddie Cantor and Bing Crosby ! ) Elmer gets him a job back in the theater . The vaudeville show opens in Peoria ( where else ? ) . It travels on to Buffalo and then New York City , but Bugs is getting bugged . He's tired of being Elmer's foil and getting pies shoved in his face , etc . He reverses the act and finishes with " What's up , doc ? " It's a smash ! Offers come in from everywhere and the two head off to Hollywood and Warner Brothers . The rest is history . There are not a lot of laughs in here : very few , in fact , but it's fairly interesting . This is good for one viewing only , unless you're a big fan or a collector of BB cartoons , then it might be of historical significance .
Fun In ' 59 , Still Okay , But Really Dated In Spots	This was very exciting when I was a kid in the late ' 50s but not so much now as an older guy . That about sums it up but it's not a surprise : a film that relies on special effects will almost always be dated very quickly . This movie is about 50 years old , so it is certainly understandable if this is far from as thrilling as it was when it came out on the big screen . ( This was pre-VHS era , too , so you could only see this on a big screen , which was actually a good thing . ) That's not to say you couldn't enjoy the movie today . Jules Verne stories were big-time in the 1950s and 60s , too , with " The Time Machine ( 1953 ) and 20 , 000 Leagues Under The sea ( 1954 ) . Around The World In Eighty Days ( 1956 ) James Mason played the lead in two of this films : this one , and 20 , 000 Leagues He plays the passionate scientist role effectively in both . If you've read Verne's novel , however , be prepared to see the opposition . Verne's book is dark ; this movie is colorful . Watching this film , it's also hard to buy a professor of geology ( " Sir Oliver Lindenbrook , " played by Mason ) and a singing student ( Pat Boone , as " Alec McKuen " ) finding things they found in the center of the earth in this movie . This is like watching those corny sci-fi " B " films of the ' 50s , except it's a major studio spending big bucks . Yet I can't really mock this effort because it does entertain and did especially 50 years ago , providing wonderful escapism for a couple of hours . However , two warnings : ( 1 ) the special - effects are terribly dated : ( 2 ) like a lot of classic-era films , you have to have a lot of a patience because things really don't start to get exciting until almost the halfway point . Today's audiences , including me , might be getting too restless by then to keep enough interest to watch the entire 132 minutes . You have to stay with it . If does get interesting , despite being totally implausible in many areas ( phony accents , how much light there is in the depths of the earth , etc . )
The Good & The Bad Of ' Mexican Stake-Out '	Justice " is finally about to catch up to racketeer Theordore Newberry , the owner of gambling parlors , speakeasies , and houses of prostitution . " However , the key witness against Newberry , despite police protection , vanishes when the crooks come and capture him . When I look at these old shows , any crime story from movies or TV from the " classic era , " I just shake my head at some of the things I see . I wonder if they really were like that back then . For example , everyone handles evidence , messing up fingerprints , etc . Doors are left open everywhere , police beat up all the suspects . In here , " police protection for a key witness against a big mobsters consists of ONE guy outside the door and one inside . When the policeman outside the door is duped and slugged over the head , the witness is abducted . It's that easy ! Oh , well . In good twist , however , it turns out Newberry didn't kidnap the witness and doesn't know who did , but figures " the city hall boys ran him out of town . " He doesn't Ness to find him . What to do ? Get Ness out of the city so he can find the witness and kill him . He starts with a smear tactic . Most of the show is centered in Mexico and what happens there with Ness , his partner " Nick Delgado " ( played by Vince Edwards of Dr . Ben Casey " fame ) , and the bad guys . The most interesting character in this episode , by far , was " Jerry Fanning , " Newberry's hit man , who is played by well-known screen actor Martin Landau . He was intense all the way . Despite all of the above , this was too talky and just plain boring in much of it . I only mentioned the high spots and the most intriguing actor ( Landau ) . Some of these shows are a lot slower-moving than I remembered as a kid . Back then , however , most TV shows and movie were that way so we were used to a more leisurely pace . Now , it looks slow compared to what we are used to seeing the last few decades .
For Kids Only	This started off very strong with a fun spoof of James Bond-type spy movies with Dabney Coleman playing a secret agent using funny gimmicks in a short action scene . After that it settled down into a story of a young boy , " Davey Osborne , " ( Henry Thomas ) who accidentally stumbles onto real-life spies and with the help of his imaginary super-hero , eludes them as they chase him down . The familiar storyline of nobody believing the young boy got tiresome quickly and the cloak - and-dagger scenes were too juvenile for adults to enjoy . The kids might like as the focus is entirely on " Davey " and his little friend " Kim , " who , by the way , is very annoying and a poor actress . Coleman , meanwhile , plays a double role : the " invisible " hero and " Davey's " real-life father .
Different Band Members , Same Good Sound , But They Don't Connect On DV	The latest version of longtime blues-rock band concert is a long one , featuring tons of music . Everyone from the original group was gone , except Greg Allman . It is still a solid band with the same it always had . Derek Trucks and Warren Haynes both fill in nicely on guitar work . The only problem I found was the same thing I found with all the Allman DVD concerts - too much . Most of it is loud and many of the songs sound the same in concert . They don't vary the music enough and after awhile , the faster material just begins to sound like noise . I don't know why I get suckered into buying these guys ' DVDs all the time because they just aren't that great . As I said , too much of it just sounds the same . This was an expensive DVD , too . Since they aren't animated , and the lighting is nothing special , you're better off just enjoying the group on CD .
Fairly Entertaining But A Dumb Story	It's odd : the previous cartoon on this Spotlight Collection Vol . 4 DVD had " Marc Antony " and " Pussyfoot " as best of friends in a 1953 cartoon . Marc was a huge brown bulldog . Now , five years later , he's gray and he has no idea who this little Pussyfoot is . Plus , they are out of their home and in a outside in some construction site . However , we quickly get a similar scene in which the kitten scratches the dog as she kneads herself and then settles in for a nap on top of Marc Anthony . Anyway , when a nearby cat wants to steal some food from Pussyfoot , Marc Antony is there to protect . We get into high-rise slapstick when the chase scenes elevate to high altitudes on the construction site and Marc uses all the tricks of this particular trade to fend off the cat . Actually , the invading cat shouldn't have been portrayed as such a villain . He wasn't after the little kitten ; just the food , and what's wrong with that ? Every animal looks for food . So , in reality , this was a dumb story . The only redeeming quality was the decent artwork and direction with the high-rise shots . There was very little humor in here .
Great Title , But Unmemorable Film	This crime movie was only " fair , " not worth owning if you are a collector , but worth checking out if you are a James Coburn fan . The title is a lot better than the story . This is another of those mid-60s films that was Hollywood-in-transition , meaning it was just a year or so away from abolishing any moral codes . Here , we see casual sex accepted as okay and the bank robbers portrayed as the good guys , even though they are anything but good . The female lead , Camilla Sparv , was a strange-looking lady who never really made it as a star . One can see why . It's also interesting to hear the language of the period with the police being called " the fuzz , " etc . James Coburn is fun to watch , but the rest of the cast is unmemorable , except that it marked the film debut of Harrison Ford , who plays a messenger boy in one quick scene . Other than that , the film provides few noteworthy memories which is probably one reason why there are so few reviews of this here .
Tough To Stay With , But I Give It Points For Originalty	The man responsible for this film is called " M . Dot Strange . " That kind of gives you a hint of what you are going to see - something very " strange . " Listen : you'll either think this is super cool and love this film , or you'll get so disgusted you'll yank it off your screen within minutes . Actually , I was somewhere toward the latter , but I lasted longer than a half hour before losing interest . I really tried to like this . The good aspect of this film is the clever animation done on a low budget . This is an original film , that's for sure . The visuals and the sound are different and mostly interesting . You also have the option of hearing various soundtracks - now that's unique ! The bad part of the movie is that it's hard to watch much of it in one sitting . It gets to be too much and is weak in the area of getting the viewer involved with the characters and story . Very little of the story is explained , so you can get lost in a hurry and never recover . After a while , I found myself not caring what was happening and just attempted to enjoy the strange visuals and sound - effects . The visuals are a combination of computer-generated , stop motion and bluescreen effects . It is also a combination , according to its writer-director - producer-etc , of 8-bit and anime . I'm not versed enough in all of this to explain it . I'm just trying to give you an idea how different this film is from other animated movies you've seen . Also , it was first released on the Internet instead of movie theaters , I think , but did play in the Sundance Film Festival in 2006 and the following year put out on DVD . For the average movie viewer , this film would be torture to sit through . It would be a long hour-and-a-half . For someone who enjoys something different visually , this is a unique film that deserves a look and might prove to be fascinating , especially for some young person interested in becoming a filmmaker . I'm sure one could learn a lot of techniques and be inspired .
Not An Impressive Debut	Watching this on DVD last night was my first look at this program . It holds possibilities , but I'm hoping the dialog is a little more mature than the cutesy / hip / affected baloney I heard on this pilot episode . I hope they concentrate a little more on the crime and its evidence than the personal lives and stupid sexual remarks that prevailed in here . Nonetheless , it's nicely filmed and looks very good on DVD , with nice shots of Washington , D . C . and clean , crisp transfer . As with some the CSI programs , almost everyone here - especially the assistants in the lab - are a bit young . There's a guy here who honestly looks about 14 . Also , our female lead , despite being pictured as a brainiac who never gets out of the lab and has no social life , can kick the crap out of any man . Yeah , right ! How the lead female " Dr . Temperence Brennann " came to all these accurate conclusions is a little far-fetched , but what do I know about that science ? Anyway , this first episode shows how she and FBI Agent " Seeley Booth " will team up the rest of the way . The story ? The bones of an intern who had sex with a senator and became pregnant , was found in a pond . She had been dead for about a year and a half . Who killed her and why ?
' Arty ' More Than Funny	The Inspector and partner Deux-Deux must spend a night in the famous art museum , the Louvre , because they suspect " The Blotch , " a famous criminal , to steal paintings . This criminal , like some of the others earlier in this colorful series , is not human but someone or something that can change shapes in a second . He can be a splash of water or a human , almost like the villain in " Terminator 2 . " The humor is the different methods the crook uses to steal the paintings underneath the noses of our dimwitted good guys , Clouseau and Deux-Deaux , who act clueless . The artwork comes in two forms in this animated short : the usual colorful stuff and small reproductions of real-life art , such as a Rembrandt . This isn't really that funny , not like the normal Pink Panther cartoons , but they still serve as entertainment and certainly are colorful to watch . It's on the DVD " The Pink Panther Classic Cartoon Collection , Vol . 6 - Inspector Cartoons . "
Good Adventure But I Didn't Care For Woods	This was a very entertaining film with lots of adventure but the lead kid , played by young Elijah Woods , got on my nerves . The sneer on his face is very annoying , although , to be fair , he could have been worse . In Mark Twain's famous book , Huck is worse than he's shown here . Sorry , but I just didn't like him . At least he cashed in on his srange looks a decade later with LOTR . Speaking of the book , Disney gets in its typical anti-Christian cheap shot by having Jason Robards dress up as a fake minister , even though that was NOT part of the book . Racism is a key part of this story , too , and Courtney B . Vance is very likable as the slave . He's just one part , however , of a number of characters and adventures in here . The movie is nicely filmed , too ; very colorful . It was good for one viewing , but that was it for me .
A Fun Role For Michael Caine ?	There was one major reason to watch this movie : Michelle Johnson , and that's about it . The film doesn't offer too much else . Basically , it's a silly story . Michael Caine ( " Matthew " ) and Joseph Bologna ( " Victor " ) plays some middle - aged guys who are going through marriage problems ( bad marriage and a divorce , respectively ) so they go down to Brazil to spend money since they're rich . They bring their late teen / young-adult daughters ? Huh ? Well , Victor's daughter is a knockout and they have a fling . Johnson plays the girl , " Jennifer , " who shows off her breasts as much as she can in this film . This is why I and a lot of other guys saw this movie . In reality , there isn't much merit to this story , regardless . This must have been a wonderful role for Caine to play ! Caine , an outstanding and likable actor , keeps this film - along with Johnson's obvious assets - from being a total bomb . As " Matthew , " his mind knows this a bad relationship and vows to end it , but you know what else " doing the talking " for him , so it ain't easy . Demi Moore , by the way , plays Caine's daughter in this movie . It's really not a horrible film but it's pretty inane and crude in areas . The real shocker might not be all the nudity or sex jokes and lying but who directed the film : good ' ole Stanley Donen , who also gave us " Singin ' In The Rain " and " Charade . " How in the world did he get involved with this movie ? Maybe Johnson was too much of an allure for him , too !
Now-Tired Themes Make It A Lot Less Fun That It Used To Be	This was a very entertaining movie when I first saw it at the theater in the mid ' 80s . Later , I enjoyed it on VHS . The film featured good music , good action and good humor . After a hiatus of 5-10 years , I viewed it again in the late ' 90s and got more annoyed than anything else . By then , I had seen thousands of movies and was starting tired of the " new stereotypes " I was beginning to see with regularity ; reverse racism in which the black guy is always smarter than the white guy , for example . In here , it's Murphy smarter than all the white cops , most of whom are pictured as outright stupid . ( If the reverse was shown , there would be an uproar . ) It's also one more example - among hundreds in films since the late ' 60s - in which the renegade ( regardless of color ) is the only one who can solve cases . The regular law enforcement , from local cops to FBI to CIA , are always featured as bumbling idiots with stupid superiors . It's all getting tiresome . Murphy had a great run in the ' 80s , but his act has worn thin and I hadn't heard much from him in years until this year for his supporting role in " Dreamgirls . "
' Is That All There Is ? "	This was another in the Val Lewton Horror Collection , released in 2005 on a nice 9-film pack DVD set . It's a typical film from the collection . Some stories , of course , are more interesting than others ( " The Body Snatchers " was , I thought , by far the best ) but this one - supposedly " Lewton's masterpiece , " according to one national critic - I found was generally typical of the rest . " Typical " for the following reasons : 1 - Great cinematography , film-noir-like with dramatic light and shadows , super black-and-white images that are a treat to see . The DVDs offer very good transfers with clear screens and fairly sharp images . 2 - Generally-speaking , not much happens in these films , such as this one . In this film , there was one quick " action " scene but nothing was shown . The rest of the film is all talk , talk and more talk . . . but great anticipation that something is going to happen . . . . but it never does . The ending to this particularly movie , and some of the others , was flat and very disappointing . You are left asking , as Peggy Lee sang in her famous song years ago : " Is that all there is ? " 3 - Decent acting and suspense . . . but see above for the end result . Of note , regarding the acting , this Lewton film has Kim Hunter making her debut . It also had a bunch of familiar faces from the 1940s and 1950s but no big names , unless you count " Ward Cleaver " from the " Leave It To Beaver " TV series . Ironically , his character name in this film is " Mr . Ward . "
Some Famous Names In The Background	I found it interesting that two very famous silent film stars , actress Mary Pickford and director Mack Sennett , had supporting roles in this D . W . Griffith silent film . To add another famous name to the mix , the screenplay was based on an Edgar Allen Poe novel . Yes , this short film looks creaky but it's one year short of being 100 years old , so you can't expect much as far as a big-budget film . It's hard to relate to much at all , actually , because movies were only 10-20 minutes long at that time anyway , and since there was no sound , the actors acted more like mimes . Since " talkies " were still almost two decades away , even the silent actors hadn't quite got their acts down yet . You can see the result : insane overacting and wild , crazy facial expressions - actually laughable at times . But , hey , it was 1909 . I find it amazing we still have the opportunity to look at a movie this old , and appreciate the fact it's available .
Stylish , But Not As Smart As It Tries To Be	This was a wild , confusing - and extremely stupid - movie for the first 50 minutes BUT once the action kicks in and all the twists and turns begin happening , it's definitely a fun ride from that point . That's director Brian De Palma , for you : intriguing visuals , with Alfred Hitchcock - type camera angles , a lot of twists and sometimes a great movie and sometimes a very bad one . More often , sad to say , a bad movie . I'd have to rank this closer to " bad " than " good . " I'd like to rank it higher but Craig Wasson's character , " Jake Scully , " ( he's the lead ) was so stupid at times that I almost stopped the tape . That , and too mean an edge overall to this movie , made it unappealing . It's not far removed from a very soft porn film at times , either , since the female lead , played by Melanie Grifftith , plays a porn star . We see a fair share of nudity , although it's hard to complain looking at a naked Griffith . Overall , it has style - De Palma loves that - but it plays like a film that that thinks it's smart , but doesn't connect to its audience . . . . . sort of like Hollywood in general .
Ah , Rats !	Really , I am not dismissing or disrespecting this animated short . It is interestingly drawn and he story sucks you in and keeps you , but it is not appealing enough that I would want to watch it a second time . The best thing I can say about this is that it held my attention all the way . The story isn't funny , isn't profound although it perhaps thinks it might be . It isn't as sad or romantic as some infer , either . I'm sorry , but I can't get choked up on a couple or rats who just met each other in a laboratory and are instantly in love , and then taken away . This is another odd animated film , a serious tale about a rat who follows an empty bag of some snack , like a Cheeto's , that would have a scent that would attract a rodent . We follow the rat's interesting journey - which it is - as he follows the scent and discovers some strange sights .
Just Isn't The Same Now , But Still Love The Soundtrack	Usually , the more I see a film the more I learn to appreciate it . Here's the opposite : I really enjoyed this when it came it at the theater . It made such an impression that I remember where exactly I saw this film , and I enjoyed it on TV a few other times afterward . Now , 40 years later my opinion of it is not the same . The only aspect that I still have a high regard for in here in the music , now considered probably one of the " classic " soundtracks . However , the three main characters - the men who dominate this film - played by Clint Eastwood , Eli Wallach and Lee Van Cleef - are really nothing but overly crude and excessively violent morons . The worst , of course , is Wallach's " Taco . " He makes me want to take a shower after watching this film ! He and Eastwood's " Blondie " just take turns brutalizing each other through much of the film . Van Cleef's role is considerably less , as " Sentzenza " or " Angel Eyes . " Wallach's character is just plain insulting . He is a real lowlife and a horrible witness for anyone of the Catholic faith , which is why they probably emphasize the latter with him genuflecting throughout the film while acting like a complete degenerate . It's another slam on that denomination ( of which I am not a member , by the way ) . I usually like Director Sergio Leone's long , dramatic , slow shots and good facial closeups Leone keeps his camera so long on one subject that it gets boring . So , there is a rarely a happy medium in this movie : it's either too violently stupid or too slow . What was once " good " has now turned " bad " and " ugly . "
Good Story But Too Tough To Watch Again	I can take about anything in films , even blood-and-guts ( you can see that on television in the CSI shows ) but torture is another thing . This movie was tough to watch because of the terrible treatment given to a prisoner , played well in here by Kevin Bacon . It's an interesting story , and well performed and told , but so unpleasant to see in a number of spots that I wouldn't watch it again . Some of it was really disgusting . I am also getting tired of Liberal filmmakers making the prison warden a brutally sadistic person . That has become such a film cliché . Libs just hate any authority figure . They also hate the facts , according to " jorge's " review here , which I believe .
Geena Is Good But That's All	Once again , I found a movie I really enjoyed the first time I saw it , and then years later lost interest during the middle of the second viewing and never finished it . On that second look , frankly , I just found it boring . The only appealing character in the film is the one played by Geena Davis , who plays a " kinky " person , which made her interesting to watch . I didn't like the fact Kathleen Turner's character left her husband for selfish reasons , which seems to be okay , according to the script . ( " You didn't give ME enough support when our kid was killed , so I am leaving . " ) Wow , another plug for making marriage into a joke . William Hurt and Bill Pullman are the male stars in there , not exactly people who are going to inspire you to watch the film . Hurt should have quit after The Elephant Man and Pullman should never have started .
Too Drawn Out , Needs A Re-Make	The first 40 to 50 minutes of this movie was very interesting , but after that it dragged and never really recovered for me . They just went on and on and on between the time Henry Fonda's " Meredith " fell " ill " and the time the big poker hand was consummated - over half the film waiting to see what happened ! It was frustrating and ridiculous . The ending is neat , if you don't know there's going to be a big surprise . If you it , and I was tipped off , it's easy to spot and ruins some of the ending , although there is another twist added . All that was cool but it took far too long to get to that point . Today's audiences would never stand for something to be drawn out that long . Now that poker has become such a big game , I'd like to see this re-made but with a much tighter script .
A Glimpse At What Was To Come	This was a typical Fred Astaire-Ginger Rogers movie which means one really good thing and one really bad thing . You could count on both for the remaining films these two entertainment giants did together over the next decade . THE GOOD - great dancing , as always , and a little humor thrown into the mix ; THE BAD - a stupid story filled with people who are misunderstood and another slam at marriage , trivializing it once again . This was the first film in which this famous duo were paired in leading roles . Have you noticed Astaire always looked the same age for at least two decades ? Rogers really looks young here . She exhibits a nice singing voice , too . Astaire sings more in this movie than in later films . The musical highlight is a very long song-and-dance number near the end , done to the tune " The Continental . " That helps make up for the stupid story . Alice Brady makes repeated attempts at humor but falls short most of the time . The same goes for Edward Everett Horton , who seems to play these annoying roles in many films . A very young Betty Grable is seen early on in the film in a Busby Berkeley-type number .
Life - Almost - With Father	For those not too familiar with life almost a hundred years ago , the phrase " Ask father , " meant you better get the old man's approval if you want to marry his daughter . That was a MUST , and sets up the premise for this Harold Lloyd short . He , along with several other guys , are all after the same woman but must get to the father . Unfortunately , he's a tough business leader who runs an office like a dictatorship and one runs the risk of being thrown out on his rear trying to get in and see him . That's the gag of the movie , which doesn't really have much spark until the last six minutes when Harold gets inventive in ways to see the boss , such as wearing a suit or armor . Without giving anything away , I will say this movie might be the ultimate in showing how lightly marriage has always been treated in the films . This is a comedy , however , so nothing to take serious anyway . I did laugh , too , at the end , when we see how much true love meant to Harold ( hint : not a whole lot , as it turns out . )
The Good & Bad Of ' Frank , Ella & Jobim '	Most of this 6o-minute made-for-TV concert footage involves Frank Sinatra and Ella Fitzgerald . Jobim was thrown in for a quick medley of Bossa Nova songs , which the rage at this particular time . It had a nice , pleasant sound and I wish they had spent more time with that music , but it didn't last long in this concert . Sinatra did sing the then-famous " The Girl From Ipanema " while Jobim accompanied on guitar . The rest of the tape are the two heavyweights : Frank and Ella , two of the best pop singers ever . It's almost always a pleasure to hear Sinatra . His voice is so good and the way he " jazzes " up a number in excellent . He was a great showman , not just singer . Ella had a great voice , too , but , frankly , I would have preferred more of Sinatra . The by-play between the two singers was terrible at times . Ella was no talker , just a singer and Frank's constant fawning over her was overdone . His jokes were lame , too . Still , where you can find a tape with these two " giants of the business " singing together ?
Except As Chaplin , Flip Doesn't Make It In The ' Movie ' Business	Flip The Frog has a book about being an actor . That's his goal in this cartoon . The funniest part of the eight minutes is the opening , I thought , when Flip pictures himself as Charlie Chaplin . He does a good Chaplin imitation and it led me to believe the rest of this cartoon might be really a good one . It wasn't . It was okay , but nothing " to write home about . " Basically , it's a two-part story : Flip trying to get into the studio and then the things that to him once he's in . There was a clever gag in the first part when he hides under a fat man's shadow . The parts inside the studio were tons of slapstick stuff that mainly didn't draw a lot of laughs , at least from me .
' Coop ' Should Have Shot Kelly !	High Noon This " actual " 85 minutes , went by fast when I saw this movie as a kid . I thought it was very suspenseful . Today , yikes . . . . this film goes by at a snail's pace and features two annoying main characters that make this a dud , not the revered classic gem that is supposed to be . There is nothing wrong with the hero , played by Gary Cooper . His overall presence - the way he handles himself , the expressions on his face , etc . - make him a believable and likable character , as he was in most of his films . Grace Kelly certainly is easy on the eyes ( I'm a male ) but her character in here is unbelievably shallow and annoying . She plays Cooper's wife and , get this - five minutes after she marries him , she wants to leave him because he decides he has to stay and fight off the bad man who is coming to town to kill him . Talk about devotion ! Talk about commitment ! No wonder marriage was never taken seriously in Hollywood and its films . The other characters who gets decent screen time is a whining punk with a chip of his shoulder . Lloyd Bridges plays that role effectively but his character wears thin quickly . The rest of the star-studded cast have very small roles , unfortunately . The movie is played out in " real time . " Watching an hour-and-a-half of this might be worth your real time if you are hoping to take a nap and need some help
The Good & Bad Of ' Operation Dumbo Drop '	This movie had some typically-good Disney aspects to it but also some typically - bad Disney agendas in here that just about made me puke . With modern-day Disney films - or at least the ones in the 1980s and 1990s - you can expect the following " good " and " bad : " This movie proves to be no exception . GOOD - Slick-looking photography with beautiful Vitenamese scenery ; low profanity ; an interesting story that moves well . BAD - Political-correctness run amok . . . . . . an annoying kid who knows more than the adults ; an ending that's always drawn out too long ; a reverence for Eastern religions or anything that is not Christianity ; a black and a white lead character in which the black is always the better of the two , etc . etc . A SURPRISE - Danny Glover and Ray Liotta losing their tempers but not swearing a blue streak . Wow , now that's different !
Not Bad , But Too Smart-Too Fast , So Stick With The Original	This remake of the 1950 film which starred Judy Holliday was okay , but nothing super . The major problem was credibility with Melanie Griffith playing " Billie Dawn . " I'm sorry , but with her voice and mannerisms in all the movies I've seen her in , it's not believable enough for me to see her as a woman who suddenly gets very smart . Anything is possible ! However , she gets too smart , too fast and it's just too much . " Yeah , right , " is what you wind up saying over and over . However , I'm not saying she didn't do a good job acting , it's just that I know her too well to have her be credible in this particular role . I also was sorry to hear another example of a classic-era film re-done with profanity . Here , John Goodman ( no surprise ) blasphemes here and there as boyfriend " Harry Brock . " . This story is nice enough with a bunch of good messages without having to mess it up with needless profanity and sexual innuendos . Can't Hollywood make ONE modern-day comedy without that ? Speaking of credibility , I can picture a slob like Goodman being paired with Roseanne Barr , but a hot babe like Griffith ? No way . No wonder there was little chemistry in this film . However , I have to say Don Johnson , of Miami Vice television fame , was a very likable character in a pleasant low-key role as the tutor-reporter . I was never a big fan of his but I liked him in this movie . Still , the 1950 version was good enough to stand on its own , not needing a re-make in the first place .
Goofy ' Hodges ' And His Hypothetical Crime Game	I give this an " A " for " originalty " but only a " C-minus " for content . It just isn't that involving an episode , because there are too many factors involved in too many cases . All of the crime stories in here are " what if " stuff , made , as it turns out , to be in the form of a CSI table game that " Hodges " is inventing . He creates scenarios in which various CSI " lab rats " are knocked off . The idea is to why out the answers to the two basic questions : " who did it , and how ? " Most of this is played for humor but I found very few laughs in here . I've never found the " lab rates " - Hodges , Wendy , Archie , Mandy , Bobby , Henry , etc . , to be particularly good comics , only weird , unrealistic CSI " scientists . " Thus , for the most part , with three or four different cases presented with new clues every 15 seconds , it wasn't an entertaining episode in which you get involved with what's going on . However , despite saying the above , I did enjoy the last segment when Grissom sits down with Hodges and says , " I like games . " He's asked to try and figure out another hypothetical crime , this one in which Hodges gets shot in the middle of the forehead at the lab . That part is pretty cool , with a few funny scenes to it . Overall , half good / half terrible . Hodges ( Wallace Langham ) did an excellent job as the creator of this game and the host of the show , to to speak .
Okay , But No Match For The Fist One	This isn't a bad sequel but it's unable to measure up to the first " Beethoven , " which was an extremely likable film . This is still a " cute " film and one parents and all the kiddies certainly will like . It features a litter of St . Bernard puppies , and who doesn't go " aww " at the sight of little puppies , especially St . Bernard's ? The puppies are the main story here , which turns into a " crime " story when " Missy " is dog-napped and the little ones also become endangered . I didn't think this was a " silly " story as there are some good morals and lessons to be learned , but it was a bit " sappy . " I get a little annoyed , too , when animals are pictured as smarter than the humans . I'm sorry but , as much as you might love pets and hate some people , that just ain't so . Nonetheless , if you loved the first movie you'll find enough to like in here to enjoy it . If you thought the first film was just okay , you won't like this .
Not Your Typical Zombie Movie	Well , this was nothing like I thought it might be , which means good news and bad news . BAD NEWS - Very little action , almost none . Mostly talk , talk and more talk . This was much more of melodrama with the only skeletons were the ones in the closet that are revealed near the end , uncovering past sins in a family . With the title of this film , I can't expecting something dramatic , something to happen . . . . but it didn't . GOOD NEWS - The black-and-white film offered some great visuals , wonderful contrasts and , as Lewton films are known to do - " atmospheric " cinematography . That , and the strange-looking anorexic voodoo man , are my main good memories of this film , which was transfered nicely on DVD as part of the Lewton Horror Collection . The acting was fine and the dialog interesting at times . In summary , a so-so film I might watch again , and I might not . It's that kind of film .
Predictable , But Definitely Entertaining	This was a decent suspense film with a different twist for its day , dealing with robots . The idea has since been copied in a few films . Here , cops go after runaway robots and after a villain who is trying to steal deadly weapons ( gosh , that's original ) . The special effects are pretty good - especially since this was made over 20 years ago - and I particularly enjoyed watching the heat-seeking bullets fired from the villain's gun . Rock star Gene Simmons , by the way , does a nice job as the bad guy . As entertaining as this Tom Selleck movie was , it had a B-quality to it with some stupid and predictable dialog . The climactic scenes were very predictable . You just knew certain things were going to happen . . . and they did . Yet , it was fun to watch and worth one look .
The Good & Bad Of ' Return To Me '	THE GOOD - A deep cast and no villains make this romantic comedy a nice movie . David Duchovny does a nice job in a low-key role . I've read in several reviews ( not here ) that James Belushi stole the movie with his supporting role but I thought if anyone did that it was Carroll O'Connor , not Belushi . O'Connor is just great as the kind , Godly Irish grandfather . He and all the older people , actually , are fun to watch in their matchmaking roles . THE BAD - For such a pleasing story , the language could have been toned down . Having a young kid blaspheme by saying " GD " was inexcusable , although it does point out the importance of parents being a better " witness " as their children often mimic them . Minnie Driver is okay but doesn't seem to fit the role and I wish Hollywood would come up with a different angle in these romance-comedies instead of the same " lying " routine all the time . All in all , a pleasant but unmemorable ' chick flick . '
The Divorce Case From Hell	Wow , do they have over-the-top obnoxious people in this episode , led by a ridiculous couple going through a divorce . " Nasty " doesn't cover it describing this couple , " Hank and Laurie Atherton , " who are beyond bitter and vindictive . The problem was having to listen to these two jerks periodically during the show . The couple's two lawyers are almost as obnoxious and annoying , too . Having to hear these four idiots - and others ( like the " pool guy " ) - lessened the entertainment value of this episode . Although it was good to see them get their due . Anyway , in a nutshell , several people connected with this couple are found dead and the CSI team has to figure it all out . On top of that , poor Eric Delko has to go through more b . s . as his competence is questioned by one of suspects . It was fairly interesting but certainly not a likable episode .
Very Watchable But Frustrating Story	For those who like melodramas , this is one of the better ones . I don't particularly care for them , but this one kept my interest for the whole 127 minutes , so it must be good . The film reminded me of " Tomorrow Is Forever , " with Orson Welles and Claudette Colbert . That , too , was a fine film but a frustrating one to watch . This , too , has its frustrations as Greer Garson holds back information that you and I couldn't have the strength to do . I don't recall Garson ever looking prettier and more wholesome in a film . Ronald Colman , the male lead , entertains as he usually does . It was interesting to see Philip Dorn , too , the " papa " in " I Remember Mama , " one of my favorite films . Adding to this cast are Susan Peters , Henry Travers , Reginald Owen and Bramwell Fletcher . About the story , it's simply about a World War I vet who loses his memory , meets and falls in love with Garson , whom he marries . Then one day , an accident jars his memory and now his life with Garson is blanked out of his memory bank and he starts all over again in another town , leaving Garson back home and wondering whatever happened to her husband ! One thing : in all the time that passes - about 15 years - no one ages ! They still look the same ! Also , Colman playing a returning veteran was a little far-fetched . I mean , the guy was 40 or 50 years old , playing a young 20s guy ? ? Oh , well . Overall , a good story that keeps your interest , even if it suspends belief . How many times you'd watch this depends on how much these type of stories appeal to you . If you love them , this is one you'd want in your collection , especially since it is out on DVD now .
' Hi , ya , Pop ! '	There was a cute gag , right off the bat , when Tom Thumb's dad first sees his newborn kid ( delivered by the stork ) . The baby is in the palm of his wife's hand . Tom looks up - already in diapers - and says , " Hi ya , pop ! " Pop faints . The years go on and we see how little Tom manages to inadvertently get in trouble , like almost being baked in a pie . The inquisitive sort , he winds up in a lot of jams , only to be saved by either by luck or his scolding mom , who winds up giving him a loving-but-stern and strange spanking near the end . Overall , to be honest this was not a very humorous cartoon but it had a lot of charm , so kudos for that . It was part of the UB Iwerks ' collection of cartoons under the DVD title , " Cartoons That Time Forgot . "
Very Clever , But Very Short	This is very different . . . . . instrumental music with a " computer " band . It's almost too difficult to explain , because this is so different than most things you might have ever watched . The instruments play themselves as if they were alive . Sometimes you see objects , like small balls , flying around hitting drums or keyboards to produce the notes . It's very colorful and the music is decent . My favorite scenes were " Pipe Dreams " mainly because of the clever visuals ; " Acoustic curves " because of the music . On the negative side , I thought there was too much emphasis on drums which made some spots become a bit tedious . My real complaint was that I rented this after reading reviews of it elsewhere . Included was the fact this was 75 minutes long . In truth , it is only 33 minutes ! IMDb has it right . Had I known that , I probably would have selected something else . There is a short bonus feature : Beyond the Walls , in 3-D , but we don't get 3-D glasses so it isn't a big deal to watch , . . . but would have been .
Talk About " Playing Against Type ! "	Susan Sarandon playing a nun ? Sure . Only in the land of make-believe , meaning Hollywood or any other movie setting . Well , at least she's being somewhat true to her beliefs - not religion , of course , but a Liberal cause : being anti-death penalty . That's no surprise , especially with boyfriend and fellow ultra-Liberal Tim Robbins directing the picture . Sarandon , however , does an excellent job in the role of " Sister Helen Prejean . " The same holds true for Sean Penn , who plays sleazy murderer " Matthew Poncelet . " Well , at the sleazy part was more believable from him , but he's a great actor anyway . It's a well-told , powerful story and I really appreciated the soundtrack . There is some great music in here . This is a not a faithful adaptation of the book , as some have said here . A big part of the book by the real Sister Prejean is the Christian forgiveness exhibited by one of the families of the murdered victims , but that is never mentioned in the movie .
Freddy''s Funniest Film	This doesn't have the well-known cast of the previous Nightmare 3 movie but the special effects are still good . . . . . each very different and some of them very funny . They make this perhaps the most entertaining entry in the series . Memorable scenes include a junkyard , a water bed , a classroom , faces in a pizza , a girl bench pressing and faces coming out of Freddy's flesh . The storyline , however , features its usual dumb and ridiculous theology and has its usual share of unlikable obnoxious teens . Their parents weren't pictured as any better , perhaps worse . In fact , the kids and parents are so bad you wind up rooting for Freddy to do them in . Perhaps that's the idea !
Now That's A Nice-Lookin ' Alien !	I don't believe in aliens , but one ever existed and I ran into it , I hope it looks like Kim Bassinger ! Ditsy but humorous in spots and a generally likable movie is how I saw this film . Basinger hardly ever looked better , which is saying a lot . At the time , it was unusual to see her in a comedy after viewing her in tough crime or sex-type movies for awhile . ( I didn't see this film until 10 years after it had been released . ) She's a decent comedienne , like her ex-husband ( Alec Baldwin ) has turned out to be , too . The comedy is more chuckles than guffaws . There is the usual too-liberal " values " espoused here , in which sex on the first date is " cool , " even considered that b the teen daughter ! The latter , however , " Jessie " ( Alyson Hannigan ) is a cute kid and not annoying as most teen girls on in modern-day films . The casual sex and general secular attitude toward everything including that " science is everything " were all annoying to me but it's still a likeble movie . The profanity isn't too much , except by Jon Lovitz , who provides much of it . In all , a dumb story but a nice , feel-good ending helps .
Hopper Saves This Low-Class Film	This is a low-class film with low-class , profane characters . Many times that spells death to whether I like the film but in this case , not so . That's because Dennis Hopper ( perfect for profane , sick roles ) is entertaining and the story moves at a brisk pace . There simply are not any dry spots . I always like to look at Anne Archer , too . However , you can overdo the swearing , and that's the case here , and the usual modern-day clichés are here ( i . e . the police captain fires the cop , who is the hero ; Rambo-type action in which the good guys never get hit while the bad guys always do , etc . ) Those things downgrade this film to an average crime movie , which means it's still worth a look - especially if you like Hopper - but rent it before buying it .
A Fun Movie . . . . But TOO Much Action	Despite being fun to watch and very entertaining , this is not a film that draws me back for many viewings . Maybe it's too absurd : a beautiful woman pirate " Morgan Adams " ( Geena Davis ) punching everyone out at every turn can get a ridiculous and tiresome after awhile . It just an excess of everything , almost cartoon-like . If you haven't had enough action in first hour ( and you do ) , the last half really goes crazy with a non-stop battle scene that goes on and on and on . Nevertheless , there are some good things to watch in here besides Davis and her pretty face . the movie was filmed in Malta and in Thailand and features some beautiful island photography . The ship is magnificent and when two ships are side-by-side firing cannons at one another , it's an awesome sight and even more awesome sound . You really need to watch this with a good stereo system to appreciate the great audio work in here . Frank Langella also makes for an interestingly effective villain ( " Dawg Brown " ) while Matthew Modine ( " William Shaw " ) chips in with a co-star and male companion for the good guy , er good girl , Davis character .
Overall , It's Cute & Colorful	There are some beautiful colors in this animated film , nice golden hues mixed with purples that are very pleasing to see . The lead character is likable little guy called " Littlefoot . " Most of the scenes with the T-Rex might be a little scary for the little kids . The little dinosaurs are all ones you laugh with and enjoy . There are touches of New Age and secular humanism in here , which is no surprise , that being especially expected with a Steven Spielberg film , even an innocent cartoon adventure . However , all in all , pretty good and a decent hour-and-a-half of animated entertainment that adults should enjoy , too .
Here She Comes , There She Goes	This is a pretty solid movie , one of the few old-time horror films that still stands up to today's standards . The cinematography is excellent with many fascinating shadow-like shots , particularly with facial closeups . A surprise is that the actual " bride " of Frankenstein is only created and then seen in the final minutes of the film . The title can be misleading as we expect most of the story to be about her . Instead , most of the movie is simply a sequel to the original Frankenstein , picking up where that film left off with the monster somehow surviving his fiery doom . I would like to have seen more of the " bride , " who was fascinating to view . Elsa Lanchester , who played that character , also played Mary Shelley in the beginning of the film . The most interesting character , I thought , was the devil-like Dr . Praetorious , played by Ernest Thesiger . Now this guy had a true face of a " mad scientist ! " Most films need to be trimmed 10-15 minutes but here is an exception . This movie needed another 10 to 15 minutes tacked on , so we could see more of the " bride . " It's still considered one of the best horror films of all time and , at just 74 minutes , would certainly be worth your time to check it out if you've seen it .
Entertaining , If Nothing Else	This is a pretty good cartoon-character movie . It's entertaining because of two main things : 1 - good dialog by the lead character , likeably portrayed by Ron Perlman and , 2 - the violence is not overdone , wearing you out and dominating the film . It looked like the latter was going to be the case early on but the film calms down and the climactic scene is not overdone as it is on always every modern-day action film . I was sorry to hear some blasphemes in here , no place for that in a comic-book hero film geared to attract a young audience . I'm not familiar with this comic book here , " Hellboy , " but I was surprised he looks like so many alien-type monsters of today on screen , nothing original . They could have made him look different , unless that's how he looks in print . All in all , despite what may sound like a critical review , the movie was entertaining and even had some nice touches of humor . It's another example of good , mindless entertainment for two hours . I would like to see the extended version and see if that's better .
Funny , But A Little Too Predictable	You can imagine on jury duty , driving the other 11 jurors ( and the judge ) nuts . Well , of course , that is the case here . It's also predictable in that he would be the only one to vote " not guilty , " and , being the good Liberal-slanted show it is , would be proved correct getting an innocent black man off to boot ! ! This reminded me a bit of " 12 Angry Men , " except it's 11 angry people at Monk , and you can't blame them . Most of the things in here , including the jokes and the dramatic ending , are pretty predictable yet despite that , it was still fun to watch . It isn't however , one of the more cerebral episodes and a little more than far-fetched . . . . but that's Monk . To the writers ' credit , the surprise among the jurors was good ( one of them was rotten , and it wasn't Adrian ) .
The Good & Bad Of ' Small Soldiers '	BAD NEWS - Typical Hollywood family in that the film features stupid parents , annoying teens who are too worldly for their age and think they get no respect from their parents . Also , there are the usual anti-military messages and anti - Republican cheap shots . The story has The Commandos ( military , which means bad guys , of course ) against the Gorgonites ( peaceful , different-looking creatures . ) GOOD NEWS - A very clever animated-live action computer animated film ( at least for 1998 ) in which the toys come to life and look real . Once the action starts , it's a very interesting story with fun special-effects , some good , funny dialog and some neat references to past films . Sometimes it's tough to catch them all .
You Never Know What You'll Get In These Old Cartoons - Even Color !	You don't see too many cartoons from this time ( mid 1930s ) that were done in color but this one is in two-strip Technicolor . The William Tell Overture plays in here ; we see a big steamship with " Show Boat " written on the side of it , and we get an " amateur night " vaudeville show complete a " gong " and the " hook " to take the horrible performers off the stage . We also get Porky Pig ( I think ) directing the orchestra . Some sadistic guy sticks Porky's tail into an electrical outlet and he - and the orchestra - play at high speed . Some of these old cartoons are almost sadistic . It does do a good job though of portraying what cartoons were like in the mid ' 30s - the good and the bad . And , like all good cartoons , you are never sure what crazy sight you'll see next ! Anyway , there are a few funny sight gags I enjoyed but overall I rate it as just " fair , " not a cartoon I'd watch multiple times . I saw it as a bonus feature on the " Annie Oakley " DVD film , which starred Barbara Stanwyck and Preston Foster .
A ' Brutal ' Typical 1930s Prison Flick	When I see old-time prison / crime movies , I laugh out loud at some of the things I see , at least compared to films of the last 40 years which may be very profane and sadistically violent but at least they are realistic . In this film , the lead female character " Dot Burton , " played by Faye Emerson , is sent to a women's prison . Inside are all white women except one black , who dances all the time . Talk about a stereotype . Emerson and her best buddy in here look like lesser versions of Rita Hayworth , Look around and you more of these nice , wholesome-looking babes . I guarantee you no prison population has ever looked this good ! Yes , there are a few " baddies " and , of course , they are ugly women . The story also gives us a typical classic movie romance in which a guy falls in love with a " dame " the first time he talks to her . Then she falls for him quickly and but right away , of course , there is a misunderstanding and now the woman hates him . Ten minutes later she loves him again , then hates him , then loves him , etc . etc . No wonder few people in the film world ever took marriage seriously . On screen , it was just one big joke . Anyway , the story is pretty interesting even if it is more than a bit too dated . The film might be noted more for having two very young actors in here than anything else , guys who went on to because famous on television in the 1950s : Paul Drake and Jackie Gleason . Drake was Perry Mason's assistant on hat hit TV show and Gleason , of course , went on to huge TV fame with " The Honeymooners " and other shows . Here , he is billed as Jackie C . C Gleason . " Lady Gangster " is only a little over an hour which is fine and the DVD transfer was surprisingly good . This was part of a 4-movie disc called " Mobster Movies , " put out by Platinum . I have two of these discs so there are eight films I can watch , movies that , as far as I can tell , were not available on VHS . The other movie I watched on one of the other discs did not have the good picture quality this one had , so they probably vary from film-to-film . But , despite the drawbacks , these 1930s films are fun to watch because they are fast-moving , short and entertaining .
The Good & Bad Of ' Sneakers '	GOOD NEWS - A very entertaining thriller , for the most part , that kept my attention for the full 126 minutes . It had some neat high-tech gadgetry and had a big-name cast of Robert Redford , Dan Aykroyd , Ben Kingsley , River Phoenix , David Straithairn , Mary McDonnnel and Sidney Poitier . THE BAD - More of the tiresome and typical Liberal propaganda that tells us the U . S . Government is the " bad guy ' " the radical Left are the good guys ( yes , the same ones who blew up a lot of buildings and killed people in the name of peaceful protest ) . The film also had a very unrealistic and stupid ending . I was also sorry to hear ( but not surprised ) Redford and Poitier both blaspheme throughout the movie .
Good Back In ' 92 , But Lost Its Shock Value	Here's another film I really enjoyed on the first viewing but lost its impact dramatically on subsequent viewings . This interesting story was quite a topic of conversation when it came out 15 years ago . By now , it's probably considered fairly tame , and nothing that shocking or special . Bridget Fonda and Jennifer Jason Leigh star with Leigh getting the juicier role as the wacko , " Hedy Carlson . " Character studies of people like her are usually entertaining . Leigh has made a career of playing totally immoral women . She also shows a lot of skin in this movie , something else she likes to do in her films . Fonda's character , " Allie Jones , " is no Mary Poppins , either , or should I say Fonda isn't anybody pure . The movie shows several scenes of her having sex with her boyfriend . This actress isn't shy , either . The movie starts building its suspense about halfway through when Leigh - the roommate and admirer of Fonda - begins to lose her girlfriend to that guy . . . . and decides to do something about it . There really isn't a lot of violence in this movie , mainly just at the end . It's a good suspense movie , though , which builds and builds . It's good for one viewing .
If You Can Suspend Belief , Ginger Makes It Fun	This movie was charmer , with some funny moments and two attractive likable leads in Ginger Rogers and Ray Milland . This is one of those classics I really enjoyed when I first watched it but dragged too much when seen recently . Sometimes , the more you get used to modern movies , the more some of these classic films can seem too slow . This is an example . Also ( and I am a classic movie fan despite these comments ) , this film is another example of how much viewers were asked to suspend belief in these older films . Here were asked to believe that no one would suspect that a grown-up Ginger Rogers couldn't pass as a 12-year-old ? One look at the very female-like Rogers and it's previous obvious she's and adult , especially at the dance near the end of the film . Well , if you can overlook that , this is still a fun movie . Sometimes the dated dialog and attitudes of the time period make it all the more fun . Rogers was a great comedienne , not just Fred Astaire's most famous dance partner . She is the big star of this film . There is a bit of " Lolita " mentality in here as Milland begins to fall for this " 12 - year-old . " They never really tell you here whether Milland knew how old she was all along , however . The end the film a bit too abruptly as the two run off to get married ! ! ! ! As I said , there are lots of holes in this story but it is entertaining enough that you don't care . Of note , too , is that Rogers ' real-life mother plays her mom in this film .
Solid , Yet Not Quite Scriptural	This was a pretty good movie in that the main character was a solid preacher , not the flawed one seen in all modern-day films . The only chink in his armor was that he married an unbeliever , something a sincere minister ( William Lundigan ) such as the one shown here , would NEVER do . Susan Hayward's character , the minister's wife , is annoying at times but at least she admits her weaknesses and doubts and then realizes the doubts were unfounded . However , her allegiance , even at the end with a quote from Scripture , is not to God but to her husband . She thinks her purpose in life is to follow him , not Him ! Interwoven in this story are a couple of touching stories of relationships that are transformed from hardened to soft with the patient help from the preacher . It's basically life in strict small Georgia town in Protestant church setting . Overall , a nice story and good family viewing , as the cliché goes , but nothing extraordinary to be honest . Worth at least one look
' The Biggest Chiselers In Town '	Oh , boy : more corny signs . The boys are in ancient Rome and are stonecutters . The sign over their front door of business reads , " Ye Olde Pottery and Stone Works - Mohicus , Larrycus And CurleyCue - The Biggest Chiselers In Town " Emperor " Octopus Grabus " has issued an edict in which all unmarried redheads are ordered to the palace of for matrimony . One hot babe is pursued and runs into the boys ' store looking to be hidden from a Roman soldier . The boys are happy to oblige . My first or second look at this particular story probably made me laugh but now , some 40-50 years later , I had seen Curly pretend to be a woman so many times that isn't funny , anymore . The scenes with him and the Mr . Magoo-like " Octopus " ( Vernon Dent ) What I am saying is that is just too much familiar material . To end on a positive note , the " dame " in trouble , " Diana , " played by Marjorie Deanne was very hot . I'm surprised she didn't have a longer career , unless that was her choice .
Great Music , Visuals But The Story Is Lame	Great soundtrack , great visuals , somewhat confusing and disappointing storyline . I always thought this was Neil Diamond's best work . He sang the soundtrack , and it's filled with great songs that he did exceptionally well . The photography is beautiful and the scenes as mellow as you can find : a seagull gracefully gliding through the air surrounded by beautiful seascapes , sunsets , billowy clouds . . . . . just magnificent scenery . On the negative side is the usual New Age " look within yourself " theology . This is pure Secular Humanism . I say this because some people thought this was a Christian film and it is not . It only confuses people because there are analogies that could easily apply to Jesus , to the Pharisees and to Heaven itself . It was a bunch of mixed messages but author Richard Bach , from whose book this movie is based on , leaves no doubt near the end of the movie - or the screenwriters did , if they changed his book . Still , a peaceful , calming movie that is unique .
A Few New Twists , But Basically A Familiar Screen Story	I've seen this kind of story many times : the frightened wife fearing her husband was going to kill her , most people not believing this , and a dramatic ending in the final minutes after long , drawn-out scenes building suspense . For you classic film buffs , this should sound familiar . The problem is that - at least with today's audiences - that drawn-out suspense on will-or-will-he and how ? - the story is way too slow . It's like , " Okay , we get the setup here . Now how about something actually happening ? " Nothing much did until the final minutes , with the exception of a very short automobile scene . The first part is the most interesting , when we see how the " heroine " of the story , " Victoria Kowelska " ( Valentina Cortese ) makes it to America to take the place of another woman in San Francisco . She was interesting , to me , only because she was a new face , sometime I don't recall seeing before on film . Most of her fine film career has been done in Italy . I did enjoy the two main male actors , too , Richard Basehart and William Lundigan , but they were nothing super , playing routine roles . The set designs with the big house on Telegraph Road were nice . It was another of those big old mansions in which these kind of stories always took place in the 1940s films . Great lighting always makes these houses , with the long stairways , look Gothic and foreboding , especially in black-and-white photography . For those who see the title and read the " previews " and thus , are excepting more of a film noir , or even a thriller with horror overtones , consider yourself warned . Instead , it's more of a women's film and a stereotypical one , at that . It's okay , but nothing memorable .
Filmed In Iceland , This Is Intriguing , But Ending Hurts It	This was an intriguing , although not satisfying , , movie and one I still felt was worth my few bucks I paid to rent it . It was filmed in Iceland - one of the few films I've heard of with that locale - but the story in the film takes place somewhere in Midwestern America . I knew that going in , so it made it kind of strange to view , in that respect . However , the story seemed very realistic . In parts , it almost felt like a documentary , it was so real and atmospheric . However , as much as I enjoyed the movie , and particularly Forest Whitaker with his odd accent , the ending was a big disappointment . The film had so much promise up until then . Some people say this film had the feel of a Coen Brothers movie , and I agree with that . To some , this might also have been a bit slow or boring but I thought it had unique atmosphere to it . With a more satisfying ending , I would have bought the DVD and watched it several more times .
Murder At The Marathon	I liked the second story in this episode better than the first one . It had more intrigue and was one more people could relate to , a simple mystery how a guy the New York City marathon could be murdered in front of spectators without anyone seeing how it was done ? First tests indicate cyanide but then it looks more carbon monoxide . The CSI team , headed by Mac and Stella , work with one piece of evidence and go from there . Danny and Lyndsay are among the investigators on the case that opens the show , featuring a bizarre vodka company party where the booze is served in ice bottles and the model for the night is discovered stabbed and killed with some icicle-like wound . This is a little too far out , which is why I preferred the other murder over this one . This show features a lot of play-on-words , too clever and too humorous for CSI people but I'm not complaining . The puns and such are fun to hear . Almost everyone here has at least a few " smart remarks " such as " oooh , that's cold " as they look at the victim murdered with the icicle or " I'll bet you gave him a run for his money " talking to a marathoner who hated the victim . Everyone is a comedian .
The Name ' Corny Collins ' Says It All	This fast-moving film had a number of good and bad things going for or against it . . . . at least with me . It was very corny , but that was the idea . In fact , one of the characters is named " Corny Collins . " It was pretty charming film , too , with the put-ons about the old American Bandstand-type dance shows that were television for years . " Hairspray " features some good 1960s music , too . The first half of this movie is about local teens of that period and the dance and petty jealousies in the group while the second half theme is all about racism . When I saw this movie in the mid ' 90s , I was shocked to see talk show host Ricki Lake in here , and looking so young and fat . She was way overweight , but was a good dancer . ( Some of the dances in here are hilarious . ) Her mother in the film was played by transvestite " Divine . " Yes , this is a another movie by the sick director John Waters who loved to feature Divine in his films , this being probably the most tame story he put on screen . The film takes place in Baltimore , and whether racism in that city was a bad as Waters portrays it here , I don't know , but I wouldn't be happy if I lived in that city and saw this movie . However , this film is like " Leave It To Beaver " combined to some of the other stuff Waters has produced over the years .
Spacey's Tribute To Bobby Darin	This was a " so-so " behind-the-scenes bonus feature , nothing that great but not boring , either . I think the most interesting statement might have been the one made near the end by Kevin Spacey . He gave a really nice tribute to Bobby Darin with the following statement : " My hope ( with this film ) is that we will introduce Bobby Darin to a whole generation to whom he isn't known . Quite frankly , with all those guys that were in that ' Rat Pack ' and the revival with them in these last few years , Bobby has been the forgotten one . And that's a real shame because of all of them , he was probably - next to Sammy Davis , Jr . - the greatest nightclub entertainer we've ever had . " Well , I can't comment except some guy named Frank Sinatra was a pretty good entertainer , too , but I think Spacey was talking about the whole package because Darrin could dance as well as sing . Spacey could dance , too , and had been in musicals from the young age of 14 to his early 20s , so he wasn't out of his element singing and dancing in this film . . The movie was filmed entirely in Berlin , Germany , because they had an enormous soundstage , for one thing . A pleasant surprise was find a huge park next door where they could film the other scenes . so , they did the whole movie within a 10-mile radius of Berlin . The hard part was doing the summertime outdoor scenes that were supposedly taking place in Italy . The problem was the cold spell which plummeted temperatures to five degrees . Kate Bosworth said her lips were blue , she was so cold , wearing nothing but " these little Sandra Dee summer outfits . " This movie was a five-year project for Spacey , who idolized Darin . The latter's longtime manager told him " over my dead body will anyone sing in place of Bobby " but Spacey won him over . He , and the Darin family , did all they go do to help .
Cathedral Best Part Of The Show	This was a concert in Montreal's impressive Notre Dame Cathedral . ' Impressive ' might be understating it since this church is the most spectacular I have ever seen . I'd love to see it in person . However , after the viewer has examined the magnificent cathedral , the visuals are nothing special - just shots of Luciano Pavarotti singing . The camera shots don't keep it interesting and could use the rest of it as background music while you do something else . From what I've seen , I'd take the Andrea Bocelli DVDs over this . You get a similar great voice and better visuals . The latter is why we get concerts on DVD ; otherwise just stick with a CD .
Intense , Crazy Characters But Very Talky For A Crime Film	This is mostly talk , which is no surprise since it's taken from a play . I usually don't go in for that sort of thing but the characters were so intense that it kept my interest . Having said that , it still could have used a little more action and a change of venue more than on one quick scene . This was truly a play , not a crime movie in the normal sense . By the way , the story was changed from the play . In the play , the doctor was an abortionist . To my memory , that isn't mention in the movie ( yeah , Hollywood's always been run by Liberals , so they would hide that " fact " about the abortions ) . In the movie , the doctor is simply portrayed as a poor one who delivers babies on his own as some sort of adoption ring for unwed mothers , or something like that . The scandal is that that Kirk Douglas ' wife had a baby two years out of wedlock before her relationship with her husband . Today , this would be no big deal , sad to say . Douglas plays the intense main character , " Dr . James McLeod . " His character is actually " super intense " and some of the other cops are pretty tough-sounding guys , too . The movie also made a goat out of a gung-ho " law and order " cop , making him look heartless . I guess this film was ahead of its time as we have seen that over and over since the 1960s . Some of this movie reminded of the old TV comedy series , " Barney Miller , " where all these oddballs would wind up at the police station . However , in this film that sort of thing wasn't played for laughs . There is no humor in this movie . Excellent acting - and a deep cast - made this film watchable , but not enough to be a " keeper " for me . However , if you enjoy stage plays , you should enjoy this movie .
Not Much Humor But Nice Visuals , Music	Cartoonists just love puns ; have you noticed ? Here , we begin this corny parody of " Fantasia " at " Corny-Gie Hall . " Elmer Fudd is the conductor and tells us what to expect in the concert , using as many " w's " instead of " r's " the writers could think of for a 10-second speech . We then witness the Strauss waltz , " Tales From The Vienna Woods " featuring hunter Porky Pig , his dog and their prey , Bugs Bunny . All the action is done to the music . The same holds true for the second number , " The Blue Danube . " This second part was totally lame except for the great artwork . The colors in here at stunning , and might be the highlight of the whole cartoon . The laughs were not plentiful , but you can't win them all . This cartoon is part of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume Two and can be seen on disc three .
Story Unable To Match Interesting Visuals	Visually - thumbs up ; story - thumbs down . The animated effort from the famous director-writer Hayao Miyazaki features , as usual for him , very nice animation . I especially enjoyed the beautiful colors in the landscapes , the interesting windmills , World War II bombers , strange insect-monsters and a lot more . The problem is that it's too long and , despite the decent characters and colorful animation , 116 minutes of this so-so story is too much . Combine it with a story that can be convoluted at times , way too environmentally preachy at other times ( tree huggers would like this storyline - literally ) and I can see where viewers ' minds would begin to wander or get discouraged after about 45 minutes . Nausicala is a cute little heroine , but bland , someone I just couldn't relate to , and an unnecessarily unclad for a preadolscent . The main villain , " Princess Kushana , " didn't excited me much , either . I couldn't get involved enough with the characters to sit through a two-hour animated movie and be entertained as I hoped to be . More good and bad : I liked the main voices , those of Alison Lohman and Patrick Stewart . A little humor would have helped , but there is none in here . ( Exteme environmentalists aren't a bunch of laughs . ) This should be a lot of fun to watch , but I didn't find it such .
Decent , Low-Key Spy Story	This is extremely low-key , too much for most people but I still enjoyed it . In a nutshell , it's about a British spy sent to Panama to see who is going to control the Panama Canal . The public didn't care for this movie because it was so slow-moving . Pierce Brosnan , Geoffrey Rush , Jamie Lee Curtis , Brendan Gleeson and Catherine McCormick are all actors I find interesting so I enjoyed watching them and this film , in general . My only objection was the normal Liberal bias , here making George Bush , the British and the Americans look pushy and obnoxious in their dealings to control the locks . The story is a bit confusing in spots but interesting enough to stay with for the entire 109 minutes . There are a few sexy scenes thrown in to help keep your attention . I was surprised at the number of f-words in this movie .
Interesting Character , But Not A Fun Guy	I found this fascinating when it came out . How I would feel about it now might be different , knowing Oliver Stone's beliefs and how he likes to put them on film . Back then , I didn't care . I just looked at this as a character study of a nasty and very disturbed radio talk show host who had nutty callers and was nuts himself . I have to warn viewers - and this has nothing to do with politics - after the riveting first 30 minutes , this lead character " Barry Champlain " ( Eric Bogosian ) wears thin big-time . He is so obnoxious that he makes this movie uncomfortable to watch in a number of areas . This is not fun to witness , folks , but Bogosian does a super job in the lead role . Personally , this story is so full of anger , hatred and sordidness that I wouldn't watch it again . However , if you know all this in advance and appreciate fine acting and different kind of story , it's worth checking out . Just don't expect to be uplifted !
Clouseau Has A Nose For Criminals , But That's About It	A pickpocket extraordinnaire is on the loose and the Inspector feels he can trap the criminal by flashing money around at a bar . He must have a sixth sense of where criminals are located because the pickpocket - who has four arms - is right there and quickly lifts his money . That money belonged to our buddy Deux - Deux , but there is some story involved with the cash . Deux-Deux tries to tell his boss something about it a couple of times but is always cut off . We find out at the end . Meanwhile , the shifty pickpocket seems to everywhere the Inspector is and has no trouble lifting almost everything Our Hero owns ! Clouseau seems to have a nose to where to flush out the thief , or is it the opposite - the thief tracking him ? Overall , a " fair " episode , somewhat entertaining but not particularly funny . It's on the DVD " The Pink Panther Classic Cartoon Collection , Vol . 6 - Inspector Cartoons . "
This is Not A Cute Little Kids Film !	When this came out , the amazing special-effects helped make this film a big hit , along with an interesting story with a likable little creature ( " Gizmo " ) who got the viewers involved in the story , rooting for him . However , this isn't some cute little animal picture . His offspring are anything but cute and lovable . They are downright nasty , and scary at times . Because of that meanness , violence and some profanity I do not recommend this movie to kids . The sequel I would recommend instead . That has much more of a comedic tone with less language . There is humor here , too , though , such as the clothing and actions of some of the gremlins . The film is entertaining all the way through , and very intense in spots . On my last viewing of it , several years ago , I was shocked to hear the Lord's name in vain several times by Dick Miller and once by a little kid ! That did it for me ; now I stick with the sequel .
Unique Ending Helps Save Mediocre Effort	Our boy is obviously trying to become a great violinist , as we see pages of instructions and lessons littered on his floor . After a few notes , we can tell he is anything but ready . Nonetheless , he packs his violin and heads out to a concert hall ( which looks like Albert Hall in London ) , where he promptly gets booted out . Later , however , when the real concert starts , featuring Beethoven's Fifth Symphony , the Panther sneaks back inside and sets himself up in the orchestra ! ( What happened to the Security ? ) Most of the " story " is simply the Pink Panther playing different instruments and tormenting this temperamental conductor during the concert . You couldn't root for either party as the PP had no business there and the conductor was an idiot . Although certainly not boring , I found very little funny in this cartoon but the last minute was " cute " and one of the most unique endings in this series .
' Patches ' Mends This Tired Formulamatic Comedy	Well , here is yet another sleazy PG-13 modern-day comedy that also has genuinely funny characters and scenes . For those of us who care it's a shame we have have to put up with the bad stuff if you want laughs out of about any comedy made in the last 30 years . . . . and this is a prime example . By the way , this is an " R " all the way , if any concerned parents are reading this . You need a computer to add up all the sex jokes in here and the last 30 minutes are really , really stupid . Both of those are typical , too . Yet , most of my friends said this was hilarious and to check the film out . Prior to the typically-dumb ending are some very funny moments , mostly provided by Ben Stiller's over-the-top fitness guru , " White Goodman , " a man who runs an ultra high-tech fitness center . Vince Vaughan plays the likable good guy small-gym owner who is in competition with Stiller , sort of like David against Goliath , the nerds against the jocks . . . . . another formula that is so often used these days in comedies because it's always fun to see the little guy knock off the arrogant big jerk . Christine Taylor is the token young " hottie " that you also see in these kind of pictures : skinny , pretty , but not exactly the wholesome type . Rip Torn almost steals the show as " Patches O'Houlihan , " the old man who helps coach the underdog volleyball team using some unorthodox methods . I laugh every time I think of him . In fact , " Patches " puts the added edge in this film to elevate it slightly above a " fair " rating . A lot of the humor in here is the improbableness of the whole story . Of course , it's an insult to anyone's intelligence but that's part of the charm and one does get a decent amount of laughs for an hour-and-half , so it's not all bad .
Possibly Passable For One Viewing	This was okay but nothing special . Frankly , I hate to see a young likable talent like Dakota Fanning play morose , ugly roles like this . Let her be a kid who laughs , has fun and acts like a kid , such as she did in " The Cat In The Hat . " Since then , she's playing in rougher and rougher films although " Dreamer " with Kurt Russell , I am told , is a nice film . Anyway , you know that with her and Robert De Niro , you're going to get some excellent acting . The movie also offers a lot of suspense . While it was not fun seeing a young girl mentally tortured and depressed all the time , it was nice to see De Niro play such a low-key role for most of he film . I would think , without giving anything away , that one viewing of this film would be enough , even if one likes it . Once you know the ending , well . . . . . . If you are not a big fan of either Fanning or De Niro ( I am ) , I wouldn't even give it one viewing .
Okay , But Nothing Special	With Andy Garcia , Uma Thurman and John Malkovich all playing intriguing characters , this should have been better than it was . It was okay , but nothing special . Had the main character , " Sgt . John Berlin , " ( Garcia ) been more likable to me , perhaps I would have rated it higher . He was just too excitable and profane in parts , yet remarkably composed when grilled by Malkovich's character near the end . Malkovich played " Agent St . Anne , " an annoying , nasty investigative cop who you hate . His acting is usually so good that you have no trouble believing his roles . Overall , this thriller is fine for one look , meaning more of a rental than a purchase . Note : That is not Thurman nude in the bathtub , but a stand-in . That kind of sums up the film , too - okay , but not the real thing .
Thoughts About ' 10 ' - Then And Now	Boy , this was " hot stuff " back when it came out in 1979 : I am referring to both the movie AND Bo Derek ! Actually , Dudley Moore was a box-office star , too . Nobody had heard of Derek before this , but this film certainly made her an overnight sensation . She didn't have to say anything in the film , just walk down a beach . Certainly , the number " 10 " now had a new meaning in the culture . Basically , the film is about a guy who spots Derek , and then totally makes a fool of himself over her . Most guys would have done the same thing . Moore , making an idiot of himself as " George Webber , " provided a lot of laughs and Bo had to just . . . . well . . . . just let herself be photographed . Fortunately , in real life , she turned out to be far more than just some hot - looking bimbo . I've heard her on several talk shows in recent years , and she's no dummy . . . . . and still looks tremendous . Meanwhile , Moore , who had some tough physical ailments , really didn't have a noteworthy career after this film with one exception : Arthur ( 1981 ) . The poor man died in 2002 . One forgets that a huge big-name actress co-starred with Moore in this movie : Julie Andrews . Perhaps a good part of that reason we forget that is she doesn't play a memorable character . It fact , she's downright unappealing as Moore's girlfriend " Samantha Taylor . " It's also easy to forget about some of the cultural issues songwriter " Webber " dealt with , bemoaning the shallowness of the current generation and its music tastes , and finally realizing his own shallowness won't lead to happiness just by being with a woman half his age . There are some profound things to ponder in this film even though it often concentrates on the slapstick humor angle . As a guy who has gone through the usual " mid - life " crisis , I would to sympathize with Webber's dilemmas but since this idiot is drunk half the time and an extremely self-indulgent person , I found it hard to " root " for him . Drunks have never been funny to me . So , when I watched this film on VHS 15 years later , it wasn't as fun as the fist time . Speaking of drinks , Brian Dennehy was excellent as a bartender . I wish he had played more " nice guy " roles like this during his career , instead of so many evil and profane villains . Along with millions of others , I enjoyed the movie 30 years ago , but now it's kind of sad , too slow and even painful to watch at times . For those of us who saw in the theater , the film now appears somewhat dated , but so are all of us , I guess , are dated , too .
If Only The Nazis Were This Dumb , It Would Have Been A Short War	The boys rush in the house , and we hear " Tizzy ! Lizzie ! Dizzy ! Inky ! Winky ! Stinky ! as they greet one another . The girls - all with those long early ' 40s hairdos - ask , " what's with the get-ups ? " We've signed up as sailors on a steamer , " they explain . " Kiss us goodbye . " The dodge that and Larry and Moe wind up kissing each other while Curly smooches the Saint Bernard . They get their real kisses , though , and announce " we're off to sea to see what we can see ! See ? " Yes , there are a lot of corny lines in here , as a corny dance number as they exit . Once on the boat , Larry and Moe are seasick while Curly is fine and asks them if they'd like some of his raw liver . He laughs at them , as they run elsewhere to throw up , but then it hits him . Longtime Stooges contributor Vernon Dent plays the Bosun " Duncan " who is really a German spy . Totally insane things happen from that point , such as the boys thinking a torpedo is a whale and trying to hammer it and , in the process , blowing up the ship . Yet , after surviving on a small raft for days eating beans , they wind up on a German ship ( the S . S . Shickelgruber ) with the same " Duncan " and another longtime Stooge player , Bud Jamison . Through some ridiculous turn of events in which the Nazis are made to look like total idiots ( too much so , to be fair ) , the eliminate every German on the ship ! Don't ask . . . . none of it makes sense , but that's the Three Stooges .
Wow , What An Opening . . . . . But After That ?	Perhaps the best part of this 130-minute film is the first 10 . 5 minutes . It's so spectacular that the rest of the film almost becomes a letdown . When I first saw this 10 years ago , I thought that opening action scene , capped by the most outrageous stunt I had seen to that point in film - Bond falling off a cliff and catching up in mid-flight to a falling airplane , landing in the cockpit and righting the plane - was , of course , ridiculous but great fun to watch . The rest of the film is more typical Bond silliness with far less spectacular scenes . When it comes to gadgets , sexual innuendos , unrealistic action with Bond escaping from impossible situations , lots of pretty women and exotic scenery to ogle , these James Bond films always give plenty of the above . Sad to say , in this film , the dialog is much dumber than usual and the fake Russian accents are hard to decipher which is very annoying . One good point : there is almost no profanity in this film , even minor stuff . . . . but overall , it's just a " fair " Bond flick . decent but nothing to write home about , except to note that it was Pierce Brosnan's debut as Bond and he is fine in that role .
An Unusual War Movie	For a war movie , this was a bit unusual in that almost the whole film took part in one place . You could almost make a play out of this . A group of men stay in one area trying to sabotage a bridge so the Japanese can't use it to transport supplies . Meanwhile , they have to fend off attacks by the enemy . The closing scenes feature that attack and some are quite brutal . At least half of the story is not action but melodramatic looks at the soldiers , particularly of the squad's sergeant leader Robert Taylor and one of his men who has an attitude problem : Lloyd Nolan . We also get some shorter profiles of combat men played by Robert Walker , Thomas Mitchell and Desi Arnez ( yes , Lucy's husband ) . The special effects are more than passable considering they weren't too advanced in the film industry compared to today's technology . However , credibility was a little thin as those Japanese soldiers died awfully fast in those combat scenes at the end . I swear I saw several of them drop over before anyone hit them ! Taylor was the best in this movie " army " and Walker was the annoying character , playing an extremely young and generally stupid Navy guy ( don't ask ) who never stopped talking in this irritating voice . Other than his character , this was a tough , no-nonsense war movie .
Pete Has Fun With A Silent Movie	We are taken back to the early days of the 20th Century , in simpler times , where movies were silent except for the two-piece band in the theater providing music and sound effects . We observe the hand-turned projectors which gave people movies on a screen . We are given clips of one of those old films called " Passions Of Horse-Pistol Pete " and Pete Smith , the man who presented many short comedy features , narrates the silent film for us . Rather , he explains what is going on . . . . with humor , of course , along with a couple of wild sound effects that deliberately don't match what we're seeing on screen . Pete's humor , frankly , is a bit too corny . It might have gone over in ' 41 but you shake your head and roll your eyes up listening to him now . ( However , the last minute of this silent film was very entertaining . Pete must have had fun making fun of this film . ) This " Pete Smith Speciality " short feature was part of the Marx Brothers double-bill DVD of " Go West " and " The Big Store . "
A Noirish Animated Short	Once again , this modern-day animated short is different , both in looks and in content . We see stop-motion animation of wooden mannequinsand we get narration as if we were watching some late 1940s film noir . It's pretty interesting . A man ( the narrator ) is fascinated with a contortionist who performed with the Patranski Brothers Traveling Circus . One night the girl couldn't unravel from " an intricate sailor's knot . " The narrator notes that " Magda " has a look of panic on her face , so our hero rushes from his seat and unties the girl , saving her . The crowd loves it and the owner of the circus hires our man as a new " shill . " The couple become very close as well . They make his heroics in the circus tent a nightly part of the act . However , the " cheapness , " " as he puts it , of the fake heroics ruins the relationship of the two participants and the story ends suddenly . It's like , " huh . . . . that's it ? " I loved the look of this animated short , especially all the neon and film noir look to it , but the story ends unsatisfactorily , in my opinion . Still , it's pretty interesting and I definitely enjoyed watching it . I would just like to have seen a better ending . . . . . or would it ? Maybe that's what you get with " noir " story .
Low-Class Fun Comedy-Horror Flick	This gets decent marks only for one reason : it's entertaining . Other than that , it has no redeeming value , is classless , has poor acting and even poorer dialog . . . . but sure was fun to watch a couple of times . The Leprechaun ( Warwick Davis ) has some very funny lines and rhymes and is the undisputed star of the show . There are a lot of special effects used for both comedy and for horror . This is the third of about four of these type of films , and the only one I thought worth keeping , mainly for the laughs . Eventually , the quality of the tape was so bad I canned it . Maybe I should check out the DVD , which was subsequently released . Lee Armstrong provided the female lead role and she was a pretty woman but obviously not much of an actress and few people have heard of her before or since . If you want something stupid but entertaining , a good mix of horror and comedy , this little dirty Leprechaun should fill the bill . . . . but only this edition . Don't bother with the rest in the series .
Nice Sounds In This Classic Film	The Five Pennies Danny Kaye plays Red Nichols , a famous coronet player of yesteryear . I found this story a notch better " fair " and nicely aided by the musical talent of Louis Armstrong . Kaye and Armstrong's duet on " When The Saints Go Marching In " is the highlight of the film . For a classic movie , the stereo in here is amazing , especially on the songs . In one instance , there are three people singing and their voices all coming out separately on different speakers . Pretty good for just the tape . Now that a DVD has been released , I wonder what the sound on that is like ? The story starts to lag a bit near the end when Kaye starts to feel sorry for himself and this goes on and on as he retires from playing . However , there is a nice , sentimental upbeat ending . Notes : Kaye and Barbara Bel Geddes , who plays Red's wife " Bobbie , " never age in the film even though it spans 15 or more years ! It's interesting to see Tuesday Weld as a teenager .
Cruise's Abrasive Character Ruins This For Me	Once again , here's a film I liked a lot on the first viewing , but less and less on subsequent ones and finally calling it quits after the third look . By then , Tom Cruise's character " Charlie Babbitt " was too much to take . It wasn't entertainment to listen and see his profane , arrogant , mean-spirited character . Yeah , he comes around to some decency in the end but it's too little-too late for me . Dustin Hoffman , of course , gained a lot of recognition for his idiot-savant role of Cruise's brother " Raymond Babbitt . " It's tough to root against a mentally - disabled person , even if he's math wizard . As interesting a story as this is , and as is Hoffman's acting and character , Cruise ruins this film for me . For others who wouldn't be offended , I highly recommend the movie as it's an involving story and Hoffman's performance alone is worth the rental .
Funny , But The ' Youts ' Could Have Had Cleaner Mouths	Like most people , I loved this film when it came out . I watched it and laughed all the way through it several times . I got a kick out of about all the characters , particularly Fred Gwynne , whom I always enjoyed in his two old TV series : " The Munsters " and " Car 54 , Where Are You ? " Joe Pecsi provides most of the laughs as the defense attorney . A lot of people also laughed at Marisa Tomei's character here , too . Watching this 10 years later in 2002 was kind of a shock . I had changed and now was totally offended at the extremely large amount of profanity and particularly the high usage of the Lord's name in vain ( five in the first five minutes alone ) . It's funny how you can deaf to that sort of thing . Tomei's super-Brooklyn accent , which also was funny 15 years ago , now sounds like chalk on a blackboard - just brutal . However , if the profanity or accents don't annoy you , this is a very , very funny movie and one of the more popular ones of its day . Gwynne made the word " yout " ( for youth ) funny by mocking Pecsi . It isn't just that word ; the whole film is well-remembered . I was talking about this movie to several people in recent and all of them had nothing but fond remembrances of " youts " and other humorous scenes and words in this movie .
More Charm Than Wit	Henry is walking along the streets when he spots " Betty Boop's Pet Shop . " In the window is a cute little puppy who Henry would love to own . He goes into the store , where Betty is singing , " Everybody ought to have a pet . . . . . " Unfortunately , Henry only has two cents and the dog costs two dollars . Betty makes a deal with the disappointed young boy . If he'll watch the story while she goes on an errand , she'll give him the puppy . Henry then takes charge and has a unique way of feeding the birds . After what looks like a bad incident which cost Henry the dog , he uses that unique method of bird-feeding to give the story a happy ending . I guess " cute ' would be the best way to describe this animated short in which Henry , not Betty , is the star .
' We Don't Wanna Seista ; We Wanna See Delores ! "	It's those kind of puns in the subject head above that make this Stooges-in-Mexico short humorous at times , but overall it is not one of their more memorable movies although it could have been given the Mexican locale . Mostly it's just the normal Moe sticking his figures in Curly's eyes type slapstick . The skit in which the boys have no clue what the Mexican is saying because he speaks Spanish is lame and goes on too long . Suzanne Kaaren as " Dolores Sanchez , " was pretty ; kind of a poor man's Rita Hayworth with her hairstyle , body and looks . She was offered a role as a Ziegfield girl at the tender age of 15 , and then later had her legs insured for a million bucks . . . . . so the Rita Hayworth comparison wasn't exaggerated , although Rita was . . . . . . . well , Rita . I was hoping the bullfight scenes at the end of this Stooges short would be hilarious but they were only so-so , and should have been funnier . Overall , this was okay - I did laugh out loud a few times - but not one of the more laugh-producing shorts the boys made over the years .
A Biblical-like Parable Of Greed	While others see this in a political light , the first thing that came to my mind watching this silent film was the Biblical parable about the man - to paraphrase - who wanted all his barns full and to be rich above all else , but not realizing it wouldn't do him any good if died the next day , which he did . Here , in this short story , we see a man who wants to corner the entire wheat market , and does so making him an incredibly wealthy man . However , moments after he hears the good news about how much money he's worth , he slips and falls into a grain elevator with that grain suffocating him . In addition , we see the poor people suffering because they can't afford a loaf of bread , thanks to the greedy people like this guy ( and others ) . We also see the same opening and closing scene , indicating to me that Griffith thought the best way to make a living is to work at it , and do things the right way even if it takes awhile .
Better Than What People Say	The first thing you notice is the color : " Comicolor , " to be exact . It's pretty decent considering the year this cartoon was made . Although overall nothing great , the story had it's funny moments . It's certainly a lot better than what you might read from other critics here . Perhaps they were offended at " Percy , " the gay kid who did a hilarious song and was greeted by " wooooos " at the end of his number . The teacher also was humorous , both in her song and in her movements , although I would have liked to have seen the poor little lamb exact a little more revenge on her than what was seen here . The lamb , who was ham and wanted to sing and dance , received abuse from everyone , which was uncalled for . Nonetheless , it was entertaining enough to merit a look . This cartoon was viewed on a DVD called " Cartoons That Time Forget : The UB Iwerks Collection Vol . 1 . "
Fun The First Time , A " Bomb " The Next	I liked this a lot more the first viewing . Some half dozen years later , I bought it when the DVD came out and was very disappointed . It just wasn't as good as I had remembered . The movie has its good points : interesting characters , enough action to satisfy and special effects that were pretty good for its day . A cast that has Brian Donlevy , William Bendix , Robert Preston , MacDonald Carey and Albert Dekker is pretty solid , too . What kind of grated on me with the second viewing was the dumbness of the two leads , played by Bendix and Preston . These guys , frankly , were just too stupid and annoying . The other characters were more level-headed and fine to watch . The first half hour drags , but if you can through that , it's pretty good . There are few nice scenes with men praying , too , something you wouldn't see today . In summary , a so-so war flick . One viewing is entertaining but two is too much .
Red Was A Great Ad-Libber	Red Skelton's show was a little bit like Burns & Allen in that the star would come out and give a monologue before the actual story of the episode took place . While George Burns might have talked for a minute or two , Skelton expanded that to also include a little pantomime skit . I also liked Sketon's monologues , as seen here , because they sounded so natural , not rehearsed . You know he ad-libbed certain things that would come to mind . Here , he interjects about being ill recently and show's producers surprised he showed up at rehearsals . All the time , he's laughing and making jokes about it . In all , six minutes before had elapsed before the actual " George Appleby's Garage " story began , but at 18 minutes with a lot of chaos , that was long enough . Skelton's ad-libbing in these skits seems to crack up the guest stars , particularly Jackie Coogan and they all have a good time in this " gangster " skit . It was a typical show where Red really put everything into it . I doubt if the humor , frankly , would go over today . It's sad to say but this kind of comedy has been replaced by a lot of raunchy , sex-oriented material . This stuff probably looks like caveman material to young folks of today .
Lots Of Adjectives To Describe This Movie	A very stylish but rough and profane account of gangsters ( " Dutch " Schultz and the like ) and music during the 1920s . The scene is Harlem ( NYC ) at the Cotton Club , which is still run by whites who are pictured as big bigots . Schultz , played by James Remar , is extremely coarse and profane . There are tons of Lord's name in vain abuses in this movie , many by Remar and Richard Gere . There is very hard edge to this film , sometimes a little too hard , I think . The positives are the cinematography , music , dancing and a good romance angle featuring the white leads , Gere and Diane Lane , and the black leads Gregory Hines and Lonette McKee . Gere and Hines are buddies , with Gere playing coronet and Hines tap dancing . Hines is a tremendous dancer and great to watch . You also have other " name " actors in here , such as Nicholas Cage , Bob Hoskins , Fred Gwynne , Laurence Fishburne and Allen Garfield . If the language I mentioned earlier doesn't offend you , this is a great movie .
Observations While Watching These ' Saps '	The Stooges are excited because in five minutes they are going to be married . Upon entering the house of the three ladies , who must all be sisters , they find the girls weeping . They have to call off the wedding because they just found out their father was framed and put in jail . He used to be the warden but the tables , unfairly , were turned . Their plan is to get arrested so they get inside the jail and rescue the ladies ' father , or at least get evidence of the corruption . This really wasn't a very funny Stooges short , but there were a few good lines and so I'll quote two from Curly and make a few other observations . " We're not ordinary people ; we're morons . " " My , you are a most unusual dancer . Thank you . I come from a family of dancers . My father died dancing . . . . on the end of a rope . " I did enjoy Moe's pronunciation of " fiancee ; " the baseball-type pennants on the dance hall wall that say " Joliet , " " Alcatraz , " " Sing Sing " and " Leavenworth , " Moe calling a guy in a tuxedo " pelican . " I never realized how short all three of these guys were until they were on the dance floor . Even all the women were taller than them !
' The Hawk ' Baffles The Doctors !	Being a big fan of rockabilly music , and living across the border from Canada , I am well aware of Ronnie Hawkins . " The Hawk " ( and numerous other nicknames ) is an old-time rock ' n roller who grew up in Arkansas , did an early gig in Hamilton , Ontario , and loved Canada so much he stayed there . He's been there almost 50 years now , rockin ' away . He almost didn't get to continue his music , and that's the subject of this documentary . About a half dozen years ago he was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer and was given six months to live . Many patients don't even last that long . Pancreatic cancer is a death sentence . Yet , a miracle happened and the cancer disappeared . How , and perhaps why - although that is still baffling Toronto doctors - is explained in this story . Cameras follow Mr . Hawkins into his home and we get to really know the man , his wife , his dogs and his friends . We see some of the things he goes through in the face of death . I knew The Hawk wasn't exactly Billy Graham , or Mother Teresa but I was still shocked how profane and sex-obsessed he is . Hey , most of us guys aren't exactly that different in those areas but Hawkins is extreme . It'a almost embarrassing to listen to him with f-this , f-that to everyone , including a lot of women , and constantly talking about his penis and getting erections . Whatever , the whole thing is strange . It could have been more inspirational had Ronnie been a little classier throughout the telecast . " Well , that's him , " someone explains in the movie . " He talks that way to everyone , whether they are a nun or another musician . " Well , that doesn't excuse his crude behavior nor lack of good taste and manners . One thing that amazed me . Hawkins was doing Michael Jackson's " moonwalk " long before Jackson made it famous ! Another good trait was his attitude toward life and death . He didn't sit around and mope when told he was dying . Speaking of famous people , Bill Clinton is on here a few times . Well , I know he and Ronnie have at least one interest in common , besides both being from Arkansas ! P . S . I wonder whatever happened to that mystery teen healer ?
The Cold , Hard Facts Of The Famous Escape	Bringing the Germans involved in this story - The Great Escape - to justice was the number one aim of the Brits looking for war criminals when WWII concluded . Why did this get top priority ? . Because 50 British airmen were " murdered in cold blood " by the Gestapo after this famous escape attempt . Details of that prison break are given in this documentary that accompanies the two-disc Special Edition DVD of " The Great Escape . " Some of those details are very interesting but on the whole , this 51-minute " feature " can get a slow , a little dry , but if you're really into the history of what happened , you should find this intriguing enough to stay with it . Some of it , especially near the end with stories about the murdered men , are heartbreaking . This documentary includes interviews men who were in the camp at that time and were still alive , obviously , when these interviews took place fairly recently . Relatives are also interviewed and even Germans who were involved in the massacre that followed . It was the coldest March in 30 years and there was snow on the ground on the night of the escape but they couldn't postpone it because the fake passports were all dated , so they had to go ahead despite the weather . I mention the weather but it played a key role in everything that happened , according to some of the things I learned watching this . The coldness also cost the Allied soldiers after the escape as many had to turn themselves in or face freezing to death in the outside . How much that cold weather influenced what happened , and a number of other facts , such as why 50 people were killed ( orders from Hitler ) make this a decent documentary . It's nice to know , too , that much of the movie is not made up , as so often happens in films .
No ' Groundhog Day , ' But It's Not Bad	This isn't as good as " Groundhog Day , " but it's not bad . I compare it to that film because a similar storyline with each day repeating itself . The main difference in this story is that it's a crime story in addition to the romance , and it doesn't have the likable lead characters the much more famous Groundhog Day had . Here , we get Jonathan Silverman , not exactly Bill Murray . Helen Slater , meanwhile , should have terminated her career after Supergirl . The movie also could have used a little better humor . Despite all these negatives there is something appealing about the film . Maybe it's just the interesting premise that once it hooks you in , has you to stay just so you can see if the hero is going to make everything right . For that , it gets five points but only a point for the rest . Still , if you see it on TV , check it out .
Nick Has A Bad Feeling	It was tough to get really involved with this crime story since there were no " good guys . " Everyone connected with these murders - and there were several of them - was connected , and was a low-life-type person . Who do you care about ? Nobody , in this episode . You just watch to see what happens next and how CSI and LV Det . Brass figure it out . They wind up getting help - sort of - from a guy seen in a few past episodes , a thug behind bars by the name of " Drops " ( Method Man ) . Reluctantly , Brass and Nick Stokes have to let Drops out of jail for the weekend to help track down the prime suspects . " I have a feeling we are going to regret this , " says Nick . It turns out to be a " yes " and a " no " on that score . I'll leave it at that .
At Least It Improved On The First Episode	More evidence that this forensic crime show is made mainly for twenty-somethings with the fake-hip dialog and fixations of romances / sex . If only they would just stick to the crime and the investigation ! When they do , it's good - and informative - but there so much of the crap - mainly scientists talking like immature high school kids with their dating and sex gossip , it's ludicrous . Also , for the second week in a row our feminine , ultra-intelligent female lead shows she can beat up every man . How stupid can you get ? ? ? ! Anyway , this was better than the pilot episode , which shows you how bad that one was . This week , we an Arab being blown up in his car and taking a number of people with him . It looks like a terrorist act at first , but then it's determined somebody murdered him and set off a bomb under his car . Was it the man who was having an affair with his wife , or was it his brother or was it his wife . ( It's one of those three . ) Evidence in the bones that shows a poison tips off the " good guys . "
Funny Sequel With An Evil Message	Just the title of this movie tells you that " family values " are going to be trashed . It plays up evil , as opposed to goodness , but most of it is strictly to get laughs . In all , it's a funny sequel to the first Adams Family film , very inventive and slightly more entertaining than the first film . The special effects aren't the only highlight of this comedy . You expect that from this kind of story , but I was pleasantly surprised how much the sound added to the entertainment , especially n the first half of the film . The first half is better all-around because the second half has touches of mean - spiritedness entering the picture , not just humor . The message that evil is cool and wholesomeness is stupid gets carried away and is overdone . Yes , the camp counselors are very funny but too stupid as the filmmakers use them to bad-mouth good values . That's basically the message from today's filmmakers : evil is good and good is evil . Wrap that up in a good comedy and your message gets accepted more readily . Too bad they got carried away because this movie has many funny scenes .
Bogey Battles The Germans In The Desert	I guess this is what you'd call a " man's movie , " a tough war story with no female characters in the cast . Humphrey Bogart is an effective tough-guy American sergeant leading an international group of Allies in a tank across the Sahara desert . Eventually they battle huge odds against an onrushing German forces . intent on getting water from a well that was being tapped by Bogart's crew . There are a few lulls when characterizations are made , and the anti-German fervor in here is a little overdone . However , since it made right in the middle of World War II , that's understandable . There is some good photography in here with nice shadows form the sand dunes . Overall , a pretty solid war film that has decent action without overdoing it . Complementing Bogart in he cast are the likes of Bruce Bennett . Lloyd Bridges , Dan Duryea and J . Carrol Naish
A Very Familiar Storyline	See if this doesn't sound familiar : A proclamation if offered , stating " Whosoever saves the princess from the nasty ogre , he shall marry her . Signed , The King . " Our hero - some human , not Puss or the smaller cats - of course wants to be that guy . We discover the ogre , through some magic liquid he sprays on people , has turned the princess into a small white bird , which he keep caged at home ( like Tweety ) . The Ogre , meanwhile , looks just like you'd picture : hairy , ape-like , a mouth of half-missing teeth and big muscles . He grunts a lot , too . A neat twist is what happens to the guy coming to rescue the princess , and then what happens to all three major characters when the felines come to the rescue . There are some odd scenes , such as the cats all jumping into the ogre's pants and scratching tic-tac-toe games on his butt ! I'm serious . The only thing that was kind of stupid was what the Ogre allowed to happen to himself . That made no sense and hurt the story . . . . . not that it was believable , to begin with , but it wasn't stupid until that part .
Powerful Drama But A Bit Too Talky	The story was copied many times on television shows n the 1950s . I remember seeing the Lone Ranger up against mobs , Steve McQueen and others doing the same . . . . all preaching civility amid a rioting mob out to lynch someone . Since this film was released in 1942 , it may have been one of earliest times this theme was put on film , so I can't accuse them of copying an old storyline . What sets this apart and makes it a good movie was the great dialog , especially in the early moments when " Gil Carter " ( Henry Fonda ) and " Art Croft " ( Harry Morgan ) enter a bar . The characters in here pretty black-and-white as far as their attitudes go . The three guys the mob accuses later on are made to look totally innocent , almost too much so right off the bat , so there is really no guessing done by us , the audience . Fonda was most interesting of the lead characters , along with Frank Conroy as " Major Tetley " and Dana Andrews as " Donald Martin . " Jane Darwell was a hoot as one of the more bloodthirsty of the mob members . That was a far cry from her role with Fonda in " The Grapes Of Wrath . " The film bogs down once they get to the campsite where they think they've found the murders-rustlers . At that point , it's talk-talk-talk . Even Caesar Romero as the Mexican , " Juan Martinez " says he hungry " with all this talk going on . " It makes me think they could have made this film even shorter , and it's short as it is at 75 minutes . It does pick back up the last 15 or so minutes and the reactions of the mob at the end in the bar are interesting . Fonda reads a letter one of the accused men wrote but that turns out to be very preachy , not really a note someone in his position would have written to his wife but a sermon about law and justice . Overall , it's okay but generally petered out after a good start and , like many classic westerns of the 1940s and 1950s , is too talky and melodramatic . Still , it's a powerful story , well-acted , well-directed , nicely shot ( the DVD looks good ) and the message is one to remember . If they re-shot this today , I think they'd tighten the script up a bit and add a little more action and suspense .
Runs The Gamut From Absurd To Routine	" Wardrobe " has two meanings for most people : 1 - A wardrobe ( sometimes called an " armoire " ) is a standing closet , sometimes called an " armoire " used for storing clothes . Sometimes it is in the form of a big trunk . 2 - a collection of wearing apparel ; a collection of stage costumes and accessories I know it as the second definition but in this movie , an early Roman Polanski film , it is a big " dresser , a large piece of furniture to store clothes and has a mirror in the middle of it . It looks big and tough for even two people to carry . So . . . . imagine the absurdity of the opening scene : two men appearing out of the ocean , walking to shore carrying this " wardrobe ! " That scenes sets up this strange 14-minute film , the first one of Polanski's to get public viewing . Polanski made films in Poland for the first five years of his career . I wonder what people there thought of this strange tale . This movie starts out strictly as a comedy , almost like an old silent film one because there is no dialog so all the humor is physical . However , it then delves into some other odd areas , such as animal abuse , some unexplained and non-eventful and very routine scenes with a girl , some fistfights . You just never know what will happen , all the while the two guys are carrying this huge wardrobe around . I left out mentioning a bunch of strange things so as not to spoil it . Like most of Polanski's early works , this is unusual stuff . My opinion is that many people would see this in many ways , and have a wide wide of likes and dislikes about it . One thing for sure : it's different . You can see this early Polanski effort on disc number 2 of the " Knife In The Water " DVD .
Apparently , Too Tough An Act To Follow	This " sequel " to " Meet The Raisins " was a big bust musically but still fun visually and dialog - wise . It all adds up to being " fair , " and certainly not equal to the first 30-minute California Raisins movie , which was fantastic . I admit , that was a tough act to follow . THE BAD - The main problem with this one is they abandoned the kind of songs that made this claymation rock group so much fun to watch and listen to . This sequel features seven songs , but two of them are repeats from the first movie ( video ) and the other five are all short versions of tunes that were not what the Raisins do best . THE GOOD - You gotta love the visuals and the dialog in here . There are many things to see that are funny , too much to catch on one viewing . I loved all the puns delivered here with the fruits and vegetables . OVERALL - Not bad but get all the pluses in here plus better music in the first Raisins special .
Daffy In Black-And-White	Porky's bill for two nights stay at the Broken Arms Hotel is outrageous . He's even charged separately for the " air , sunshine and goodwill ! " When the big fat French guy from the hotel comes to collect , Porky says his pal Daffy is in charge of the money . Unfortunately , Daffy has just thrown away money in a craps game . One thing leads to another and the Frenchman winds up challenging Daffy on the " field of honor . " Well , you know Daffy doesn't have a lot of honor , and they never get to that duel - just a war to see if they can get out of the hotel without paying while the big hotel manager makes sure the opposite happens . All parties take a beating in this war . In the end , Daffy calls up Bugs Bunny hoping he'll help ! It was odd to see Daffy Duck in black-and-white . In all the Looney Tunes Collection DVDs , I've always seen him in color . This was part of the Volume Three .
A Tough Call	This was made-for-TV movie shown about 30 years ago about the only American since the Civil War to be shot for desertion . Slovik ( Martin Sheen ) was a strange person and I didn't know how to react to this story , frankly . I knew Hollywood was going to give it its usual liberal bias , especially with Sheen in the starring role , so I tried to look at this objectively with no prejudices - something I don't see here with any of these reviews . Unfortunately , in trying to be totally neutral , it's easy to watch this film and come away with no definite stance . On one hand , you can't blame the military because it would be in chaos if every soldier who didn't want to fight could get out of it . That's ludicrous . On the hand , Slovik was such a nice , gentle guy , the death penalty for his actions seemed severe , too . Couldn't something else have been worked out ? I don't know , and at least I'm being honest . I never was in the military and maybe if I was , it would be an easier call . It is a tough call . . . . but at least the film - except for a couple of lulls with the romance angle - kept my attention and made me think about an issue , so it served its purpose .
Memorable , But Not Oscar-Worthy	I remember this being somewhat of a controversial film when it came out , probably because the rape scene was too graphic for many people . The subject of rape , in itself , is not new to films so it must have been the way it was presented . ( I am writing this from memory . ) I do remember the scene as extremely uncomfortable to watch . In a nutshell , Jodie Foster plays a woman , " Sarah Tobias " who goes looking for trouble in a bar and gets much more than she bargained for , being gang-raped on top of a pinball machine . She then goes to court to prosecute the men involved . This was an out-and-out " women's lib movie " and since they are given favorable press by the politically-correct media , the film got extra publicity . Even for feminists , though , this story has too many holes in it to be as credible as we would like it to be . The had a female prosecutor , of course , and Kelly McGillis just didn't cut it in that role , just not convincing . Also , with Hollywood , when you hear " based " on a true story , you know facts will be few and far between and the dramatic parts will be very exaggerated . None of this implies , by the way , that the victim deserved what she got . In fact , I hope some women learned from this movie and never put themselves in a spot where something horrific like this could happen . Alcohol and sex desires are a lethal combination and a bar with a number of drunks is not where you want to start arousing people . Jodie Foster is a fine actress but I did question her winning an Oscar over this . Too much of the Academy Awards in the last two decades have become nothing but political forums ( always favoring the latest left wing cause ) . In this case , the feminists were appeased . Foster has done better work in other films and not been recognized . Overall , I think this film is good for one viewing but a little too unpleasant for more than that .
This Special-Effects Film Needs A Re-Make	I found this very interesting in parts and very boring in others . . . . and that was awhile ago . With today's faster-paced movies , I would probably find this too much on the boring side today . The same holds true for the special effects : great in its day , nothing that much today . This movie features a well-known cast but feels like a ' B ' science-fiction film . A couple of decades later , they made another version of this called " Inner Space , " and that was more interesting . I think another re-make would be appropriate about now in the mid 2000s . With today's technology , it would look spectacular . That's the problem with movies that rely heavily on special effects : they get dated quickly . This movie might have been " fantastic " in the mid ' 60s , but not now .
Trashing Tobacco , For The Most Part	Almost half of this hour-long show seemed to be dedicated to an anti-smoking campaign . Despite being an ex-smoker ( and happy about it ) , I still thought it overemphasized here and a bit out of place . What should have been emphasized were the segments giving the history and variety of tobacco . That's what Modern Marvels does with it's other episodes , but here it became preachy instead of educational . And , as bad as they made cigarettes look , they made cigars look really attractive . Man , you wanted to rush out and buy one of these expensive stogies . It was almost a public relations account for cigars made in Latin America . They showed how each one is made and wrapped individually . Some of these babies are really expensive , too . We're talking $100 or more . Anyway , before touching on the rest of the program , it was mentioned early in the episode that tobacco is ( 1 ) adaptable ; ( 2 ) profitable ; ( 3 ) pleasurable ; ( 4 ) a tax bonanza ; and ( 5 ) a killer . Regarding the later , MM says " it's a product that if you use ' as directed , ' it will kill you . " This is the kind of thing that went for quite awhile on this anti-cigarette propaganda piece . Even as one who hates them , I was getting annoyed how biased this show turned out to be . Later , they go on to almost glorify pipe smoking and the wonderful art of briarwood handmade pipes . They mention smokeless tobacco : snuff , chewing tobacco , etc . , but barely touch on dangerous that it , too . Oral cancer , although not nearly as prevalent as lung cancer , is a big danger with people who " chew , " and cigars and pipe tobacco isn't exactly health food , either . Whatever , we see and hear about all these forms of smoking . The most interesting part of this show on tobacco was the history of it , both in the U . S . and in Europe . I wish the program had dealt more with that . Tobacco has a long , varied history . . . . and an interesting one . By the way , there are several forms of it - most of which will get you high - they never discussed .
NYPD : The First Season	Believe-it-or-not , I never watched this show until I bought the DVD when it came out . I just never watched it , even though I enjoy crime shows . Anywhere , here are my thoughts , just randomly said : David Caruso may have gotten top billing as the star of the show but Dennis Franz is the actor who dominates when on screen . He is the most dramatic figure in this crime series that features character studies , almost to the point of being soap opera-like . In fact , all the love-lives of the main characters are explored , especially as the episodes developed that first season . In the beginning , some sex scenes were used to grab viewers . This was new to TV then . All the characters in the show may not have been likable but they were all interesting . To me , the most likable was Nicholas Turturro's " Martinez . " The cops - men and women - all talked tough and the show's writers liked to insert words like " a-hole " and " prick " because , I suspect , they could get away with using them . This was TV's first drama to use words like that and have the open sexuality that was shown here . We saw side shots of breasts and Caruso's butt , etc . Speaking of Caruso , he left after this first season and that really annoyed a lot of the viewers , I am told . After an unsuccessful movie career , he landed back on his feet in TV with the very successful CSI : Miami show . Franz , meanwhile , stuck it out for the long NYPD run . I found the first season interesting but too much soap opera and not enough straight crime story didn't encourage me to buy any further season DVD sets .
Impressive Machines , And Now Very Fast , Too	I love to look at old steam locomotives and think trains look spectacular in movies . Thus , I was looking forward to this episode of Modern Marvels . It turned out to be a little disappointing , although a few things were interesting . This program got very technical on how trains are run , assembled , repaired , etc . Sometimes it got a little too bogged down in the details . Still , these pieces of machinery are so impressive , not just in looks but in function . They aren't relics of the past , either , still able to move things at a cheaper rate , for instance , than trucks . We also get glimpses of the modern-day speed demons : the TGV from France and the Maglev from China and Japan . Both trains can go 350-plus miles per hour ! Unlike the TGV , the Maglev's wheels never touch the rails . This train is powered by magnetic forces . It's pretty amazing and America is hoping to have a version of it in about 5-8 years , albeit slower but one that will alleviate big-city traffic congestion . Also in this episode are looks at locomotives which guide big boats through the Panama Canal and ones that haul tons of coal underneath the hills of Pennsylvania .
Love Is Blind	Here's a " steamy " film - at least early on - about a Cuban ( Antonio Bandaras _ who marries an American woman he had only previously written to , only to find out later she ( Angelina Jolie ) wasn't that woman but a scheming impostor ( Billy Bob found this out in real life ! ) This is nicely photographed , " lush " being the best adjective to describe it . I didn't find the story very involving , yet it wasn't boring and I could relate to Bandaras ' character . Perhaps many men could with the old " love is blind " story . This is one of those films with poor messages here and there where corrupt people live happily ever after despite their overt sins . There is an " R " version and a " unrated " version of this film , the latter being two minutes longer .
Ridiculous Ending Spoils Good Movie	Seldom has an ending been so disappointing and ruined a good film as this one . For most of the way , this was a slick thriller , nicely photographed and nicely acted . Sean Penn is outstanding in here . I like to see him play low-key characters instead of hot-headed sleazeballs . Nicole Kidman also gives a good performance . Sometimes her classic beauty hides the fact she can act . The story was pretty involving , hard to put down once you've started . My only complaint up to the ending was the obvious plug for the United Nations . This looked a public relations piece for that organization . However , then came that ending - a real insult to anyone's intelligence . In a nutshell , nobody would go the extremes they went to here to protect a visiting dignitary , using all that manpower and machinery . . . . and then leave him all alone in a room at the end ! Are you serious ? ? ? It was unbelievably stupid and ruined what had been an entertaining and somewhat - smart film .
Somewhat Routine , Until The End	For most of this program , it was more like the CSI programs in the first year or two when they made it a straight crime scene , before they slowly evolved into featuring bizarre sexual , crazy cases . However , there are sexual innuendos here by several members of the CSI team and none of them have an relevance , and , near the end , we have a " fantasy service " involvement which is a key to the case . In other words , things didn't wind up as normal as they appeared for three-quarters of the episode . Anyway , the case is simply about a man found murdered and lying outside on the loading dock of a swank casino-hotel . His neck has been broken but he has some " trace " on him that has to be figured out . That " trace " winds up being the chalk you find in pool halls used for cues . We get is the straight investigation , meaning clues from the body , then from the medical examiner , then from surveillance tapes , from evidence in the hotel room he was staying in ( after they discover who the " vic " is ) , evidence from an accident in an expensive Ferrari that the man had rented , etc . We also get the typical young , arrogant , thinks-she's hot-female who has an attitude and little in the way of morals or respect or anyone other than herself . Outside of her , we don't get a lot suspects until a little over the halfway point when we get a guy who is similar to the woman . This case isn't particularly interesting with a weak ending , to be honest , but it's detailed and makes you appreciate ( if this is accurate ) all the effort that goes into solving a crime .
Humorous , But Hard To Follow If You Haven't Read The Book	If you scan the first hundred reviews of this movie on this website , I think you'll see the words " disappointed " and " disappointment " more than any other adjectives . I , too , found it the same . I have not read any of the books , but I've seen - and enjoyed - the four previous movies , so I expected to full enjoy this one . This film disappointed me because ( 1 ) - I felt the story was nothing I could make a lot of sense out of , since I hadn't read the 800 or 900-page book . If one didn't read the book and knew this story , it was easy to get lost about a number of things in here . The screenplay was " choppy , " hard to follow in spots . Some of the things , like the death of Sirius Black , happened so fast I didn't know exactly what happened . This was just too uneven and rushed to keep us non-HP readers interested , story-wise ; ( 2 ) - Harry wasn't the nice little kid throughout most of it , and he admitted it - that he was angry most of the time . Well , I agree , and he wasn't fun to watch , as he had been in the other films . I am used to a good-kid HP , not an angry teen ; ( 3 ) - His two closest buddies , Ron and Hermione , looked like they mailed in their roles , especially Ron who looked like he was half-asleep during the film . ( Maybe he was pouting because he had so few lines , who knows ? I wouldn't blame him , frankly . ) ; ( 4 ) I get tired of filmmakers giving us the rebel-as-hero and authority figure-as-villain . Enough is enough on that theme , which is so heavy-handedly presented here it becomes ludicrous . ( 5 ) If you are going to have a major villain , SHOW him , don't hide him for 99 percent of the film , which is what they did here with Voldemort . On the positive side , I DID get enjoyment out of all the little special effects , many of which were humorous and always fun to watch . I got a kick out of many of the new faces in the film , and it also was fun to see some characters we had seen only in perhaps one previous film , such as Emma Thompson's teacher role . I also thought the music was outstanding : the best I've heard in the five Potter films . I wonder how many others appreciated it in here ? All in all , it was visually fun to watch and hear , as all the HP movies have been , but the story was just not entertaining as much as the others .
Very Entertaining But Very Blasphemous	Well , here is the " horny little devil " getting his due . He ( " Darryl Van Horne " played expertly by Jack Nicholson ) gets in his philosophies and beliefs for much of the film . He gives us mostly feminist ( overly so ) Left Wing rants and does so in crude manner but the women don's seem to mind because they are crude themselves . One look at the cast ( Nicholson , Cher , Susan Sarandon , Michelle Pfeffer and Veronica Cartwright ) tells you this script was not written by members of the DAR ! These are all very liberal people with liberal viewpoints . Sex jokes abound throughout ans the women casually talk about the size of men's penises , etc Although Nicholson - The Devil - gets it in the end with some voodoo nonsense , he still comes out looking like a pretty cool guy . That's no surprise , coming from Hollywood . The only person in this story who knows from the start that he's the Devil ( the others are clueless most of the time ) is the Christian woman ( Cartwright ) but of course she's pictured as some wide-eyed lunatic . The actors are fun to watch , it's an interesting story but for any Believer , this movie is blasphemous , big-time . For the secular crowd , which means most people , this is a fun movie .
A Tongue-In-Cheek Film For ' Evil Dead ' Crowd	This is the third and final installment of the " Evil Dead " series . Like the second in the series , it was filled with " campy " humor . With director Sam Raimi , you know it's done with a lot of tongue-and-check , if not totally tongue-in-cheek . If not , it would have to be classified as one of the all - time dumbest movies ever made . If it weren't the language ( Bruce Campbell , in the lead , provides lots of profanity ) , this would be a film little kids would love with all the non-stop action and Three Stooges-like slapstick humor . The violence is so prevalent it just gets too much and the film is only 80 minutes long ! The humor helps take off some of the edge of the violence . What you have is a medieval-horror-comedy film with Campbell fighting an army of skeletons , a la Jason And The Argonauts . Campbell is best at making goofy faces . Embeth Davidtz provides the romantic interest .
Dumb & Dated . . . . But Love Those Skeletons and Special-Effects !	Wow , does this movie had incredibly stupid dialog ! This is a Class B film with , yes , a capital ' B ' but it was still fun to watch , thanks to a decent amount of action and the special-effects . The latter were done by the famous Ray Harryhausen and many think this is his greatest work . They were great in its day but are dated now . However , you can still get a lot of enjoyment out of watching this and that especially goes for kids . Nevertheless , it ; s almost a " campy " kind of picture . . . . so corny it's good for the adults . The fighting skeletons ( from Jason & The Argonauts , this being the same type of thing ) are still fun to watch and seems to be the trademark of these Harryhausen mythical films . Kathryn Grant , meanwhile , provides the female beauty . Kerwin Mathews , Richard Eyer and Torin Thather are the male leads . Lots of big names , eh ? ?
Hip ? Cool ? Different ? Maybe , But Also Frustrating	This was " okay , " but frankly overrated by the national critics . Because the story ran backwards , I guess that was supposed to be cool or hip or something . If you make things too hard on the audience and most get confused on what's happening , it makes the elitist critics feel good because they " understand it " and thus feel superior . It's so much hogwash . Having said , I didn't say I didn't find the movie interesting . I did , and enjoyed the performances of Guy Pearce , Joe Pantoliano and Carrie-Anne Moss . A man with no short - term memory goes back , scene-by-scene , trying to find the killer of his wife . It's a film I saw back in 2001 on VHS and I'd like to see it again , now that six years have passed since then . I understand one of the special-edition DVDs of this showed the movie in the correct time sequence without all the flashbacks . That might have been less-creative , but better . However , be warned : this is a frustrating film to watch for first-time viewers .
' Not For All Tastes , ' As They Say	What a wacky movie ! It gets most of the " stars " in the rating here for the entertainment value of the film . As low-brow as it is in spots , you never get bored watching it . In a nutshell , Jim Carrey plays a schizophrenic Rhode Island state trooper . There are lots of outrageous scenes in this film , most of them in the first half . Some , such as with the cows or Carrey taking a poop on a neighbor's lawn , are memorable in a perverse way . Rene Zellweger is too profane to begin with , but she settles down as the story goes on . She and Carrey sure make an " odd couple . " We get the PC baloney here of the black characters all being smarter than the white folks . The black kids cannot speak a sentence , however , without some profanity it it . The people who made this film are known for their sleazy comedies . That overall sleazy feel to this dark-slapstick comedy makes me hesitate to recommend it , but if a lot of " language " doesn't bother you - or dildo jokes , believe-it-or-not , this will entertain you .
Only Disappointing Star Wars Film , But Still Decent	This was the only Star Wars film of the six in the series that disappointed me . I still like it , overall , but the teen romance didn't do anything for me and took away from the normally more interesting story lines . The romance doesn't take up a lot of time but it features a lot of stupid dialog and leads to a stupid finish in the film . On the positive side , this film offers good action scenes and excellent artwork and special effects . Some of the scenes are just stunning to view . Some , to be fair , look too computer-generated but overall it's a fun movie to look at , as it is to hear with some outstanding surround sound . The better the speakers ( and a sub-woofer ) , the more awesome this movie . I'd like to see this on large-screen plasma set , too , to get the full effect of the visuals . The more the series went on , the better the technology to present them and this was the second-last of the saga . " Attack Of The Clones " is the only Star Wars episode I have only seen once . Perhaps a second look will bring it up to some of the others , especially now that I am so familiar with the whole story .
A Rebellion Against " Authority "	This was pretty good entry in the Val Lewton Horror Collection , even though it's anything but " horror . " This film is a straight drama , almost a film noir about a paranoid sea captain ( Richard Dix ) who eliminates anyone who disagrees with his " authority , " a key word in this movie . Russell Wade is the captain's protégé , and the story really centers around him and the conflict he has with his boss after he begins to find out what a violent nutcase he happens to be . Along the way , it was noteworthy to see Lawrence Tierney play one of the captain's victims . Also good was Jacob " Sparks " Winslow as the ship's radio operator . This is an involving film as we root for Wade to expose this captain and to convince others that the man with the " authority " is an evil person .
Mildly Amusting Animated Effort	" Mildly amusing " is probably the best description of this recently-released ( on DVD ) animated feature . My reviews on animated movies are what I thought of it as an adult , and how adults would relate to it . For this one , I'd say this is not a film adults will run out and buy : rent - yes / maybe ; purchase - no . The animation and story might be something kids will still enjoy but most of the gags fall flat for adults , although it does have a few clever things in it . It just isn't up to some of the truly funny animated films of the past few years . That said , it was still fun to watch with some humorous drawings in the background that you have to watch for quickly . As for the story , for a film with a lot of politically-correct messages , stereotypical characters , Liberal icons plugged , etc . , it was surprising to see a commonsense " if it ain't broke , don't fix it " conclusion . Kudos for that , but there are just too many dumb parts in this story . The connection of a talking bee with a human girlfriend was too ludicrous to be entertaining , as were the courtroom scenes . The animation was fair . Yes , a story with flowers as a key ingredient is going to be colorful , so there is plenty of color but it looked kind of washed out and blah to what it could have been ( i . e . " Cars , " " Polar Express , " etc . ) . I expected more out of a Dreamworks film . Overall , for adults : skip it . It just isn't funny enough to invest your time . For the little kids , sure - they'll like it . They like almost almost any animated movie .
The Good & Bad Of ' Snow Falling On Cedars '	As the referees say on pro football TV games , " On further review . . . . . . " That's the way I thought after my second viewing of this movie . GOOD NEWS - On the first look , I was totally blown away and dazzled at the fabulous cinematography . Man , this is one of the prettiest movies I've ever seen . . . . . and that's important for my entertainment . Scene after scene looks like some picture postcard . I also enjoyed the two lawyers in this film , played by James Rebhorn and Max VonSydow . Sometimes those two were riveting to watch . BAD NEWS - Most of the story was anything but riveting , way too slow and with way too much time used on flashbacks . This story could have been told in a much more presentable way which could have kept the audience's attention . It's also a little too politically-correct . We were beaten over the head with the prejudice against Japanese . Everyone here , except the Liberal newspaper editor and his son , is portrayed as extremely bigoted . Overall , a spectacular visual film - one of the best ever - but a story that takes interminably long to tell . . . . . too long .
Nothng But Nastiness	This is a nasty movie - very nasty . It's extremely profane and doesn't feature a nice guy in the bunch , just a bunch of extremely low-life profane people . Bill Paxton , William Sadler , Ice Cube , Ice T and whatever other stupid rappers name you can think of cuss and shoot each other in an abandoned warehouse for much of the film . There is no one to root for and Paxton's character is the only one who has at least a shred of conscience . Also , this is a Walter Hill-directed film so you know you're going to get a lot of violence . I also didn't care for the rap soundtrack , although it wasn't overbearing or too loud . Having said all that , the film did keep my attention , to say the least . I have to admit : this was a very interesting story . If you're in a violent , testy , irritable , hostile mood and you want a movie to go with it , this is it ! Not really recommended but better than I've described it above . Just b ready to have your ears assaulted .
Not Really A Noir , But A Decent Drama With A Different Setting	Barbara Stanwyck , Paul Douglas , Robert Ryan and Marilyn Monore : wow , not a bad leading foursome of actors ! I bought this because it was labeled a film noir , and I am always willing to give them a chance . Plus , with this cast , it sounded good . It turned out to be only fair because it was more of a soap opera than a noir . I guess the presence of some amoral people and a lot of wise-cracking lines made it be considered " noir . " The " amoral " people were played by Stanwyck and Ryan , of course . . . . . who else ? They are effective in those roles , too , but they should be since those two fine actors played those roles on numerous occasions . Douglas plays the simpleton good guy who gets shafted by his wife Stanwyck who has an affair with Ryan . Monroe and her boyfriend ( played by Keith Andes ) have a smaller role but are just as fascinating a couple , of not ore so than the leads . The final third of this movie didn't match up the first two-thirds or this would be rated at least a 9 simply because of the great dialog in that first hour . There were so many good lines I couldn't count them all . I just wish it had stayed that way all the way thorough . The fishing docks of San Francisco certainly was a different site , too , for a noir . To me , this should be simply classified as a " drama . "
More Comedy Than Mystery	This late-entry Charlie Chan movie gets marks simply for the entertainment , not for a deep-thinking suspenseful " whodunnit . " It's just fun to watch with an always-smiling daughter ( played by Frances Chen ) replacing number-whatever-son and the eyes-popping-out-of-the-head Mantan Moreland adding humor , although of his humor is a bit stupid ( and insulting to black folks , I'm sure ) . However , Moreland is a likable guy so it's hard to get annoyed at his silliness . The story is a familiar one of the day , about the occult ( seances ) and , thankfully , another that exposes the mediums as crooks . These Sidney Toler-Mantan Moreland collaborations , as opposed to the early Warner Oland / Charlie Chan movies , replied more on comedy and gimmicks rather than brains , and once you accept that , you just go along with an entertaining hour of lamebrain fun , especially when Chan starts to put people down with his sarcasm .
Sleazy & A Bit Stupid But Entertaining Overall	A deep cast playing wacky characters makes this a fun film for most of the way , except the last 20-30 minutes when the sleazy jokes , sleazy situations and stupid stereotypes go overboard and almost ruin the entire viewing experience . ( Why do movies usually overdo things in the last 20 minutes , whether it's comedy or an action film ? ) All the sex jokes are not untypical of today's comedies in which marriage is made out to be nothing but a joke , morals are at their lowest and we have to listen to 10-year-olds are smart-mouthed kids . However , to be fair , there are a lot of funny scenes and remarks in this film . I liked Catherine O'Hara in here , along with Hector Elizondo and Chazz Palminteri . I never realized the latter was such a good comedian as I had only seen him play gangster roles . All the characters are meant to be absurd and biggest example of that was Elizondo's character , " Norman Rutledge " who had the best lines in the movie . In all , ludicrous and stupid but entertaining enough to recommend a rental .
Hosers Get A Bit Repetitive , Eh ?	Boy , this was a fun movie to watch once , at least for me . Additional viewings just didn't have the comedic effect that first one did . It's like good beer that has gone flat . Maybe because by the second viewing I knew I was going to hear " eh " 5 , 000 times and " hoser " about 500 times . It's fnny at first , but gets a little too annoyingly repetitive after that . It's like , " Ok , we get the joke ! " The movie starts off funny , somewhat of a forerunner of a Wayne's World flick with the boys pretending to be in a film or on TV . Here , the two " stars " are Rick Moranis and Dave Thomas , both of whom make light of a couple Canadian guys who love their beer , and little else . Everyone is a " hoser " and every sentence ends in " eh ? " Actually , as one who lives close to the border and has been in Canada many times , I laughed at that stuff on the first viewing . However , that - and the lame gags in here - got just too stupid and plain dumb on subsequent viewings . Yes , I even gave this a third look about a month ago , but only lasted about a half hour . I canned the tape and " cracked open a cold one - a beer not mentioned in the movie but a big favorite around these parts : a Labatt's Blue . It was a lot better than the film .
A Real Mixed Bag Of Good & Bad	A typical early James Bond movie , filled with beautiful women , a sexist and suave spy can who can do little wrong ( Sean Connery as Bond ) , a few gadgets and a lot of action scenes . The gadgets , which are always fun , were fewer in number than usual , I am sorry to say . The action scenes , although interesting , had absolutely no credibility . Of course , that isn't anything new but they are particularly ludicrous here . Our hero eliminates almost everyone while no one hits him ! Also , there are a number of scenes in which Bond escapes from impossible situations and they never show how he did them . All of a sudden , he's pictured somewhere else . In addition , with so many foreign accents , it was difficult to understand the dialog , at least on tape when I last viewed this . Perhaps the DVD has English subtitles , which would help immensely . Otherwise , the filmmakers keep this lively story moving fast most of the time and if you are a male who likes ogle pretty women , you have a lot to choose from here beginning with Claudine Auger . Aftter a good start , the second hour of this film was disappointing . Overall , I'd have to say the same thing after watching the previous Bond class , " Goldfinger . "
Pretty Good On Its Own , But No ' Lonesome Dove '	This is something of a poor man's " Lonesome Dove . " The story is a combination of two Louis L'Amour novels and doesn't have the intensity of Larry McMurtrey's aforementioned " Dove , " nor the beautiful cinematography . The best part of " The Sacketts " is the cast , led by some of the best actors to ever play cowboys . I mean , this is worth owning alone just to see Sam Elliott , Tom Selleck , Glenn Ford and Ben Johnson all in the same story . These guys - especially Elliott and Selleck - were always fantastic playing cowboys . Not only that , you get classic stars such as Gilbert Roland , Mercedes McCambridge , Ruth Roman , Jack Elan , Slim Pickens and more ! Wow - impressive . Being a made-for-TV film , you don't get much profanity or blood and for most of the film , you get two separate stories going on at once . One story features Selleck and Jeff Osterhage as brothers and another as Elliott , as the older brother involved with his own adventures . Even though I can't compare it favorably to Lonesome Dove , it's still a decent western on its own merits .
First Viewing Was A ' Blast '	Here's a film I really liked the first time , and was totally turned off on the second viewing as the Hollywood bias machine was in high gear again , and you can guess in what director ( left or right ) . Anyway , two things remained the same : John Travolta as " Gabriel Shear " was riveting as an anti-terrorist terrorist . The explosion scene where people are flying sideways is awesome , particularly in the sound department if you have surround system . Oh , and yes , Halle Berry and her figure was on display in this film and quite a sight . Wowzer ! Some of this script is a takeoff on Dog Day Afternoon , which Travolta's character re-enacts a role from that famous ' 70s film . " Shear " talks about that movie during the film . I almost got discouraged watching this in the first half hour because there is so much computer terminology that I was lost . However , if you find yourself in a similar spot , take heart because that that ends after that first 30 minutes and is no longer a problem . Credibility and bias aside , it's still a fun movie for at least one viewing , with that early bomb scene most memorable .
Dumb , But Entertaining & Much BetterThan ' Flight Plan '	This was a decent thriller aboard an airplane in which our " hero , " Rachel McAdams as " Lisa Reisert " saves the family of the Director of Homeland Security and the life of her own dad . She does all of this against a terrorist and his group . Yeah , I know . . . . a little far-fetched . . . . and annoyingly PC as a young woman consistently beats the crap out of a male psycho who is using her to complete the assassination attempt . Outside of that nonsense and a slow first 30 minutes , the last hour is a fun ride . McAdams sports a pretty , fresh face and a sweet demeanor except with a few bursts of profanity at the end . Up to that point , she was refreshing to see as you don't often see 20-ish movie actresses looking wholesome anymore . Cillian Murphy is creepy looking and effective as the bad guy " Jackson Rippner . " Once the film kicks into gear as Murphy shows his evil intentions , the film switches from a yawner to a suspenseful action flick and stays that way until the end . Then , they tack on a really stupid last few minutes with a very un-realistic middle-aged couple just to the end the film with a cheap laugh . Overall , a dumb but entertaining movie but at least a whole lot better than the year's other " airplane movie , " the horrible " Flight Plan . " Still , knowing the quality of horror work director Wes Craven has produced over the year , I was a bit disappointed .
A Tribute To Friz & ' Birds Anonymous '	Friz Freleng wrote and directed all the Tweety and Sylvester cartoons , we are told in this behind-the-scenes documentary , which was part of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection DVD set . Freleng is seen here , which is nice for cartoon buffs since the man was one of the legends in the business . Freleng comment , " I liked Sylvester because he was the fall-guy and all the gags came from his failures . " The one " Tweety and Sylvester " cartoon that is given extra treatment here is " Birds Anonymous , " the Oscar-winning one in which Sylvester tried to go against his nature and treat the bird nicely . It's a spoof of Alcoholics Anonymous and Mel Blanc did about 15 voices in this one , according to his son Noel . The artwork and sound also is recognized for this particular cartoon . This bonus feature really was more of a tribute to Freleng than a comment on the popular cartoon . This feature , seen on the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume Three DVD , was okay , but I was looking for an insight into " Tweety " and " Sylvester " characters , and that wasn't here .
Frank Tashin Gets His Due	Frank Tashlin was one of the founding fathers of the Looney Tunes , helping the set the style for the these famous cartoons . He worked with Tex Avery and other big-shot who provided these great cartoons that we still enjoy today . In this behind-the-scene look , film historians pay tribute to this great animated director of Warner Brothers cartoons and explain who he was , what kind of guy , what kind of humor he preferred , how he worked up the ladder from copy boy to animator to director . His first directed short was " Porky's Poultry Plant . " Frank and came in around the same time as another big name : Tex Avery . Both guys shared a wacky sense of humor ! Tashlin is different from most animators in that he spent the last few decades as a director for live-action films ( regular films ) and made hit movies with Bob Hope , Jerry Lewis , Doris Day , Rock Hudson , Jayne Mansfield and others . As someone who appreciates great visuals , it was interesting to be informed and to see the Art Deco designs and other forms of artwork Tashin used in his cartoons . He may not have the big name in animation that Avery has , but he was close in talent . Some people might find this " documentary " boring but I thought it was pretty good . You can see it on the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume Three DVD .
Keeping Abreast With Claudette	Actually , this movie was better than I thought it might be . ( Sometimes lower expectations help ! ) It had some good dance numbers , almost Busby Berkeley-like extravaganzas held in Cleopatra's barge . It also had a few decent action scenes and a fairly good and easy-to-understand story . Claudette Colbert and few others surprised me a bit by showing off quite a bit of cleavage , but then this was released just before the Hays ' Code was in effect . Colbert was not shy : she had been nude in an erotic milk-bath scene two years earlier in " The Sign Of The Cross . " Warren William , as " Caesar , " and Henry Wilcoxen , as " Marc Antony , " both overacted and looked almost like silent film characters with all the makeup . They were terrible . Why this film won an award for cinematography , I don't know . Perhaps it was the elaborate sets by Cecil B . DeMille that caught people's attention . If you are a fan of classic films , this is one to definitely check out .
The Good & Bad Of ' The Last Embrace '	This film certainly had a memorable scene with a man clinging for his life with Niagara Falls below ! It's always stuck with me , even though it has been a long time since I've seen the movie . I've been waiting for this to be released on DVD so I can see it again , but as of now it's only available in Region 2 . It might be fun again just to see veteran actors Christopher Walken , Mandy Patinkin and John Glover in a film made 30 years ago . Director Jonathan Demme has done some interesting films since then , too . Most of the story involves " mysterious " people chasing others and if I went into it in any detail it would ruin things for anyone who hasn't seen it . That's especially true because there are so many twists and turns in this story . However , to be frank , I think Hollywood has overdone " conspiracy theory " movies , of which this is one . I also think the profanity could have been lowered in here , especially by Roy Scheider's character " Harry , " and the film would still have been just as intense . What I really appreciated , more than the actors or story , frankly , was the photography and Demme's direction . There were a lot of really interesting camera angles , shots that zoomed in an out and other gimmicks that I usually fall for . There were enough of them to carry the first hour , at least . Living not too far from Niagara Falls , I was glad to see that in the climactic finale .
OK , But Not One Of Burt's More Memorable Films	Although this was a fast-paced pretty interesting crime story , it was not memorable , which is probably one reason there are so few reviews here . Burt Reynolds was perfect for ' 70s film world of film in which just about anything was shown or heard now that all the restrictions were removed . Burt , as he did in this film , would sleep with any girl that came along . In one scene , Reynolds enters a bookstore , sees the clerk has a " nice pair of boobs , " so they have sex immediately right at the store . Only in the sleazy ' 70s of Hollywood ! ( Or in most men's dreams . ) Actually , Burt excelled in films that combined action and humor , which this has but not enough to make this one of more-remembered movies . However , it does have very little nudity despite the above paragraph and no blasphemy . The best part of the movies might be the final action scene which provides two laugh-out - loud scenes .
Wise Up , You Fool ! ! !	This is a strange movie , perhaps because there is so little of a story in it , and at the same time keeps your interest through different visuals and witnessing a woman in action who seems to lack any kind of conscience or morals ( hence , the title ) . By " different " visuals , I mean that many scenes are congested , if that's the right word . You have to look through streams of confetti , tree branches , vast crowds , or whatever on at least 33 percent of the movie . Few shots are clear ones , except closeups of the star , Marlene Dietrich , or the two men involved with her , Lionel Atwill and Caesar Romero . This is especially true in the first 10 minutes of this 80-minute film in which we view a chaotic carnival going on in the streets of Spain . The DVD picture , however , was sharp and overall this is a good visual film . Many scenes reminded me of shots you'd see in film noirs , a decade or more after this movie was made . Much of the story is told in flashback as Atwill , an older man , sits down at a table and tries to talk young-stud Romero out of getting involved with the evil " Concha " ( Dietrich ) , recounting the horror stories he endured while trying to woo that woman . Dietrich plays one of the most shallow people you will ever see on film . She only uses the older man to get his money ( gosh , do women do that in real life ? ) and discards other men like one would a chewing gum wrapper . She treats Atwill like dirt , cheating on him at every opportunity . She makes no secret of it , hurting him deeply each time , but the poor sap keeps coming back for more ! In fact , he usually comes back begging ! ! From a man's point , it's almost maddening watching this movie . I wanted to reach into the screen , grab Atwill and slap him , saying , " Wake up , you fool . " His absolutely pathetic weakness with this woman was frustrating for me to watch . Dietrich is so devoid of character , she's almost mesmerizing to watch . I can't believe some of the cold , callous remarks that slip off her tongue as if they meant nothing and she had said that a million times . Maybe she had . The film is aptly titled as the devil is described in the Bible as someone who can make harmful things look the most alluring to us . That seems to be the theme in this film : man is weak and a beautiful woman can make him do things he will regret . Atwill's " Pasqualito " ( as Concha calls him when she wants something ) is the supreme example . Despite all the warnings , Romero's character chases after the woman , too . Atwill becomes instantly jealous when he hears about it ( he can't quit her no matter what he promises ) and a duel ensues . At the very end , we get another big surprise from Dietrich .
To Beverly , Bruce & Lon : ' See You Later , Alligator ! '	The very good last third of this film and an outstanding ending made this movie worthwhile for me to watch . One has to be patient in some of these classic films , as many of them begin rather slowly . . . . . but there is a reward if you stick with it . This story is told in flashback as a woman " Joyce Weber , " played by Beverly Garland ) is given an injection and relates to two doctors the amazing story of what happened to her and her missing husband . Garland did well and looked terrific . She was a little over 30 years of age at the time she made this film . Sadly , she just died a few months ago ( as of this review ) at the age of 82 . She has a long resume of movies and TV shows . Lon Chaney plays a goofy role , a man who is obsessed with shooting alligators after one had the nerve to eat his hand . He makes a play for Beverly in one scene , trying to get her drunk and have his way with her . Can't blame the poor slob . Bruce Bennett , who plays the main doctor here , also died recently , passing away at the age of 90 in 2007 . Bennett did some great 1940s films like " Mildred Pierce " and " Dark Passage , " plays the main doctor . George Macready , whose best days were behind him , too , ( " Gilda " is my favorite film of his ) is the other doctor , who is there to witness " Joyce's " story as it is told under some sort of truth serum . Lesser-known Richard Crane plays the " Paul Crane , " the alligator man . The title of the film is a bit misleading . " Alligator People " imply plural - more than one , but there really is only one alligator man in this film , and he only looks like a guy with a bad sunburn and acne ! At the end , though , Crane dons a rubber suit with an alligator head that will have you howling - in laughter , not fear ! The other alligator-men are only shown as patients lying in their beds . It's all part of a man-plays-God experiment in which the good doctor is trying to help people who are desperate straights . Without giving the last 25 minutes away - which was very good - along with particularly excellent ending that had some intelligent twists to it - suffice it made up for the earlier slower moments .
Great List Of Guest Stars , But Needed More Zip	Walter Winchell sets this episode up right in the beginning with a narration that explains that " Geographically , Chicago always had its North and South side . In the early 1930s these terms had a very special significance . They referred to the territories of rival gangs . . . . . . the line of demarcation was never clearly drawn and territories overlapped and were often in dispute . The result : gang wars . " After the last one , a newspaper writer , Jake Lingle , gives the details of it and is shot the next day . It is first time that the mob has killed a reporter , and the public is furious . This then , is the story of what happened afterward . Jack Lord ( Hawaii Five-O ) , Charles McGraw and John Beradino , three famous actors of the 1950s and 1960s ( McGraw goes back to the film noirs of the late ' 40s ) are guest star in this episode . None of them play " good guys . " although Lord's character proves otherwise in some respects . He's the most interesting of the people in here as the double-dealing " Hagen , " who winds up working for Ness but not liking it . It turns out the newspaper guy who was killed wasn't on the up-and-up , either , but Ness and boys race for time before the public hears about that , hoping to capitalize on the furor of the murder . Overall , an episode that should have been better considering the premise and the interesting guest stars . It's main fault : too talky .
A Lot Of Funny Little Things , But A Somber Story Overall	This had its funny moments , as almost all the shows had , but overall left a bad taste in my mouth , perhaps because we are forced to see an unpleasant situation with a character we like . . . and the story isn't over . Capt . Stottlemeyer ( Ted Levine ) is having marriage problems . His wife is acting very distance , strange and the captain doesn't know why . It even looks like she's seeing another man , especially after a new cop in the precinct brags about fooling around with her . Meanwhile , there is a case to be a solved and that involves a homeless man living in a junkyard , a crime boss , two murders , a pet mouse , anger management classes and other assorted interesting things . Unfortunately , even though that is the bulk of the program , Levine's marriage is really the issue here and it's not a pleasant ending . Frankly , I wish these crime shows would stick to just that instead of having to including soap opera stuff here and there , but they admittedly add a strong human element to the stories and characters .
The Beginning Of ' The Numbers Game '	The time is Oct . 19 , 1932 : the depth of the Depression in the U . S . , which was a perfect time for gangsters to offer " the numbers . " For desperate people , looking for any kind of unforeseen hope , a little financial break even for a day or two , this lure to put money down on a number from 0 to 999 was tough to resist . The mob made an absolute fortune on this . Their take was 40 percent , so the profit had to be big . Elliot Ness ' objective , of course , is to break this number's game . He's hoping a friend of fellow agent " Martn Flaherty " ( Jerry Paris ) will help him do so , but Marty is not happy about leaning on an old friend . Nonetheless , when an old man kills a racketeer in a rage over a wrong number , Ness knows more than ever that something has to be done about this new crime gimmick That , and the fact that many people spent their family's bread money to gamble it away on " numbers . " Jay C . Flippen and Darryl Hickman play " Al " and " Phil " Morrisey , respectively . They are father-and-son numbers runners and they are the key to the storyIt's a decent episode but like a lot of these that I am re-visiting 40 years later , a lot slower than I remembered . It's just that times have changed and movie and TV shows are faster - paced than they were in the 1950s and ' 60s
One Dollar For A Trip To The Moon & Back !	This must have looked pretty spectacular to audiences at the theater in 1935 . The color animation is pretty good and it just has a lavish appearance to it and , as far as I know , most material on screen was in black-and-white , including cartoons . We begin by spotting a big heart-shaped sign which advertises " Honeymoon Express To The Moon . " It is next to a big rocket ship , which looked , by the way , very cool . This was the era of Flash Gordon , wasn't it ? It reminded me of his old ship . Hey , you can't beat the price for the trip : $1 to go dancing on the moon . Such a deal ! Cows , elephants , insects , giraffes , etc . , are all on the ship , ready for a night of dancing . They are still in the wedding gowns and tuxes . The male giraffe tells his bride that this is a good place for necking and then she , with her longer neck , gives her Mae West impression with " Come up and see me some time . " Other than that , there wasn't a lot of humor in here . One of the brides - a cat - was left at the gate , so to speak , so the husband pines away on the moon . The music , which plays a large part of this , is right out of the early ' 30s Busby Berkeley musicals , except we had about eight couples dancing instead of hundreds . In all , a curiosity piece but not funny and only mildly entertaining . The ending was awful and unsatisfying .
Can You Say ' Preposterous ? " ( But Lots Of Fun )	There are so many adjectives one could use describing this film , I wouldn't know where to begin to start . I'll just try to limit them to a few . The headline here states one of them . Others could be " ludicrous , " " fun , " " amusing , " " stupid , " etc . You get the idea . Robert Rodriguez took the profits from his first film , " El Mariachi , " and continued on with the story now with more funds , so he made it glossier , more explosive , added some name actors and , of course , way overdid it , making it almost a cartoon it is so outrageous . He continued this with the third film , " Once Upon A Time In Mexico " which is even more of the same . If something worked subtly the first time , filmmakers think that to improve on it is by bombarding the audience with it the next time . They don't know when enough is enough and , boy , does that apply to Rodriguez . He does keep you entertained , though , once you check your brains at the door and begin watching the show . However , all this excess makes it lose any credibility " El Mariachi " might have built up with the first show in this trilogy . Whether the movie is really dumb or its just tongue-in-cheek humor by Rodriguez , it has super-style and fun to watch . Talk about stylish ! No wonder Quentin Tarantino and he are good friends and the latter has a guest appearance in the film . They both love having fun with the cameras . The first eight minutes let you know what you are in for : outrageousness . It's an 8-minute scene at a bar involving a story told by Steve Buscemi . It's one of the highlights of the movie . Antonio Bandaras and Selyma Hayek are the " good guys " but they aren't exactly Billy Graham and Mother Teresa . If they are the good guys , you can imagine how evil the " bad guys " are ? Speaking of them , two of the toughest - looking hombres in the business are chief among the villains : Joaquim de Almeida and Danny Trejo . Some of the action scenes are so outrageous you laugh out loud . My favorite was a guy shooting rockets out of his guitar case ! As that tells you , it's just a wild ride : 103 minutes of south-of-the-border Rodriguez-Tarantino lunacy and despite what may sound like a bunch of insults , I always have fun watching this movie .
Who Gets ' The Bird ? '	Tweety is outside , shoveling the snow out of his bird's nest , mumbling that he shouldn't have wished for a white Christmas . In one building , Sylvester cleans off the window and spots Tweety while in an adjacent building , another cat - an unnamed orange feline - does the same . They both pound on the doors to have their respective owners let them out . They race from opposite directions and arrive at Tweety's nest at the same time . From that point on , it's a battle to see who gets the bird . A short time later , the orange tabby thinks he won , but swallows a mechanical dunking yellow bird by mistake . That scene might have been the funniest . Tweety looks like a goner a few times but always seems to come out unscathed while the two cats beat the crap out of each other . In all , nothing super but entertaining and a nice DVD transfer . The colors are bold and the picture sharp .
Grant & Caan Lift Lighthearted Mob Spoof	This was an entertaining comedy , similar to several other films I've seen in which an innocent-appearing nice guy gets caught up in the middle of a mob family . ( i . e . Matthew Broderick in " The Freshman . " ) In this film , it's Hugh Grant who winds up in mobster James Caan's clan . The latter isn't known for his comedy but he's good at it . Sometimes just the facial expressions on Caan's face brought out big laughs with me . Joe Viterelli is perfect for any Mafia-type story , as is Burt Young . It was a little strange , though , to see Young look like such a shriveled up old man . Jeanne Tripplehorn provides the romantic interest in here . My only complaints were too much usage of God's name in vain , especially for a comedy , and the typical on again-off again marriage plans you've seen so many times in movies for many decades . Overall , however , a good lighthearted comedy that should please a lot of people .
An Ironic Story	" Irony " might be one way to describe this little fairy tale about a king who has a rip in his pants and goes to a local tailor to get if fixed . Meanwhile , a giant ogre has apparently been terrorizing the town . Fixing the pants , having bees get into the king's pants , having the king trapped in a pond ready to be killed by the ogre and then having the bees come back and get rid of the beast all tie in together in this strangely-compelling cartoon . I didn't find myself laughing at anything in this cartoon , yet it was pretty fascinating . It certainly made me stick with it to see what crazy thing would happen next and how all of this could somehow lead to a happy ending . That ending , by the way , is a nice one but also has a strange element to it ( which I won't spoil . ) Don't expect laughs , but don't pass this UB Iwerks " oldie " up , either . It offers a very interesting story .
Well-Crafted But Ludicrous , Insulting Story	GOOD NEWS - Interesting , right from the start . . . . nicely filmed . . . . . . an involving story with a female lead character you really care about with a fine performance by Hilary Swank , and the always-entertaining Clint Eastwood and Morgan Freeman as the male leads . The story , whatever one's view of the topic here , is well-crafted and certainly one you remember . BAD NEWS - Talk about an agenda ! Who produced this film ? Dr . Kevorkian ? Hollywood's Liberal agenda for this year must have been euthanasia because this picture , as good as it is , is not Acadamy Award Best Picture material . The championship fight scene , too , is ludicrous , in that the " bad girl , " if this was real life , would have been disqualified - period : no if , ands or buts . And - having a priest say the " f-word ? " Give me a break ! There's an example of yet another liberal " agenda . " - make a cleric look bad whenever possible . OVERALL - A severely flawed film but definitely interesting and worth seeing if for nothing else than provoking a good discussion on and pros-and-cons of the main subject matter ( which ain't boxing , folks ) .
Lightweight , Goofy & Fun	This was different , that's for sure . Just look at the cast ! Talk about oddballs . William H . Macy and Ben Stiller were the stars , although a bunch of actors almost share the spotlight , in this farce about superhero-wannabees . The most outrageous was played by Paul Reubens of " Pee Wee Herman " fame . There is lots of humor , garish colors and no lulls . It's a pretty entertaining , lightweight comedy with nothing but goofy characters , all of whom want to be heroes a la Superman , Batman , Spiderman , you name . They have talents in strange areas , however , that the real heroes don't ( and don't want to ! ) . It's silly , but you know that going on . It's also a film you can watch in installments and not really miss any continuity . It's a long movie for one so hectic , so taking a break here and there is okay . The language was tame so kids could enjoy this , too . In fact , I don't recall any swearing in here , except the guy in the theater next to me who kept uttering , " What a dumb , f - - - ing movie . " I thought it was fun two hours but I'd rather watch it on DVD and take a few breaks .
Obviously Dated , But A Nice Look Back At The Products Of The Times	This cartoon gives Eddie Cantor a plug , making into " Eddie Camphor " who jumps out of a billboard and sings " Merrily We Roll Along . " The caricature emphasizes Cantor's big , rolling eyes . Soon nearby posters promoting certain products of the day begin to come alive with song and dance . Old Maid Cleaners are singing , Russian rye bread loafs start dancing , penguins from " Old Cold " cigarettes ( Old Gold , if I remember correctly ) , etc . There are a lot of them throughout the cartoon , many of them familiar and still around ( Arm & Hammer baking soda , Wrigley's Gum , Pall Mall cigarettes , etc . ) . They aren't the actual product names , just as Eddie's name is changed , but many are recognizable . Anyway , it's very dated but it's in color which is pretty good for 1935 and its looks decent . It's not really but it's " cute " and interesting . The first 60 percent of this is strictly a musical , and then it changes into a worm , bird , cat and dog cartoon , each one being pursued by the other , in that order . This animated short is part of the features on the " Captain Blood " DVD .
A Pleasant , Feel-Good Film With A Touch Of The Old Blarney	Boy , this is about as Irish as it gets : accents , terminology that is foreign to most other people but fun to hear , leprechauns , pots of gold , three wishes ( no more ) , other magic , Irish jigs and a few songs , lush countryside with plenty of green . . . . . and a lot of good-natured blarney . It's old-fashioned , innocent fun , with a love story thrown in the mix . The latter involves a very young-looking Sean Connery . It's a shock to see him when he was in his late ' 20s , and even more of a shock to hear him sing , too ! Three years later , Connery hit the jackpot ( acting , not singing ) playing James Bond in " Dr . No , " and the rest is history . In this Walt Disney film , he plays " Michael McBride " who winds up falling for " Katie O'Gill . " The latter is played by Janet Munro , a pretty woman who had the opposite screen success of Connery . After staring in a few of these Disney movies in which she played wholesome girls , she did an about-face and played unhappy and edgy characters and that , it turned out , was a poor choice . Alocholism then led to the tragic misfortune of contracting a fatal illness which killed her at the age of 38 . The lead character , " Darby O'Gill , " is played very convincingly by Albert Sharpe . He was definitely the " character " of the story . This movie is a nice , feel-good film filled with a laughing horse , the good guys winning over the bad , a few dramatic moments , singing and dancing " little people , " and an assortment of Irish delights . I think kids would still like this film , even though it's dated with the special-effects , but that's to be expected . After all , the film is almost 50 years old . It has a pleasant feel to it and should still entertain folks today .
Untalented & Unwanted . . . . . Until The End	A rooster , dog , cat and donkey all get the heave-ho from their farmer owner . Actually , the old man isn't all that mean ; the animals sleep on the job and deserved to get booted . They all cry the blues when the farm owner boots them in the butt but then things perk up when they notice a choir nearby singing . People throw coins from above and the singers go away happy . The animals figure , hey , let's try that gig , too . The trouble is , they're brutal at that , too . Instead of coins , people throw pots , pans and the kitchen sink at them . However , they may have little talent and aren't good workers , but they prove to be loyal to the farmer as we see in the dramatic final third of the story , which helps elevate this old cartoon from poor to fair . This cartoon was viewed on a DVD called " Cartoons That Time Forget : The UB Iwerks Collection Vol . 1 . "
With Subtitles , Better Than Bob	This was a re-make of the 1955 film noir , " Bob LeFlambeur , " which I also own . That was black-and-white and made in France while this is 2002 movie in color with English-speaking actors . Usually I'll take the original over the re-make but not in this case . . . . with one major consideration . In order to like this film , I had to play the DVD with the English subtitles on because many of the accents were just too tough to decipher and if you can't understand the dialog , it gets a bit frustrating . The story is confusing enough as it is , so , if you have a similar problem as I had , play this with the subtitles . If there is such a thing as colorful film noir , this would be it , with many splashes of the neon nightlife of France , inside and outside . Story-wise , if you're confused you are not alone . After two viewings , I still haven't totally figured out the twist at the end . The dialog tries to be snappy mid-40s Raymond Chandler stuff and sometimes it's great , other times it's affected . Overall , however , it ' s fun . Nick Nolte delivers most of the clever lines . The young girl in here , Nutsa Kukhianidze , is intriguing new face , as was the case with Isabelle Corey in " Bob . " This movie gets a lot of negative reviews from professional critics . Don't trust them ; give this a look .
Two Stories In One , With Lots Of Familiar Jokes But Still Entertaining	This one took a different twist at the end , even though the movie as a whole had very familiar Three Stooges gags in it . ( By 1951 , our boys were nearing the end , as we knew them with Curly or Shemp . ) It was a like a two-parter ; the first part dealing the Stooges being cowboys and the second part being a horror-type movie . Out west , we have the same saloon jokes and scenes and the handsome-but - inept townie who thinks he's the Lone Ranger but is all wannabe . ( Jock Mahoney reprises the role he did in an earlier Stooges film in which he was " The Arizona Kid . " ) Then , with five minutes to go , we get the always-familiar ( but always fun ) guys - dressed up-in-scary costumes-chasing-the Stooges - around-several rooms angle . For me , it's the latter that I enjoyed best . For some reason , I never get tired of seeing the guys get spooked by spooks and all the slapstick that goes with it . Early in the story , we see The Stooges as vagrants . There is actually a " wanted poster " on them : 50 cents each or three-for-a-dollar ! They escape out west to a town called Peaceful Gulch and are mistaken for lawman . ( Don't ask . )
Robin Williams : Talented ( And Strange )	Robin Williams became famous , I think , for his stand-up comedy , like his idol Jonathan Winters , but do you realize how many movies this guy has made over the years ? He's really become quite a film star and is especially good playing against-type as a criminal or simply as a wacko ( see " One Hour Photo ? " ) Anway , this was an early Robin Williams film in which he plays a Russian musician defecting to the United States . He ( " Vladamir Ivanoff " ) first hides out in a big store in New York City before being taken in as an immigrant by a black guy ( can you say PC ? ) Williams does an outstanding job speaking Russian , by the way , as opposed to most English-speaking actors . There really isn't much of a plot here , just slices of life , if you will , some of it with the usual Liberal promiscuous ( i . e . " I'm a liberated woman and if I stay the night , don't misinterpret that I want to get involved with you , " the Italian tells the Russian . I can think of a few more accurate descriptions that the word " liberated . " ) All in all , despite the premise and talents of Williams , this was only so-so . It kind of runs out of steam halfway through and it's hard to maintain interest in the final 40 percent of it . Actually , I like Williams better when he plays more serious roles like this although I'm not sure if he himself was ready to play it straight this early in his career . He's just too tempted in this film to produce comedy . He's a talented and very strange guy ; this film reflects that .
After A Great 50 Minutes , film Flounders In Final Half-Hour	At first , this appears to be a rip-off of " Madagascar , " with New York City zoo animals leaving the comforts of " home " for the wilds of Africa . However , it is a totally different story and feel to it , more serious and sentimental than " Madagascar . " Personally , I like " serious and sentimental " but not in animated movie , at least not to the degree it was in here . I preferred the other " NYC zoo " film to this one because " The Wild " lost almost all of its great humor in the last 20-30 minutes . The first 50 minutes of this film was spectacular . I was thinking , " Wow , another great animated film . How many is that in the past year or so ? " The jokes were excellent , the characters mostly funny and the animation superb . The dark , rich colors in here are magnificent . This is a beautiful movie ! The minor characters are the best in here : the snake , koala bear and squirrel . Eddie Izzard , Richard Kind and Jim Belushi , in particular , are great in their voices of these characters . The two crocodiles that the wandering zoo animals meet in the sewers are hilarious . They produced the biggest laughs , at least with me . The major characters : the lion ( Keifer Sutherland ) , his cub ( Greg Cipes ) and the giraffe ( Janeane Garafolo ) were all a little too much on the serious side . Speaking of serious : the last third of this film totally switched gears . I wonder how this went over with very young kids and their parents ? It got too serious , frightening in spots ( for little ones ) and then the usual corny Disney ending . It's too bad : this could have been super if they had just continued doing what was working the first 50 minutes .
The Ant Hil Gang As Boy Scouts Pretty Funny	Today's grueling first leg of races stretches from Lulu , Louisiana to Deepintheharta , Texas . Dick Dastardly first bad deed , once he takes an early lead , is to open a corral and let the cattle stampede across the road . Unfortunately for him , he's the only thing that is stampeded . Plan B has him inform the local sheriff that the " Ant Hill Gang " is nearby so the latter races off to the woods to hide . They reappear dressed as boy scouts - or " wood scouts , " as they are called here , and fool the stupid sheriff . It was pretty funny seeing a bunch of heavily-bearded guys dressed in scout uniforms . In fact , that was about the only funny sight gag in the bunch in this episode , which was kind of lame in the humor department . The second race of this twin-bill has the wacky races rolling their way through West Virginia en route to the finish line to Wheeling . I liked the alliteration on the series villain when they announce who's in what place early on : " it's that disciple of deceit and degradation Dick Dastardly . " The latter then turns to the unseen narrator and says , " You left out ' despicable . ' " While racing in fourth place , Dick''s lowdown plan in this one is a big magnet to get rid of the three racers in front of him . First , the magnet peels off the metal wheels of one racer and then takes off the boiler of the Arkansas Chugabug . " We're stranded like a catfish on a mud bog , " moans the hillbilly driver . His partner , Blubber the bear , steals something from a nearby barn and converts the vehicle to " windmill power . " Last up is Peter Perfect and the magnet takes about the whole car . Now Dastardly is in first , but not for long as is magnet trick does his own vehicle in . How that happens , you'll have to watch . Later , DD tries to keep everyone from climbing a steep hill , and then go through all tunnel and other places . Let's put it this way : he tries about everything in this episode . Sadly , none of the humor , by and large , in this one was very good . Generally speaking , this show was for the kiddies , not adults . The latter can endure these by enjoying some of corny old expressions , neat-looking cars , and decent artwork and sometimes-funny sight gags
From Baja To Kentucky , Mud Holes To Apes	We begin in the " rugged peninsula of Baja , California " where the racers are racing toward " the sleepy little Mexican village of Enchilada-by-the-Sea . " Well , at least they got Baja right ! Decent sight gags include the cavemen's amazing " Boulder Mobile ; " The " Gruesome Twosome's " remedy for an overheated engine ; Dick Dastardly's balloons which are in the form of steers and later the Twosome's use of a dragon to dry up the mud ( see next paragraph ) . The major part of the story , as it usually is , revolves around a plot by Dastardly to sabotage the rest of the races . In this case , he tries to slow them down with a big mud hole . Some of the other racers sink ; others find clever ways to combat the problem . I always enjoy how the " Professor " works his way around problems . He and his auto is my favorite in this show . The second race has the entrants racing toward Krazy Kreek , Kentucky . How they go from Baja to here in successive episodes doesn't make sense but , hey , it's a cartoon . I enjoyed the sight gags of Dick Dastardly underwater with his roto-route router ( boy , this show can't give us enough alliterations ! ) and how the racers figured out how to manage despite the bridge being out . The headline refers to Dastardly's bad deed here of using " King Klong , " the largest gorilla in captivity , to his advantage . The big ape was being transported when the truck had a flat tire and the driver was fixing it . Dastardly happened to come along and got an idea . He laughs and says to himself , " Boy , does that start the old wheels to turning in my evil mind . " He uses " my power over dumb animals " to sabotage the others . . . . . well , sort of .
Not Really Funny , But Memorable For Several Reasons	Yes , this is Porky Pig's debut , although it certainly is not an attractive first look at the stuttering porker . Porky and a couple of other " kids " are all part of school musical and recital and Porky's bit leads off the show . He recites a rendition of Longfellow's " The Midnight Ride of Paul Revere , " or at least starts to but it quickly becomes Tennyson's " Charge of the Light Brigade . " Mostly he just sweats while trying to remember his lines . I liked the sound effects help Porky received from offstage and the fact that even though his classmates unleashed the dogs on him , they did give him good applause ! " Ham and Ex , " two little singing dogs , get my vote for " best in show , " which also featured " Miss Kitty " reciting " Mary Had A Little Lamb , " and the piano playing " Oliver Owl , " whose tune is greatly enhanced by a fighting dog and cat inserted into the piano by a mischief-making fellow student . This one really isn't much for laughs but overall , it's " cute " and it's in color , which is pretty good considering it's made in 1935 . In fact , the graphics and the color restoration are excellent for 1935 and it's a collector's piece of sorts being that it's Porky's debut . It is the lead-off cartoon on Disc 3 of Looney Tunes Golden Collection Vol . 3 .
Looking Like Superman And Acting Like Superman Are Two Totally Different Things	Perched up in a tree , the Pink Panther is relaxing and reading a " Superguy " comic book . He imagines , as most of us males have at one time or another , of being a Superman-type guy . He finds a costume ( and a phone booth ) and now looks the part . The problem is acting the role ! He tries various heroic deeds , always trying to save or help the same old lady . . . . and the poor woman ( and her automobile ) takes a beating . I liked the joke early on in which he slid the flattened woman under her front door . Most of it was pretty good , with the usual fitting ending . This was an entertaining cartoon marred only by the insulting laugh track which is totally unnecessary in a cartoon ( or anywhere , for that matter ) . I wound up turning the sound off the last few minutes .
Popeye's Duds Too Small For Big Bluto	I think the funniest part of this cartoon was seeing Bluto dressed in Popeye's sailor outfit . The pants came up to his knees , like knickers , and he looked pretty funny . Bluto's Army digs , meanwhile , were about eight sizes to big for Popeye . Why did they switch uniforms ? Well , it wasn't Popeye's idea . He was just strolling by the Army Tank Corps tents all dressed up with a handful flowers walking to his date with Olive Oyl . Bluto , inside the barracks and wanting to get out for the day , lures the dumb sailor guy in , mugs him , and takes his clothes . Soon , a tank drill is ordered and Popeye winds up inside the big vehicle . . . . and trouble ensues . Within several minutes , he leads the rest of the group through the city streets and trashes the vehicle . . . . but all works out in the end . How does that happen ? Well , you'll have to check out Disc 2 of Popeye The Sailor Man Volume 3 .
Bugs Is Right : Elmer Is A Jerk	Elmer reads that one can hypnotize " dumb animals " so when he's out hunting one day ( and reading the book at the same time ) , he comes across a bear . Lo and behold - it works ! He puts the bear to sleep and has him float around like a canary . He then realizes this is his chance to finally capture the elusive Bugs Bunny . However , Bugs , as well know , is anything but a " dumb animal , " and turns the tables on dumb Mr . Fudd . By the way , does Elmer's laugh annoy anyone else out here ? It annoys me . This is one guy I don't mind getting the short end of the stick when it comes to Bugs Bunny's mayhem . He's right on when he calls Elmer " a jerk " in this story . The last third of this picture is excellent , however , when Elmer turns into a rabbit and asks Bugs , " What's up , doc ? " He then drives Bugs crazy . That's one thing about these cleverly-written cartoons ; the smarter Bugs doesn't always prevail , as we see in here .
Not Much Of A Story , But It Was Still Fun	" Beans , " one of Boston Beans ( according to him ) gets rudely rebuffed from entering " Warmer Brothers " studio . In fact , he gets thrown out twice , once at the entrance in his car , and later , bodily given the heave-ho out of the studio . There is no real story here , just Beans getting into the studio , accidentally getting in the way , accidentally pulling a switch and bringing the Frankenstein monster to life , and then dealing with him . The " story " has a very abrupt ending . Humorous moments included the dancing camera on tripod ; bartender playing music to cash register keys and the monster eating the camera , spitting it out and adjusting his jaw . Although there wasn't much to it , I enjoyed it . The scenes were fast-moving and you have to keep in mind this was made over 70 years ago . This was part of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 3 DVD .
Pretty Interesting Look At An Impersonator	This is kind of an odd story , another one of those based-on-a-true life tales . This was hyped up a little too much for me because I expected more than what the film delivered . However , it was still a decent yarn about a kid who impersonated people in different professions and forged checks along the way . He did all of this in his teenage years . Leonardo DiCaprio plays his normal cocky role while Tom Hanks is the straight - and-narrow looking FBI man on his trail . Although not a tense thriller , the movie holds the viewer's interest throughout the 2 hours and 20 minutes with the last half hour being the most interesting , capped off by a satisfying ending . The only thing I didn't enjoy watching was DiCaprio ( as " Frank Abagnale " ) taking advantage of genuinely-nice girls . This guy was no hero , believe me .
Lake Makes The Film Fun	This is a fairly humorous story with decent special effects , especially considering it was made over 40 years ago . The key ingredient for success in this film was Veronica Lake . She's known more for her peekaboo blonde locks and for starring with Alan Ladd in several hit movies , but Lake was a good comedienne , too . Susan Hayward does well playing a snotty woman and Cecil Kellaway always plays an interesting character . Frederic March plays opposite Lake and I wish I hadn't read Lake's biography in which she explains how much she hated March . In made the love scenes lose a lot of impact when I learned how " forced " those scenes were . Oh , well . It's still a nice , lightweight comedy , nothing special but entertaining for the most part . . . . . but it helps to be a fan of Veronica Lake , which I am .
A Speech Everyone Likes	This was a different type of story with excellent acting by Al Pacino , who makes a speech at the end of the film that many people think is one of the coolest speeches they've ever heard on film . Pacino's character , " Lt . Cl . Frank Slade , " is a turnoff for awhile because he's so gruff , but he grows on you and becomes fascinating to watch as a blind man who doesn't act like a blind man . Chris O'Donnell , as " Charlie Simms , " plays the opposite : a nice , young college kid whom Pacino winds up taking under wing . The only part I didn't care for was the beginning with Charlie's obnoxious friends , but that ties in later with Pacino's memorable speech . A different kind of story , marred only by a little too much profanity . If you haven't seen it , I recommend checking it out . You'll enjoy it
More Of A Character ( s ) Study	This is the original version of " The Vanishing , " with the American re-make coming out six years later than this film did . This version - the original - is considered to be , by far , the better of the two by almost all critics . Having seen both versions , I agree but not as strongly because I don't think this film is all that good , either , at least not as good as I was led to believe . Instead of a kidnapping-crime story , this was more of a character study of two people : a man obsessed with finding his abducted girlfriend , and a deranged killer , the man who took her . That " study " made this different from the other film and from a lot of crime movies to begin with . The ending here also made this a bit different . Summary : it's okay , but not anywhere as good as you might be led to believe , but I would still recommend it . I saw it twice .
Simple Story . . . . . And It Works	Boy , this is about a simple an action story as you're going to find , but it works , and has its interesting moments . Almost the entire film is devoted to a safari guide / hunter being chased ( for the kill ) by members of a angry tribe . Those tribe members had been insulted by an obnoxious member of the safari group and this good-guy guide ( Cornell Wilde ) has to run for his life . Along his escape for survival , we , the viewers , are treated almost to a National Geographic-type tour of the African jungle with many wild animals , crocodiles , poisonous insects , snakes and - the most species of them all : naked women ! The film looks dated here and there but it's now over 40 years old . There is not much English dialog in here , but it's not needed .
Diesel Is Decent As Latest Macho-Hero	Vin Diesel is a pretty good guy to play these new action-heroes . Like " The Rock , " he's a big , muscular macho guy who men can look upon with some respect and the ladies can fall for . Unfortunately , a number of these testosterone-filled action films , including this one , are somewhat moronic in nature . However , they are undeniably entertaining . You can always depend on one thing in these type of movies , from the " biker movies " of the ' 50s to today's films : the hero will always be a rebel against authority and any laws of the land . Also , an even more-recent theme is to have the government actually employ the rebel to get the job done because their men are unable to accomplish what this ultra-tattooed macho man can do ! It's so much garbage , but it has its moments and Diesel still is a likable hero of sorts . Like Arnold Schwarzenegger before him , and Steven Seagal , Jean-Claude Van Damme , Chuck Norris and then " The Rock , " these kind of muscle-men have fairly clean mouths and at least some ideals . For pure action , the movie succeeds because , in the end , it does entertain which is the name of the game .
A Stitch In Time Saves Koko	Artist Max Fleischer draws a spool of thread and a needle . The needle then penetrates a blank canvas and , stitch by stitch , we see Koko the Clown being " drawn . " Very clever . There is always a new and innovative and method of introducing Koko in these old Fleischer brother Koko The Clown " Out of the Inkwell ' silent animated shorts . Soon , we see real-life shots of Max with a needle and thread trying to rescue his creation who is stuck in the canvas . Later , a dueling match ensues between Max and his creation . The artist keeps score , with an inning-by-inning count you would see on a baseball scoreboard . After three " innings , " Koko leads Max , 3-0 , but the Max goes nuts and scores 182 straight points ! Koko gets his revenge , though , and more than evens the score . How , I won't give away , but the animated short offers a good mix of animation and real-life action and it gets pretty wild ( with a kitten involved ) .
Lots Of Interpretations	Boy , is this film interpreted differently , depending on which critic is discussing it . Overall , however , most of them - including me - like this movie and find it interesting . Today's critics like to use this film as a boost for socialistic or Commununstic causes , but that's baloney . One could easily do the opposite and use this film as an analogy to the early Christians , too - people who banded together pooling their talents and possessions for the good of the whole group . This was a simply of story of America during the Great Depression with a bunch of people out of work , so they try to make a living by turning themselves into farmers and making a go of it together . Tom Keane and Karen Morley star in here , playing husband-and-wife . Morely played a very upbeat , sweet lady who was joy to watch . Keane's acting was strange . At times it bordered on raw amateurism . He also looked , with the wild expressions , as if he were back doing a silent film . The rest of the cast was solid , from the Swedish farmer to the tough guy who turned himself in to the police to help the rest of the group . Overall , a good film and worth watching , whatever your politics .
Good points ; bad points	I just watched this movie for the third time , and for the first time on DVD . I then read the reviews on this website . The reviews all contained good points but I was surprised at two things : 1 ) Very few reviews were from the United States . It appears that Europeans and Australians are far more aware of this film than we are here in America , which is our loss ; 2 ) ( Spoiler ? ) Nobody mentioned or questioned why hit man John Hurt did NOT kill Laura Del Sol . In real life , there would have been no hesitation by the professional killer : she would have been eliminated quickly . . . . . and , of course , the story - had it been real - would have ended quite differently from the film . Outside of that last point , I thought the film contained real characters exhibiting many of their strengths and weaknesses . Unlike most gangster films of the past 35 years , this one had little action and concentrated more on the principal characters . It would be too talky for most young audiences of today . Other highlights : Nice Spanish scenery and flamenco soundtrack . Good opening instrumental by Eric Clapton . Interesting to see Roth in one of his earliest roles , although it's been a familiar one for him : an annoying punk . An ending that wasn't predictable . One disappointment : Why wasn't this DVD presented on widescreen ? Why was this formatted-to-TV ? The transfer isn't bad but with the great scenery , why couldn't we see it all ? There is no excuse for that . Summary : a good , solid film but more for mature adults who don't mind a slower pace and can appreciate a lot of subtle things .
Colorful Travel Scenery Is The Highlight	This was mildly entertaining . There aren't really any laugh-out-loud jokes but it's interesting to watch our two good guys - The Inspector and Deux-Deux - travel from Paris to Egypt to Mount Kilimanjaro and then back to France . The scenery and artwork with it are very colorful and fun to look at , and make up for the so-so gags . It's mainly the two guys trying to catch a mysterious " Mr . X " and their inability to nab him . There is a surprise ending here , appreciated by all but Clouseau . This cartoon can be seen on the DVD " The Pink Panther Classic Cartoon Collection , Vol . 6 - Inspector Cartoons .
Bugs a . k . a . ' The Masked Terror '	We are in a packed arena waiting for the World's Heavyweight Wrestling Championship to take place between the champ , " The Crusher , " a snarling , growling beast of man with rippling muscles on his muscles , and " Ravishing Ronald , " the denatured boy ( whatever that means . ) . Ronald comes out in the best Roman tradition : on a platter , eating grapes . He has a mascot named " Bugs , " who tells us , " Hey , it's a living . " In no time The Crusher literally makes a punching bag out of Ravishing Ronald . Bugs , " Yikes , there goes me bread and butter . I've got to do something . " What happens afterward , as Bugs becomes " The Masked Terror , " is mostly funny . The stitching scene was kind of stupid but the rest of it was typical outlandish Bugs humor .
Colorful Characters & Story , But Would Kids Be Entertained With It Today ?	This was a colorful take on the famous story , both in animation and in story content . Overall , it was a fun movie with interesting , strange characters following each other as " Alice " chases after a rabbit in " Wonderland " ( although that name is never mentioned in the film . ) . The songs in here are nothing noteworthy , but at least they didn't go on too long . For a short film - 75 minutes - it's good " escapist " fare and not a bad way to spend an hour-and-a quarter . Any longer than that , for classic animated films , would be too long , because they didn't have the humor and slam-bang action scenes modern animated films possess . I would imagine kids of today would be bored by this , compared to what faster-paced stuff they see now . . . . but that's no criticism of this movie , just about attention spans have shortened .
Here's An Odd Irish Tale	I always remember this movie for the shock of seeing a horse trying to live an apartment . Now , there's an unusual sight ! I revisited this film last week and for a second and an overdo " ride " with these mystical Irish gypsies and their strange . By the way , I hadn't realized how nicely filmed this was until I saw it on 1 . 85 : 1 widescreen DVD . Also to my surprise was that it wasn't the happy , family film I had remembered . There are many moments of frustration , sadness , violence , injustice , ete . It's hardly a bunch of fun times . The language is such , too , that I wouldn't recommend this for little kids , unless perhaps in Ireland where everyone seems to use Jesus ' name in vain frequently , even kids . It's still a story , basically , about two kids trying to capture and then keep a white horse , which is taken away from them . The cops ( some crooked , as filmmakers love to show ) , the crooks and family are all out over the countryside looking for the boys and the horse . In between , their father slowly comes to grips with the death of his wife some seven years earlier , a tragedy he has never been able to deal with correctly . The best character and the most fun to watch is little " Ossie , " played by Ciaran Fitzgerald . He's the one most-attached to the horse and the wee one has some of the best lines in the film .
Great Sound & Stunts , So-So Story	When I saw this shortly after it came out on DVD , it got high marks just for the spectacular sound alone . It had some of the best rear-speaker sound I had ever heard . It was a showpiece for DVD players at the time . The movie is interesting with it's main fault being a common one : overdone action at the end . Along the way , however , it has many almost jaw-dropping scenes and some spectacular mountain scenery which looks great on the sharp DVD transfer . The stunt work in here is also incredible . Martin Campbell , the same director who did The Mask Of Zorro and Goldeneye , is good at producing eye-popping action scenes . The dialog at times is juvenile , but it could have been worse . The profanity was lower than expected , too . How accurate is it concerning mountain-climbing ? Probably like most films : totally inaccurate , at least that's what a mountain - climbing expert told me , and I believe him . All in all , however , a far better film than I expected . . . . . strictly for the entertainment .
Loved The Hopper-Type Drawings	Even a pizza slice with wiggling insects in it is better than food with 0 percent fat in it ! That's the thinking of our " fat cat " in this animated short . The cat discovers his dry food is diet cat food with no fat , and is not happy . He spots a slice a pizza hanging off the kitchen island , and most of the cartoon is the feline's efforts to get that slice of pizza . It's not howling funny but the artwork is beautiful , a sort-of muted Edward Hopper painting look to it , and the story is interesting with a unique and unexpected ending . I saw this on a DVD called " Computer Animation Extravaganza , " done around 2001 .
Louis - All 3 Of Him - Helped Save This Film	A minor character in this film actually made this movie fun for me . I laughed every time he was on screen , usually as two or three people ( twins or clones ) , although with a different name on the front of his tee-shirt . At first , I thought it was the last guy to play " Curly " of the Three Stooges . Then , it dawned on me : it was Louis Lombardi , who played " Edgar Stiles " on the TV hit " 24 . " Well , those of you who have seen this film know what I'm talking about . Lombardi's characters will have you either hysterical or thinking " how stupid is this ? " I guess you could say the same for much of the film . It seems to be either great or terrible , depending on what scene you're viewing . " Over-the-top " is a good description of this film . That's not necessarily an insult , as the film is another of these comic-book-come-to-life films that are supposed to be wild-looking stories and visuals . To me , the visuals were a real treat , but I expected that bold black-and-white " Sin City " look . It didn't disappoint in that area . The characters in the film are all - repeat " all " - over-the-top , but that creates a lot of fun . You can't take one scene here seriously . Gabriel Macht as the main character , " The Spirit , " was so-so , at best . He neither was dynamic ( which he could have easily been ) nor was he annoying . He's a good guy with good principles , but he's bland . How he got this role , I don't understand . If they want a wooden actor , they could have hired Keanu Reeves . Dan Gerrity , as " Lt . Sussman , " is a typical Frank Miller character : tough-noir-like , profane , with gravel voice and always mad , always yelling . ( Miller is the artist and thinker behind some of these dark comic books which are being made into films of late . ) Samuel Jackson plays his normal over-the-top character . It's amazing an actor of his ability plays so many wacky characters , a la Johnny Depp or Christopher Walken . Eva Mendes is getting typecast in these kind of movies , playing the sleazy-looking-and-talking violent woman while Scarlett Johansson just keeps attempting to self-destruct her career with small and stupid roles . Whatever , it's not easy to stay with the story ; something is missing - maybe caring more for the characters , or a story that's a little too rough and disjointed in spots for mainstream audiences . Maybe it's the hero's inspiration . He says does what he does because he " loves the city , " loves the grime , dirt and buildings . It's tough to warm up to that . All-in-all , it's pretty good entertainment , especially if you are into great-looking visuals , but it does a poor job in getting the audience involved and caring about the characters . You have to have that in " superhero " film .
A Rough-But-Interesting Look At The Insanity Plea	Warning : this movie is pretty grisly in spots , at least in the first half where the creepy character played by Alex McArhur goes on a couple of killing sprees . This film features a bit of an oddity : filmmakers actually opposing the " insanity plea , " showing how it can be misused . In this story , several psychiatrists are made to look corrupt and just plain stupid in parts . I also noticed a jab at Catholism in here as killings are shown in flashback as a mass is shown with the words " body of Christ " said over and over by the priest . Overall , not pleasant to view in spots , and not super overall , but it does hold your attention and certainly brings up some good points . The screenplay and direction is by William Friedkin who did a number of interesting and controversial films .
Gee Whiz !	I am NOT a fan of Katharine Hepburn . . . . but I really like her in this film . I don't think she ever looked cuter and was more appealing . One often forgets the fresh face and beauty she had when she was young . This film starts off wonderfully for 20 minutes , then bogs down a bit for an hour and then rallies brilliantly in the last 20 minutes . That last part is so good that made the film not only worthwhile to view but one to keep and watch every few years . It bogs down when Hepburn starts her deceiving scheme and nervously yaks and yaks and yaks trying to impress her boyfriend ( Fred MacMurray ) . The deceit involves her trying to hide her social status , something that must have meant a lot more back in the early ' 30s than it does today . Critics comment about how the dinner scene is a " classic " and the highlight of the film , but I didn't think it was all that great , although Hattie McDaniel is funny . It's what happened afterward that made it a memorable film to me . Although Hepburn and Fred MacMurray are the stars of this romance-comedy , Fred Stone almost steals the show . Playing Hepburn's dad in the film , he was both hilarious at times and very sad . . . . and always interesting . He gives an unbelievably powerful speech to his boss near the end of this film . Another plus for " Alice Adams " is the direction . This is early George Stevens , but just about any film that man directed is top-notch , including this one . Without giving away what happens in the story , the film does present a nice message of forgiveness and reconciliation and sports one of the stronger feel-good endings I've ever seen on film . Hepburn's last words in the movie are " Gee Whiz ! ! " That bygone innocent reaction to MacMurray's comment that he loved her says a lot about how movies and times have changed .
The Good & Bad Of Lord Of The Dance	GOOD NEWS - This musical-dance performance is astonishingly beautiful . When I first saw this , I was stunned . I had never so many beautiful colors on one stage in my life ! It's just an awesome production , visually-speaking . Not only are the colors spectacular , so is the lighting , and the beautiful of some of the females , particularly a violin player and a dancer in a red dress . Those two women were not just gorgeous , but talented . . . . . but then again , who wasn't ? Like " Riverdance , " the play varies its acts well , going from tap dancing to instrumentalists , from fast to slow songs , ballet , you name it . Michael Flatley is a great dancer and is without doubt the star of the show . . . . which leads me to . . . . THE BAD - Flatley , unfortunately , knows he's the star and his ego is more than apparent here . That whole bit with the bared chest certainly is one clue that he suddenly thinks of himself as some sex symbol . It doesn't help that he has these young screaming idiot girls in the audience literally shrieking every time he comes on stage . Perhaps he is a symbol , at least to those teen ( I assume ) girls . Flatley didn't annoy me : the shrieking audience did . They ruined the audio of this performance , often drowning out the music with their idol - worshiping screams . It really detracted from a fine show .
Powerful Drama Which Makes You Reflect	I like the sub-head to this early silent film : " A Story Of The Temporal Deeds That Reap Spiritual Reward . " It's something to think about . This is a D . W . Griffith movie , and a powerful little ( 16 minutes ) drama of a country doctor who seems to have an idyllic life with a beautiful wife , daughter and a beautiful country setting . One day is daughter falls critically ill . While the doctor-father is examining her , and tending to her , another frantic mother comes by , seeking the doctor for her sick little girl . At first , the doctor is reluctant to leave his daughter but after the second mom , a very poor woman , almost faints , he goes to see that girl . In the meanwhile , his daughter dies ! The story ends on that dramatic scene . Wow , this isn't what I expected and the story almost leaves the viewer stunned . The movie is a thought-provoker , making audiences ponder the question of whether the doctor did the right thing and did he give his own daughter sufficient treatment , etc . ? Apparently , the film brought some discussion . At any rate , it was to show life realistically ; that there aren't always happy endings to all stories in life . Notes : Griffth is famous for " Birth Of A Nation , " but he made tons ( over 400 ) of short films prior to that 1915 movie . . . . . In the scene at the poor people's shack , an older sister is seen at the far right of the bedside scene . She was 16-year-old Mary Pickford !
Decent Kidnap Story Worth One Look	Here's another interesting kidnap story . Sean Bean always plays a believable villain and Michael Douglas usually plays roles that keep the audience's attention . . . . so the almost - two hours go by pretty quickly . The whole cast , actually , pretty good with no one person standing out . The story loses points because the ending goes on too long and has the standard villain - holds - the - gun - and - doesn't shoot-too long cliché which drives critics , me included crazy . That , and a bit too many f-words in here by the female cop ( Jennifer Esposito ) which simply aren't necessary , and a few other holes all reduce this from a sure 9-star to an " 8 . . . . . but don't misunderstand : it's worth a look .
Try And Get Me !	The subject headline - Try And Get Me ! - is the title of the movie , as I know it . Man , this is a different kind of film noir story , mainly because of the ending . It centers around two crooks , played by Lloyd Bridges and Frank Lovejoy . Of the two , Bridges is the more fun guy to watch . He and his girlfriend ( played by Adele Jergens ) have some very good dialog . Lovejoy and his potential girlfriend have some lines that are so bad they are laughable ! It almost reminded me of poor Elisha Cook verbally duking it out with tough-gal Marie Windsor : in other film noirs corny but fun stuff . This was an entertaining film almost from the start . The last 30 minutes are really intense after Lovejoy cracks , stupidly admits his crime and is unfairly accosted as the murderer ( he was the accomplice , not the murderer . ) Then , the townsfolk , fueled by sensationalist journalism by the local paper , form into a huge lynch mob and storm the jail after the two criminals . The scenes of that , and what happens , are horrific . I am not exaggerating . In fact , it was one of the most disturbing scenes I've ever seen on film , especially for a classic movie . The cheers from the crowd when they kill the two men ( which is not shown ) are downright chilling . The film obviously is a powerful indictment on yellow journalism and of mob mentality . The last scene was so distasteful that I have never wanted to watch this movie again !
Probably The Worst Day You've Ever Seen Anyone Have	B-r-u-t-a-l ! ! ! We see this story through the eyes of one man , who has a bad day . . . . . to say the least . So many incredible things happen to him in a short period of time that your jaw will drop watching this . Just to give you an idea : he begins by accidentally shaving off his nose . Later , his problems drastically escalate from a dog who won't let go of him , to a steamroller who flattens him to explosions and a few other things that are actually somewhat disgusting to watch ! It's all done in cartoon's Bill Plympton's wild style of artwork . The animated short runs only seven minutes but so many horrible things happen it seems like the story is longer , believe me ! This was included in the DVD titled , " Plymptoons : The Complete Early Works Of Bill Plympton . "
Has Its Moments ( and famous guest star ) But Overall Not Up To Expectations	The big professional football game between the Cubs and the Tigers is coming up on the weekend and the Tigers ' owner is just informed that his three best backs got plastered and rolled over in their car . Now he has to go out and find three players , fast . He's told about some great amateur backs - The Three Horsemen - at Boulder Dam College . Meanwhile , in the college town our boys are on the street panhandling and getting socked in the jaws for their efforts . However , they do get a job holding signs promoting the big college football in town , and they are dressed in football gear . You guessed it . The boys are mistaken for the Three Horsemen - by the men's girlfriends , no less - and are taken back up to their apartment . One of the girls , by the way , is Lucille Ball , but you wouldn't recognize her . The scenes in the apartment are far better than the football game which is only shown in the last three minutes and aren't much . Overall , okay but a little too dumb and not as good as expected out of the guys . However , it was still early ( 1934 ) in their careers and they were learning . It was interesting to find out how many people got injured filming this short .
Nice-Looking , Low-Key Story Of The Wright Brothers	Here's another film that still hasn't come out on DVD that I would love to see in that format . Few people , I gather , have seen this in any format since my review is only the third on this website even though the movie was made almost 30 years ago . It's not a great movie but it has a dream-like look and feel to it , which is why a good DVD transfer could give it justice . It's a nice , clean movie with no profanity or blood and an interesting story of the Wright Brothers struggling to build their first airplane and then keep their famous plans and ideas from being stolen by others . There is a lot of justified paranoia in here . On the downside , if I didn't know it was Michael Morarity , I would have thought this was some rookie actor who couldn't put any inflection into his lines , but maybe his " Orville Wright " character is supposed to be this ultra-key . Nonetheless , Moriarty sounded very wooden . The movie also drags a bit here and there , which might be one reason it's difficult to find and still not out on DVD . I'm still glad I own the VHS because , overall , it's a nice film and a worthy additon to any collection .
Learning The Hard Way	This is another of those moralistic cartoons in which kids are given the message to listen to their elders , or they'll be sorry . In this case , it is the warning from " Jack Frost " that winter is fast approaching and you better prepare for it . A little grizzly bear thinks because he's fuzzy and warm and a bear , the cold won't bother him , so he disobeys his parents , tries to sneak off , gets caught and gets spanked and then , after wiping away his tears decides to run away from home . ( Hey , we've all been there , at least in thought ! ) Of course , the bear doesn't find he's as strong and insulated as he thinks he is and gets chased all over by Old Man Winter , who is blue and looks like The Grim Reaper . That character was seen in a couple of these old Celebrity Productions color cartoons of the day . The songs in here were very good . Most of the dialog is sung and the little bear's tune and voice sounded reminiscent of Shirley Temple . In all , a cartoon and message mainly for kids but one that adult can be mildly entertained .
Great Artist , Lousy Person	Jackson Pollock was not a likable person . He was an alcoholic , an adulterer , an egotist and simply a plain jerk . He also was a pioneer in the field of modern art , so he became famous and hence , even had this movie about his life . Ed Harris , a jerk himself , was a good choice for the role . Harris , who looks like Pollock , did a fine job of portraying this " tormented " soul , a word critics love to use for famous artists ( see Van Gogh ) . This was an interesting film and I watched it twice . It inspired me to become an artist and I did a handful of Pollock imitations , several of which sold for a decent price . I love Pollock's work , and I enjoy character studies of people on film . But this gets a little sordid as the film goes on with a definitely-unhappy ending . Hat's off to Marcia Gay Harden for her performance as Pollock's wife . She has the New York City accent down pat . She is shown worshiping her husband and it's painful to see her get hurt . The story is a bit soap operish but if you enjoy art , and especially Pollock's work , you'll find this story fascinating . More than one look , however , changes the canvas , so to speak . The story , more than the art , then will come through more and that can be too much of a downer . So , visit this " art show " once and leave it at that .
A Different Male Lead Would Have Made This Much Better	This was a lot better than I expected , which wasn't a lot . It turned out to be interesting thanks in part to the stylish film-making and the nice job it did in keeping the audience's attention . It got a few extra points for at least us males gaping at Rebecca Romijn-Stamos , who looked spectacular , but lost a few for some big credibility holes in the story . The film also would have been much better with a different male lead than Antonio Bandaras , someone who could speak English so people could understand him ! With Brian De Palma directing , you get some stylish camera shots in here , so it's a good visual movie . . . . a lot more than just girl-watching . It's a film you could enjoy multiple times , especially if you get a translator for Bandaras .
Pretty Straightforward Stuff	This was a bit different than one expected . There was no nonsense , no tongue-in-cheek humor or special-effects just for the sake of it : this was simply a humans vs . dragons story taking place in the future . No laughs and nothing hokey , which is what I expected . They played it straight , simply as a fight story between the two parties . Yes , there were credibility problems with the story but overall , it was good escapist adventure . The dragons were realistic-looking , the scenery dreary but the story interesting and intense in spots . I wouldn't buy it , but I would definitely recommend it if you are looking for a night of adventure on film . You could do a whole lot worse , especially with two young actors who have arrived as stars : Christian Bale and Matthew McConnaughey .
Very Slow , But A Nice Movie	Overall , this may not be that memorable a film , but one scene certainly is one I doubt you'll ever forget . I mean , how many of us have seen a camel give birth ? Not only that , but labor for two days to get the young " colt " out , and then do it standing up ? It's a very dramatic , intense five-minute scene , one I won't soon forget . For most of this film , however , not much happens yet it does have a certain appeal . I had read how fantastic the scenery was but , outside of the snow-capped mountains in the background , the terrain is flat and totally bleak . Living in this vast desert is almost depressing . Imagine living in that barren land year after year ? For the family featured in this film , it didn't seem bad . They didn't know any other way of life and they seemed quite content . However , as we see near the end of the movie , not everyone in that area lives in a sturdy tent and raises sheep and camels . There is a store miles away and schools and music and dance classes , etc . The little boy in featured family is awed when he sees a television set . He wants one , of course . The grandpa tells the boy he'd just sit around and watch TV all day and that would be bad . In the end , though , the movie concludes with a shot of a huge satellite dish outside the tent ! The story is basically about how the family figures out who to get the mother camel to nurse its young one and , yes , there is a happy ending . Summary : a likable film but you must be patient with it .
A Strange , Depressing Character Study	This is a strange and fascinating - but that likable - story about a kid who becomes obsessed with birds and then literally goes crazy . Matthew Modine plays the introverted " Birdy . " A young Nicholas Cage plays his best friend , " Al . " It's not a particularly pleasant story . In fact , it's downright depressing many times . It also had an unusual ending , one the critics seemed to all pan but I liked . I thought it was neat . The movie does keep your interest , so it gets decent points for that , and it certainly presents a unique character study . I haven't seen this film in a long time , but after writing this review , I'd kind of like to view it again . . . . . depressing or not .
Music Is The Main Attraction	There really isn't that much humor to this Flip The Frog story , but it has a lot of charm and good " ragtime " music . I liked the various horns on Flip's car ; Flip's " picture " on his girlfriends bedroom drawer coming alive and getting a kick out of seeing his girl undress and Flip getting all the musical instruments out of his car . After that the cartoon is mostly musical as Flip serenades his girl , and then she comes down and the two of them entertain the whole building . . . . . except for one old lady who wants to get her sleep ! Overall , not bad . It's actually better on the second viewing , especially the music which will get you in a good mood . It's old " ragtime " music . It will have you tapping your feet !
Very Funny But . . . . . . . . . .	This , once again , has most of the earmarks of modern-day comedies : tons of sexual innuendos , lots of good laughs but many of them out of questionable lines or behavior , and a stupid , rushed ending that tries to make all the good guys win and the bad guys lose . The latter is fine - I want the good guys to prevail - but they way they go about it is stupid . I did think this movie had a little softer edge than most other blatantly-low class " Something About Mary / American Pie " - type comedies of today however . I guess what I am saying is this isn't as in-your-face type offensive most of the rest are . Of course , Adam Sandler is playing the low-key Gary Cooper role of Mr . Deeds from the 1940s , so he's not the high-strung Happy Gilmore type here , although he does get violent at times . Winona Ryder plays the love interest , a tabloid low-moral reporter who is reformed by the amiable Mr . Deeds . She's not believable at all and one can see one reason she isn't much of star actress anymore . It isn't just her real-life problems . She's pretty and she's okay in the role but something's missing in her acting . The real star of the film is John Turturro , as the Spanish butler . He's funny in about every scene he's in and he's a guy everyone roots for here . In summary , it's a pretty nice film , with a number of laugh-out-loud scenes , but it's still a long way from the Gary Cooper-Barabara Stanwyck classic film version , at least in terms of an aw-shucks wholesome hero . This film just doesn't have the heart and soul of the original , because it's more concerned with cheap laughs than a moral message . Still , it has its funny moments and I found worth watching .
Wish I Had This Back In My Collection	I'll get my ' bad news ' ' out of the way first . I found ti a very confusing storyline with sci-fi mumbo-jumbo which is hard to follow and makes the film somewhat unsatisfying to watch in the long run . Yet . . . . . . The good news : Excellent visuals and audios . When it came out in ' 99 , VHS sales were still somewhat substantial but this is one film in which DVD and an accompanying surround system makes a big , positive difference . I like the cast , too , with Craig Bierko , Gretchen Moll , Vincent D'Onofrio and Armin Mueller-Stahl . They may not be big names but these are actors who are almost always fascinating in the roles they play . Now that I've seen D'Onofrio in " Law and Order : Criminal Intent " and enjoyed Bierko as Max Baer in " Cinderella Man , " I'm inclined to give this another look . I traded this DVD for something else around 2001 and I wish I had it back .
Powerful , But A Tough Movie To Watch	This is an extremely sordid movie , but one you never forget . I saw it in the theater almost 20 years ago and it was shocking then , so much so that I've only seen it once since and have no desire to see it again . It just left such a bad taste in my mouth . This is a frightening picture of the pornography business 20 years ago featuring about everything you can think of in that seedy world . Unfortunately , the story centers around finding a girl from a " religious " family and the father , played by George C . Scott , is painted as something of a fanatic . He's portrayed as a cold and violent figure . ( Hey , Hollywood isn't going to portray a Christian father as kind and loving . ) Yet , Scott is not all that bad because he still is extremely dedicated father who went to all lengths to get his daughter back . This movie really shows the sleazy side of the entire porno business and , thankfully , it doesn't glamorize any of it . Peter Boyle is good as the detective and Season Hubley is interesting as the prostitute who gives you her ideas on life in the business . This is a fascinating film in parts but also very tough to view in a number of areas . This may sound naive , but when I saw this in 1979 , I was stunned that this type of sick-underbelly of a society existed . . . . at least to this degree . I can't imagine what's out there today . In summary , a very powerful but brutal movie to watch , especially if you have kids of your own .
Jousting With A Modern Take	A story about jousting but this old knight's tale is anything but old because it mixes in satire of today's modern sports-audience age with some funny bits . Those include the overly dramatic public address announcer ( boy , that's even more so since this film came out ) , rock music blaring out as the contestants do battle , etc . The main characters are nicely varied with distinct personalities . Shannon Sossamon , however , was not quite up to leading-lady status and hasn't had a choice role like this since , either . I would have rather seen her " assistant " in this film , or the blacksmith woman , be the lead . Anyway , even though it's a bit long at 132 minutes , it's still entertaining most of the way , with some of the funniest bits at the beginning . However , it's just as much a romance ( with Heath Ledger as the male lead ) than a comedy . What also is good is the sound and visuals in here : all high-class . The lance hitting an opponent made an interesting sound each time . The surround sound in here was good , too . As entertaining and slick-looking as this was , I didn't find myself caring if I saw this twice , frankly , which I why I didn't rate it higher than ' 7 ' stars . However , it's a film most people would like , and I recommend seeing it .
Debbie Reynolds With A Lot Of Back-Stage Details Of This Famous Film	Not surprising , host Debbie Reynolds said everyone connected with this movie thought they were " just making another splashy MGM musical , like so many that were so popular in the 1950s . We had no idea this film would be listed , years later , as one of the greatest films of all time . " This 35-minute feature is part of the two-disc special-edition DVD of " Singin ' In The Rain " which celebrates the 50th anniversary of this famous musical . It starred our host , along with Gene Kelly , Donald O'Connor and Jean Hagen . This has to be Kelly's most famous film . Even those who never watched the movie have , at some time in their life , has seen clips of him dancing to the title number . Many silent screen stars did not survive the " talkie " revolution , the switch to silent to talking films . That transitional period is the primary story of " Singin ' In The Rain . " Debbie gives us the history of musicals at MGM , beginning with the " The Broadway Melody " in 1929 . I was shocked to hear that in the next musical , " The Hollywood Revue Of 1929 , " the key song was " Singin ' In The Rain . " I guess like others I presumed the song was made for this 1952 hit movie . Reynolds , director Stanley Donen , screenwriters Betty Comden and Adolph Green heap praise on Arthur Freed , who produced those first musicals , and more after that including , of course , this film . He also wrote the lyrics to the songs and those were written back in the late ' 20s . It was nice to see Donald O'Connor again , along with Kathleen Freeman , Cyd Charisse and Stanely Donan . O'Connor , however , was only on briefly here . My guess was that he was ill because O'Connor died the following year after this interview . Kelly , who co-directed as well as starring in the film , was a perfectionist and had to have everything , not just the dancing , to be perfect , such as set decorations and having everything look just as it would in the 1920s . Yet , no one resented this because they liked the guy . Like fellow hoofer Fred Astaire , Gene worked his partners hard . Reynolds feet bled at times and Cyrisse would go home black-and-blue . Reynolds covers a lot of ground and , of course , a fair amount is about herself but , that's okay . She was fair to everyone . If you really love this film , you'll enjoy all the details she provides .
Some Awesome Sights , But Let-Down At End	I found this so-so , with the good being some awesome tornado and cloud - formation scenes and the " bad " being a little too much behind-the-scenes stuff and an anti-climactic ending . In a nutshell , we travel along as a young guy who has built this expensive , amazing tornado-proof vehicle goes in search of tornadoes , hoping to get literally inside of the eye of one . He is accompanied , in another truck vehicle , by an older guy with the same passion who wants to analyze as much data as he can , and with this equipment can help Casey get right in the path of a twister . The tension mounts as time is running out . On the final day - which seems a bit hokey - things finally go right and the big moment arrives . However , when it's over , you - the reviewer - may ask " Huh ? That's it ? " The camera just doesn't capture the excitement these guys felt inside the big vehicle . We really don't get much of any feeling of what the experience of being the eye of tornado was like . It's a bit disappointing . To me , the most amazing visuals were those of the incredible cloud formations just prior to a storm . I've never anything like them , and with violent lightening in the middle of these very dark , huge clouds , it's an awesome sight . I can see why so many of these " storm chasers " are addicted to this peculiar " hunt . "
The Good & Bad Of This Western Remake	For you lovers of classic-era films , make no mistake : this is not the " 3 : 10 From Yuma " that you know : this re-make is a very rough , very violent and profane . It does entertain , however . Its biggest " plus , " I think , is that it pulls you in almost immediately and and keeps you involved in the story . It's hard to take your eyes off the screen . So . . . . . the " good news " is the entertainment value ; the " bad news " is the ludicrous story and poor moral message . MORE GOOD NEWS - It's always a pleasure , or usually a pleasure , to watch Russell Crowe and Christain Bale : two very good actors who you can count on to be entertaining . A lesser-known actor , Ben Foster , is extremely effective as " Charlie , " the most evil man in the movie . Meanwhile , the cinematography is good and the sets are excellent . You really feel like you are part of the Old West and are witnessing these gunfights as they happen . The story has many twists and turns to keep you guessing . MORE OF THE BAD - Every time God or the Bible is mentioned , it is done so in negative terms . God doesn't answer prayers ; the villain is the only one quoting Scripture . His mother told him to read the Bible , so he did for three straight days and his mother left him , etc . , etc . All of it is needless , but obviously the biased writers had to get their atheist agendas into the story . Meanwhile , our intelligence is further insulted in the big action scene at the end when literally hundreds of shots , some from close range , are fired at the two main characters and nobody is killed ! In fact , these guys are still running all the way through town to the train : no problem . Neither guy gets hit ? ? ! Puh-leeze . There's more , but you can read other reviews for more pros and cons . I rarely mention another reviewer , but I was impressed with the review written by " robertblanton . " It is posted on the first or second page and I recommended reading it . Overall , suffice to say , I still enjoyed the movie , was entertained , but was not impressed with a lot of the writers ' agendas , nor the credibility of the action scenes . On a final note : if you have the DVD , check out the bonus feature " Outlaws , Gangs and Posses . " It has some fascinating material on what these guys , and others , were really like in the Old West .
Very Suspenseful For One Look	This is one of the most suspenseful movies you'll ever see , but that good for only viewing . After you've seen it , the impact is greatly lost for further viewings . It got panned by many critics for having too far-fetched a storyline , and I agree . However , if you can put your brain on " hold " for 90 minutes , you'll enjoy the movie . The only annoying part for me was the typical Liberal bias in here where the Liberal politician is the target of a Conservative fanatic . They never show you the other way around . At least the writers here were somewhat subtle . As interesting the characters as Johnny Depp usually plays , the two villains in here were more fun to watch than him . Christopher Walken and Roma Maffia were riveting as the killers . Depp actually played a normal person , which is not normal for him . The suspense was so good , I could hardly watch parts of this . That was the best part of the movie . The worst may have been the so-overplayed cliché of the killers hesitating before shooting and then , because of that , being shot themselves . That is so tiresome . Or sometimes the crooks talk instead of shoot , and then are shot . It's one of critic Robert Ebert's biggest pet peeves and I agree with him . It's another reason this film got low grades by most critics . However , this " real time " movie ( trying to get the viewer even more involved ) , is guaranteed , if you've never seen it , to give you an entertaining hour-and-a-half .
You Have To See This More Than Once	This is one of those films I'm glad I gave a second chance because it got much better , and has continued getting better with each viewing ( I've now seen it four times ) . I know a few other people who watch this and ask , " What's the big deal ? " Well , do what I did and give it another chance . Here's a tip : put on the English subtitles . It helps understand what is going on , as the taped conversations are often difficult to discern . Then , you might discover what I did : a fascinating character study , one that did not bore me as it had on the first viewing . It's the study of a paranoid loner who is suffering a guilty conscience over the work he has done over the years , and what tragic consequences could happen with the latest project he's involved with . Without giving anything away , the loner's fears are realized in a shocking ending , but not in the way he imagined . Gene Hackman , as always , does a super job of acting . He dominates the film as the main character , " Harry Call . " The topic matter - high-tech surveillance - was intriguing , too . After watching this film , I wondered what kind of surveillance tools are available now , 30 years after this film was made .
So Bad , It's Good !	This campy 1950s sci-fi film has turned into a real cult classic . The film is so bad - horrible special effects and terrible dialog - that it is a hoot to watch . It's so terrible it's fun to watch . Instead of scary you , the corny dialog just makes you laugh out loud . I forget whether this film was made to be serious but at this point , it's like an Ed Wood film : so terrible that you laugh through the entire thing , making it a good comedy . As a bonus for guys , you get to ogle Allison Hayes , who looks good at any height ! I am amazed this movie is not available on DVD . If it wasn't well-known , they certainly wouldn't have bothered with a re-make .
Spike Is The Undeserved Victim Here	" If one more thing happens to my little dream house , there is going to be murder ! " When he hears threats like that - always delivered to Tom by either Spike the dog or Mammy Two Shoes the maid , it's music to Jerry's ears . . . . . . and the devil sets to work to make sure that DOES happen . His goal is always to see that Tom gets what's coming to him . Spike hasn't built the house yet ; he just has the blueprints , but he's working on it . Unfortunately , every time he's trying the build the house the stupid cat - who is always chasing Jerry - gets in the way , ruins what has been built . . . . . and pays a big price . Spike never bluffs . If he promises something ; he'll deliver ! Actually , Spike shows more patience and tolerance in this episode that you would think . Tom , in the beginning , accidentally demolishes the in-progress dog house but later he acts nasty himself . . . . so you wind up rooting for the dog in this one . Some of the gags in here are good , such as Spike looking like a daisy or a few other odd things . Actually , the poor dog takes the brunt of the violence in this cartoon . In fact , I can't think of another Tom and Jerry where Tom deserved punishment more than this one . I usually root for him , but not here .
Haunting Performance By Amis	I found this to be one of those " haunting " films that has stayed with me . Suzy Amis ' performance has stuck with me since I first saw this movie in 1994 . As for the story , yes it's hard to believe that no one would notice a " man " who never had any facial hair , whose voice was fairly high and had such narrow shoulders but despite the unrealistic premise , it's a good story that keeps your attention all the way without the need for action ( although there is some . ) Amis does transform her looks from a fairly pretty woman to someone that looks like a frail 17-year-old boy . David Chung , who plays her Asian friend ( well , more than that ) also is very good and Bo Hopkins also has a strong contribution as the neighbor . But this movie belongs to Amis all the way and just the painful looks on her face alone are memorable enough for me . What a haunting , sad look ! Thus , it is not a happy story , but it's powerful one and worth seeing . Worth hearing , too , with some nice guitar work for the soundtrack . If you are looking for a western that has a different angle , this certainly qualifies .
' Gil ' And ' Jack ' Okay , But Not Exactly The Dynamic Duo	Anthony LaPaglia , star of " Without A Trace , " guest-stars here as " Jack Malone " of the FBI . Jack is in Las Vegas to investigate a abduction and killing of a 10-year-old boy and his babysitter , respectively . Malone thinks the boy is the same one abducted six years ago in New York City by a guy also slaughtered the babysitter . Is it the same killer , or even the same boy ? Actually , this story gets a little confusing . There are a couple of boys involved in this story and several relatives and you begin wondering who is whom ? It wasn't really as riveting as one would expect , since it turns out to be a two-part story , and a " crossover , " to boot , meaning it's continued on LaPaglia's show . Usually two-part stories are very intense and interesting . As mentioned , this was so-so and sometimes confusing . Much of the show is " Jack " and " Gil , " not exactly two dynamic to start with , especially " Jack , " who is really a dud , personality-wise . He makes Grissom look like a stand-up comic .
Droopy Is Relentless	Droopy is south of the border , happily riding a donkey and singing . He's also playing the violin and wearing a big sombrero . Suddenly , out of a cactus tree comes a bandit you quickly rifles through Droopy's wallet . He stops when he gets to a picture of a gorgeous woman . Droopy says , " That's my girl . I am going to serenade her . " The bandit replies , " No , I , the Crisco Kid , will serenade her . ( Hey , the real Cisco Kid - star of the 1950s TV - is a good guy , not a bandit ! ) . He sends Droopy away on his little burro and rides off on his big horse " Diablo " to get the girl . Of course , the moment The Kid arrives as the senorita's house , Droopy's already there . The rest of the cartoon is similar to others in that no matter what the " villain " does , Droopy is always right there , too . You cannot shake loose from this dog ! Droopy is relentless . In a surprise , the woman gives him a big kiss , but Droopy only says , " You know what ? That's not sanitary . " You just never know what this dog will do , or say . The artwork in here was tremendous ; beautiful , lush colors of the Mexican countryside and villas . There is plenty of music in here and wild sound-effects , too .
The Good & Bad Of ' The Passion Of The Christ '	I can't believe I didn't write a review after seeing this , but I must have incorrectly presumed I did . With so many other reviewers by now , I'll make my points as brief as possible . GOOD - Kudos for someone finally presenting an accurate account of Christ's sufferings , as gruesome and horrible as they were , although , if you read the Gospel accounts in the Bible , it was even worse than shown on this film . Jesus ' face was beaten to a pulp and " unrecognizable " so keep that in mind if you think the film overdid the beatings . However , the overall effect is that there isn't anything sanitized in this film ; it's an according-to-the-Book account and after you see this on film , it shakes you up . I heard that people were so stunned they couldn't speak for about a half hour after coming out of the theaters . I thought that was probably exaggerated , but it wasn't . I felt the same way , just stunned at what I had witnessed . As a Believer , it was something I needed to see to remind me of what this God-in the flesh human voluntarily went through . For non-Believers , scoffers or whatever , I don't know what your reaction was to the film but for me , it was a humbling , sobering experience . THE BAD - The unrelenting brutality against Jesus the last three-quarters of this film is so bad that , frankly , I would hesitate before ever watching this again . One viewing is enough . I am amazed so many people sat through this , including Christians . I wish director / producer Mel Gibson had shown more of Christ's resurrection instead of centering 99 percent of this movie on his suffering , although I understand Mel's point . However , all of Jesus ' claims and sufferings are meaningless without the resurrection , so why not emphasize that instead of just tacking it on for the last minute or two ? Just asking . It's a cliché , but this is a film you won't soon forget , but I would add to that , one you probably won't want to watch multiple times .
Daffy WAS Different , But Not In His Prime Yet	" I kind of stand out from the crowd , don't I ? " Yeah , Daffy , you certainly do , which is why we love you . Anyway , that's the question my favorite duck asks in the beginning of this cartoon as we see four ducks just sitting there on a pond doing nothing , except for Daffy . He's filing his nails ! When Porky Pig comes by firing shotguns , the ducks stick their head in the water , but Daffy puts on a swim cap first . Then he walks out of the water and tells Porky that he's not dealing with the average duck . " I'm gifted , just slopping over with talent . " Yup , he's different all right . To demonstrate , he sings , dances , does imitations , a one-act drama , shows Porky his Warner Brothers contract , etc . Unfortunately , a decent share of the humor in here is a bit juvenile or dated or just not plain funny . Some of Daffy's remarks are good , as always . Frankly , I liked the 1950s Daffy Duck cartoons better than these 1940s efforts . They are a lot more sophisticated in the humor department .
New Restored Version Worth Checking Out	For its time , this movie has stunning visuals , kind of Kubrick-esqe in appearance , especially the opening scenes of workers going and coming from work . It's very strange , with the group leaving walking with their heads down like zombies . The set designs in here are also something that might draw your attention . This really has a futuristic look . I thought the visuals were fascinating . This was " German expressionist " filmwork at its height , I would think . Director Fritz Lang went on to become a very famous man in his profession . This wasn't his first effort but , I think this might have been the film that put him " on the map , " so to speak . Several years later , he gained a lot more fame with " M . " At any rate , with the photography , sets and overall Flash Gordon-type sci-fi look , this must have been a real eye-opener to movies viewers 80 years ago . I still think they look very cool today . The music was also very dramatic , at least in this restored 5 . 1 surround sound restoration DVD , put out by Klino . Obviously , the eye makeup on men and the exaggerated motions by actors in silent films look a little hokey but I was mesmerized by Brigitte Helm , who plays " Maria " and her evil clone . She is something else ! I also appreciated Klino's explanation of lost footage and how they did the best they could do to still make the story flow together . They did an outstanding job . I wouldn't attempt to watch this on anything less than this DVD , which looks pretty darn good . This is a " worker " story about a man wanting to trade his comfortable life to join the oppressed workers , who do their thing beneath the earth in " Metropolis . " Workers are seen as nothing but replaceable robots . If someone gets hurt , they get carted away and replaced immediately but some other zombie-like human . Of course , people being mistreated can only take it for so long before rebellion . That's history , from the days of the Jewish slaves in Egypt to today , so that's part of this story , too . I won't say more to ruin it . I don't want to mislead people on one major point : today's audiences watching this . Few people in 2008 watch silent movies . To ask them to sit through two hours of a silent film is , obviously , asking a lot . I had to break this up into several viewings , myself , but that's okay . I still enjoyed it . . . . . but it a silent movie this long is not easy to sit through . You have to be a student of film , or a big film buff , to watch this . . . . but those people will be rewarded . Over 250 reviews in here show you this film has enough to offer , or at least take a look . Now that this restored version is available , check it out !
You Wouldn't Want To Live Here !	Frankly , I am surprised I hung with this movie because it's pretty slow . It's not a real " entertainer , " except for two things : 1 - the camera-work is nice at times ; 2 - the story is quite different from anything we are accustomed to in the West . But after two-thirds of this story had elapsed , it was tough going the rest of the way . It's not an uplifting story , either . It left me feeling depressed . Yet , it IS a memorable film and I'm glad I watched it . I mean , as one reviewer says here " Vietnamese dude leads a bunch of buffaloes in search of grass . That's it . " Yes , in one sense he's right , but obviously there is more to it than that . We get glimpses of this guy's father and mother , friends , enemies , thieves , sex , loyalty and abandonment and generally what life must be like for those in this story of people who live in this odd environment . With all the water around them , they couldn't bury their loved ones until the dry season came . They wrapped them up and put them on poles , and hopes the crows didn't peck away at the bodies . Yes , you wouldn't want to live here , at the southern tip of Vietnam with these rainy , long flood season . Lugging a couple of Water Buffaloes through waist-deep muddy water for miles can't be a great existence , either . I agree with another critic here who labels this story as " lyrical . " For the most part , I liked watching and listening to " Kim " ( The Lu Le ) give his outlook on various topics and the dialog between he and his father often was humorous . Hey , how many times have you / did you sit around and smoke " weed " and play the flute with your dad ? This is a culture far removed from mine , which is one reason why I stayed with this film - to learn something while witnessing some very foreign sights and sounds to me . I would recommend this only to people who know what they are getting into ( something slow , and very different ) or who just plain love most Asian films .
The Good & The Bad Of ' Toys '	THE GOOD NEWS - What a visual treat this movie turned out to be , with some really colorful scenes that were unique and fun to view . Robin Wright was also great to view , looking the prettiest I've ever seen her , and playing the role of a nice lady , to boot ! Joan Cusack is a treat to watch in here , too , playing a very unusual character . There are so many neat toys and so many Robin Williams ' jokes that you can't catch them all , but it's fun trying . THE BAD NEWS - The bad news is the obvious Liberal agenda which is extremely anti-military . Hey , as an ex-protester back in the ' 60s and 70s , I can tell you there is no one the Liberals hate more than the military . They still do , and probably always will . There are so many cheap shots in this film against the military I lost count . OVERALL - A fun movie , quite entertaining and a visual treat .
Decent , But Don't Be Fooled	One thing that was misleading : the cover of the VHS ( or DVD ) shows Robert De Niro , Rene Russo and Jason Alexander but those three do NOT have major roles or a lot of lines in this picture . Most of the lines are by an unknown name : actress Piper Perabo ( " FBI Agent Karen Sympathy ) " and the two cartoon characters . This is another one of these live-action cartoons in which some characters are real-life and others are cartoons and the all interact on screen at once . This comedy has a lot more subtle than laugh-out-loud lines . It's decent , and does have a certain appeal but is not as good as I expected after reading a couple of reviews prior to its release . I think it has an equal appeal for kids or adults .
Snatch-Like Brit Zombies	I guess you could call this a combination of " Dawn of the Dead " and " Snatch , " the latter used as a comparison because of it's modern-day dark humor , That's what this film is : a combination of irreverent , modern-day attitudes and profanity from young Brits and a re-make of sorts of a famous horror film . Here , we these these 20-ish types fighting a mob of the " undead " as zombies roam neighborhoods devouring everyone . Our hero ( Simon Pegg ) , a shiftless bum who has just lost his girlfriend due to his ineptness , winds up being the productive guy who saves the day and gets his girl back . Along the way , we get a number of laughs and a number of gross-out horror scenes , and a lot of f - words and the like . Nick Frost , as Simon''s best friend , provides the best and most disgusting of the low-life characters , which are unfamiliar over here . This is dark humor , to say the least , and would would appeal more to younger people although I like dark humor and I'm an old fart . . . . but others over 50 , beware . It was good entertainment in a crude way . My only complaint was trying to understand some of the sentence and British phrases of the day .
It Was The Machines That Were Magnificent	This was a fairly long but interesting story of an early 20th century airplane race taking place between London and Paris . The actual race only takes place for the last 45 minutes , and that's fun to watch . The terrain also is nice to view . Before that , you get profiles of the competitors of the race . You really get the typical stereotypes of movies : the French men woo all the women ; the Germans are make to look too militaristic and stupid ; the English are portrayed as very stiff upper-lipped and the Italians are all too emotional , etc . Stuart Whitman and James Fox both battle for Sarah Miles ' affections and Terry Thomas has some funny lines as a villain . I loved the airplanes in this film - really cool " flying machines , " as they are labeled here . They came in all sizes and shapes . In the very beginning of the movie , they show actual footage of early flight failures and they are familiar but still fascinating . Interspiced in the actual footage are closeups of Red Skelton playing the part of some of those unsuccessful fliers . Since he had no lines , Skelton reminded me of some of the great silent film comedians .
Soup's On At Flip's Cafe	The title refers to something that happens in the last minute of this cartoon , in Flip's Cafe . A customer is making noise slurping his soup so Flip puts music to his slurping . It's not well-received as the rest of the customers throw food at them ! This early animated effort gets off to a rousing start with some foot-tapping swing-type music in which we see the chimney of the building swaying to the music and fireflies acting as a neon sign , advertising " CAFE . " That was pretty clever . Inside , we get a some sight gags of how Flip runs the restaurant , some of the entertainment at the café - a hot female cat who flirts with Flip - and a whole bunch of music . There is no dialog . Overall , it's very dated but decent entertainment . The first segment of this cartoon was the best . This was the second cartoon in a series of fourteen old ones on a DVD called " Cartoons That Time Forget : The UB Iwerks Collection Vol . 1 . "
Pure Schmaltz , But Very Entertaining	This remains one of the modern-day " classic " movies that was so popular that is spun several sequels . It was just great entertainment value . The story was ludicrous : one man beating a group of terrorists with outrageous , almost-impossible feats - another " Rambo " mentality flick - but it worked . The action scenes are memorable ; Bruce Willis is good as the macho hero and David Warner is excellent as the villain . Otherwise , the film is way too profane and too biased , as usual , against law enforcement showing the acting police chief and FBI agents to be arrogant , stupid and crude . . . . just what Liberal Hollywood always does to anyone in authority . But John McTiernan gets away with his profanity-laden bias by directing a film that grabs you early on and never lets you go . . . . . very involving .
Interesting Look At Hassidic Way Of Life	Here's a very low-key movie that centers around Hassidic Jews and their lifestyles , similar to what " Witness " was with the Amish people . I found it to be interesting look at the Hassidic way of life . The first half of the film is much better than the second half , or this would rated higher . It has two big things going for it : wonderful golden-hued cinematography and not much gratuitous sex and profanity . It's probably too low-key , at least in that second half which needed more suspense and action to be a better-liked and known film . Despite being difficult believing the soft-spoken Melanie Griffith as a tough NYC cop , she still does an excellent job in the lead role and Eric Thai , ditto , as the romantic interest . There are a few disappointments in the last part of the film but the very ending is good and surprised me .
Cheetah's Learning To Survive , Family-Style	I'm not sure if this is the same episode as the one I saw , but it's the only one listed under " Cheetah " here . It's the tale of a cheetah family of brothers trying to survive in the huge wildlife preserve in Botswana . One of the three brothers , named Achilles , is the hunting leader of the three . He leads all the time while the other two follow . However , one day he gets killed by a deadly cobra . Now , the other two - who don't know what happened to him and are lost - are shown trying to make things on their own . They almost starve to death in the process , having depended so much on their older brother in the past . In the end , a lone cheetah winds up joining them and once again , they are three . Along the way of this journey , we learn about the speed , grace and personality quirks of the cheetah , including the all-important " territorial rights . "
Powers Gives Boost To Film	I found this to be a very interesting action with with Powers Boothe fun to watch as the main villain , thanks to his dialog and no-nonsense approach . At least he wasn't one of those talk-first , shoot-maybe-later clichés from the world of film . The hockey scenes in here are realistic , too . However , the rest of the film doesn't exactly exhibit realism : lots of hokey stuff in here , too . At the end , the action really gets carried away and brings the rating down on this to a manageable " 7 . " Otherwise , it would be a minimum of " 8 " just for the entertainment value alone . After a slow start , it picks up when Boothe enters the movie . Then it never lets up . If you want a pure hour of action , this is it . There is no female lead in this movie , so you get no romance nor gratuitous sex scenes , which is a bit unusual . It's a straight crime story . One note : unless things have been changed , I was disappointed my DVD did not offer a widescreen version .
Martin In His Wild & Crazy Days	A very popular movie in its day , watching it a couple of years ago wasn't the same . Oh , it was still funny but just not the " hilarious " movie I always remembered it as . Maybe its reputation and memory exceeded its value , or maybe it's funnier when you are younger . Whatever , there is still a lot of good laughs in year , subtle and slapstick variety . Now I laugh more at the subtle things . Almost all the characters in here , beginning with Steve Martin's " Navin R . Johnson , " are wacky . Bernadette Peters , by the way , never looked prettier . This was in the earlier days of the ratings system and that PG rating would be at least PG-13 today . It still fun to see it after a long absence . Martin was on a roll back in those days , " a wild and crazy guy , " and it's good that he's still entertaining us - - years later , although in a more subtle way . Hey , he's getting older , too .
Looney Tunes ' Effort Into WWII	If you watched the recent Ken Burns documentaries on World War II , you know how much America - all its citizens and businesses - went to bat in a unified effort to win that war . Well , the makers of the famous Looney Tunes cartoons put in their fair share , too . That is documented in this behind-the-scenes featurette on the Golden Collection Volume Three disc 4 DVD set . The topics of rationing , blackouts , being drafted , working in a Defense Plant , selling bonds and , of course , actually participating as soldiers were all part of a number of Looney Tunes during the period of the early-to-mid 1940s . It's pointed out by several historians , critics and directors that some of the cartoons were made just for soldiers , such as " Pvt . Snafu . " They believe that this led to much more brassier , bolder and edgier cartoons , that WWII actually helped propel cartoons into their " golden age " by the mid ' 40s . Also , writer-producer Paul Dini and others comment how " Bugs Bunny captured the American spirit so clearly . "
What's With All The Kissing ?	A question before discussing this cartoon : why , in cartoons back then , did these characters like Daffy and Bugs Bunny , always kiss their adversaries on the lips then run away ? Is that supposed to be funny ? Was that a standard gag in those days ? It looks stupid and gets annoying . Daffy does it a half dozen times here , and Bugs did it frequently . By the mid 1940s , you stopped seeing it in the cartoons . I wonder if " Mr . Meek " was a caricature of actor Donald Meek , a good classic-era comedian who looked the part of a small , very timid man . In this early Daffy Duck cartoon , " Mr . Meek " has to go kill a duck or his wife , " Sweety Puss " will cook HIS goose , or so he says . Of course , who know who first sees first : Daffy , and Daffy is too smart to let this guy chop his head off . Our favorite cartoon duck puts on a funny act , pretending to have his head chopped off and poor Mr . Meek goes away sobbing . He's no killer , and Daffy takes advantage of his compassion by beating the man home ( how did he know where the man lived ? ) and tormenting him further at his residence , trashing part of his house , too . Daffy goes insane , which is what he does best !
Those Into ' Stunts ' Of Yesteryear , Like Filling Up A Phone Booth	Who remembers the how-many people-can-you-cram-into-the phone booth prank ? It was one of several college fads of the day 50 years ago , goofy things kids did to get their names and faces in the newspaper . Pretty harmless compared to some of the stunts today , eh ? Because Rick's fraternity seems to be getting no publicity and , hence , few people showing up to their dances and other social efforts , the boys are desperate to get some publicity for their group . Even though it is " old news , " they try the phone booth bit down at the local Malt Shop hangout , but need the fire department to rescue them . The stunt Wally finally comes up with is to take a canoe to the top of a local mountain . There is no water there to row a canoe , but that's the idea - doing something that makes no sense so it might be different enough to make news . Wally , by the way , supervises , doing no work . He only likes to eat . What happens on the trip and the ironic ending make up the rest of the episode , which was just " fair . " It really didn't deserve a spot in this excellent " The Best Of The Adventures Of Ozzie & Harriet " DVD .
Not Much Said , But A Lot To See	There is a lot to see in this old Flip The Frog cartoon . For instance , right near the beginning we see a farm scene with about a dozen animals in it , all doing cartoonish-things , along with dancing trees . Everything is moving to the music . Actually , that's how the things goes throughout as only a word or two is spoken . Most of it is either pantomime or singing a song or two . A horse pulling an attractive female frog throws a shoe . Luckily for them , the village smitty is right there so the horse - the most entertaining character in the cartoon - goes to get re - soled . A few wacky things happen after that , thanks to a pretty funny but brutal horse fly . Overall , it's dated but it has enough sight gags to make it worth a look . This was the fourth cartoon in a series of old ones in a DVD called " Cartoons That Time Forget : The UB Iwerks Collection Vol . 1 . "
The Good And Bad Of White Sands	Here is another modern-day film-noir , featuring interesting characters played by a diverse cast . That cast is led by Willem Dafoe , who reminds me a lot of another noir actor , Dan Duryea . There is the usual corrupt government / military officials angle but the plot does have a few neat twists and is generally a non-nonsense kind of story . However , I did find the storyline a bit confusing , especially in the last half hour . On a second viewing , five years later , a few things cleared up but not a lot . I guess it will take looks to figure out everything , especially the very end . I'm not usually a fan of Elizabeth Mastrantonio , but I thought she was exceptional in here : by far , the best and most interesting character . The movie has a nice soundtrack . Overall , the good outweighs the bad and the somewhat confusing story helps draw me back for future viewings . Aside notes : this must have been one of Samuel L . Jackson's first films because he was listed as " Sam Jackson " in the closing credits . Unbilled were three always-interesting actors : Fred Thompson , Mimi Rogers and Jack P . Ryan .
England : A Country With A LONG History !	" Little area , big influence , " is the way our host , Justine Shapiro , describes England in the opening of this 52-minute historic tour , which is just half of the DVD . The other half is similar-length tour of just London . Justine's trip begins at Hastings , where the famous battle of old days is reenacted each year , and we see some of that . We also go inside a neat lighthouse , very old penny arcade , and a spectacular Fantasy Pavilion . In going up to London , she advises to try to out-of-way places where you won't get mobbed with tourists . We visit a " pie and mash " eatery in the East End , made famous by Jack The Ripper , for one . The boat rides are a great way to see the countryside around the area . Traveling further north , she takes us on a special double-decker bus complete with showers , beds and whatever . . . . enough for eight people . That's where we go through Yorkshire and the famous Moors , where Emily Bronte was inspired to write , " Wuthering Heights . " Next stop is Whitby , an eerie place where Bram Stoker wrote " Dracula . " Then it's on to a place that might be unfamiliar to a lot of us North Americans : Hadrian's wall built by the Romans in 2 A . D . as a kind of border between the " civilized world " ( England ) and the " barbaric " ( Scotland ) . I'll bet the Scots don't think much of that . The wall stretches for 73 miles . We are then on a steam train . The Brits love them and their looks , and I agree with them . They are beautiful trains . Shapiro takes it to Liverpool where she then takes the " Magical Mystery Tour " to celebrate The Beatles . The final leg is in the West Country and the magnificent Longleat . This is another place where one really feels the history of this country , our host remarks , summing it up with " The past feels present here . " I checked out the next segment - the one covering the city of London - for 40 minutes until the host , a young Australian , Jonathan Atherton , got too offensive and obnoxious , getting drunk " in our church sanctuary and getting crucified , ha , ha , ha ! ! " as he hoists another beer . Imagine insulting another religion like that and putting it on TV and in a DVD , but insulting Christianity and the Cross . . . . well , that's okay . I won't watch anything more hosted by this ignorant moron nor will even report on what he said in here prior to his drunk scene , expect to say about 10 minutes before that , he did meet some fellow Aussies and they all got drunk , too . Nice lot , those mates , eh ? Let's hope they don't represent the average citizen in their country .
Nice Face , Nice Sculptures !	There's some nice photography in here , which is what helped me get through this long ( 159 minutes ) soap opera-type story about the girlfriend ( the title name , played by Isabelle Adjani ) of the famous sculptor Rodin ( Gerard Depardieu ) . There are a lot of closeups of Adjani which was fine with me as I never get tired of seeing her looks . " Camille " also was a sculptor but when the romance with Rodin went sour , she went literally crazy . This movie details that saga . In addition to the cinematography , you get to see some great sculptures - really good pieces of work . I just wish they had shown how the artists accomplished these pieces . Since they are just actors , all it did was show the two leads chipping away chunks of clay , never showing any detail work . At least , the film made me appreciate the art form more .
Not Great , But Still A Likable Bond Movie	Without Sean Connery in the starring role , I wasn't expecting that much , so this was a pleasant surprise because I found it to be one of the better Bond movies . I'm not saying it was one of the better-made , just one I enjoyed more than most . Except for Roger Moore as Bond , the actors in here are mostly no-names . However , it was entertaining , had some good action scenes , lots of pretty woman , almost no profanity and some nice European and American scenery . The opening six minutes of action was great as were the opening credits . Gee , I sound like I'm describing almost all the Bond movies . Well , I just felt this one is a notch above most of them in the categories listed above . The only negative to me was the ending , unfortunately . It was just too hokey and didn't live up to the excellence of the first 100 minutes .
What's In Store Is Really Incredible !	The most amazing part of this hour-long show was the final short segment where the filmmakers showed the guns that are being worked on right now . Those include guns which can shoot around corners ; guns which fire multiple bullets in the air and stop at a certain distance and rain down on the victims ; guns with options in it for lethal or non-lethal bullets ; a machine-gun like box capable of firing up to one million bullets per minute , etc ! It's incredible . We already have the " frangible " bullet which penetrates skin but does not seriously hurt the target . That's the ultimate goal of police : stop people in their tracks but don't kill them . The problem , as so evidently shown in the North Hollywood shootout in 1997 , is that the criminals often have superior firepower or bullet-proof armor . Technology in bullets and guns today are producing more new things in the last few years than in the thousands of years prior to today . Heck , it took five hundred years to change the bullet from a small round ball to the conical shape . The Modern Marvels episode details the history of the bullet , all the trouble people had to contend with to fire it and how and why a bullet comes speeding out of a gun , in the first place . Some of these things are basic to gun owners , but to a novice they were interesting . Some of the key inventions in the 19th century - which changed things radically from the past - were not only the shape of the projectile but better rifles ( cutting down on residue , which would render guns useless after about 10 firings ) , self-continued ammunition / smokeless powder , and more . At the end of the century , the machine gun was developed . Progress made a big leap , as often the case , in a war . During World War I , the British had tanks so the Germans countered with armor-piercing bullets . We were now into the " Full Metal Jacket " era . " Hollow points " and tons of other advancements ( see above ) have been made since . Even bullets have been highly-affected by the Computer Age . so Lord knows what's next .
Two-Against-One . . . . . Sort Of	Two cats fighting over Jerry ? Yup , that's the case here . Tom is just tormenting his buddy but some stray outside means to have Jerry as part of a submarine sandwich . Jerry tries to smooch up to each cat , playing up to one to stay away from other . That only works once for each cat . After that , this is just one big chase scene , but that's par for the course for a Tom and Jerry cartoon . What's different is that there are two cats chasing the mouse . Thankfully , for Jerry's sake , the cats are also beating each other up while trying to hold onto the elusive mouse . Finally , Jerry starts producing pain for both cats , something he's used to doing to poor Tom . All in all , it makes for a fairly wild eight minutes , with most of the laughs in the second half of it , particularly when Tom is about to chop Jerry in half , but then gets another idea whispered in his ear from " the Devil . " As always , the devil's advice winds up to be the wrong kind
Odd Sights In Missouri & Idaho	Missouri and Idaho are the two states our wacky races get to travel through in this twin-bill . The first challenge in Missouri is to climb the " precipitous peaks of Pikers Peak . " Why all this mountainous Arizona-Colorado-type terrain is in Missouri is a mystery . Well , at least the scenery in this episode was very colorful . That might have been the best part of the show as the humor was slightly sub-par . Most of it just dealt with Dick Dastardly trying to take a short cut and win , with the predictable results . There were a couple of clever jokes , such as the way the competitors managed a hairpin turn on a mountain , and the way Pat Pending turned his machine into a " convertible turtle top . " On the second part ( Idaho ) , the destination is Baked , Idaho . The title of the episode gives you a ' 60s flavor with the " Go-Go " lingo . That , and the psychedelic backgrounds in the openings , bring one back to the late ' 60s when this TV show was drawn and written . This was a little bit pre-feminism era , too , as Penelope Pitstop is into all the shallow glamor stuff and not much else . There are a tons of stereotypes in here , some of which still exist in elitist-Liberal Hollywood , such as making hillbillies , Southerners in general and the all military guys all look stupid . That's why the best and most humorous competitors are those devoid of politics or bias , such as " The Creepy Coupe " or " Pat Pending . " The highlight of the Idaho trip was the side trip to ' grandma's house " a la " Little Red Riding Hood . " That part was clever and funny . Kudos , by the way , to Warner Brothers for making English subtitles available and for providing a nice , sharp and colorful picture of each episode .
Young Jennifer Jones Something To Behold	Despite being a little long at almost three hours and not all that exciting , I will watch this again if for no other reason than to see a young , beautiful , sweet Jennifer Jones once again in her screen debut . Much of this film is a frustrating experience as the sincere and honest " Bernadette " ( Jones ) is not believed by the powers-that-be : the local politician and clergyman . That disbelief goes on and on and on as Bernadette sees the image of the Virgin Mary , and cannot convince politician-staunch atheist Vincent Price and some stubborn heads of the Catholic Church that she's seeing exactly what she's stating . The real story goes that Bernadette had conversations with Mary ( only referred to as " the lady " in the movie ) for 15 straight days and miracles took place where the two talked . The acting in here is very good , top to bottom . Included on that this of good actors , but who not any billing on the DVD cover , is the great Anne Revere , one of the most interesting and underrated actresses of her day . The cinematography also is very good and can be easily under-appreciated while one gets involved in the story . This is definitely a movie to check out , whatever ones theological beliefs , for the acting , photography , involving story and , of course , to see Jones in her youthful beauty and innocence .
Appropriate Tribute To The Nurses In WWII	Without some of the sappy romances , I would have rated this powerful movie a couple of stars higher . That's only my tastes in films . For the ladies , they might like this " war movie , " a lot more because it pays tribute mainly nurses and all the romances are probably just the ticket . But for 126 minutes , I would have liked to see a bit less courtship scenes , which included some corny dialog . I realize they needed to break up the action scenes and give something for the females to watch , but they often made no sense . For example , near the end Colbert marries George Reeves ( yes , Superman ) even though she admits she knows almost nothing about the man ! ! . I did enjoy watching Claudette Colbert , Paulette Goddard and Vernoica Lake , however . All of them looked very pretty . Lake was missing her peek-a-boo long blonde hair but probably - at least facially - looked better than I've ever seen her . Her role was the most interesting . The movie succeeds in paying tribute to unsung heroes of any war : the nurses . They were an extremely hard-worked , under-appreciated group during World War II , so this tribute is well - earned and I'm glad to have seen it . God bless those ladies who made such sacrifices .
Many Adjectives Describe This	Crude , sophomoric , irreverent , silly , stupid , overly macho , etc . , etc . - yet , an endearing and very enjoyable film for a lot of people . I wouldn't put myself in that category any more , calling it " endearing , " but when I was a lot younger and more less discerning , I laughed a lot at this . I enjoyed this as much , if not more , than the original film , " Every Which Way But Loose . " Now , it's a bit too seedy and I don't care for all the abuses of the Lord's name in vain , especially in comedy . However , this is an entertaining film . No one falls asleep watching the antics of the orangutan or Clint Eastwood and his fighting opponent or the irascible Ruth Gordon . The villain in here - Eastwoood's boxing opponent " Jack Wilson " ( William Smith ) was a good guy and the bare - knuckle was something to see ! It's low brow stuff , but a lot of that kind of humor was big in the ' 70s and early ' 80s .
Voight's Performance Makes Film Tolerable	This used to be one of my favorite films until I began getting offended at hearing the Lord's name in vain . This movie is brutal in that regard , but it's still such an interesting story and character portrait that I still look at it but not often . Jon Voight's character is the only reason I would look at it again . Voight , as " Manny , " provides about as intense and good an acting performance as you could ask for . He's riveting in here . As tough as he is - a hardened criminal who escapes from prison with " Buck " ( Eric Roberts ) - he Roberts a little speech during this story which is about as good a parable as Jesus gave in His brief stay on Earth . He lectures his friend about being humble enough to serve , even in the most humiliating circumstances . I've just never forgotten Voight's speech . This is an action-packed , rough film with rough people and very rough language . The language is actually ludicrous at times with over-the-top characters like the ones played by John P . Ryan and Kenneth McMillian , two of the most profane actors of their day . Being a Golan-Globus film of the period ( ' 70s and ' 80s ) , this film is overridden by low-life characters , a trademark of those scummy filmmakers . Back on the positive side , the story features great suspense , and a real feel for the bleak , snowy Alaskan terrain . The last 30 minutes is the best , because of less dialog , a pounding music beat and a great , memorable ending . Overall , if you can take the blaspheming assault on your ears , this movie is worth it for the great adventure and atmospheric feel of cold and suffering . . . . and , if for nothing else , Voight's fabulous performance .
Nice People , Nice Music	Here is fairly pleasant story of a 13-year-old violin prodigy and his financially-strapped father try to get the boy professional help to aid in the kid's musical career . The father is a bit on the pushy side but he has a good heart and he's pretty comical , too . The young teen is a likable kid and the other main characters - two of his teachers and the " big sister " - are all interesting people . The dialog , as with many " foreign " films , is different from what we are used to hearing in North America and I , for one , find it appealing . At almost two hours , this might be a bit long for most people to put up with subtitles , but I didn't find that a hindrance in keeping focused on this story . Along the way , you get to enjoy some excellent violin playing , too . People who like amiable-character stories and good music should enjoy this very much .
Better Than How It First Looks	On the surface , this looks like a dumb movie which is overly violent and too seedy because it features nothing but hardened criminals plus the normal sadistic warden Hollywood always shows in all modern-day films . But . . . . it turns out the story isn't as sordid as it looks and the violence , although plentiful , is somehow not overdone . Also , the chief villain " Walter Marek " ( Stuart Wilson ) is a man with a good sense of humor . The comedic relief he brings is a real plus to the story . By the way , Wilson doesn't look like Mel Gibson but his voice sure sounds similar . " No Escape " is strictly an action movie with an all-male cast that has a grim atmosphere of convicts fighting it out on an inescapable island in the year 2022 . Profanity isn't as much as you'd except in a tough film like this and - in a real oddity - Lance Henriksen is the nicest guy in the movie ! He never utters a bad or angry word . If you know the characters Henriksen usually plays , you know this is a rarity . Ray Liotta , Michael Lerner and Ernie Hudson also star , so it's a decent cast . You could do a lot worse looking for two hours of " escapist " fare .
' Mr . Bean ' A Likable & Funny Guy , But Wears Thin After An Hour	Well , overall I'd say that I enjoyed this movie and got enough laughs out of it to make it worthwhile , but I wouldn't watch it again . I think you can only take so much of Rowan Atkinson's " Mr . Bean . " A newcomer to him ( believe-it-or-not ) , I found him a lot of fun in the first half of the film but , boy , this guy is tough to take in longer dosages . I wonder if others feel that way ? It's weird ; the film was entertaining . . . . . but I found myself looking at my watch a lot during the last 20 minutes , hoping it would end . Maybe breaking the film into two viewings would have helped . Atkinson's goofy faces are very funny at first but get tiresome after an hour . Well , it was a " cute " story , anyway , and certainly one the whole family could watch . There is nothing , language or sex-wise , that would offend anyone . This is just old-fashioned , almost silent-film-type slapstick comedy . " Mr . Bean " certainly is a likable guy , as are the co - stars , Emma De Caunes and young - - - - - - . Actually I probably laughed more at the ultra - corny lines delivered by Willem Dafoe , whose character pokes fun at film makers . How Dafoe uttered some of these lines with a straight face is beyond me ! The film , though , belongs to Atkinson who is in about every scene and hams it up to the max . If you laugh at his contorted facial expressions and limber body ( check out his karaoke work ! ) , you'll love the film . It's very lighthearted comedy and I wouldn't knock the innocence of it , but it's difficult to take in one dose . Overall : recommended because this is one of the few comedies of recent times you can actually watch with your kids and not worry about anything offensive . For that , it deserves some accolades .
' Too Many Forensic Shows '	One of those annoying crime " investigator " shows is following the Las Vegas CSI around on a case as Gil and Catherine walk into a big hotel to check out a crime scene . Gil tells the cameraman , " There are too many forensic shows on TV . " That great line opens this episode . I am sure William Petersen enjoyed saying that line , as he was quoted years ago as being against a second CSI show , much less three , plus other copy - cat efforts on TV . Anyway , the local CSI investigates after a seriously-wounded woman staggers out of a room , also the victim of some kind of date-rape assault in which she was tied up . Who did this ? It doesn't help that the victim can't remember much expect that a fireman came to her door . That's the story for the episode . There are no secondary crime stories . At first , I didn't the way they handled the filming , most of it through the lens of the tabloid - TV camera , which means just one straight-on angle , weaker sound than normal , etc . However , as it went on it served its purpose : providing something a little different . The flashlight-camera was kind of cool . Humor was provided by the nerd-ish " Hodges , " who mugged for the tabloid cameraman . Meanwhile , the case involves a guy with a " foot fetish . " Man , these Las Vegas shows get weird at times .
One Of The Wildest , Sickest & Craziest Films You'll Ever See	Yikes , this is a sick movie and one of the wildest I've ever watched . THE GOOD - This is so stylishly-filmed it's unbelievable . The wild camera techniques - quick flashes , sudden changes from color to black-and-white and back , distorted sound bytes , tilted camera angles , wild colors and symbolic images , distorted sound bytes - are all fascinating to watch . Then there's the crazy story , which ranges from really good to really bad . It's good to see the tabloid media mentality mocked for the trash it is , glorifying evil just to get ratings and the evil killers feeding off that media frenzy . Most of the characters in this film , as bad as they are , are definitely attention-getting . The two leads , " Mickey and Mallory " are two names that now go together , thanks to this film and the ultra-sleazy portrayals of them by Woody Harrelson and Juliette Lewis . THE BAD NEWS - Most of the people in this film , if not all , are so vile , so profane , so morally bankrupt , so disgusting you want to take a shower after watching this film . Even the film critics who gravitate toward evil were repulsed by this movie . I actually enjoyed the story up to a point : about the halfway mark . After that , it becomes one gigantic mess , almost too difficult to watch in one sitting . I am mainly referring to all the scenes in the prison including the drawn - out riot / prison break , which goes on way too long . Over 20 usages of the Lord's name in vain - almost all of them in the second half of the movie , didn't help in my rating . Tommy Lee Jones , as the warden , and Robert Downey , as the Aussie scumbag tabloid reporter , absolutely go over-the-top . OVERALL - In order to stomach this film , you have to look at it as some outrageous satire on violence and the media and take these characters as extreme cartoon-like people and nothing else . Take nothing seriously here . It might help to wear earplugs , too , in profanity and just plan noise bother you .
Entertaining , But Extremely Contrived	This crime-time travel movie was interesting all the way , but I can't help thinking it could have been much better . There were just too many holes in this story , too many clichés and implausible things that made it less enjoyable than it could have been . It wasn't an intelligent time-travel story , not like " Frequency , " or " Somewhere In Time " or a bunch of others . For instance , when the killer has his two adversaries right in front of him and walks away without checking to see if they are dead , it isn't smartly written . When everything important happens at the last possible second , literally , then it's too contrived . The movie is filled with contrivances , and it's too bad because it good have been an excellent film . Hey , I like happy endings , too , but this is too much and an insult to any viewer's intelligence . For pure amusement , I recommend this . You'll be entertained . But don't be surprised if your intelligence is insulted a number of times .
Nothing Super , But Decent Start To New Season	A jewelry store owner is a little early in opening his shop and looks harried . It turns out " Peggy " is being held hostage and the owner cleans out a good bit of his store and then meets the perps at their waiting car outside . The owner demands to see " Peggy , " who turns out to be his dog ! A mall security guards senses something is wrong , sees a man with a hooded face mask on and orders him out of his car . The man does so , calmly takes his mask off and then shoots the cop . He then gets back in the car , rolls down the window and shoots the store owner and his partner drives off . Minutes later , we see Capt . Stoltemyer , Monk , Natalie and a bunch of cops all around the crime scene . Monk won't go near the dead body because there is so dog poo nearby . A disheveled little guy drives up in a beat-up car , says he's a detective ( he is but a poor one and nothing but a pain in the ass , " according to the captain . ) However , within minutes he ( Jason Alexander of " Seinfeld " fame ) begins making these incredible observations , deductions and looks like a genius , much to the befuddlement of the onlooking Mr . Monk . What's going on here ? It gets worse as the mousy detective , with his mom cheering him on , just about solves the whole thing . " He's cheating , " repeats Monk , over and over , but even Monk is having his confidence ruined as this fake keeps impressing everyone . How does he figure out how the man is cheating ? In all , nothing super but a good episode and a solid start to the fourth season .
Haunting Story , Scary Statement Of Radical ( s ) Gone Amok	This is a very , very disturbing documentary about a sick individual , a man who re-named himself , " Timothy Treadwell : Kind Warrior . " The most alarming aspect of this biography may not be his lunacy but the huge of numbers of people out there who support a wacko like Treadwell . That's frightening . This was a very interesting film , but not one I would recommend particularly to my friends , at least those who are offended by the f-word . There are 50 cases of that in here so be forewarned . There are also a few short scenes that will visually disgust you . In other words , this is not an easy film to watch and " Grizzly Man " may sound like a nice Disney adventure but it is anything but family fare . The movie gets points for keeping one's attention and making us think about it , but a film on horrible car crashes could have the same shocking effect , so I wouldn't go overboard in praising this film just because it held our attention . Nonetheless , an intriguing film and one that should encourage intelligent debate , and for that , it's very good . I will play amateur psychiatrist here and write a few thoughts about the mental problems Treadway obviously had before and during his 13 summers in the Alaskan wilderness attempting to bond with grizzly bears and other wildlife , but there are enough good reviews here already that do just that so I'll try not to go overboard . Four excellent reviews are right near the beginning of the comments , those by " chosunkid , " " fvww , " " jgriffin689 " and " davendes " all hit hit the nail on the head and I highly recommend reading them . I don't know if I've ever come across a film with so many intelligent reviews of it as I see here , at least in the first several pages . Veteran German filmmaker Werner Herzog narrated and put together this film , from many hours of footage all shot by Treadwell . Suffice to say the documentary paints a disturbing portrait of a Far Left radical who goes way over the edge . If Treadwell was a Christian , the filmmakers would be quick to point out here is another " religous nut , " but Treadwell was the opposite , a non-believer , a man who admitted he was clueless when it came to whether there is a God or not or what He would be called . I only mention this because Treadwell's atheism points out one of the dangers of it : you make up your own set of rights and wrongs , based solely on what pleases you , what you can live comfortably with , and it's extremely selfish and usually very destructive in the long run . Treadwell worshiped himself . . . . period . He loved his looks , his courage , his noble actions , as he puts it , on and on . Just listen to him . That constant " I love you " to all the animals and even insects was another mask for his inability to adjust to his own human species and sexuality . In his selfishness , he forces himself on a world that wants no part of him and where he has no business being . . . . . . all in the name of being this great protector of animals . Listen , there are screwballs are on both sides of any political issue , Left and Right Wing , but Treadwell really demonstrates the hypocrisy of the modern-day liberal , and the extreme PETA-type environmentalists . They chant " pleace and love " and most of all " tolerance " but deep inside are many times hate-filled people with unbelievable rage inside them , who - like Treadwell - have NO tolerance for anyone who might disagree with them or dare to tell them what to do . Treadwell is the poster boy for this kind of thinking . An extremist like Treadwell winds up hurting his well-meaning environmental cause for the more sensible people who might be on his side , but at least have respect for laws , know the difference between humans and animals and have tolerance for all viewpoints . Treadwell cared only for himself , despite his claims , and to Herzog's credit , he shows this . I didn't even get into his high-pitch speech , his gay affectation-like inflections , fake accent and another personality traits that don't help his cause either , only because his mannerisms would irritate anyone - straight or gay . The real tragedy in the whole story was that someone else also died a horrible , violent , unnecessary death along with Treadwell . And - despite Treadwell and his friends opinions - human beings are far more precious than animals .
Only The Shadow Knows !	Now this is hard to explain , even with a 10-sentence minimum . It's just a very bizarre and unique animated effort , which only runs several minutes but is mesmerizing . In a nutshell , this gangling young man is seen shuffling along a sidewalk . He notices a poster advertising " Hercules " and winds up being a different person than his shadow . The latter begins to have some shapes that don't reflect who he really is and watching this animation unfold is almost like seeing a three-minute Salvador Dali painting come to life in parts . . . . . just strange . This was part of the DVD called " Computer Animation Extravaganza . " Only a couple of the 16 short films are listed here on IMDb and this is one of them . I recommend the DVD to anyone who appreciates nice computer visuals and has an odd sense of humor and wonder . Some of these animated efforts , mostly done by college-age students , are very inventive and fun to view .
The Good & Bad Of ' Anatomy Of A Murder '	This is another one of these Liberals ' favorites for several reasons . - ahead of its politically - correct era , actually - in which the writers conveniently overlook justice in favor of style with the let's - sympathize - with - the - criminal mentality . It also had a topic and some language that was new and " daring " for its era , which gained it more favor from the critics . Today , this would be like a Disney movie . It's a courtroom drama film that lasts almost three hours , but in its day did such a good job of entertaining and shocking people that time was not a problem . I mean , audiences back then were not used to hearing details of women's panties ! The story bogs down , panties aside , big-time in the middle , which was tolerated 50 years ago but wouldn't be today . I found it fascinating , myself , but that was years ago . You can thank great acting and an interesting script for that . What it lacks , of course , is credibility ( and justice ) . . . . . but , hey , it's just a movie , right ? Jimmy Stewart and George C . Scott are terrific as competing attorneys . Liberal Hollywood always takes the side of the accused so you know Stewart's role is going to be the likable one , a la Perry Mason , Matlock , Atticus Finch , etc . Nonetheless , acting from everyone in here makes you riveted to the screen . The language also was quite shocking for a 1959 film , in addition to rape details . A few examples were hearing the words " bitch " and " sperm . " This story might have inspired all the " insanity pleas " that became popular afterward . If so , the film provided a negative service to this country . No one ever points out in the movie that - rage or not - you can't grab a gun and shoot somebody you're angry with and get away with it ! Sometimes , that seems to be the message here . . . . . that , somehow , that's okay . Well , as we know , it is permissible if your trial is in California . Ben Gazzara plays " Frederick Manion , " the accused and a very fortunate man . His flirtatious wife " Laura " ( Lee Remick ) claims she was raped . She isn't our normal idea of an innocent victim , and she's one that's hard to evoke sympathy from , but that's part of the dramatics . By the way , speaking of dramatics , Lana Turner was supposed to play that role but reportedly got into a big tiff with director Otto Preminger and left the project . ( The two wound up slapping each other , reportedly . ) Back to the story : " Manion " says he was in a " trance " when he killed the guy and I guess that's good enough to believe if you talking to a jury filled with morons or you have the wonderful and always witty Jimmy Stewart defending you . We also get the normal Hollywood exaggeration of the good-guy defense attorney doing all this work out of the goodness of his heart or for just a minimum fee . ( I've never heard of one real-life lawyer like that . They want the money - all of it ! ) And we get longtime alcoholic who can suddenly stop his habit and help the defense attorney . You can nitpick this film to death with all the legal proceedings that would never be allowed , but are in here for dramatic reasons , but you can do that for almost any movie . One other reason this film gets rated so highly by Left Wing critics is that the man who played the judge in the film was Joseph Welch , who was the actual judge who asked Sen . Joseph McCarthy if " he had no shame , " making him instantly a hero to all Hollywood Liberals and film critics forever , all of whom hate McCarthy and his anti-Communism stance . Believability and bias aside , it's still an entertaining film , especially for one so talky , and is recommended for people who love courtroom dramas and don't care how long it goes on , and appreciate acting at its best .
Lively Story Of Two Famous Gangsters	If anyone saw the movie " Billy Bathgate , " starring Dustin Hoffman and Nicole Kidman , you know a little bit about " Dutch Schultz " ( real name : Arthur Flegenheimer , " as pointed out in this episode . ) I probably saw this episode when it was aired 48 years ago but it was too long ago for me to remember it . However , from the movie I remember the story of Schultz having his trial moved from New York City to a small town in upstate New York , where Schultz tried to schmooze his way with the locals to get a sympathetic jury . This episode also was informative ( how true it was , I can't say ) regarding Dutch's rivalry with upstart gangster Charles " Lucky " Luciano , who took over from Schultz . Elliott Ness and the Untouchables wind up playing both crooks against each other , and trying to nab Schultz on the same charge they got Al Capone : tax evasion . Overall , this was a good episode because it had enough action , interesting characters and a very surprising ending .
They Transformed His Face , But Not His Heart	It's Aug 3 , 1933 outside the walls of Lewisburg ( Pa . ) Federal Prison , " Frank Halloway " breaks out of prison . He was serving a life sentence and had only been in jail for two years . Guest star Cliff Robertson plays the ruthless criminal who grabs the getaway car and runs over his partner , en route to going after a half-million dollars that had never been recovered in a theft . Robertson has a bunch of cotton or something stuffed in his mouth to make him look like some sort of Neanderthal man ! The story mainly involves " Mona , " whom we first see at one of those old , brutal marathon dance contests they used to have in the early ' 30s . She is supposed to accompany Halloway en route to his destination to get " the loot . " Mona is not a criminal ; she was just picked out by Halloway's crooked lawyer for the job of going along on this cross-country car trip to make Frank look more legit as a married man . She isn't thrilled at first with the offer but is desperate need for money and is thrilled when she finds out they'll give her a decent amount of cash . She doesn't know the new " husband " is a crook , and is a little freaked out when she sees this Lon Chaney-werewolf-looking guy ( who has a complex about his looks ) . Elliot Ness and his Untouchables of trying to track Halloway down . They know about the " underground railway " which was , according to narrator Walter Winchell , " a series of stations around the country where a criminal on the lam could eat , sleep and be comfortable . It was organized by smart lawyers and controlled by top gang leaders and protected by certain local politicians . A hunted man going in any direction could travel in safety and style , providing he had the right contacts and enough money . " That all sets up this episode , how the Untouchables go about finding and sending the thug back to jail . The job isn't made easier have Halloway has some teeth work done to change his appearance . Later , he gets more and more plastic surgery done until , at the end , nobody recognizes him . Overall , this was one of the more intense , better shows with good actors and good photography . Robertson was terrific as the nasty killer .
' Mad Dog ' Puts Some Bite Into The Show	A totally out-of-control gangster ? That's apparently the case here , or at least it is shown as such in Clu Gulager's performance as Vincent " Mad Dog " Coll . " Mad Dog Coll's hatred for former boss " Dutch " Schultz will lead him to do anything to hurt the latter . When a kidnapping scheme with Schultz ' bookkeeper " Lefty Gallagher " goes wrong , Coll schemes to rob Schultz out of money he had bet on a horse running in the Kentucky Derby . Coll actually kidnaps the horse and later tries to shoot him at the Derby in Louisville , Kentucky . This is a wilder-than-normal episode . I'm not sure if Gulager overrated in his role or Coll was really that volatile , but at least he made this episode interesting . Elliott Ness ( Robert Stack ) and the boys spend most of this case in New York City where the two gangster antagonists were battling each other . Schultz was shown as low-key . The ending to this had a nice twist to it , but beforehand I was sorry to see the typically - stupid ( for movies and TV shows ) scene where the bad guy shoots from five feet away and misses the good guy . Come on ! Anyway , it still was a good show , better than average so far in this first season . It also had a quick scene where Stack actually smiled or laughed . You don't see that often on this program !
Sweetness And Values A La Shirley Temple	This is another solid Shirley Temple film with some wonderful , sweet scenes and lines you certainly wouldn't hear in movies today . For instance : " It's Sunday . Would you like to go to Sunday School ? Ohh , I love Sunday School ! " In addition to the innocence , truly nice characters , decent humor and music , what I appreciated was the lack of screen time of the villain . Many movies have some nasty person giving Shirley a hard time . To me , that's uncomfortable , but in this film the villain gets little screen time . Thus , much of the film features nothing but good , likable people . That list is headed by pretty Rochelle Hudson as " Mary Blair " and charming singer / good guy John Boles as " Edward Morgan " and , finally , good old Arthur Treacher as the butler ( what else ? ! ) , " Reynolds . " . To be fair , I didn't think the songs were that super , except for Shirley's " Animal Crackers In My Soup , " which is a great song . If I recall , at least half the songs in this film were by the adults ( two by Boles and one by Rochelle ) and , frankly , I'd rather hear little Miss Temple . Boles ' numbers and voice are too outdated for today . He has that Rudy Vallee-type ' early 30s voice . Do not watch this on a colorized VHS version as I did . Shirley's teeth are green and it's distracting . Stick to the black-and-white , especially now that it is available with a good DVD transfer . Overall , a nice story with lots of nice people give you a warm feeling when viewing this .
Great To See Old Faces Like Brian & Helton	The best part of this " Untouchables " TV episode was seeing some old faces again . For instance , it was good to see actor David Brian . . . . someone I haven't seen on film in many decades . He plays " Dink " Conway , the main mob boss of the St . Louis underworld and owner of " The Jockey Club . " Brian was a legitimate tough-acting , tough-talking , tough-looking guy , meaning he was credible playing a hood . I used to see him a lot on TV . He played a lot of TV roles in the 1950s and 1960s with his career ending in the mid ' 70s . Also , it's always great to see and hear Percy Helton . That may not be a name you'll recognize but if you're near my age you'll certainly recognize his high , raspy voice and you'll recognize his face you when you see him . He's a little mousy , rotund guy with that very distinctive voice . Like Brian , he was in a ton of TV shows in the 1950s and 1960s . Unfortunately , Percy only had a small role here , as " Mr . Meyer " The story is about competing crooks in St . Louis and how Elliot Ness and his gang try to break them up . It's standard fare , story-wise , which is why I highlighted some of the actors instead .
A Different Locale , But Another Great TV Show Of The ' 50s	Here is another old television show that brings back fond memories . My dad used to get a special charge out of this show , yelling " Sergeant Preston of the Yukon " after the introduction . All of kids would excited . What I remember most , to be honest , is Preston's dog , " King " and our hero , played by Dick Simmons , who looked like an honest-to-goodness Mountie , telling the dog at the end of many episodes , " Well , King , this case is closed . " If I recall , there was nothing supernatural about this , no Superman or Batman stuff , just a straight action story that most times involved the great scenery of the North . That also made it different as most of the stuff we watched was the either the above or the many good westerns that were available in the ' 50s . This show offered a totally different atmosphere , although it was the same simple good guys-vs . - bad guys stuff , easy to follow and easy to like .
It's Always Asked : ' How Long Will You Guys Keep Going ? '	" Can you picture yourself doing this at the age of 60 ? " " Yeah , sure . " I thought that was the neatest line in this concert-documentary when Mick Jagger gave an honest and prophetic answer to that question , some 30 or more years ago ( maybe closer to 40 ! ) . We see that short interview here on this concert DVD . Not only Mick but Keith Richard , Charlie Watts and Ronnie Wood just keep going and going and going . None of that is any surprise to me as I own about a half dozen Stones concerts on DVD or VHS tape and this was entertaining , as are all of their concerts . This film is 95 percent concert and five percent talk , so those who think this is a documentary are going to be disappointed . The talk includes old interviews and an opening segment with the director trying to work with the group which , as we see , isn't easy . For those who want more documentary material , check out the 16-minute featurette which comes with the DVD . There is some great material on that , reflections by a few of the guys , some nice acoustic guitar work and a better chance to see what they guys are like in rehearsal . As far as this concert - held at the Beacon Theater in New York City - goes , it's about average for the Stones . The 2003 concerts at NYC's Madison Square Garden and the earlier ones in London , Berlin , Turin , and other places around the world seem more dynamic than this one , because of the bigger stage and audience . At the smaller venue of the Beacon , we couldn't enjoy the big props , neon scoreboards , the boys walking down the long aisle for a small set in the middle of the crowd , Mick prancing down long sides of the stage , etc . The prancing and all that is still here but it's in a confined area , almost claustrophobic at times . It was fun here and there to see old clips of the band being interviewed when they were only in their second and third years of touring . You get an idea of the inane questions reporters have probably asked the rock group a thousand times over . The Stones , especially drummer Charlie Watts , don't exactly sound like Rhodes scholars , either ! Watts seems out of place , too , but - being the family man he is - that's always been the case . Everyone loves Charlie , though , and respects him - maybe because he is different from the rest . The beginning , with film director Martin Scorcese , was kind of strange . All it basically showed was his frustration in trying to get cooperation from the band regarding cameras and a set list , and them basically doing what they want to do anyway . We also get a disgusting short scene with the band - I am not making this up - hugging and kissing the Mr . and Mrs . Clinton and the latter's mom . It just doesn't seem like part of the Stones ' persona , but I suppose they had little choice . I thought I would prefer to hear new material instead of the same old / same old , but as it turned out , this two-hour concert was best in the last 40 minutes when the band did the familiar upbeat songs . The concert seemed to come to life with " Sympathy For The Devil " and four or five other old-time favorites . Earlier , the electricity was missing on a bunch of the numbers that you don't usually hear . Maybe this would have had a much higher impact on me had I seen it in an IMAX theater , instead of a TV on a small screen . There were sparks flying , however , when the three guests sang and played with the group . Jack White , Buddy Guy and Christina Aguliera all brought life to the concert . Being a blues fan , I liked Guy's number best . Buddy who really looked like he was having fun . Jagger and Guy traded lyrics about how much they enjoy smoking " reefer " and Guy put a plug in to get it legalized . Just out of curiosity , I wonder how the Clintons reacted to that and some of the other lyrics in the song and the post-song introduction by Jagger of " Buddy motherf - - king Guy ! " Odd that the f-word was muted - in a Scorcese film ! ! Later on , it wasn't . By the way , on the featurette , we get an explanation of why Jagger called him that . One of the strangest moments - and maybe the most real - was the closeup shot of drummer Charlie Watts yawning after one number and looking very tired and bored . Hey , after all these years . . . . he's entitled but it gave us a quick reminder just how old these guys are ( mid ' 60s ) . I don't think director Martin Scorcese , whose slick cinematography in his films is fun to watch , did these guys a favor , in that regard . He makes them all look and sound as old as they really are and , hey , that's not the Stones . They jump around like 20-year-olds . They'll go on forever , right ?
Nasty Robert Ryan Elevates This Film Noir	A deep cast of well-known actors highlights this film noir effort . Robert Mitchum , Robert Ryan , Lizabeth Scott , William Talman , Ray Collins , Don Porter and William Conrad are all familiar names , especially to film noir buffs . Ryan lifts this from an average classic-era crime film to above-average with a convincingly nasty character . He plays a no-compromise hood who lives by the code of violence . You have a problem ? Violence , not brains , is the answer , according to Ryan's character " Nick Scanlon . " The film is fast-moving despite not having a lot of action scenes . All the characters are good , not just Ryan's , and the dialog is excellent in spots . The photography is nothing special , at least not as dramatic as most noirs , but it's a solid crime film , thanks to this cast . I would rate this a bit higher but I didn't care for the ending .
People Will Bet On Anything !	Some jewelry business hotshot is hosting a party for the young-and-beautiful when gun - toting thieves interrupt the fun with a robbery . The host says about $30 million of his stuff was being worn by the guests , who wind up killing two of the people , one of them a Paris Hilton-type socialite named " Dakota Hudson " who was in the swimming pool . A big twist is revealed early on as it's discovered that the bullet that killed her was fired from in the water , so there was a third shooter . Was that killing tied in with the robbery or was it separate ? The top two suspects are the ones who had Hudson on their " Death Pool " list , a list of about five people who they are betting on will die within a certain time or before others ( sick , eh ? ) . The " pool " is run on a boat three miles offshore which makes it untouchable to the local police . Once again , this is another stylishly-photographed episode . I've noticed the cameramen have turned up their visual tricks with some added photo gimmicks this season . That's fine with me ; it makes it all the more fun to watch and the colors have always been spectacular on this show . CSI : Miami has a lot of glitz but I think that's what makes it distinctive and fun to watch , among other things . Overall , it isn't a particularly-involving story but it is good enough and I always like to see the human side of David Caruso's character , who seems to have extra compassion for little kids who are victims of their morally-bankrupt parents . When Horatio promises to look after a child , he always delivers .
It's A Wonder This Crew Can Solve So Many Crimes	What a crew ! Wow , in this soap opera-like episode ( the first of that in this fifth season ) , Natalia is accused of murdering her ex-husband , then a fellow female CSI lab ( " Maxine " ) tech says she killed the guy , Eric Delko slugs the victim earlier in the day and then Ryan Wolfe compromises evidence trying to show off in front on this obnoxious cameraman . What professionals ! It's amazing Horatio can keep this group functioning . I had written earlier this season that I didn't think " Natalia Boa Vista " was a good choice to be promoted as a regular CSI field worker and - even though you know they aren't going to make her into a murderer - this woman does not add anything to the credibility to the prestigious CSI position . This episode , once again , points that out and she seems to be more trouble than she's worth . On the plus side , at least we don't have to see this obnoxious character " Nick " ( her ex ) anymore . The ending in this one was nice with David Caruso's " Horatio Caine " showing his compassionate side , once again . If this was real life , I'm sure the people who have him as their boss would just have the highest regard for him .
What A Way To Start The Day !	This episode had a great beginning with extremely stylish camera-work and incredible colors . We see a Cuban refugee make it on shore from his little boat and then blown up on the beach when he steps on a mine . While investigating , " Frank Tripp " steps on a mine but everyone hears the click noise in time so Frank has to stand very still for awhile the bomb squad fixes things . " What a way to start the day , " he says , afterward , which draws a smile from Horatio . " Yeah , and it's not even 8 o'clock yet . " After a sweep of the place , three more mines are discovered and blown up . Ryan and Natalia are on the scene to see what they can discover from the fragments and the beach area , in general . They find something off a pair of binocularsAlex finds something interesting while examining how the refugee died . In the man's stomach was caviar , lobster and other goodies : hardly food for a guy on a little boat . And , his clothes are a little bit too nice and clean for a man who supposedly sailed from Cuba for days . What's the deal with this guy ? We wind up with baseball players , and a longtime criminal , a hit man from Cuba , a possible new hit man , Eric Delko being sued for $250 , 000 for assault after Eric stops him from beating his wife in a bar , then that dirtbag husband being killed . . . . . one thing after another : a wild episode . One thing that was really lame , and I've seen it on the CSI shows many times : people confessing to murder after the first accusation ! There is never a lawyer around but some CSI person - here it's Calleigh , accuses a guy and he freely admits it . Then minutes later , it happens again with another guy ! I'm sorry , but people don't put themselves in jail for the rest of their lives that easily ! The most interesting small story , among the many that are in this episode , is the one with Delko . Man , all I will say you will hate this woman that he defended in the first place !
An Intriguing Noir Look At Photojournalism	I've never rated this movie that high but I've gone back to it three times since it came out about 15 years ago on tape , so maybe I am underrating this . There still is no DVD of it , at least in Region I , and that's frustrating . There's something intriguing about this story that drives me back to it . Perhaps that is so because it's about a photographer , something I did , too , while being in the newspaper business for years and an art form I've always enjoyed . The story also takes place in the 1940s and I love the style and atmosphere of that era which is beautifully shown here . Joe Pesci is Leon Bernzini or " The Great Bernzini , " a newspaper photographer and Barbara Hershey is a mysterious woman who Pesci has the hots for . There is a lot of mystery in here with Hershey's character . Pesci takes gruesome photos , doesn't get involved with anyone but he's willing to make an exception with " Kay Levitz " ( Hershey ) . . . . . but is she good or bad for him ? Sad to say , the filmmakers kind of make a hero out of basically a sleazy guy who has few , if any , morals . ( " Bernzy " was " paparazzi " before they invented the word ! ) . The movie also has an unsatisfying ending , particularly with Hershey's character . However , I keep getting drawn back into multiple viewings of this and I'd sure like to see what it looks like with a good DVD transfer .
More Of Same Eye-Popping FX	Since the first movie , " X-Men , " was famous for its great special effects , this sequel knew enough to deliver the same kind of eye-popping effects to please its fans . . . . and it did ! There are absolutely tons of stunning special effects , both visually and audibly . All of that means very few lulls in this 134-minute film . Having said that , I do think the film needed some lulls . At over two hours of pretty intense action , it needed more breaks . It's just too much . Either that , or shorten the story . Rebecca Romjin-Stamos , in her skin-tight outfit , is still a feast for us male eyes and Halle Berry and Famke Jannson aren't bad , either ! Other familiar names from the first film are still here , such as Patrick Stewart , Hugh Jackman , Anna Pacquin and Ian McKellan . It's a pretty interesting story and although they state evolution " as a fact " early on once again , they do have something unusual in today's films : a Christian character who was a good guy . All in all , if you liked the first film , you'll like this .
Recommended For Those Who Haven't Seen The Original	For those who never saw the original , this is a good movie . It's intense , nicely photographed with excellent surround sound , and capably acted . For those of us who watched the original in 1976 , the one that starred Gregory Peck and Lee Remick , we have to ask , " What is the point of watching this ? " For us - at least most of us - the original is superior , but not by a wide margin , to be fair . I have no problem with remakes if they are not cheaply presented and I was entertained by this presentation even though I knew the story . As an admirer of the ' 76 movie , my main objection to this was the casting , and mainly with two women : Julia Stiles as " Katherine Thorn " and Mia Farrow as " Mrs . Baylock . " Stiles is a competent actress but she has a face that could pass for 15 or 16 . At least Lee Remick looked the part : the wife of a mid-30s American diplomat . Farrow has the same problem in here : too soft ( and pretty ) a face and voice to be playing an evil nurse . Perhaps Mia has a fondness for films about the devil , dating back to " Rosemary's Baby in 1968 , but she was totally miscast . Billie Whitelaw , in the original version , oozed evil in her role , and was genuinely frightening , something Farrow didn't come close to being in here . Liev Schreiber , meanwhile , had the unenviable task of supplanting Gregory Peck . Schreiber can't be faulted for not having Peck's film presence , but his character in here is such a downer that he almost has an evil countenance himself . I don't remember Peck playing this character so unsympathetically . Stiles , too , has a character that wasn't as pleasing as Remick's . This film seems to emphasize the couple's lack of spiritualness more so than the previous film . I may be wrong , but I don't remember Peck going to these lengths to give his bias against religion , nor do I recall Remick wanting an abortion , nor do I remember the priest saying " I'll see you in hell , Mr . Thorn . " Perhaps they did , and I just don't recall . No priest , by the way , would act like that , except in the movies , nor would any cleric look and act as goofy as the ones in here . In both films , the theology is laughable - pure Hollywood , and the priests in here are , too , being clueless about what " grace " and " the cross " are all about . Filmmakers generally won't deal with those topics , but they do a good job in making a case for Satan , I'll give them that . You saw a similar instance of this in " The Exorcist . " As for the other characters , the young boy - who has no dialog - is similar to the boy in the original but a little less evil-looking and David Thewlis in this movie did an excellent job as the photographer , as did David Warner in the first movie . Overall , I thought the first film was creepier than this one , but since I was already familiar with the story prior to watching this , a comparison may be unfair . It was interesting to see this with the updated technology both off ( digital surround sound , etc . ) and on the screen ( laptop computers , cell phones , etc . ) but the story is still similar enough that owning both of these films is questionable . Given the choice , I would stick with the 1976 film , but - I repeat : if you've never seen " The Omen , " this movie is recommended . It's entertaining , that's for sure .
The Truth Has A Way Of Sneaking Up On You	This 1950s melodrama was an interesting , involving story . It's part film-noir , too , which I liked . I say that because the last third of the film featured an expectation of some dreaded act about to be committed , giving it a film noir feel . One thing for sure , whatever you label the movie : it's well-acted , well-directed and well-photographed . Regarding the latter , this really looks good on DVD . No surprise it's directed well since George Stevens was the director . His resume speaks for itself . Obviously Montgomery Clift and Elizabeth Taylor are the " big names " in this film , but I found Shelly Winters and the character she played to be the most intriguing . She wasn't really appealing yet one could certainly identify with her feelings of insecurity with Taylor as her competition . " Liz " was in in her prime , looks-wise , with an absolutely classic face . Anyway , watching the character studies of the antsy Winters and the troublesome Clift were interesting . Clift , as is the case with most of us , causes his own problems and things slowly unravel for him . The story is another example of what can happen when one tries to cover up the truth . It comes back to bite you , big-time ! I really found it refreshing , however , to see Clift's attitude at the end . It's the exact opposite of what you hear today . He actually takes responsibility for his actions .
Not A Lot Of Credibility But A Whole Lot Of Entertainment	Sherlock Holmes ( Basil Rathbone ) begins this story in disguise , helping to smuggle famous physicist " Dr . Franz Tobel " ( William Post ) out of Switzeralnad and under the watchful eye of the Nazis , who want his bomb sight plans . The Allies obviously want it , too , and Sherlock is there to help . Dr . Tobel has invented an instrument which greatly aids in the accuracy of aerial bombardment . Holmes and Dr . Tobel arrive safely back at Baker Street but the scientist would rather be alone , for some mysterious reason , although he had promised the English to help them , not the Germans . He stays true to that promise but there are some desperate moments for Holmes and the English along the way . It's an entertaining film and one in which our famous detective uses not one but three different disguises . He needs all the help he can get when he goes up against his arch-rival , " Professor Moriarity . " One complaint : if Moriarity was that evil , he would have dispensed with Holmes without batting an eyelash , instead of giving him openings to escape . It's pretty sad , too , when the usual dim-witted Dr . Watson ( Nigel Bruce ) has to rescue his boss from certain death a couple of times ! Yes , there are some credibility issues in this story but if you can put your brain on hold a few times , it's a fun film to watch . . . . and it looks beautiful , thanks to the great restoration job done on this DVD . It makes the old print come alive with some wonderful visuals , particularly the night-time shots . One other note : whoever did the English subtitles in here misspelled or misinterpreted at least a half dozen words . It's very sloppy work , and not the first time I've encountered this watching the entire series on the restored DVD set .
The History Of The USA's Most Famous Sculpture	This is a 45-minute look at the most famous granite sculpture in the United States and a famous one world-wide . I imagine television doesn't do it justice ; one has to see this in person to realize it's magnitude . I'd love to see it some day . Biographies are given of the two men most responsible for this amazing achievement : Doane Robinson and Gutzon Borglum . Robinson had the brainstorm for this great project . His desire was simply to attract tourists to his beloved South Dakota . But what would bring people out to middle of nowhere in the Badlands of South Dakota ? A great carving into the face of Mount Rushmore . Who could do it ? Well , probably nobody as much as Borglum . He already had experience , having worked on the Confederate Memorial Carving , better known as " Stone Mountain " in Georgia before he put a hat on Robert E . Lee's head and almost got tar-and-feathered out of the state ! In addition , Borglum had done several amazing sculptures of Lincoln . Most of the biographical material in this History Channel program was on Borglum and his son , Lincoln , who never got all the credit he should have received for his efforts . You can read all about this achievement , which was never completed and which may surprise a lot of people , in history books and encyclopedias . For instance , there was going to be a huge room dug out of the granite for a " Hall Of Records . " It never got finished . Suffice to say this program gives as much history as it can in the alloted time . What was new to me was seeing Mount Rushmore BEFORE these huge faces were put into the granite . I also was amazed to see how daring these workers were , braving the cold and primitive working elements to carve these incredible figures . . . . . with no casualties over the 16-year-period ! Even more amazing was that many of these workers were recruited solely because they played baseball , and the organizer wanted a good ball team for the area !
A Haunting , Strange Tale Of Forgiveness	A strange movie . That's what I thought when I first saw this a decade ago . It was one of those films I thought about a couple of days later and couldn't get out of my head for a short while . When I saw it again a few years ago I almost had the same reaction . What's different about this film is the message : forgiveness . That's really what it's about and it's done in a touching way even though most of the characters in here are anything but nice , sentimental people . If you can enjoy a good character-development story and not get too dismayed by a depressing scene or two this movie will reward you with some intangibles that are hard to describe unless you've seen this . Jack Nicholson , David Morse , Angelica Huston and Robin Wright make for an interesting foursome , I'll say that . Nicholson , particularly , impressed me with an untypically-subdued role for him . ( Note : The profanity and nudity in here was totally unnecessary and the film would have been better without it . The story was powerful enough on its own . ) If you don't like this movie , I would understand that , too . It's not an easy film to like . It will either haunt you or put you to sleep . It haunted me .
Most Fun Of The Broadway Melodies	Here's a good cast and a very entertaining film with laughs , endearing characters , some good tap dancing and a couple of very catchy songs . Jack Benny is very good as the snooping obnoxious gossip reporter and Phil Silvers is humorous as Benny's dumb assistant " Snoop . " Una Merkel is her typically cute and likable self ; , and Eleanor Powell's tap dancing is great to watch , as always . Also interesting to watch perform is the brother-sister duo of Buddy and Velma Ebsen . This is a strictly lightweight comedy-musical that is long on the corn but also on everything that is entertaining . I always thought this was the best of the several " Broadway Melody " movies . It's certainly the most fun one to watch .
So Quiet It's Spooky	The one thing the viewer - at least me - gets most out of after watching this episode is the solitude of this rocky area , the overwhelming quiet of this part of the United States . . . . . so much so that it could literally drive one crazy , if you didn't have human company . " It's TOO quiet , " says our host and " survivor " Les Stroud . Our host winds up talking to a bird , after a few days of dead silence . The other thing that bugs Stroud the most , it appears , is the drastic changes in temperature from hot when the sun's out to bitter cold during the night . That , and , of course , a lack of water in the area . " Dehydration , " noted Stroud , " and the threat of it killing you is much worse than starvation . " In the end , he gets the heck out of there , even if it is a day earlier than planned . Lack of water and food will do that to you . Along the way , however , Stroud shows his survivor talents with some interesting tips on how to keep fires going . Who knew that those tasty little corn chips would be good kinder ? Or that cow patties are such a big help to keeping a campfire going for hours . . . . or that eating a little squirrel would be enjoyable ?
Early CG Effects Still Fun To Watch	This is an " odysessy through time " via computer animation , supposedly th work of over 300 artists . Made in the late ' 80s and released in 1990 , this was cutting edge stuff for the day . I thought it was good and quite interesting in spots . Most of the short scenes made no sense , just forms evolving into other forms , but that was fun to watch . This is all about visuals , not really about any kind of a story . There were some strange sequences in which odd-looking men - creatures would dance around with birds overheard . All of it is computer animated which was new back then . Even the term " computer animated " was not well-known . It's simply a chance to show off this new technology in short bits of cartoon-like happenings with beautiful colors and imaginative scenes . No words , just pictures with electronic music . Stoners must have really loved this . It's a nice , intriguing 40 minutes of " eye candy " and " head candy . " By today's CG effects this may have lost impact , but I think you'd still be entertained by this .
As Good As Advertised	I'm not that big on pirate movies and I thought this might be overrated . . . . . but I was wrong . This is good stuff and I wonder if a more realistic pirate movie has ever been made . This was Errol Flynn's first starring role and it sure got him off to a flying start . Few actors have ever played the " dashing hero " as well as Flynn . Despite being almost " worship idol " status by women , he is still comes across as a " man's man , " and that all started with this film . What I liked best about this was that the story stood out more than the action or the romance . Many times classic films overdid the latter , producing lulls in what was considered an adventure story . That's not the case here . It also isn't the typical clichéd pirate film in which the captain is seen with an eye patch and a parrot on his shoulder . This is nothing fancy , just a just solid story . . . . . period , which is probably why it holds up so well over 70 years later !
Somber , Subdued And Well-Done Serial Killer Movie	Here's an oddity : a modern-day film about a serial killer that has no fight scenes , nobody seen dying , no car chases and no loud noises . . . . . and it takes place in Russia . There are only two short action scenes but they are horrific . The rest of the story is detective work , and how much red tape the poor detective had to go through to solve the murders . This is a very somber movie , and " somber " best describes the personality of the hero ( Stephen Rea ) , as well . Yet , the story is not depressing and it's very interesting all the way through . Rea is outstanding as the determined , harried-looked detective . Jeffrey DeMunn is downright scary as the killer . Donald Sutherland's Russian accent is suspect but he plays the only character in this film that has some warmth . Once again , the story is dotted with liberal agendas , here and there , with not one but two references to bias against gays , the total validity of secular psychology , police and government officials being boorish / crude / bigoted , yadda , yadda , yadda . Otherwise , it's an intelligent and refreshingly low-key crime film . This is a somewhat unique film that probably is not well-known but is well-liked by the people who have seen it . Since it's based on a true-life account of this killer , it's all the more chilling . Don't pass this by just because you haven't anything about it .
Two Great Actors Elevate This Scarface-Like Story	The best thing this movie had going for it - which is no surprise - is the acting duo of Denzel Washington and Russell Crowe . How many bad movies do you see with either of those guys starring in them ? Not many , and neither actor disappoints here . Both play fascinating guys , Washington , a big gangster ( " Frank Lucas " ) and Crowe , an honest cop ( " Richie Roberts " ) This movie reminded me a lot of the ' 83 " Scarface " film in which Tony Montana ( Al Pacino ) rises from the bottom up to be a big drug lord , only to have things crumble big-time . We see a similar tale here with " Lucas , " except that his fall is sudden in this story , unlike Pacino's character . Director Ridley Scott and photographer Harris Savides also give us a slick - looking film , very pretty spots and stylishly-directed . The story wasn't quite as good as the people who photographed it and acted in it . It's still a good one in that it entertains . I was never bored despite the two - and-a-half-hour length of it . I was a bit confused in the first 25 minutes but things straightened out after that . The supporting cast in here is very deep with a lot of familiar faces , going all the way back to 83-year-old Ruby Dee . A new , young face - Lamari Nadal - is a real beauty . She plays Frank's wife , who is a lot nicer character than the one Michelle Peiffer played in " Scarface . " A key to whether you enjoy this or not - if you haven't seen it - might be your expectations . Know in advance there is not a ton of action in this tough crime movie and don't listen to all the hype that this is " the best film of the year . " Just expect a decent movie with good acting and instead of a lot of blood and guts , and you should enjoy it . That's how I looked at it , and it worked for me . It was entertaining enough for me that I'd watch it again .
A Quck Change Of Mind For These ' Female Women'-Hating Sailors	The banner over the boardwalk entering the big Navy ship reads , " " Visitors welcome , except Sundays and Weekdays . " Navy men Popeye and Bluto are on-board that ship , discussing the opposite sex . Bluto comments , " Women are natural-born troublemakers Things go along peacefully , then in steps a dame and , psh , you're in trouble . " He tells Popeye , " From now on , let's you and me have nuthin ' to do with female women . " They shake hands on it . Then , who walks aboard the ship but some " hot dame , " Olive Oyl , who asks the two guys if either would show her around . This is one of those Popeye cartoons in which nobody really knows each other . Neither of the guys know who Olive is , but they like what they see ! So much for the woman-hating talk ! From that point , it's a contest for the " goil . " The humor is decent in here ; nothing super but entertaining enough to watch with a smile on your face .
Entertaining , And Ranks Somewhere In The Middle Of The HP Films	I thought this was better than the first Harry Potter movie because it didn't overdo the action scenes as the first film did , and the special-effects were better . It's not " Lord Of The Rings , " of course , but it's still decent entertainment , even for us older folks . It got even better with the third installment , which has been my personal favorite of the four I've seen now . I don't buy into all the occult baloney and black magic stuff , just enjoying the special-effects that go with it with these stories . It also was interesting to see how the three young stars - Daniel Radcliff ( " Harry " ) , Emma Watson ( " Hermione " ) and Rupert Grint ( " Ron " ) have physically matured since the first movie . All of a sudden , the boys have reached puberty and their voices are changing . " Ron " squeaks half the time he talks ! As with many modern-day , big-budget films , the visuals , the special-effects and the surround sound are all astounding . Definitely entertaining for all ages with no worries about language .
Short , But Interesting Felix Adventure	The first thing you notice here is the yellow tint . That's a first for this viewer . I've seen sepia and blue tints , but a dark yellow ? People back in the days of the early cartoons were nasty at times . Here , Felix is walking behind a fisherman headed for a pond and the next thing you know , the angler turns to him and says , " If you don't stop following me , I'll bust a rock on your bean ! " Felix ignores him and follows anyway , hiding behind a tree when the guy sits down and begins fishing . When he catches a fish and puts it in his basket , Felix rushes out , grabs the fish and hides behind the tree again . ( Maybe the fisherman was right ! ) This scene is repeated and the angler finally catches on . Of course , Felix makes it easy by rubbing his fat belly and taunting him . . . . . so the chase is on ! In a really , really strange turn of the events , the man , through telephone wires ( " broadcasted , " according to the title of this ) , transports Felix to Egypt . ( Don't ask . ) Our cat is now chased by Egyptians , who don't want him around , either . What happens after that is even stranger . This is very short ( 3 minutes , 16 seconds ) but it is wild and fun to watch with surrealistic scenes .
Is Trudy Really Dead ?	Sitting in a cafeteria , Natalie suddenly spots a woman who is a dead-ringer for Monk's long-dead wife Trudy . She listens in on the woman's conversation with an elderly man and - incredibly - it appears indeed to be her . She claims to have faked her death to be in some witness protection-type situation to spare her husband because she and he would have been murdered , blah , blah , blah . Monk , meanwhile , seems to be making great progress and his shrink , Dr . Kroger , is going to recommended he be reinstated somewhat on the force . However , when all this stuff hits the fan , Monk , of course is shook up pretty badly . He goes to the cemetery and then is relieved , convinced she's dead and the woman must be an impostor . Is she or isn't she , and how does Monk track her down and solve this dilemma ? Obviously , this is an emotional episode for all parties concerned and especially Monk .
Foghorn Inadvertently Produces A Protégé	This animated short is about a minute shorter than most of them . The hens are gossiping and needling poor old " Prissy " about trying to lay an egg again . Apparently , she had never been successful . Foghorn Leghorn is nearby resting up against a tree , and he overhears the conversation . " Why do those cackling old biddies have to be so mean to that skinny old hen , " he wonders . He decides to help her , so he finds an egg and puts it " under her britches . " The old hen sees the egg and shouts in ecstasy ! The other hens come running . The egg hatches and it's a rooster , and Foghorn does not want any competition , especially after the newborn says to him , " Hey , you must be that rooster I'm taking over for ! " Foghorn gets permission to tutor the little one , and does what he can to eliminate the competition , but that baby rooster is amazing ! Overall , very clever and fun to watch .
A Glimpse Into The Past	Burglars enter a house and are surprised by an old lady coming down a stairs . She heard the noise and came down with a gun . They take it away from her , wrestle , she falls and is killed . The thieves leave , but before they do , go to a portrait painting on a wall and spray paint it . Huh ? A former middle school classmate of Adrian , a woman he had a crush on when she was that age ( 13 ? ) , comes to Monk then asks him to solve this case to give that old lady - whom she employed in that hose - justice . Monk takes the case . Through flashbacks , we then get a glimpse of what Monk was like in that awkward age . Actually , thanks to those flashbacks we see Monk solve two cases on this episode : the one when he's in school and the one " live " with the burglars and the painting . Both involve helping the same female . All in all , more of an insight on the strange and amazing Mr . Monk .
Leone's " Godfather " Version , And About As Good	This Godfather-type film was done by Sergio Leone , of spaghetti-western fame , so you know you will see and experience several of his trademarks . Namely : ( 1 ) a lot of facial closeups ; ( 2 ) some slow-motion or slow-moving dramatic scenes ; ( 3 ) good overall photography and ( 4 ) a unique soundtrack . The period sets here are magnificent . You get a real feel of the time , whether it's 1910 , 1933 or 1967 . The colors are awash in blacks , browns and grays and the DVD brings all these out very well , especially considering the film is over 20 years old . Despite some of Leone's slow moments , this is a fascinating film to watch for the story , too . There are numerous memorable scenes , some of them involving some downright shocking violence , even for today's movies . However , the amount of violence is less than what you see today . The movie also sports an interesting twist near the end involving the two major characters , played by Robert De Niro and James Woods . The story is not always clear , either , so be prepared to be possibly confused about a few things . . . . at least on the first viewing . Confused or not , this film always is fascinating to view , especially with intense actors such as the two men just mentioned , along with Elizabeth McGovern , Tuesday Weld , Joe Pecsi , Burt Young , Treat Williams and more . The child actors in here take up almost half the movie and are excellent . What an injustice they don't receive any publicity for their acting , especially the kids who played De Niro and Woods as youngsters . One of the girls has become a famous adult actress : Jennifer Connelly . She was 12 years old in this film and was already alluring . This is Godfather-type crime movie that ranks right up there with that famous film , not taking a back seat to it at all .
It's Payback Time For Spinach & A Spanking	Popeye's little nephews , " Pip-eye , " " Pup-eye , " " Poop-eye " and " Peep-eye . " don't like their spinach . In fact , they hate spinach . Popeye shows them how , after eating their spinach , they can do anything . In this room is a piano so , after a can of greens , he's hammering on those keys like " Paderooski . " Then , after another can , he's " Fred Upstairs , " the famous dancer . Popeye does some great tap dancing . His imitation of Fred Astaire is hilarious . The kids aren't all that impressed and still refuse to eat the greens . For that , they get a spanking , although Popeye is very reluctant to melt out that physical " punishment . " The kids then eat the hated spinach . After eating the spinach and showing Popeye how great they can now play the piano , too , they exact revenge for the spanking ! Popeye takes a beating in some creative ways . The old man really takes some punishment . Wow , what a violent family .
Nice Cars , Nice People & Film Non-Racing Fans Can Enjoy	This movie was definitely better than I anticipated . There are some fantastic Formula I driving and crash scenes in here , and the sound of engines was fun to hear . I make those statements despite not being much of an auto racing fan , either . If I was , I would have really loved the movie . Another appealing aspect was that the three lead characters were all good guys . There are annoying " bad people " in the movie but they are all minor characters . The ending is predictable and , yes , there are some of the typical things you see and hear in many Sylvester Stallone films but not as dumb as many of them ( the bad ones , that is . ) Because of the superlative visuals and audio , this is a good movie to see on a nice TV and a nice surround system . Mine are okay but I can imagine what this would look and sound like on something really good . I wish I could appreciate auto racing more , but I liked the film anyway and recommend it to non-racing fans .
Mr . One Son Treated With Respect !	This was another very-solid entry in the long-running series that mainly featured either Warner Oland or Sidney Toler as " Charlie Chan . " It's generally considered that Oland's films were superior . I enjoy both of them and , after just completing watching the Chan DVD set that were all Toler's films , this return to Oland was a shocker in a way . I say " shocker " mainly because Chan was so nice and respectful to his kid . In the latter films , Toler's Chan does nothing but insult his son , whichever one accompanies him on various cases . Here , Oland's warmth for his Number One Son " Lee " ( Keye Luke ) is more than evident and " Lee " helps keep the case alive with a daring rescue of his kidnapped father . The story is played much straighter , too , than the Toler versions . There is still levity with Chan ' many profound-yet-funny proverbs but this is an action-packed short story played more like the mysteries they were supposed to be . Good stuff
Some Things You Never Forget	Monk meets some stranger at a secluded truck stop , ready with cash to purchase information about his wife's death . The man is a phony and hits Monk over the head with lead pipe , knocking him out . He takes Monks wallet , puts him on the truck flatbed and disappears . The driver comes out , doesn't see anything wrong and drives away . Monk then wakes up the next morning in some small town in Wyoming ( not the " desert , " as it says on the title page here ) . Our hero has a very sore head and no recollection who he is , except that he seems to want to some odd OCD things . The show changes from that dramatic opening to very silly for awhile as some nutty woman named " Cora " sees what's happening and claims Monk as her husband ! She's obviously nuts , but it also gives her a chance to have a man around the house who she can get to do things , such as fix the roof or . . . ah , fill some of her other needs . Monk knows something isn't right but he has no memory so he goes along with a bunch of goofy things . . . . some , not all ! Laurie Metcalf is good as the domineering " Cora . " Anyway , a crime is committed against a nice waitress Monk met , and even though he doesn't know who he is , Adrian , through his intuitive gifts , helps solve the crime . Eventually , he is discovered and taken back to San Francisco . In all , a strange episode but entertaining .
' Wilbur ' Gives Us Facts About Pigs & Spiders And The Training Of Animals	" Flacka " is one of the real pigs who played " Wilbur " in the film " Charlotte's Web . " The young boy who voiced " Wilbur , " Dominic Scott Kay ( who gets no film credit on the back of the DVD even though he has the most lines , and gets 11th listing on the cast page here on IMDb ) gives us some facts and figures and takes us behind the scenes with the training of the animals . We talks as if he is explaining things to other kids but there are many interesting facts are animals that adults can learn a lot , too . What's " amazing , " Dominic's favorite word , is to see a sheep shaking hands , like a dog would be trained , or a pig walking backwards on command , and a few other things . Animal trainers are pretty special , patient people as we see here . Dominic also shares some very interesting facts about pigs and spiders that most people probably don't know , such as why pigs love the mud and that spiders eat their webs to help make new ones . The answer to the pigs and mud is : 1 - to protect their pale skin from sunburn ; 2 - to cool off , because they don't have sweat glands , and 3 - to protect against biting flies .
A Bit Different	The opening shows a man shooting another in the latter'rs hotel room , killing him . He was after money from a heist . Just before the killing the other guy , he finds out the man who can provide the money for him is in California . Meanwhile , Monk and Natalie are off on a short vacation trip to a beautiful winery and inn where Adrian once dined and stayed overnight with his wife . He comes here once a year for sentimental reasons , sits alone at dinner talking to his dead wife . Unfortunately , some nerd named Larry Zweibell comes to his table , messes things up and then goes over to play poker with a bunch of people . The next morning Monk goes to see Larry about hangover recipe ( Monk had one sip , but has a hangover ) . In short , no one has ever heard of " Larry . " Was imagining this guy ? Well , we saw it , too , so obviously something fishy is going on here and it's probably somehow tied in with that beginning murder scene . This episode was a bit different , but another good one in a season that , so far , is very good . Oh - Monk DOES get drunk , for real , at the end . Normally I don't think drunks are funny , but Tony Shaloub gave a pretty funny performance with it .
They Couldn't Spell , But Animators Still Made This Funny	A grateful mouse promises Felix " if there's anything I can do for you , just call on me " after Felix lets him go from a mousetrap . Felix then goes over to Willie Brown's house , whistles for the kid to come down from his bedroom and go " to the ' ole swimming hole " but Willie's mom spots him and tells the boy to go back inside and " practise his piano lessons . " ( That's the way they spelled " practice " in the cartoon , which often uses bubbles for dialog the way they do in printed comics . A dejected Felix goes back to the barn area , where we first saw him with the mouse . He explains his dilemma to the mouse who has a plan to help out the cat and get the kid out of doing his piano lessons . That plan - have four other mice jump around on the piano keys and make music - is funny and leads to some very humorous dancing scenes with Willie's mother , who thinks her son now is Liberace . Overall , this was good and offered a number of surprises , which a couple of more grammatical errors in the cartoon's dialog boxes . This cartoon was part of a collection of in the " Presenting Felix The Cat - The Otto Messmer Classics - 1919-1924 " DVD , with original organ scores by Dave Wickersham .
This Is Pure Mid-To-Late ' 50s	It's odd to watch hundreds of Tom and Jerry cartoons from the 1940s and early ' 50s and then see a " culture change " with characters , furniture , cars , the music and the overall artwork that is " so 1950s . " Here , " Jeanie , " a baby-sitter , has the ponytail , dress and classic mid-'50s look . She lies upside on the wide , low couch talking on the telephone , etc . - you know , all the ' 50s things . Janet Waldo has a lot of lines in here , as the gabby teen on the telephone , who stops talking every 30 seconds to go hit Tom on the head for bothering the baby . Of course , Tom is just trying to do the right things and keeps getting blamed or falsely accused of bothering the infant . You have to feel sorry for the poor cat . That's the theme of the cartoon : the baby wandering off all the time , Tom saving it but then getting pelted on top of the head . I can't say , for justice sake , I enjoyed the storyline , nor was in that funny , but the cartoon was well-drawn and a real nostalgia piece for the period . This cartoon is noteworthy for being the last William Hanna and Joseph Barbera produced Tom and Jerry cartoon . It is presented in the widescreen CinemaScope and is part of Disc 2 of the Tom and Jerry Spotlight Collection Volume Two DVD .
Another Take On Jekyll & Hyde	This reminded me of a Tom and Jerry cartoon ( I think it was them ) in which Jerry turned into a monster a number of times , going back and forth between mouse and monster . It was a take on the famous Dr . Jeckyll & Mr . Hyde story . That's what happens here as Deux-Deux takes a drink at a mad scientist's house and the green stuff turns him into a big green monster for a few seconds . It's during those moments he terrorizes and pulverizes the Inspector . It happens faster and faster as the cartoon evolves with rapid-fire gags as this personality switch begins happening every few seconds . This wasn't that humorous but it was very entertaining and fast-moving , thus , it still warrants an " 8 " rating simply because it was fun to watch . It's on the DVD " The Pink Panther Classic Cartoon Collection , Vol . 6 - Inspector Cartoons . "
Takes One Back To A Childhood In The ' 50s	This is a fine drama and a nice change of pace from today's more hectic and loud films . It is another solid based-on-a-true store , which still means much of it could be made up for dramatic purposes . Frankly , I don't know but I liked the story . The story is about a young man back in the Fifties who gets interested in rocketry and wants to enter that field instead of working in the coal mines as everyone else , including his father , does in this West Virginia town . The big problem is the conflict it causes between the boy and his father , which I think was overdone . I would like to have a little less tension between the two . The young man , still a boy , is played by Jake Gyllenhaal , one of his first staring assignments , I think . He's likable , as are his school buddies in here . It's nice to see nice kids in a modern-day film . The two other key actors in the movie are Chris Cooper ( the dad ) and Laura Dern ( the kid's teacher who encourages him all the time . ) The cinematography is decent the 1950s soundtrack is fun to hear . Once again : I wish there more of these kind of films made today .
Loved Those Cars And Chase Scenes	Someone one here labeled this film " hillybilly film noir . " I think that's a great description of this movie . This is about the good ' ole boys racing their souped - up ' 50s Fords around country roads , running moonshine and trying to evade both cops and gangsters . In fact , I wish they had more of those chase scenes because , even with primitive special-effects , they were fun to watch . The ending chase would have been longer , if I had my way . Mitchum is fun to watch in here , too . He just looked like a rugged guy , a " man's man , " as they say . His kid brother Jim made his film debut in here and wasn't bad for a beginner . He and another beginner , singer Keely Smith , are a bit wooden but passable as actors . Keely also had an interesting face . I think this is one of those films that gets better with each viewing . Highly recommended .
What If We Could All ' Vanish ? '	What a chaotic world this would be if " vanishing cream " was literally that , and enabled one to totally " disappear . " It does in this Tom and Jerry cartoon as the little yellow duck " Quackers " discovers after being delivered as a gift by George to his wife Joan . They are the owners of the house in which Tom and Jerry live . George takes Joan out for dinner and a show and thinks the bird is safe from the cat , who is locked out of the house . But Tom has a secret entrance and soon , Quackers is in trouble . . . . until he discovers the cream and lets Jerry in on the ruse . From that point , they brutalize Tom , until the very end when Tom gets wise . Tom gets a little revenge on his own . Thus , everyone " gets in their licks " in this one , which should please most fans of this animated series .
' Technicolor ' Is Right , This Is Stunning !	This was much better than I thought it might be , and I give it a high grade in a number of areas , beginning with production . This looked good , sounded good and simply was good ! For some reason , I didn't expect much from Donny Osmond . I guess the Osmond is a lot more talented than people give them credit for , and I won't make that mistake again . I'd say the same for Joan Collins , who I could not picture in a " biblical film , " but she did just fine . Then again , she played the villainous " Potiphar , " so it wasn't like she was playing against type ! Normally I wouldn't care for something that was akin to an opera ( all the lyrics being sung ) and would skeptical about any Hollywood did regarding the Bible ( figuring it would be distorted ) but - once again - I was surprised . The story stayed true to the Bible and the presentation was so well done - and so incredibly colorful on this DVD - that is was a very satisfying and entertaining adaptation . . What most people who liked this DVD would cite the acting , the singing , the songs and / or the story as what impressed them most but , to me , it was the brilliant , stunning color in this play . Besides being a classic Old Testament story , this is a real visual treat .
Deserved The Oscar For Cinematography	I thought the best part of this movie was the photography . Check this film out on Blu-Ray , if you have the opportunity : it's magnificent-looking . They even make slums look beautiful ! I'm glad it won the Oscar for cinematography . Scene after scene is gorgeous . Story-wise , it's okay ; good , but nothing super . For the first half of the film , it reminded me of " City Of God , " about the homeless kids in Brazil , but that film had far more violent kids . This one mainly had kids as pranksters and then victims of some sicko adult who wants to use them to make money . The story will be fun for those who used to be hooked on the " Who Wants To Be A Millionaire " quiz show , but the host here in this Indian version is no lovable Regis Philbin . You won't like him . Almost all of the story is told in flashback , so be prepared for that . It's one of those stories where all the little pieces fit together in the end to explain why things happened in the start of the film . I wouldn't have voted for this as the Best Picture Of The Year but it is entertaining and a feast for the eyes .
' Natalie ' Becomes A Local Celebrity	Natalie becomes San Francisco's " Gold Rush Lotto Girl . " The previous one is chased out of the TV station late one evening and killed . ( These are the women who read the day's lotto numbers off the ping pong balls . ) At the crime scene , the station manager notices Adrian Monk's assistant and - presto ! - Natalie Teeger is the fill-in the next night . She does so well that the manager asks if she'd do it full-time , meaning three times a week . Immediately ( at least in the episode ) Natalie's face and body is plastered over city buses and she becomes a San Francisco celebrity . People stop her on the street and ask for autographs . She's a star . . . . . and Monk is not happy . She isn't paying attention to the crime job and Monk gives her an ultimatum : pick which job she wants but she can't do both . She quits him ! Monk , of course , is now very depressed . . . . but at least he continues on the case . ( We all know Natalie will come back to him in the end , anyway . ) It was pretty obvious who the killer was , but how it all transpired is kind of neat . We also get a humorous look at a lotto fanatic . . . . . and I mean , fanatic . The episode , like many Monk ones in the last few years , is more humor than crime story . Some of the stuff with Stottlemeyer and Disher is kind of stupid , but that's normal , too ! This episode really belonged to Traylor Howard ( " Natalie Teeger " ) who seems to be getting more and more airtime , but that's okay . She's been with the show now for three years and has fit in admirably , replacing the popular Bitty Schram as " Sharona Fleming . "
Felix Comes To The Peoples ' Relief	Wow , this is the first cartoon I've seen that addresses The Great Depression in the 1930s . The first scene has Felix The Cat manning a little stand that says " Relief Bureau " and he's handing out a handful of gold coins to every person in line . " Don't thank me , " he says ; " thank him . " " Him " isn't FDR or the government : it's a goose in the back of the booth who is laying golden eggs . After dishing out the coins , Felix goes back and tells " Goldie " that she's doing " good work , so keep it up ! " Felix takes her eggs and grinds them into coins so he can dish out the next batch . It doesn't long for the villain , " Captain Kidd , " disguised as a woman , to appear at the back window , seeing the goose and figuring out what's happening . So , moments later , he steals the valuable goose . Even though Felix knows who it is , Kidd succeeds and takes the goose aboard his pirate ship and sails away . The cartoon turns into a pirate adventure story when Felix , who figures out a way to get on Kidd's ship via turning himself into a human cannonball ( hey , it's a cartoon ! ) battles it out aboard ship with the peg-legged and sword-wielding Kidd . Overall , more for kids but adults can enjoy this , too , almost like an old-fashioned Errol Flynn pirate movie , except in animated form . The duels between Felix and Kidd are well done .
Flip's Boxing Match Can Tire You Out Just Watching !	" Bully " is a Bluto-type - you know : big , gruff guy with a cigar , small bowler hat , needs a shave . . . . . the kind of " ruffian " you see pictured in the 1930s cartoons ( and feature films , sometimes . ) Here , he picks a fight with poor Flip . Before you know it , a neutral party comes along , shows the two guys a sign advertising " boxing to-night " and advises them to take it to the arena , where at least they could pick up some bucks if they're going to fight Flip isn't crazy about the idea , knowing he could get killed , but his little friend pushes him to it because they need money . Lots of folks did back in 1931 . By the way , why was it always spelled " to-night " with the hyphen ? What we wind up with then , is a typical cartoon version of boxing match . That means wild sight gags which come every few seconds , as furious as the punches . Most of it is pretty good stuff , too . This is guaranteed to keep your interest . You don't dare blink , or you'll miss some gag . The ending is a bit weak but they had to find some strange way to end the fight . Overall , this is good and another frenetic Flip The Frog cartoon , which means you're worn out when it's over !
Appealed To The Masses	I enjoyed this when it came out , just as millions of other folks did . It had a nice feel to it , good humor , great music and it didn't offend my at-that-time agnostic beliefs . It even had some action scenes . Many movies which combine genres ( i . e . action and comedy ) wind up successes . It's not a bad formula . Although Whoopi Goldberg is the undeniable star of this movie , Kathy Najimy as " Sister Mary Patrick " almost steals the show as the bubbly nun . However , always a sucker for a pretty and wholesome face , I preferred Mary Wickes as " Sister Mary Lazarus . " She had this shy countenance to her before blossoming with her voice . Maybe that's why she had the name Lazarus as her personality rose from the dead . Over the years , I watched this three times and that was enough . By the end of the decade , I was a died-in-the-wool Christian conservative , so the very liberal Miss Goldberg lost her appeal to me .
Early Look At Berry Still In His Prime	( Note : I'm not sure I am reviewing what is posted here , but the DVD I own has the same title and is the same length - 46 minutes - but it is NOT a documentary as listed above . ) Hall Of Famer Chuck Berry is shown in a concert Toronto in 1969 . He apparently was one of a number of acts in what must have been a fairly big rock festival as it's held in a big stadium ( but not a huge crowd ) . Anyway , the clothes and the dialog ( phrases of the day ) certainly label this " late ' 60s . " Berry wasn't a kid anymore but he still in his prime years and I've glad to have a remembrance of this on disc . Most of the songs are his fast classic numbers but every once in a while he throws in a blues number , and I enjoyed that just as much . The only complaint I had was " Reelin ' & Rockin ' " went on too long . Still , something a rock collector should own , even though it's only 46 minutes long .
Solid True-Story Irish Crime Tale	Cate Blanchett has done it again - played someone you can't take your eyes off of , and not because she's a classic beauty but she's just a good actress and plays such intense roles . Here , she's the single-minded outraged Irish reporter out to expose the drug trafficking in Ireland in the mid 1990s . Yes , it's based on a real person , a very real Veronica Guerin , who took her life in her hands with her desire to have this problem taken care off so the kids in her country wouldn't have such easy access to harmful drugs . According to the film story , the drug problem was ignored or the police were just ineffective in dealing with it , so Guerin goes after the mob as an investigative reporter . Her husband pleads with her to stop , knowing she could easily be killed . The gangsters were tough and realistically portrayed on film . There is no talk-now-shoot-later nonsense . You mess with them , you will pay . That's the message they give Guerin and you'll have to see the film to find out what happened . Yup , this is an attention-getter from the start and especially with Blanchett in the lead . A good story and highly recommended .
Yes , The Devil Made Me Watch This !	This was a clever and funny movie , much better than I anticipated . Most of the humor involves takeoff or parodies of television programs and movies . Being familiar with most of them , I enjoyed the humor . The takeoff involved having the devil take charge of some of these programs . John Ritter and Pam Dawber play husband-and-wife " Roy and Helen Knable " who get sucked into buying a TV dish package straight from The Devil . After the purchase , which comes complete with 666 channels , mayhem ensues . There were a number of spots in here I just laughed out loud . Knowing a lot of the TV programs that were being spoofed helps a lot , of course , but there is a lot of good material in this film . The special-effects were pretty good , too , especially for a film that really never got a lot of exposure nor , I assume , had a huge budget . Jeffrey Jones and Eugene Levy , two guys who are usually pretty funny , supply some good humor here , too . I looked at this strictly for laughs even though I know the devil is somebody to take seriously , but this film was anything but played for seriousness . As a bonus , we even got a Chuck Jones cartoon in the middle of the story . This is one wacky movie and I'd like to see it on widescreen DVD . I last saw it on tape . This is recommended to those who enjoy dark humor .
Justice Does Come For The Cameraman	There is justice at the end of this story . After sadistically tormenting our " Little White Man " at Pinkstone National Park , the Panther gets his due in the end . All the poor little guy wanted to do was take some good nature pictures at the big park , but the Panther , angry because the guy wouldn't put an extra dollar " camera fee " in the donation box , ruins the cameraman's pictures . He does so my fiddling with the man's old-fashioned camera , the kind they used over a hundred years ago . That part was fair-at-best . Suddenly the photographer has a more modern , 35mm-type camera and the PP's tricks get clever . His nastiness , however , comes back to haunt him with a funny flashbulb scene when he mistakes the bulbs for eggs . Nonetheless , the Pink Panther goes back on the attack . I enjoyed the third part the best when the guy now has a Polaroid camera and what he sees seconds after he shoots pictures is not quite the same ! ! In the end , the guy brings out his movie cameras and our egotistic hero gets re-paid for what he had previously done to the park visitor . Overall , lots of jokes in here and a very entertaining episode .
More Inventive CGI	The sequel to " The Mind's Eye , " this computer-generated animation piece has some very inventive stuff in here . In this field , there seems to be a big advancement which was especially true in these experimental years in the late ' 80s and early ' 90s . I can't imagine what a 2007 version of " The Mind's Eye " would look like , but I'd like to see it . This version featured some good music by Jan Hammer of TV's " Miami Vice " fame . Most of the visual material in this 45-minute presentation comes in short 2-3 minute segments , so if you don't care for something stick around because it will change quickly . I enjoyed most of it and found it very creative , a couple of years after it had been released and liked it even more on the second viewing , some five years after that . It did not appear dated . Some parts of just stunning , real eye-poppers . For me , however , watching animation with no dialog , is not easy to do for more than 20 minutes at a time so I broke this viewing into two segments . No matter how inventive it may be , your mind can wander after 20 minutes of this .
Jerry's Voice In Here As To Be Heard To Be Believed !	The funniest part of this politically-incorrect cartoon , I thought , was Jerry's voice . He's on an island , a la " Robinson Crusoe , " minding his own business when a starving Tom is washed ashore on his raft . Tom sees Jerry only as a steak , or a leg of chicken , a hot dog or whatever . The poor cat is dying of hunger and would eat about anything . However , Jerry isn't ready to sacrifice himself . He winds up painting himself dark brown , putting a bone on top of his head and brandishing a big spear - yes , a racist stereotype - and ordering Tom around . It's Jerry gruff voice , imitating this rough African native , that should make you laugh . He speaks gibberish for awhile and then English , telling Tom what to do , as he tries to make a vegetable stew out of him . It's amazing how dumb Tom is at times , as he goes along with this ! Can you picture someone sitting in a big tub under a fire and being made into stew . . . . all the while tasting the " soup " and adding a little salt here and there so you taste better ? If you aren't offended at Jerry's savage-native appearance , it's got some good humor , a cute ending and you should enjoy this . Overall , however , the cartoon is entertaining . . . . nothing super , but worth watching .
High-Def Really Makes This Come Alive	There is a stunning difference in watching this animated feature on regular DVD and viewing it on Blu-Ray . The latter dramatically elevates my rating of this movie , because the story is just so-so . It's a nice story , but nothing that will leave you laughing like in " Cars , " or " Madagascar " or a bunch of other recently-made animated features . However , on Blu-Ray , this is so flat-out awesome to look at , that's is well worth seeing and adding to your movie collection . The brilliant colors and razor-sharp images are just amazing and totally stunning ! Jim Carrey does a nice job as " Horton . " You might not even recognize his voice . He plays a character who hears a voice nobody else hears ; the voice of a tiny person on top of flower / weed which is part of a tiny town on the top of that plant . Hey , " size matters , " I guess , but far more important is the value of living beings regardless of their size . That's the general message of the story . All lives are worth saving , no matter how supposedly small and allegedly insignificant . The story is the typical frustrating one in which nobody believes the one who is telling the truth , until near the end , and then all of them do the right thing . Overall - a good message , presented in a so-so story but a gorgeous one to watch on Blu-Ray .
Bizarre , Creepy & Colorful	I was surprised to discover this was really a horror film . I don't know if it's labeled that , but that's what it should be called . It's spooky and creepy and just plain weird . With Jennifer Jason Leigh in the lead , I'm not surprised . She is pretty good at playing disturbed people as she showed later in " Single White Female . " For me , however , the best part of this film was the color . This film had a color palette that was fascinating at times . and the audio was good , too , with creepy sounds to go with the colorfully-painted nightclub / house interiors . Some of the story left a bad taste in my mouth , just a bit too sordid in spots . With the exception of the social worker , there are no likable , trusting characters in this film . The one who is hardest to figure out is the one played by Peter Coyote . Yet , despite this not being a particularly attractive story , the haunting audio and visuals keep sucking me back every 5-8 years into this bizarre tale .
Beans Bags The Gold , er , Baloney	This is not another of those Warner Brothers cartoons kind of promoting their " Gold Digger " musicals of the 1930s , but a story about the real gold diggers of 1849 . It stars " Beans , " and takes place in " Goldville . " Beans , trying to woo Porky Pig's daughter ( who is not a pig ) , is out on the mountain when he strikes gold ( via pulling a slot-machine-like arm ! ) . He goes back into town and tells everyone . From that point , we mainly see Beans and Porky out digging for gold . A bad guys is nearby and he snags a bag full of gold . Porky tells Beans that if gets the bag back , he can marry his daughter . Beans hops into his jalopy and races up the hill , firing with a shotgun ! Beans isn't really a funny guy but the cartoon has some good moments and the car is a real hoot . In the end , the bag of gold is only Porky's lunch , but that's gold to him ! It certainly looks dated , but that's the case with most 1930s black-and-white cartoons , and sometimes that's just fine with me . This was a fast-paced , inventive cartoon .
Cagney ' s ' Untouchables '	Here's an old-time ( about 75 years old ! ) gangster movie that is fast-moving as all James Cagney crime films tend to be . In here , Cagney is the good guy , a " government man " out to get crooks , one of whom turns out to be his old pal . All the characters in here are pretty interesting , particularly Cagney's boss played by Robert Armstrong . Watching this film , one discovers an interesting fact : government agents weren't allowed to use guns in the early days . That didn't change until things got totally out of control with too many defenseless lawmen getting killed . Margaret Lindsay also stars in this movie , and that's a good thing . The more I see of her , the more I like her . It would have been interesting to see what roles she'd play if she was a young actress in today's films . Finally , the action scenes in this film reminded me of the old television series , " The Untouchables " with the machine guns blazing out of those big , boxy 1930 automobiles .
Humorous , Yet Touching	This a simple story told in narration by a brother , who describes growing up and his odd family . It is both humorous and tragic . Most of all , it was captivating and very touching . It's very quiet , and you have to give it your full attention . The narrator describes everyone in his family , all of whom are shown in claymation form . Most of the shots are fairly quick and they are stills . There is very little movement in this , just one " snapshot " after another . Everyone is odd mainly because of some physical affliction , so the humor is dark . The claymation figures are " cute " and add much-needed lightness to a story that , basically , is fairly dark , especially at the end . Actually , the claymation figures are more than cute : they're fantastic . You'll laugh and marvel at each figure , from the poor brother and his weird eyeglasses , to the boys ' pet lizard . Overall , this is different ; it's excellent and it will keep you riveted to the screen , wondering what odd tidbit you'll hear next about this family . This is one of a trilogy done by the writer-director Adam Elliot . I haven't seen the other two but if they are anywhere near as good as this , I look forward to seeing them .
Keaton's Version Of The Freshman	This film reminded me a lot of Harold Lloyd's " The Freshman , " in which Harold goes out for sports in college to impress a girl - same story - and made two years earlier . I am partial to Lloyd's version but I enjoyed this , too . Keaton's version starts off with the high school graduation ceremony . " Ronald " ( Keaton ) , the scholar of the class , gives a speech denouncing athletics as a total waste of time and promoting being a bookworm over anything else . This speech is so offensive to the crowd that everyone leaves but Keaton's mom , who applauds . By the way , all the high school graduates look between 25-35 years of age . These are the oldest-looking high school seniors in history ! ! Anyway , a girl Buster is trying to impress " Mary Haynes " ( Anne Cornwall ) , was among those not impressed with his snobby " scholar " speech . She'd rather have an athletic man . So , upon entering college , " Ronald " tries a variety of sports , to gain the approval of the girl . ( Does this theme sound familiar , not just in the Lloyd film but so many of Keaton's other films ? ) He attempts to play baseball but is so clueless he puts on all the catcher's equipment to play third base . Suffice to say , after a number of plays ensue , it's more than evident that " Ronald " is a little bit out of his element ! Next , he goes out for track , but gets discouraged when two little kids speed by him on the track . Throwing the discus and javelin are not good ideas , either . His high-jumping routine is very funny . He isn't bad in the hurdles , however . Obviously , pole vaulting doesn't work and the hammer throw almost gets his teammates killed , so he's told to leave . He gets a call from the Dean's office . The Dean , who liked him from the start because he preferred studies over sports , is distressed because Buster's grades are bad . Buster explains his problems and the Dean ( played by the always-funny Snitz Edwards ) sympathizes because , being a wimpy little guy , he same problem years ago with a woman he liked . So , as a favor , Dean Edwards orders the rowing coach to install Buster as the coxswain of the team . The coach and the crew don't want this , as " Little Lord Fauntleroy " or " Mama's Boy " and other names he's called , has a reputation already at college as an athletic loser . They try to sabotage his attempt at being part of their crew , but he turns the tables . The funniest scene is when the new coxswain literally becomes the boat's rudder . The neatest part of the film is the ending , which is usually the case in silent comedies . Suffice to say that Buster puts all of his athletic talents , which were not effective on the sports fields , to good use to get the girl . It's a memorable ending .
These Contestants Seem To Have A Lot In Common	This sounded interesting , and it was , for the most part . I couldn't help but almost laugh out loud several times in the first half of this show , staring at these odd-looking little dogs . By the second half , however , it got familiar because all the contestants looked fairly similar . Where was the variety you see at regular dog shows ? All these dogs were little , skinny things that looked like Chihuahuas . I did have one favorite , however , and actually jumped for the joy when he took first place ! I don't want to name him , if anyone's reading this and hasn't seen the show . The dogs were judged on first impressions ( the " wow " factor ) ; unusual attributes ( warts , hairless , tongue hanging out , etc . ) ; personality ( peeing on one of the judges would get points ) , and audience reaction . The contest was divided into two categories , purebred and mixed , with an overall champion declared . Most of the dogs were not only little but their tongues hung out to the side and they had " Mohawk " haircuts . Most of them also walked a little awkwardly . When several of them were profiled , they also had another similarity : they were dogs that were " handicapped " or unwanted . These owners did eventually take these various canines certainly gave them a ton of love . The owners were varied more than the dogs but if I go into details on how strange some of them appeared , it might sound nasty . Suffice to say the dogs and their owners , by and large , were a unique group . Anyway , we got some good looks at Victory , Lucille Bald , Archie , Elwood , Pee Wee , Jack , Munchkin , Tater Tot and a few more of these " world's ugliest dogs . " You don't have to be an animal lover to enjoy this show that was seen on Animal Planet .
This Is SOME Vitamin Pill !	This is a takeoff on those old snake-oil salesmen who used to roam the Old West , peddling tonics that would cure everything . ( Most of it was just alcohol . ) Here , the PP is selling " Dr . Phinks Vitamin Pink " which is simply a vitamin pill . The pill works ! We see an old man take one , and the next minute he chasing some young chick around town . Then a " tired " homeless-looking guy on his last legs , takes several pills and - voilà - he turns back into a combination Superman-bank robber . In a funny scene , the thief gives some pills to his horse and the horse suddenly sprints away from the trailing posse . Now , the Panther is in a jam , because he's responsible for this crime . The sheriff pins a badge of him with the job to go capture the crook . What ensues isn't as funny as the previous scenes because too much is repeated as the robber robs the " Second National Bank " followed by the " Third National Bank . " Our vitamin salesman has the answer , however , to stopping the bad guy , and it's fairly funny .
This Is A Famous Case , And An Indirect Indictment Of The Power Of Fame	This crime case has been one of the most widely publicized and has been the subject of numerous true-crime television shows and best-selling books , so I won't go into too many details of it . It is about the death of 15-year-old Martha Moxley in a ultra-rich neighborhood in the one of the most exclusive areas in the country . What makes it unique was that case lay dormant for almost two decades and then re-opened thanks to one of those books and a " sensational " trial that was receiving national coverage . That was the William Smith trial in Palm Beach , Fla . That got attention because of the perpetrator's ties to the famous Kennedy family . and the Moxley murder was mentioned during that trial period . In a nutshell , the girl was brutally murdered with a golf club right outside her home late one evening . It was an unusual golf club , a Tony Penna model . The Stakel family was the only one with this make club . It was determined the girl was murdered with a six-iron . The six-iron was missing from the golf bag . Duh ? What's the problem ? The last person seen with Martha was teenager Michael Stakel . Both he and his brother Thomas had crushes and fights over the girl . That night , allegedly , Michael got upset when the girl refused to have sexual intercourse with him . Well , the case got stonewalled , thanks to the suspect's father and some bigwigs in the area . The inference is that , gosh , you don't mess with this well-known New England family . Yes , the Stakels were related to you-know-who , too . Did the Kennedy name and fame put the kibosh on bringing the suspect ( a relative ) to trial ? That has never been proved . This case also got re-opened thanks to the efforts of Mark Fuhrmann , who wrote a book about the crime , called " Murder In Greenwich , " and when Moxley's name came up in the Smith trial . Subsequently , famous author Dominick Dunne also wrote about this travesty of justice in his book , " A Season In Purgatory . " Dunne specializes in writing about cases in which the wealthy and powerful are never brought to justice . He has a TV show about this too , something about " power " and " privilege . " That's the inference in this case . On a nicer note , we got a wonderful tour of some incredible mansions that populate Greenwich and more specifically , the community of " Belle Haven . " Greenwich is just 30 miles north of New York City , we are told , as is considered " The Gateway to New England . " Some very , very wealthy people live here and commute via train to NYC each day . The crime took place in 1975 and Michael Skakel was convicted 27 years later in May of 2002 . Better late than never , I suppose .
Popeye Out-Congas Bluto	Hey , Bluto is back ! After being absent from a number of Popeye cartoons in the beginning of this decade ( the ' 40s ) , Bluto resurfaces as he , Popeye and Olive Oyl wind up on an island called " Conga , " where Olive is a senorita . Popeye and Bluto are sailors on a big ship and the latter is jealous when Popeye shows him a picture of his sweetheart , " Seniorita Olive Olya . " Bluto beats him ashore and tries to steal his girl but you know Popeye - he'll figure a few clever ways to stop this animal from taking his girl . Cafe La Conga - must have been the big dance in because this is the second or third time the dance has been done in recent Popeye cartoons . Popeye out-congas him and beats him up and the same time but is so violent that Olive calls the SPs and they take both sailors back to the hip . Definitely an odd Popeye cartoon .
Thi Sets The Stage For The Dramatic Second Part	Boy , there are a number of stories that go on in this opening episode of season seven . Included in the stories is one at the end in which one of the series regulars , " Catherine Willows " ( Marg Helgenberger ) is drugged and raped . The episode ends with her waking up in a motel room and figuring out what happened . The show begins with a performance by the famous circus act , " Cirque du Solei , " which we see give an acrobatic performance . Backstage , however , a woman is found crushed to death . Meanwhile , in another part of town , a man looks like he is an apparent suicide victim but how can the gun still be in his hand ? Not a whole lot actually happens after that , as the really amazing things are in the second half of this two-part story . This episode runs at a leisurely ( but interesting ) pace but all kinds of things happen in part II .
Two More Original Gadgets From ' Acme '	This wastes no time showing Wile E . Coyote ( famishius vularis ingenious ) chasing The Road Runner ( birdius high-ballius ) . It begins in the opening credits , and only momentarily slows down after 100 seconds when the coyote comes up with this first plan . Wile's idea - lets's catapult myself by throwing a boulder on the other end of this teeter - totter - winds up with our famished friend falling a thousand feet almost into the same imprint he left in the ground minutes earlier . Before he falls a third time - he has a fatalistic approach by now - he puts a trampoline over that same spot . I liked the names of the two Acme products he purchased for this one : the " Giant Rubberband For Tripping Road-Runners " kit and the " One Do-It-Yourself Tornado Kit " along with the gags of him getting out of a dynamite-rigged one nail at a time and the headgear for his ill-fated high-wire act . It's the same old story but with some inventive ideas , new and funny schemes by the pathetic but never-say-die Wile .
Another Strange-But-Fascinating Film From That Strange Director	Wow , what a strange film . It's a David Lynch movie so it's no surprise that it is weird . I defy anyone to totally explain everything in this film . I can't be done . After some research following my second viewing of this film , I pretty much know most of the story but on a first look , and with no aid from other reviewers or outside help , it is hard to figure things out . So , if you're in that boat and was confused , don't feel bad ; that's normal . Let me just say the key to the film is Naomi Watts ' character . At any rate , I find the film fascinating . I love the wonderful visuals and rich colors and find each character in this movie really different and fun to watch . The camera-work is excellent and the music is creepy , a la Lynch's " Blue Velvet . " There also are some good sound effects to help some of the dramatic scenes . In all , it's very well scored . Like Lynch's " Twin Peaks " television series , this was a film in which the end was pieced together afterward since Lynch thought this film was going to be a long , drawn-out TV series . When that didn't happen , he pieced at the last minute this ending . That may account for some of the confusion at the end and the lack of explanations concerning characters we see earlier in the film but who mysteriously disappear . The theme of the story , supposedly , is a negative comment about Hollywood and what it does to people , especially those whose dreams of being an actor are crushed . Both Watts and the other leading lady , Laura Eleana Harring , are very interesting to watch , especially in their celebrated lesbian sex scene . Looks - wise , both women were chameleons , looking average at times , stunning at other times . I enjoyed this movie more on the second viewing than the first . It's not just a curiosity piece ; it's a very intriguing movie . . . . . just don't feel stupid if you can't make sense of a few things .
Real People , Rugged Place	The film , set in a remote Himalayan village in Nepal , is gorgeous start-to-finish , a labor of love by those who made it over a long period of time . The cinematography gets a lot of good " press , " and rightfully so , but what I really enjoyed was the soundtrack . I expected the good visuals , and got them , but I didn't expect such wonderful music . As for the look , it's different , with rugged barren mountain village terrain and snow-topped Himalayas in background , although we don't enjoy those until almost 50 minutes into the film . What's really different , however is the fact the film employed no professional actors . These were real people of that area ! They also faces you won't soon forget . As for the story , the treks don't begin until 45 minutes has gone by in the film . You have to be patient . Much of that first part , people argue back and forth on the merits of making the trip and who would and should be going . Finally , we wind up with two separate camps : the younger guy " Karma " and his crowd and the older man , " Tinle , " who takes his son , grandchild and his mother , and mainly older friends of the stubborn old coot of a leader . Old man Tinle does nothing but bitch and moan most of the movie but people do their share of complaining to him , too . Yet , I found nobody unlikable for some strange reason . Most of the time , nobody in this village appears happy . These people must love to argue ! As one man say , speaking of Tinle : " Trying to talk to him is like trying to stop the snow from falling . " I liked the following : when asked why he changed his mind about going on the trip with Tinle , his son and lama-artist " Norbou , " " told his father , " After you left the monastery , I remembered what one of my masters said : " when two paths open up before you , always take the hard one . " I also thought the yaks were fascinating . . I'd like to know more about them after watching this movie . Overall , it's a dramatic and touching adventure story . that will reward you if you can hang with it for first three-quarters of an hour . It also will make you grateful you weren't born in this part of the country .
This Time , Lady Heather Is The ( Somewhat ) Victim	Why " Lady Heather " ( Melinda Clarke ) always is portrayed in a sympathetic light despite being a killer and a sex pervert , is a testimony to Hollywood and its mindset . Anyway , after an absence of a year and only one part over three years of CSI , she's back , this time the victim more than a " perp . " I can't feel totally sympathetic , however , to a woman who willingly has a noose put around her neck ! Even though " Gil " ( William Petersen ) has the hots for fellow CSI worker " Sara Sidle " ( Jorja Fox ) , he still has a very soft heart for Heather . Sara has to deal with that , although Gil is just friends with the dominatrix now . Clarke , who looks prettier now than when she was younger in this series , is almost strangled to death by a rope in this family-friendly western town , run by a scummy guy and his son as some sort of Old West-amusement area . Unfortunately , it doesn't take a Sherlock Holmes to figure out who is behind the attempted murder of " Heather " and the death of the night security guard . That's because the only two guys seen in the town were the father and son ! So , duh , obviously one of them is responsible for the violence in this made-up-for-fun town . There is a happy ending with " Heather , " though , and - who knows - she might even be a normal grandma type ! In a second crime story , a woman is killed , apparently hit in the head by the bumper of a cab , but there are no lower body bruises nor tire tracks on her . In other words , she wasn't standing and she wasn't lying on the ground . What happened turns out to be a strange event . I like how " Nick Stokes " ( George Eads ) handles this case and the speech he gives to a cab driver near the end . In all , this is a decent episode , nothing super but okay . It leads us to - what I hope - is a great season finale , dealing with the " Miniature Killer . "
Hard Not To Root For The ' Little Guy ' [	A lot of people liked this story about a small kid being bullied and then learning how to fight by a kindly old man . Then again , these type of stories of the picked-on kids - or nerds ( i . e . " Revenge Of The Nerds " ) , as they were popularly labeled back in the ' 80s , were always hit movies . People usually like to root for the underdog and always against bullies . I include myself in that category . Revisting the film recently brought mixed results . It was interesting to see a young Elisabeth Shue . I definitely enjoyed this at the theater in 1984 but now the kid , Ralph Macchio , and his New Jersey accent , is annoying and Pat Morita's Far East religious philosophies also got to be a little too heavy-handed . Overall , however , the film has a lot of charm no matter what decade you see it , and you can usually count on a David vs . Goliath type story to be popular . Overall , it's a fun and satisfying film . I wouldn't recommend the sequels but this first movie is worth seeing .
Entertaining Enough To Get Away With The Length	How many people can sit through a 120-minute animated film ? That's normally just too long for that genre . However , this one could meet that challenge . It only took me two sittings to make it all the way - that's very good , at least for me ! The best part of the film was the color , stunning in parts , beautiful and with great detail . It also had some wild characters and a bit of humor here and there , which helped . Overall , a good mix of good and evil and a different kind of story . Being it's Japanese , you are going to get some different theology than you are accustomed to in the West ( " the spirits of the wind and water have healed you , " etc . ) but it's not presented in a heavy-handed manner . I was concerned early on as the young girl - the main character in the film - had a shrill voice that was not pleasant but she calmed down after the first part of the film . Overall , entertaining and worth several looks .
A Very " Conspicuous " Beaver	Beaver and Larry Mondello are staying after school erasing the blackboard when Larry - no surprise here - tells Beaver a lie ( and laughs to himself when Beaver is so dumb to believe it ) . He tells Beaver that Mrs . Rayburn , the school principal , has an " electric spanking machine " in the closet in her office . Beaver is shocked . He's never heard of such of thing , and is horrified . Larry leaves when Beaver goes back to retrieve his cap that he left behind . En route , he gets nosy and goes into Mrs . Rayburn's office . The janitor comes by and Beaver quickly hides . The janitor then locks up and goes home for the night . Beaver is locked in the principal's office ! He pulls the alarm , gets rescued and escorted home in a fire truck . Oddly , that's only half the story . The next day , he and Larry are out in the park looking for four-leaf clovers . Once again , Larry leaves and Beaver gets in trouble . He sticks his head through an iron railing and it gets stuck ! Now he needs to be rescued again , and he isn't anxious to be made " conspicuous " again . This part was pretty funny . Despite Beaver being in all the trouble , the end has Beaver and Larry talking about parents with Beaver saying , " You know , Larry , you never can tell what they are going to do . "
Daniel Day-Lewis : Spectacular Performance	Daniel Day-Lewis elevates this film from just " good " to " very good " or even " excellent . " He is absolutely riveting , one of the most interesting " villains " I have ever seen on film . I am sorry Day-Lewis didn't win the Academy Award for his performance . He was just outstanding to watch . His facial expressions alone cracked me up ! Day-Lewis played " Bill ' The Butcher ' Cutting " he is one nasty dude . However , there are no real " good guys " in this story . The supposed hero , played by Leonardo DiCaprio , is a revenge-seeking man with a ton of flaws himself . The rest of the characters are either thieves , gang members , corrupt politicians or corrupt policeman . Ah yes , another family-oriented film from that kindly director Martin Scorcese . What Scorcese lacks in family values , he comes close to making up for in style . This is another fascinating visual film with great sets , costumes , color and camera-work . Other typical Scorcese touches are in here : Catholic-bashing and brutal language . ( I question whether the f-word was used back in the days this film takes place . ) All in all , a tough film that could be too unpleasant to watch but for Lewis ' outstanding performance and the spectacular visuals .
' Fearless Fred ' Comes To Betty's Rescue	This time we see throngs of people pouring in at the " Tanktown Theater " to see Betty Boop act in a play called " She Wronged Him Right . " Immediately , we see Betty on stage pacing and all upset . She's reading a note that says , " Pay the mortgage today or else ! Signed , Heeza Ratt . " Betty is in tears and her pets and the animals on her farm are all pacing in anguish , too . Anyway , the villain shows up ( amid hisses and boos from the theater audience ) and winds up singing a duet with Betty and then trying to force himself on her . She yells for " Fearless Fred " to come and save her ! This is corny stuff but it has its share of laughs and the songs are decent .
Another Advancement In Animation	This was yet another example , when it came out in 2000 , of the latest strides being made in animation , computer-or-otherwise . At the time , I thought to myself , " Man , this just gets better and better all the time . " Six years later , I am still saying that but with newer animated efforts . Some of the scenes in here look so real you wouldn't know they were drawings . The colors are particularly good in the opening minutes . They are just stunning at times . The story is pretty interesting , too . It's not great , but not boring , either , and not too kid-oriented . Adults can enjoy this . In fact , I was surprised at the amount of violence . That , and some of the jokes actually make this more for adults than kids in many spots . I recommend the movie for its story and innovative techniques .
" Dr . " Mickey Mumford : A Likable Guy	Now here is a different kind of story : a very low-key guy ( Loren Dean ) pretending to be a psychiatrist in a small town . Dean does a fabulous job of portraying the soft-spoken , easy-going " shrink " and is so likable that he makes the film enjoyable . There are a few spots that drag on too long , such as a few scenes with Hope Davis ' character but the " patients " as a whole are certainly interesting and varied . This is another one of those films that got much press , and undeservedly-so because it's pretty entertaining with a good cast . In addition to the above , we see Alfre Woodard , Mary McDonnell , David Paymer , Martin Short and Ted Danson . If you are familiar with those actors , you'll know why a psychiatrist is needed !
Changed My Mind About This Stylish Film	For a long time , this was the only one of the three Indiana Jones films I did not like . Then , when it was part of the DVD package that came out over five years ago , I had to buy it if I wanted the other two , so I gave it a third look . Wow , all of sudden I liked it . For the first time , the woman ( Kate Capshaw ) and the young boy ( Ke Huy Quan ) weren't as annoying as I had remembered them . The stupid kid really had rubbed me the wrong way , but this time only Kate was annoying . . . . and she was fine once she calmed down and got rid of the hysterics . The action in this film is mostly at the beginning and at the end . It is so Rambo-ish ( bad guys never hit the target but good guys always do ) it is ludicrous . It also has dumb dialog in a number of spots , paying homage to voodooism , spells and other nonsense . Yet , despite these criticisms , it's entertaining start-to-finish and has some fantastic visuals . The photography in here is beautiful : the best of the three Jones adventures . I particularly liked the opening dance number which reminded me of a Busby Berkeley extravaganza . This whole film looks spectacular on DVD .
More Intense Revenge	This was a western with a good cast and another intense , interesting revenge story . It's fairly long at 130 minutes but Steve McQueen is usually charismatic enough to carry a film , and he does so here , too . As the title character , " Nevada Smith , " McQueen is joined by a number of well - known actors of the 1960s : Suzanne Pleshette , Karl Malden , Brian Keith , Arthur Kennedy , Raf Vallone , Martin Landau Janet Margolin and Pat Hingle . McQueen plays a man who is totally dominated by thoughts of revenge . It motivates his every move . I don't recommend that attitude , but it makes for a good movie . It was nice to see this in 2 : 35 : 1 widescreen . Even though I owned a new tape , that nice western photography made the DVD purchase worthwhile .
Davis Makes It A Winning Picture	As a sports fan , it's fun to see a film of a little different nature , the case here being women's pro baseball - something that actually took place for a short time during World War II . The best thing going for the film , in my opinion , was a very likable lead character - someone you could really root for - in Geena Davis ' character " Dottie Hinson . " She made the movie , as far as I was concerned as the rest of the cast - although good - was not particularly likable . For instance , Tom Hanks plays a profane , drunken manager , and not a lot of laughs except for famous , " There is no crying in baseball " line which has become famous . Then there is the family-friendly Madonna and Rosie O'Donnell . Yikes ! Actually , Madonna plays a nice , subdued character and she's okay to watch but , frankly , it's hard for me to warm up to O'Donnell in any role . Just hearing that voice is enough to call ' time out ' and stop the game . Many of the men in here are generally pictured as sexist idiots , which is the way left-wing Hollywood likes to portray men . The sad thing is , this is another one of the these Penny Marshall films that ignorant national movie critics call a " family film . " However , profanity - which includes four blasphemes ( even one by Davis which ruined her good-person character image at that point ) , a two-minute scene of hearing Hanks taking a pee . . . . and other things hardly add up to " family fare . " However , it is an entertaining adult movie that has a lot of charm to it and is recommended , especially if you're a baseball fan .
Nice Town , Nice Memories	This is a short little " tour " of the town of Galena , Illinois , which was used in place of " Chisolm , Minnesota . " The latter was area mentioned in " Field of Dreams " where " Moonlight " Graham lived . This was the town where Kevin Costner and James Earl Jones went to find him . " Graham " was the last character ever played by the great actor Burt Lancaster . Graham was the town doctor but had a brief ( one at bat ) fling in the Major Leagues and is nice part of this film's story . A town historian at Galena gives us the tour of his neat-looking old city where Abraham Lincoln once spoke , and where U . S . Grant is honored in a special way . Our guide shows us all the places where Costner , Jones and Lancaster spoke and what they look really look like . This is a likable little bonus feature .
A Real Strtech , But Good Diversionary Entertainment	Well , I doubt anyone will fall asleep watching this film . That's the best feature of this movie : it's very entertaining and once you start it , it's tough to put down . Being only 90 minutes , it's a quick hour-and-a-half . It also helps to know that you are going to get the story told from a handful of angles , so expect to see similar scenes running over and over , each with a few new wrinkles added . Also , expect a lot of the action scenes that are both fun to view but not very credible . My favorite - spoiler alert ! - of that is when " Thomas Barne's " ( Dennis Quaid ) little blue car is totally bashed in by a huge 18-wheeler . Not only that , the car is smashed up against a brick wall . It should look like a metal pancake . Seconds later , Quaid emerges from the wreck and is running down the street like a football halfback shooting his pistol ! He hardly has a scratch on him , and the limp disappears after about three strides ! Credibility-aside , along with a few cheap shots with placards early on by a crowd which protesting the U . S . at an anti-terrorist summit ( they prefer terrorists , I guess ! ) and the usual politically-correct characters , it's a fun ride not to be taken seriously but as a short entertainment diversion . The twists are fun to see , too , as the same-but-similar story slowly unwinds and all the pieces finally fall into place by the end . . . . . even though , how they do manage that is by stretching things a bit !
Fun Dialog In This Sort-of-Noir	Good dialog and a fast-moving story make this one of the better somewhat-unknown film noirs of its day . Dick Powell and Jay Adler wisecrack their way through this film with some humorous sarcasm . Both are a lot of fun to watch . Powell was in his prime for this kind of role . He was much more mature looking than in his earlier musical days and he fits the part of a tough detective to a tee . His dialog with the tough cop , played by Regis Toomey , also is excellent stuff . Jean Porter provides added humor with her supporting role as the bimbo-thief date for Adler and Rhonda Fleming adds beauty . A younger William Conrad - with a dark head of hair and a mustache - also has a key role in here . Even though it is classified as film noir , I'm not sure it belongs in that category because it doesn't feature the brooding , dark type of characters and atmosphere one usually sees in that genre . One place is does belong is in your collection , if you like classic crime stories . This is another attractive film that still hasn't been issued on DVD .
Eat Your Spincach , Kids !	A " Health Farm For Kids ? " I wonder if there ever was such a thing ? Well , it's here in this cartoon with Olive Oyl running the place and feeding the kids a big plate of hot spinach ! In a nutshell , the kids - and who can blame them ? - are sick of spinach and won't eat . They make a fit , too , and Olive doesn't know what to do . Along comes Popeye . . . . and what better salesman than he to sell the product by showing what it can do ! Popeye feeds the green stuff to various plants and animals and their growth is pretty amazing . Some of this is very funny and all of it is very silly , but it's definitely worth watching and a pleasant break from the Popeye vs . Bluto boxing matches .
Bugs Battles Bruno	" Colonel Korny's World Famous Circus " is in town , featuring " Bruno , the Skobokian Acrobatic Bear . " The colonel gets a phone call informing him of a talented rabbit and the boss says , okay , tell him to come down and I'll have him perform with Bruno . The big bear , overhearing this , is not happy . " Nobody shares the spotlight with Bruno The Magnificent , " he tells us ( the viewers ) , " especially a stinking little rabbit . " Anyway , the act starts that night and immediately , Bruno starts sabotaging Bugs , trying to ruin him . After Bugs takes some big-time licks , he catches on and the tables are turned . The two go at it the rest of the night and you know who will wind up the big winner . How Bugs brutalizes the beast is pretty funny with some clever ideas . The sight gags were good , too , such as Bugs " pedaling " a bicycle in midair . The movie ends with a bang , literally . This is prime Bugs Bunny humor .
Who Dumped The Body In The Water Tower ?	Blood comes spurting out of a shower head in one apartment and a sink in the other . A woman lies dead in a water tower above that apartment building . How could such deep wrist injuries but leave almost no blood splatter ? That's just one of the many questions Mac , Lyndsay and Don have to figure out in solving this mystery . The superintendent and a drug-addicted doctor are the key suspects . The solution is a pretty clever one and perhaps not one that many people would figure out . In case number two , Stella and Sheldon are called to Washington Heights where a guy has been tied to a pole and beaten to death . Back in the lab , Danny joins the other two in trying to find out who the killer is in this one . It all boils down to competition in the fashion world which leads to a murder .
A Mouse With A Lot Of Bite	Our hero is up in the mountains in some log cabin . There are seven blankets piled on his bed . He obviously needs to stay , but immediately is frozen when he opens the front door and a ton of snow falls into the cabin . After thawing out , he decides to make breakfast but finds out his place is devoid of food ! After looking at his calendar , he sees the first day of spring isn't until three more months . He pictures himself as a skeleton by then . A little mouse comes out of his hole and pictures the same thing after he sees no cheese in the mousetrap . This is the mouse from Hell , as it turns out . He's got teeth like razor blades and he immediately goes after the Pink Panther to eat him ! The rest of the cartoon is a battle between the PP and the mouse - two starved creatures going at each other , almost like a Tom & Jerry cartoon , expect this is a vicious little mouse ! One of the most clever bits I've seen in a cartoon is the part in which we see the advancing mouse through the sleeping eyelids of the Panther , which slowly open and close as we seeing the advancing opponent ready to strike . The ending was a little weak , but at least there was a twist to it . Overall , this was very inventive and fun to watch and is an above-average cartoon .
Mice Were Funny , But Got A Bit Pushy	Rather than go into the story , which a couple of other reviewers did here , I'll state a few things that struck me funny in this Pink Panther cartoon . I liked the mouse's Park Avenue-type entrance , the fanciest I've ever seen in a cartoon , and cartoons love to show mice and cats . I also laughed at the " dagwood " sandwich he made and carried back to the hole , and the clever way he figured out how to stuff in through the small entrance . I also laughed at his buddies knocking on the front door and then racing in with musical instruments and a bottle of champagne for the party ! Later , we see them party hats on . These were amazing mice . One guy even plays the electric guitar . However , they lose their cuteness in the last minute or two . These guys are pushy !
Definitely Inventive	The Panther is giving a salesman presentation on stage , trying to promote his new " healthful , delicious , positively perfect beverage - Pink Punch . " Each description is on a placard . Unfortunately , when the card gets to " Pink Punch , " the dotted " i " on Pink turns from pink to green . The Panther uses his pinkie ( pun , not intended ) to erase it , but then his finger turns green . When he takes a glass of his concoction , his finger returns to its normal pink color . The PP then goes to work on getting rid of that green asterisk-like dot , which turns out to be quite a chore ! This little " greenie " won't be replaced ! It even laughs at the Panther and spits in his face . What's more , it has a parent ! This is very original material and fun to watch . Also unfortunate is that here is another PP cartoon with a laugh track - the dumbest mistake the people connected with this fine cartoon series ever made . I finally just turned the sound off and watched the last two minutes in silence , which took the aggravation out .
Films Don't Get Much Prettier	Being a man who appreciates beauty and great visual movies , I have checked out all the Merchant-Ivory films . I found this to be their prettiest , just stunning in its beauty . Story-wise , I preferred " The Remains Of The Day , " but this was okay . It just didn't have the appealing characters " Remains " had and it was a little too soap opera for my tastes but the visuals made up for that , . . . and the story , to be fair , was solid and involving . It also had Anthony Hopkins and Emma Thompson , and those two make a great pair . I would never get tired of watching either of these great actors , especially when they are together . If you like period pieces - this is 1910 Edwardian England - along with fabulous sets and scenery , a solid cast , and an involving story , you'll like this . If you are a fan of melodramas then you'll really , really like this !
7 Things You Usually Find In A Jackie Chan Film	With most of these Jackie Chan films , you are guaranteed of getting the same material , meaning : ( 1 ) tons of violence ; ( 2 ) extraordinary stunt scenes ; ( 3 ) good sound ; ( 4 ) some hokey dubbed voices ; ( 5 ) a juvenile story with even more - juvenile attempt at humor ; ( 6 ) very little profanity and blood ; ( 7 ) a stupid but still enjoying movie ( for at least one viewing . ) All of this adds up to a " fair " rating . The fun part of watching Chan's films are the outrageous action scenes and stunts by The Man , himself . Especially for someone getting up their in age , Chan is incredible since he does his own stunts . In this film , Chan's girlfriend , played by Michelle Yeoh , does her own stunts , too . She is an excellent martial arts talent in her own right and a pretty lady . By the way , during the closing credits they show some of the stunts that went wrong . Not all of these are shown for laughs . In a few of them , Chan is injured . The sound was amazing for a VHS . I can only imagine the stereo on the DVD . Overall , a dumb movie with unrealistic fight scenes ( people just about get killed , but keep getting up for more ! ) but if you know that and just want to enjoy a lightweight action film , it serves its purpose .
For Those Who Want To Learn More About One Of The All-Time Rock Greats	Nobody respects and reveres those old American rock pioneers like the British . That goes for blues , too . I share their love for these guys and could sit and listen to toe-tapping rockabilly , or blues all night long . Maybe that's one reason most of my favorite rock performers are English and Irish . Thankfully , one of those Brits who loves those early rock ' n rollers is Paul McCartney . The former Beatle was not happy with the 1978 movie portrayal of Buddy Holly so he made this documentary . Frankly , I don't see what was so bad about the Gary Busey ' 78 film about Holly but if McCartney says there were too many flaws in it , I believe him . Since Holly was my favorite singer from the late ' 50s , I'm glad to see the ex-Beatle provide us with more insight and performances of the man from Lubbock , Texas . Of real interest was some footage of Buddy , Elvis and Johnny Cash . This is supposedly the earliest clips ever made of Presley and , man , you can see why the girls went crazy over him . Among the interesting comments in here was by McCartney who commented that fellow Beatle John Lennon never wore his glasses on stage until he saw Holly with his dark-rimmed glasses . Hey , if it was cool enough for Buddy , Lennon said , it's good enough for me and he wore glasses while performing from then on . That's the one of the many influences Holly had on future music greats , as we hear in this documentary . Fellow Holly band member Sonny Curtis really impressed me with his voice and guitar playing . " The Crickets , " Buddy's band , had a lot of talent . Since this tribute was made over 20 years ago , it's interesting to see how young everyone looks , from McCartney to the Everly Brothers and even Keith Richards ! The main thing , though , is that we get a real feel for who Buddy Holly was , where he grew up , the atmosphere , the people and managers who surrounded him ( including a very pretty ex-girlfriend ) and to hear how driven he was to succeed and do the kind of music he wanted to do . It all makes me sad , recalling how we lost of the greatest rock singers / writers of all time at the tender age of 22 . Thanks to McCartney for this " labor of love . "
Two-Person Adventure Story That Entertains	This is almost strictly a two-person movie with Humphrey Bogart and Katharine Hepburn dominating the story and screen time . It's a likable classic film because of those two famous actors , a nice romance , good adventure and even some comedy thrown in to the mix . I'm shocked a well-known film with these actors still isn't available on DVD in Region 1 , as of late 2006 . The two actors squabble in the beginning but I like the fact that the film didn't go on too long in that regard as they did in many old-time battle-of-the-sexes movies . The story also a little unusual in that neither lead actor is in his / her prime , meaning it's almost a middle-age romance story . Once they become enamored with each other , the movie mainly goes into the trials the two have in piloting this boat , " The African Queen " down river with the goal of reaching a German ship and blowing it up . Yes , it's a World War II movie , of sorts . To be honest , the film does slow down a bit in the beginning of Bogie and Hepburn's romance but the last 30 minutes finish strong with one obstacle after another hitting the pair of adventurers , and it's interesting to watch .
Flip Vs . The Magician	Flip The Frog goes head-to-head with a swami-type magician , both trying to top each other ( with some funny results ) . This all happens after the latter pulls a disappearing act with Flip's girlfriend . You can't blame a frog for trying to get his girl back . Flip goes inside the big tent where the magician went to present this girl - a small version of Betty Boop - to his king . I guess it was an offering of some kind . The king likes her , pays the magician cash , and the girl tries to escape but there are guards everywhere . When Flip arrives , we get more of these crazy magic stunts and he tries to get his girl back and the opposing magician tries to prevent that from happening . As with most of these UB Iwerks ' Flip short subjects , it's a nonstop adventure filled with what seems like a hundred sight gags packed into seven or eight minutes . So . . . . is it entertaining and worth a look ? Sure !
A Humorous Explanation Of Animation	I really liked this : stick figures explaining to us - and themselves - what animation is , and some of things it can do . . . . . both good and bad . Hey , as they say in here , anything can happen in animation . . . . . . even those beloved Innocent stick figures can be set on fire . ( Yes , the writers here are sick people . ) " Welcome To The Show " also parodies those introductions you see at the movie heather about " no smoking " and patronizing the place to buy popcorn and candy . The stick figures dancing to the tune " Let's All Go To The Lobby " can't help but make you laugh . The second part of this trilogy , " Intermission In The Third Dimension " has its humor , too , and I enjoyed the subtle stuff , such as graphics stating " not all theaters offer 3-D glasses " after the two high-pitched cloud-figures-with stick arms and legs asked , " Do you all have your 3-D Glasses on ? " Then one of the " guys " walks back and forward , in case we do have the glasses . The explanation of the meaning of the " third dimension " is pretty stupid and the sight gags from there are very lame . " End Of The Show " is the finale of " The Animated Show " DVD . I like the speech one of cloud-guys gives about the serious business of animated art and how it isn't just mindless violence for kids and " mentally handicapped " people . ( Their words , not mine . ) Of course , after that speech we see nothing but violence and death !
" Dragnet " Heroes Go ' Postal '	For someone who grew up in the Fifties watching Dragnet as a kid , viewing this film in the Nineties was strange : the cop-heroes of that TV show , Jack Webb and Harry Morgan , are now villains in this film ! Webb played the tougher of the two characters , by far , and was effective in that role . Meanwhile , Alan Ladd played his normal good guy-tough guy role . Another odd thing about this movie is that Ladd was an agent for the U . S . Post Office , an organization - at least back then before people went " postal " - one doesn't normally think need policemen . But , as it was explained in the film , it was needed and the movie goes quickly from a corny-hokey start into a tough film noir . Phyllis Calvert adds a soft touch to the proceedings as a nun who humanizes Ladd , and helps him with the case . In all , I'm making this sound perhaps more interesting than it was , because it was okay but nothing super . Still , I'd like to see it get a DVD treatment some day and I'd consider buying it .
A Lot To Like . . . . . Except The Ending	It wasn't until my fourth viewing of this film ( and first on widescreen DVD ) that ( 1 ) I finally remembered who the killer was as soon as I saw him and ( 2 ) lost a little regard for this otherwise very entertaining thriller because of the implausible ending . It's a different kind of adventure story / crime thriller in that the beginning and ending scenes are both in big cities and the long middle part is in the Northwest wilderness . There is some great mountain scenery to enjoy as we tag along with two groups : one which has the killer and his hostage ( a slim Kirstie Alley ! ) and another with an FBI man ( Sidney Poitier ) and his guide ( Tom Berenger ) , who is the hostage's boyfriend . I had no problems with any of this story until the last 20 minutes when both parties reached Vancouver . Then , all credibility went out the window as Berenger is allowed to be side-by-side with Poitier as the latter and the killer shoot it out in various parts of the city . It gets worse as it goes on with Poitier a dead duck a couple of times but he never dies . Only Superman could have survived what he did , but he's the " good guy " so he makes it in the end . A little restraint in that ending would have kept this movie just great . Still , if you can put up with the ending the film still offers a lot of suspense , a lot of mystery , interesting action and scenery . . . . . in other words , a lot to like .
Buster Has To Prove Himself . . . . . . Again !	I liked this a lot more on the second viewing , the first on DVD . It wasn't that the print was so much better as I just appreciated Buster Keaton's humor and physical prowess more today than I did back when I first saw this film . That , and I can never get enough trains on film ! Keaton plays " Johnny Gray , " a railroad engineer who signs up for the Confederate army when the Civil War breaks out . However , they reject because the South felt he could be far more valuable to their cause if he remained in his occupation than as a soldier . However , because his girlfriend wants him to sign up , and her brothers all did , she thinks he's a coward because he's not fighting for his kinfolk ( obviously not knowing why they turned him down ) . So , things look bleak for our hero . ( Note : true love never seems to be shown in these Keaton films . Buster always has to prove himself to these fickle women , who demand either heroes or tons of money from their men . ) Anyway , Buster is chased down the tracks by the Northern army train for much of the film . He tries to hold them off and keep his own little train running . . . . and rescue his girlfriend who was accidentally abducted by the enemy and is being held hostage in one of the cars . It's not as chaotic as I am making it sound , but it's fast-moving and entertaining film for most of the 75 minutes . To be honest , I can't see where it's a " masterpiece , " as so many label it , but it's a good film . Maybe I still don't fully appreciate it . Now that I have it on DVD , I will be sure to watch it more times .
Got Better As It Went Along	It's Father's Day and " Junyer , " who looks like Baby Huey except he's a bear in diapers , has set off a ton of alarm clocks early in the morning . The father , " Henry , " gently tells his kid he's not happy with those clocks , punching his kid in the face ! When Ma reminds Pa that it's Father's Day , Pa literally turns into " a first class heel . " That kind of sets the tone for this cartoon . The kid wants to pamper the old man for the day - but will kill him instead because he's so stupid ( i . e . he spells " tobacco " g-u-n-p-o-w-d-e - r ) and the father doesn't want the attention , just to be left alone . The mother is kind of goofy , too . This is a real dysfunctional family . In the last three minutes , I laughed out loud a number of times as the material in here got better and better with some clever , dark humor lines . Junyar's one-act play and Ma's tap dancing are both flat-out hilarious .
Good Laughs , Interesting Cast	As with most movies from a different era , the attitudes are quite different . Feminists would hate this movie , if they saw it today . Hollywood would never make it now in first place , unless roles were reversed and men were made to look like sex objects . That would meet PC double standards . Nonetheless , agendas aside , there is a lot of good humor in here ; the story is interesting , and you get a well-known cast with Cary Grant , Tony Curtis , Dina Merrill , Arthur O'Connell , Gavin MacLeod and Marian Ross . The latter went on to be big names on television more than movies , MacLeod on " Mary Tyler Moore " and Ross on " Happy Days . " This was Happy Days on a ship , at least when some attractive women board the vessel . Grant has the best lines in the film - speaking lines , that is . Good entertainment . Lots of laughs before the PC made it impossible to laugh at anything , including ourselves .
Ya Gotta Love ' Joe Dirt '	For a typical low-brained Hollywood comedy of this era , it was a pretty nice film . Of course , few if any modern-day comedies are " family fare " and this one isn't either but the lead character is a gentle , harmless guy . David Spade is very entertaining as " Joe Dirt , " a down-and-out nice guy ( but not exactly pure , either ) who tells his tale of trying to find his parents to sleazy disc jockey " Zander Kelly " ( Dennis Miller ) . Brittany Daniel is an attractive , likable female lead . It's a fast-moving hour-and-a-half . Some of the scenes are outrageous , such as a dog getting his - can I say this ? - testicles stuck to the porch . Yes , it's good family fare ! ! Ha . Ha . No , really , this was a funny film and worth looking for if you need a laugh . I'm surprised there wasn't a sequel .
Being Invisible Isn't What It's Cracked Up To Be	There are some interesting lessons to learn from this film . . . . not that any of us will ever get to learn this since we'd have to be able to turn invisible . However , when we think about all the fun we could have being invisible , we don't think of all the problems it would cause us . This movie brings some of those to light , so to speak . I enjoyed Chevy Chase and Daryl Hannah in here and I am not fans of either of them . Chase is funny in this film and does an outstanding job playing the role not just with humor but drama , romance and suspense . You get all of that in this movie . Hannah provides the beautiful face and someone for Chevy to chase . This is another PG-13 movie that really should have been rated R with the language , for one thing . Overall , it's a film whose title may sound hokey but the story is done well . It''s actually though-provoking . Being invisible would not be all fun and games .
A Surprising Amount Of Laughs And Maybe A & C's Best	I only watched this once , but that's my loss . I should see this again . Although not a big fan of these guys , I thought this was their funniest film , along with Abbot & Costello Meet Frankenstein . Although the latter is considered their best and most popular movie , my vote just might go to this one . This film was simply a lot of laughs from start to finish and the special-effects with the invisible man are good , too - even over 50 years later ! The boxing scenes at the end of the movie are incredibly hokey but they are humorous as the " invisible man " helps Costless in the ring . Sometimes silly , sometimes stupid but generally fast-moving , this film is highly - recommended for those looking for an innocent , old-time comedy with a surprising amount of laughs .
Amidst Of Bevy Of Modeling Beauties , Wolfe Is Back & LeBrock Still A Threat	Well , I guess the big news on this episode is that former CSI regular " Ryan Wolfe " is reinstated . No surprise , there , although he supposedly wouldn't be back for awhile because of protocol and red tape . I guess Horatio went to bat for him and the red tape disappeared . He promises to be a good boy and repay Horatio . Of course , one of the first things he does is hit on a new girl . By the way , is there a fat or ugly person who works at CSI ? Is there a woman who isn't a knockout and has a great body ? Anyone just normal-looking , like you see in your place of work ? Speaking of beauty , the murder story involves a professional model who is electrocuted on the runway during a fashion show . How did this happen and why ? The how is determined quickly but , of course , not the why . That leads us to the normal twists , turns and usual suspects including a hardened criminal who has made several appearances lately on this show : " Joe LeBrock " ( John Sharion ) . I guess we'll see more of him , too , since he's the main villain at the prison in which Horatio's son is locked up . That will be a continuing story , especially since the inmate Horatio " employed " is murdered halfway through this episode . Now who is going to protect " Kyle ? "
A Nostalgic Treasure	" Sky King " is one of the first television shows I remember watching , so it has great nostalgic value for me . I'd love to see it again , since it has been 50 years since I last watched the program ! I do remember the character " Penny , " probably more than I remember " Sky King , " although the name Kirby Grant ( Sky King ) was always remembered and I couldn't have told you who played Penny until I read the title page here at IMDb . I do recall Gloria Winters ( Penny ) has a wholesome , cute blonde . I've read some reviews that say she is annoying in this program , but I can't recall that . A cowboy who flew airplanes - now that was a different angle for a storyline ! This was an adventure program that was a favorite in our family , too , as my father always had interest in flying and eventually was able to buy a small plane - a Cessna , similar to the one Sky King flew ! I'd sure love to see some episodes of this again , although I don't know how they would look today . I am encouraged that some of these are available on DVD . One thing for sure : you can't beat the good messages that television shows brought to us families in the ' 50s , unlike the garbage you see today .
This Lamp Gets No Respect	A talking magic lamp ? ? Yes , and he's a funny guy . He says things like " zowie , " " be the life of the party ; amaze your friends , come on in ! " The Pink Panther was just walking along minding his own business one day when he spotted the lamp on the ground . The lamp gives him this funny sales pitch ( see above for part of it ) and convinces him to be a " genie " inside the lamp . Then , he says , just wait for people to rub the lamp and you'll be in business ! That turns out to be easier said-than-done . People don't know it's a magic lamp . How would they ? Consequently , our PP has some disrespectful ( and funny ) things happen to the " lamp . " Sometimes he comes out of it , dressed in genie garb , and then places the lamp out where some nice people ( i . e . an old lady ) will see it and take it . Most of the time , he just hops around inside of it and waits to see what happens . Each time , however , it's a disaster . I didn't find this hilarious as others have , but it was inventive and definitely fun to watch , especially the beginning .
Bonnie & Clyde : Should They Be Romantiicized ?	It's amazing how the entertainment business loves to glamorize gangsters . They love darkness , but I expected a history-centered TV program like this to be a little more objective . . . . yet , more times than not , these two famous outlaws were made to look like sympathetic characters in this episode . They interview Clyde Barrow's sister and read letters from a Parker family member's memoirs of 1968 . They interview college professors and - surprise ! - they give more of the same slant . This all despite the fact that Bonnie & Clyde were cold-blooded killers and a pair of real low-lifes . Amazing . If you don't believe me , just read the synopsis here on the IMDb title page . " Romantic " folk hero types ? I don't think so , even in the Depression Era . If so , people should be ashamed for rooting for killers . Whatever the case , this episode provided a lot of background information on this famous pair of lovers on the lam from the early 1930s . In the middle of the Great Depression , gangsters were not always seen in a bad light , thanks to the entertainment business who often glorified the exploits of these " modern-day Robin Hoods , " as it was stated here on TV . There was Pretty Boy Floyd , John Dillinger , Ma Barker and her gang , Baby Face Nelson and Machine Gun Kelly . . . . . . all " glamorous " names . For much of Bonnie & Clyde's criminal exploits , the blame was put on their poverty-level upbringing , as if that is a legitimate excuse for crime . It's pointed out here the brutality of a jail in Alabama which really hardened Clyde and changed him from a thief to a murdering one . There are a lot of facts here in this Biography episode , though , that don't have sides , per se , but are simply interesting . People who don't know anything about these two figures outside of what they saw in the famous 1968 film " Bonnie & Clyde " will be quite a bit more informed when this program is over . For instance , Bonnie and Clyde were in love a lot more than what we saw in the film . How they met and formed their relationship , along with a ton of other pre-crime spree history , is all very interesting . A nice bonus , too , is actual footage of the victims at the end , when the two were ambushed and , along with their car , riddled with bullets . The picture shows - from a little distance - Parker slumped over in the seat . The crowds at the funerals were also shown , and it's remarkable . It's amazing how " celebrities , " no matter what their occupation , have always fascinated " normal " people .
Stanwyck Good Choice For The Role	Barbara Stanwyck , as I have mentioned in other reviews , was a tough woman but a likable one , at least with me . I don't normally go for those tough dames but her voice and personality she brought to a lot of roles always attracted me . A case in point was this movie . I doubt if another actress would have made this a better-than-average film , which Stanwyck did . Preston Foster's character in here , meanwhile , undergoes one of the fastest transformations I've ever seen on film , from arrogant pig to very likable good guy in no time at all . In fact , he turned out to be such a good guy that parts of this film , where " Toby Walker " was wronged , are difficult to watch . There's a little humor also thrown in this western , mainly involving " Sitting Bull . " It's been a long time since I've seen this film but I would definitely watch it again if it came out on DVD .
Best Of LW Sequels & A Good DVD ' Demo '	I read somewhere when the DVD of this film came out that it would be a good " demo " model for dealers trying to sell DVD players and surround-sound equipment . Well , they were right ; it's awesome , or at least it was back in ' 99 when the disc came out , back when not everyone had a DVD player . It's still top-of-line for picture and sound . When bullets are flying around , you hear them from all five speakers . It here it almost seven years later and we still find many films without this kind of excellent surround - speaker participation . The Lethal Weapon series , this being the fourth and last of them , was popular because of the combination of action , comedy , suspense , romance and drama . For me , they wore thin because the characters were too loud - always shouting at each other , too profane , too smug , too much Liberal-agenda and there was too much action . Things needed to slow down here and there , and give the viewer a break now and then . This sequel is no exception , although it was a little tamer than the first three Lethal Weapons , that is until going berserk again in the final few scenes , one of which - the hospital scene - was totally unnecessary . To be honest , some of the action scenes in this movie were amazing even if they had no credibility . You just have to suspend belief and enjoy some of the outrageous scenes in here . As usual , there are the left-wing agenda plugs , unwarranted cheap shots at the NRA , it's okay - to - have - a - baby - out - of - wedlock , etc . etc . Although the couple does finally get married , a rabbi performs an irreverent quickie ceremony , another slam on the seriousness of marriage . With all that goes on in this film , as in the three previous LWs , you are worn out by the end . If you are a fan of this serious , this last sequel should please . I thought it was the best of them .
My Favorite Version Of This Famous Story	In terms of humor or songs , I can't honestly rank this was high as most of the other Muppet films BUT it may be the most touching version of the Dickens classic story I've ever seen on film . The lyrics to the last two songs are fantastic : very Christian-like and very profound . Scrooge ( Michael Caine ) , meanwhile , is not portrayed as some screaming maniac as he so often is in other versions . His transformation from cold-hearted tightwad to caring , generous person is done more subtly , too , than in other films . However , to be fair , sometimes the slapstick humor in here gets in the way of the touching story . The last part of the movie is a lot sentimental drama than Muppet comedy and I found that refreshing . Not much offensive in here , either , making this a good film for little ones as well as older , sentimental folks .
A Lot More Than They Bargained For	The first part of the year 1862 is covered in this second installment of the " The Civil War " nine-part TV series . At this early junction , the war has become much more than a lot of people back then thought it would ever become . Troubles occur for Lincoln as his son dies , and for Union military leader George McClellan who , after finally beginning to lead his men into battle , hesitates and pays a huge price being fooled by vastly underrating the size of his enemy . Some of the horrors of war are explained in this episode . Back then , they didn't know how to take injured men off the field of battle . Thus , limbs often were not able to be saved , blood was everywhere , and the battlefields were just horrendous sights .
A Rough Day Trying To Deliver The Milk	This is strange cartoon that offers both a lot of good and bad : the good being funny sight gags and the bad being an annoying sadistic-like young kid who loudly cries and torments Flip , who is a milkman in this cartoon . It don't think poor Flip had a milk bottle left after this kid got through destroying everything . Earlier , Flip was pretty funny and the way he threw - baseball pitcher-style - milk bottles to his customer was humorous . I also enjoyed the sun goosing the rooster weather vane to get him going in the morning , the cow getting dressed up and put on her makeup before she got milked ; the horsefly getting his just deserts and the two horseflies coming by with a stretcher to get him ! I love the zaniness of cartoons . The kid , a Dennis The Menace type but even meaner , gets away with murder . Flip was a lot more patient with the kid than most people . . . . and all is happy at the end . . . sort of !
Memorable Telling Of Appomattox	The final 10 minutes or so of this episode , the discussing of what happened when Generals Grant and Lee met in Appomattox for the surrender of the war talks is fantastic . The description of these two men was so dramatic and so eloquently expressed that it made up for the unpleasantness in the first hour of this eighth episode . Much of that unpleasantness has to do with the total destruction of Atlanta and much of the state of Georgia . No matter what side you take , this is tough to hear described . War seems to bring out the best and worst in men . There are some people here who did so many cruel , despicable deeds it would make you sick . There are also , of course , many incredible brave and noble men and women . Watching this , I discovered why so many people are fascinated with this part of American history and frankly - right or wrong - I can see why bitterness in the South lasted so long . However , as it is pointed out here , General Sherman , who led this swath through Georgia had a purpose : to make war so detestable that the South would think long and hard , or perhaps never consider , ever doing battle again . He knew war was " all hell , " and expressed it numerous times . Meanwhile , we hear about what else is going on in 1865 , this last year of the war ; other battles , other triumphs and heartbreaks , about the slaves celebrating and some not quite sure what is safe to do . We also briefly hear about John Wilkes Booth and his hatred for Lincoln and himself . That story , in depth , I believe is on the last tape in this Ken Burns Civil War made-for-television event . As in Burns ' baseball set and other projects , he seems to have his favorites , people who get an inordinate amount of " air time . " One in this series has been Mary Chestnut , who is frequently quoted . One begins to wonder why she gets so much " ink . " I'm guessing one of the answers is simply because she kept such a detailed diary of the war . Along a lighter note , I am constantly amazed how a long production like this , with no moving pictures , can look so good visually in spots . The color shots , from recent times , of the South are the prettiest . This nine-part series not only is audibly fascinating , but visually as well . The Civil War pictures , of course , were all black-and-white but at least we have a pictured record of the war . Some of those pictures , however , are pretty harsh . . . but that's the horrors of war .
Grant & Lee Battle On	The year 1864 marks the fourth year of this horrible war . Pictures sent depicting some of it are so horrendous people can't look at them . They show one here , and you'd swear this was a photo of someone in a concentration camp in World War II . The man was nothing but skin and bones . Horrifying . The more was learns of the Civil War , the worse it gets . Grant now had command of the largest army in the world . His rank had grown to " Lt . General , " the first since George Washington . We get a profile of his amazing rise from loser in society to the leader of the North military . Then we get a profile of the most military leader of the them all : General Robert E Lee of the South . Most of this installment of the series is about Grant and Lee , and their battles to two had up and down Virginia . Then , after a very depressing segment about all the men suffering in the ever-growing number of hospitals , we get another profile of an important man in this war : General Sherman . With Grant stalled at Petersburg , Grant had to win in Tennessee and Georgia . Abe Lincoln predicts he will lose the election , perhaps by a landslide .
A Lot Of Information About This Famous Country	This also goes under the name " Globe Trekker " and was a series of hour-long travelogues that were televised sometime in the mid 1990s . ( This was my first look at any of the shows and I saw this on DVD . ) Justine Shapiro is the host and narrator for this tour of Vietnam , a country that became very famous in the 1960s and early ' 70s with the United States involved in a big war over there . In fact , Justine's first statement comments on that : " I've been here 12 hours and it still feels kind of strange , an American traveling in Vietnam . " In Ho Chi Minh City ( formerly Saigon ) , mopeds and bicycles outnumber cars , 100-1 . Four million people live there . You can get a hearty breakfast for 20 cents . Other highlights , tidbits and observations from this " tour : " Every weapon that was used in the Vietnam war can now be tried out by tourists . We also got a quick tour of the vast underground tunnels and rooms the Viet Cong used . The country's coastline runs 2 , 000 miles One beautiful spot were Shapiro stayed overnight was Na Trang , Vietnam's " premier seaside resort . " The first leg of the bus trip took 12 hours . All the buses - one of the main forms of mass transportation - are at least 30 years old and uncomfortable . On her next leg , riding on a train , Justine was the only foreigner in second class . However , she noted , " Women traveling alone in Vietnam are simply not hassled . " The train , called the " Reunification Express , " averages only 30 miles per hour . The rest of the video has more travels up north and odd customs of the people , such as drinking snake blood to ward off possible diseases , or not being able to see your friends for three years as a sign of mourning for a recently-deceased father . Vietnam remains one of the poorest nations on earth . The average national income is about $250 per year but they are friendly people who always made our host feel welcome . In Hanoi , foreigners are not allowed to drive . " It's a good thing because they wouldn't survive , " said Shapiro , who explained that there are no rules there and people drive like maniacs but have learned to develop incredible skills because of it . ( For example : driving over 100 miles an hour in traffic ! ) . The spectacular scenery didn't come until only six minutes were left when we saw ( something that sounded like Hai Long ) Bay , with its 3 , 000 limestone islands which have many caves inside them . We got a tour of one of them . Three-quarters of Vietnam is mountainous and much of it remains unexplored to this day . I was hoping to see more the beautiful scenery in this country . That was the only disappointment in this DVD . I'm not complaining , though , because I did learn a lot about this country that will always be famous because of the war . I was surprised at finding another " tour " on this disc , one called : " Treks In A Wide World : Motorbiking In Viet Nam . Zay Harding takes us on another tour of Vietnam in this bonus feature . First , he brings us to Ba be Lake National Park in the northern part of Vietnam not far from China . Harding visited it during their big festival of the year . . . . and ate some disgusting food which he didn't care to eat . Harding is a bit full of himself , but he has a good sense of humor and will try anything to impress the ladies or get a laugh . Later , he travels down south to Ban Don - 5 , 000 feet up in the mountains and a beautiful place , a respite from the heat at lower levels . It is in the Central Highlands where tons of fighting took place in the war , over a million bombs a year dropped . We met " The Elephant King " who has captured 298 elephants and tamed them for domestic ( agricultural ) use . He is 87 years old and has 91 grandchildren . Hes a " living village . " However , there are only about 100 elephants left in the wilds and by 2020 , they could be extinct in this country . That , and more , are all in this informative look at Vietnam .
Very Interesting , But Armstrong Was Missed	This recently-released documentary had some fantastic footage in it , and a very personal look at many of the astronauts who went to the moon . Overall , that is a very exclusive club : only about a dozen men ever did it in the history of the world and just eight or nine ever stepped foot on it . Most of them are still alive and they discuss their adventures , insights and personal feelings here . One gets the feeling that the rest of us will never know exactly how beautiful the moon is except to take the astronauts ' words about it , because even the pictures on this DVD can't convey that . It just looks dull and gray , but the men say it was spectacular . I believe them . Since this documentary is about 100 minutes long , you get a lot of information . You also get reminded how close two of the three men who went up on that historic first walk on the moon almost didn't get home alive . A glaring absence in this documentary - through no fault of the film-makers , is the most famous astronaut of them all : Neil Armstrong , the first man to step foot on the moon ! Apparently , he did not want to be part of this film . One of the astronauts , near the very end of this documentary , mentions something briefly about Armstrong being somewhat of a " recluse " now and it " being understandable with what he's gone through . " From what I've read , a lot of people have tried to make money off him in shady ways and so now he's withdrawn from the public spotlight . Still , not having his thoughts on this historic mission is a real loss to this film and makes this story seem incomplete . After a slow first half hour , this really picks up when we travel along with Armstrong's Apollo 11 crew . Seeing slow-motion pictures of the lift-off and great shots of the earth are just awesome . The worldwide reaction to the success of this mission will bring a tear or two to your eyes . This film , a legacy to the Apollo program and the brave men who ran it , should be in every schoolroom . It would make history a lot more interesting to students .
' Not Fade Away ' At Apt Opening Tune	Pictured here in concert are the Rolling Stones in Miami's Joe Robbie Stadium in the early ' 90s . The South Florida crowd really enjoyed this concert , as you will see and the old codgers - the Stones - didn't disappoint , putting on yet another entertaining show . I don't remember all the details but I remember this concert was a bit on a raunchy side , with Jagger french-kissing - or pretending to - one of his backup singers during the show and more than a few sexual gyrations by a few people on stage . . . . more than normal . Other than that , it was the usual exhibit of the incredible vitality the group still has at these performances . One wonders when they peaked , or is that yet to come ? Almost all the songs here are good , even if they are so familiar . Facially they make look like they're near the end but " Not Fade Away " is appropriate opening number because that describes this band .
The Loves Of ' Toto ' Beautifully Told	After seeing this special edition DVD which shows the entire 174-minute film ( in addition to the 121-minute one that most of us had seen over the years , ) my rating of this film was elevated . This review is of the longer " director's cut . " Most of the new footage involved the main's character's romance while he was a young man . The story then is continued years later when that character comes back to his hometown for a funeral and runs into the woman he was in love with but never was able to get for his own . It turns out to be a somewhat tragic love story . The first part of the film , with Salvatore Cascio as " Toto " a young boy is a love story about two people sharing their love of movies : the kid and an adult " Alfredo " ( Phillpe Noiret ) who runs the local movie theater . Their love of film bonds them for life . The word " love " is used repeatedly in this review because that's the dominant theme : the love people had for others and for the world of film , something all of us on this website share . The second and third parts of the film are the above-mentioned love story of Toto ( Marco Leonardi as an adolescent and then Jacques Perrin as an adult ) and " Elena " ( Agnese Nano / Brigitte Fossey ) . The first third of this director ; s cut edition is much livelier and interesting , frankly , than the last two-thirds . Although not boring , it does drag in a few spots but the longer version is better in the long run because it makes the whole story much more meaningful . It's very nicely filmed and you get a real feel for the Italian people and their little town . The director of the movie , Giuseppe Tornatore , went on to make other great visual films , two of which I also like : Malena and The Star Maker . . . . . but Cinema Paradiso , I believe , is considered his " masterpiece . "
Powerful Film Unfairly Treated	The more I watch classic films , the more I discover what a great year 1950 was in the movie business . Here's another good film , and one many people are probably unfamiliar with . This one revolves around the newspaper business . Dan Duryea , as usual , is interesting as " Mike Reese , " a bad guy-turned-good guy journalist . He is joined in the cast by Herbert Marshall , Gale Storm ( one of the great names in show business and who will forever be " My Little Margie " to those of us who were around in the ' 50s ) , Howard Da Silva and Michael O'Shea . Of the above-mentioned , Da Silva was the most fascinating , as the brutal mob boss " Carl Durham . " He only had a minor role , but some of his lines were outstanding and his role was memorable . Da Silva was a great actor for film noirs . This isn't really a noir , but it's close . Marshall was just fine as the newspaper owner . The film was not kind to the newspaper business , so some media-minded film critics ( who probably had columns in daily papers ) didn't like this film for that reason . Too bad . They should have liked it , since it had Left Wing written all over it , with several Liberal themes and favorite catch-phrases such as " witch hunts " ( one of their all-time favorites ) . Nonetheless , it's a powerful film and well-acted .
Another Decent Modern-Day WWII Movie	It's nice to see World War II films making a comeback , as they have seemed to do since the arrival of " Saving Private Ryan " in 1997 . This is another of them and with modern technology the viewers get to experience some very realistic action scenes . The main thing is that the story is interesting . With a John Woo-directed film , you know are going to get tons of action , almost always too much , and that's the case here . However , some of the scenes are fantastic . You also get some beautiful cinematography . Still on the positive , the acting was good in here with Nicholas Cage in the lead role and a lesser-name-but-good supporting cast . The story , although fairly long at 134 minutes , was never boring . On the negative side , as mentioned , Woo tends to overkill and this movie must have a set record for number of people killed . It also leans on the politically correct side , of course , with Native American spirituality given complete reverence as usual and the Catholic ( Cage ) looking like a very weak in his beliefs . In modern-days , you'll never see the opposite shown on film . Anyway , it's a good action movie that certainly entertains . The intense and long action makes it almost too much to watch in one viewing !
This Tarzan Film Just About Has It All , Including Skin	Considered by almost all the critics to be the best of the Johnny Weissmuller Tarzan films , I have no argument with that , although there are a couple of others I thought just as entertaining . One thing : it's the longest of the series that I've seen at 105 minutes . I've only seen six of them but this was longer than I'm used to and with the drawn-out action finale I thought the whole thing was a bit too long . Nonetheless , it is a good mixture of action , suspense and romance . The only things missing are color and stereo sound . The primitive special-effects don't bother me , as that was all that they had back in the 1930s . Among some , this film is most noted for one thing : skin ! " Jane " never wore anything this skimpy after this film as the Hays ' Code was instituted by the time the next Tarzan film was made . Her outfit showed what a great figure Maureen O'Sullivan possessed . The nude underwater scene , however , was not her - by a longshot . The woman under the water didn't have a good figure at all , whoever it was . There is plenty of action in here . Up to the finale , it was not overdone , either . The ending went on for 15 minutes , though , and was so intense that it was almost too much to watch . Still , this movie offers about everything - except " Boy " ( their adopted son ) - you'd want to see in a Tarzan film , even O'Sullivan doing her Tarzan yell about a dozen times . With her pair of " lungs , " that was no problem .
A Bit Confusing But A Big F / X Treat	Special-effects were the drawing card when this came out at the end of the 20th century , and those effects were spectacular . They lived up to their billing . Unfortunately , the story was a bit confusing for much of the two hours , a bit too secular-minded for me , although others have viewed this with Biblical analogies . I do think the script could have used some humor here and there . It took itself a little too seriously . That was especially true for the four main characters . Nonetheless , because of the stylish visuals and effects , it entertained . I liked the monotone-speaking Hugo Weaver the best , or at least found him the most interesting . Lawrence Fishburne's character came in a close second in that regard . Once again here's a movie that made you glad VHS tapes were being phased out in favor of sharper , widescreen transfers .
Ten Minutes Of Absurd Fun	A stingy man who cannot throw anything out , even to the point of eating the pits of cherries , winds up paying for his obsessiveness in a very strange way . One day , a small sprout grows on top o his huge bald head . He snips it off , and this happens a few more times . He even saves the snippings . Eventually , a cherry tree grows on his head . Doesn't that sound a little weird ? It is , and it only gets more and more strange as the story develops . Later , people live on his head . Then he gets sick of that , so he yanks the tree out and a big hole is there . When it fills with water . . . . . . well . . . . . need I say more ? The best parts , at least for me , was the wonderful animation , the hand-drawn artwork , and the complete absurdity of the story . It's definitely 10 minutes worth of your time if you enjoy something different .
A Story About Real Friendship	There was nothing hokey overly melodramatic about this story , and usually you get that with a sports story or about a good person dying . In this case , we have a combination of the two . This is simply a mellow , sweet-natured human interest story well-acted by the two main stars : Michael Moriarity and Robert De Niro . Both are nice to watch , playing very easy-going non-offensive characters . Moriarty plays a pitcher on a pennant-contending team who lovingly looks after his not-so-smart-but-dying teammate and friend ( De Niro ) . By today's standards , it's slow-moving but I never got bored with it in several viewings . As nice a film as it is , there is one warning : a lot profanity by the manager ( Vincent Gardenia ) but it's not a kids ' movie anyway . I watched it years ago and then again recently when it came out on DVD . It's hard to get excited about it , yet it's a memorable story that I could never get out of my head . We all wish we had friends like the one Moriarty portrays here .
Historically Inaccurate But Makes For Good Drama	I made a mistake of reading about Ma Barker before watching this second episode in the first season of The Untouchables . It kind of ruined things , because this story is almost entirely fabricated for dramatic purposes . In real life , Ma Barker never was directly involved in any of her boys ' crimes and certainly wouldn't be firing a machine gun as she does in the dramatic shootout in Florida . Also , this episode is disappointing because I want to see Robert Stack as " Elliott Ness " and his " Untouchables " in action in Chicago and this turns out be the Claire Trevor show as we see the life of her and her boys , mainly in Oklahoma . Trevor plays the kind of character atheist Hollywood loves to show : a church-going person who is nasty , violent and downright evil . Yes , in real life Barker came from a religious background , but this episode goes to such extremes in its distorted way to show a hypocritical woman that it's laughable . In truth , Ma was nothing more than an accomplice , unable to rat her boys out . Trevor was always good playing nasty women in film noirs so she is effective in that role here , especially at the " advanced " age of 49 . Speaking of that number , Trevor plays a character very similar to " Ma " in the 1949 movie " White Heat . " Margaret Wycherly played that role and , frankly , I would choose her over Trevor . Anyway , this was a departure from most of stories in this series , and a little too bias ( and overacted by Trevor ) to suit me , although it certainly wasn't boring . Actually , there was one very neat thing in here . One of the Barker boys , " Doc , " wound up with a girlfriend whom he married . She was a beautiful young woman , very sexy , and looked familiar . I just couldn't place where I knew her . The ending credits told me . It was Louise Fletcher , of " Nurse Ratched " fame in " One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest . " Fletcher was about 24 when she filmed this episode .
A Tribute To Rock Guitarists	Guitar greats discuss their instrument , and other artists , in this interesting segment of the History Of Rock ' n Roll series . It was interesting to me because I love a good guitar sound , which is one reason I am big fan of the blues as well as rock . Les Paul is not a name young people probably recognize but he is noted here as the pioneer of electric guitar . What a difference in sounds between Paul and rockers of the ' 50s up to the next decade , culminating with Jim Hendrix ! That guy is still being imitated today and few people could ever do that . One was Stevie Ray Vaughan , but he's been gone for awhile , too . Anyway , it's always great to hear Eric Clapton , Jimmy Page , Keith Richards and those guys from the ' 60s who are still going strong , along with blues great B . B . King and rock greats Mark Knopfler and Jeff Beck . That's just a handful mentioned here in this 45-minute program . Man , you could go on for hours about all the great guitar players over the last half century . Note : this is non-rated but for those who might have younger kids watching this , two of the guitarists use the f-word while someone else ( Eddie VanHalen ? ) mentions " getting pussy . " Well , I'm sure rock guitarist have no problem in that area ! Overall this is an entertaining look and listen . If you buy or rent this , remember it was made in the mid ' 90s so guitarists who have made a name for themselves wouldn't be included here .
Matthau Makes The Modern-Day Noir Work	This was a pleasant surprise ; better than I thought it would be , although I shouldn't have been surprised since Walter Matthau usually plays interesting roles . What I appreciated was the realism of the story , except for two things at the end of the film such as no one coming to investigate a loud chase scenes and firebombing ? Overall , the ending , however , was a very satisfying one , and one that brings you back for future viewings . Matthau also makes the film realistic , as he typecast perfectly for this role . Other than Matthau , the cast isn't a big-name one but a lot of familiar faces and names from movies in the ' 60s and very early 70s such as John Vernon , Sheree North , Joe Don Baker and Felicia Farr . Andy Robinson , is a not a known name in movies because he did years of television , but viewers might remember him as the creepy " Scorpio Killer " in the first " Dirty Harry " film . " Charlie Varrick " is considered a film noir even though it's 1973 and in color , but it's noir in story and that's good enough for me . This is definitely worth a look if you like crime films .
Gangsters Do Themselves In	Jack Weston plays a slob-like thug nicknamed " The Artichoke King " who is terrorizing the produce industry in New York City . In town for a brief stay , Elliott and the boys decide to see if they can get this sick murderer before he causes more harm . This was an interesting episode thanks to a number of facts presented about how gangsters operated back in the era , such as how the largest flowers sent to the funeral almost always indicated who killed the fellow mobster . That's what this story winds up being about : rivalry inside the gang in which " Ciro Terranova " ( Weston ) has a subordinate " Frankie Yale " knocked off after the latter " becomes too big for his britches . " Ness pits one gangster after another until they incriminate themselves . . There are other good guest stars in here , such as Mike Mazurki , Al Ruscio , Jerry Paris and others , and the photography is excellent , too . I had no idea these " The Untouchables " TV shows were so well-filmed until this DVD came out . This was solid camera-work done on these shows .
The Quirks Of ' 30s Popeye Cartoons	For some strange reason , I've noticed that in a lot of these 1930s cartoons - Popeye's and others - flames from fire come alive . The flames take on a human personality and do human things . In here , one of the flames from a burning house sidles even over to the fire alarm box to send for the firefighters ! In other scene , flames from one window reach out and shake hands with a flame coming out of another window . Of course , it's Olive house on fire and , of course , Popeye and Bluto are the competing fireman are both ready to be the heroes . Those two have already been shown belting each other back at the company : Bluto , of Fire Co . " C " and Popeye , head of " D " company . I really enjoy the artwork on these ' 30s Popeye cartoons , how our main characters are drawn with the exaggerated features , and I also love how they draw buildings . Olive's huge house in the cartoon looks super . I also advise those who have this as part of the Popeye The Sailor Volume One 1933-1938 DVD to put on the English subtitles , otherwise you'll miss a lot of what Popeye says , since he mumbles a lot . In here , it's doubly important because Bluto mumbles like Popeye as they taunt each en route to trying to put out the big fire at Olive's house . Some of the dialog is funny . Most of it , however , is nothing of the laugh-out-loud variety and nothing noteworthy , except what idiots these two guys are - more concerned about beating up the other guy than saving the house ! It's little things in this cartoon that produce smiles , such as how they guys get water out of their hoses , how the ladder becomes alive , etc .
Give It At Least Two Looks	On my first viewing , I wasn't particularly impressed with this movie but I liked it a lot more on the second and by the third - when it's magnificently transferred on DVD - I was fan , too . This is a good visual film , particularly when it shows the inside of this incredible mansion where a lot of the scenes take place . To those who have never seen it , you are warned that it is not an easy film to view , it being a portrait of a pathetic has-been silent movie star who still thinks she can come back after a long hiatus and be a star again . Gloria Swanson , who plays the role , overacts and certainly is not appealing , even bordering on grotesque at times , but she isn't supposed to look good . That's one of the points of the story . Anyway , a young William Holden , in his first starring role , is okay and also provides the narration . The most interesting figure in the film to me was the ex-husband-now butler , played by Eric von Stroheim . He's amazing in this film . In supporting roles , I also enjoyed the wholesome Nancy Olsen and the young Jack Webb of " Dragnet " fame . This combination of drama-soap opera-film noir is one of the professional critics all-time favorite films . Odd how they love movies and Hollywood stars so much , yet relish films that tear them down , as this does .
The Best ( and only ) Mambo Movie I've Ever Seen !	Excellent " mambo " music and colorful characters made me rate this a " 9 " after the first viewing . After several looks , the novelty - how many mambo movies are there ? - wore off and it settled in as an " 8 stars " film but I don't regret seeing this several times . It's fun to watch . Armand Assante was particularly good in here and I was intrigued with Maruschka Detmers , a new face which at times looked striking . Since she resides in France and hasn't made many , if any , English-speaking films , we here in North America haven't really seen her since this film . Assante and Antonio Bandaras are the two leads , however , sharing the spotlight with the music . Both actors are excellent , maybe the best roles of their careers . The story moves best the first 40 minutes with a lot of that " hot " music but then gets a little melodramatic afterward . However , I found it interesting all the way through with a nice tale of brotherly love and devotion . For all you " Ricky Ricardo " fans of " I Love Lucy " television : if you want a real feel of Latin Americans-in America during the 1950s , check this film out .
A Pretty Wild Version Of ' Jack And The Beanstalk '	I read where this was the first of the Celebrity Productions Comicolor cartoons . Color at the movie theater had to be a very , very big thing to audiences back 75 years ago . The cartoon still entertains today . Jack and his mom are broke and hungry . The animals in the house are starving , too . It's not a pretty sight . Even mom's purse is depressed . ( Inanimate objects often talk or come alive in these 1930s cartoons . ) . The purse says , " What are we going to do now ? " Everyone is skin-and-bones but Jack sells the family cow for three beans . They turn out to be magical , of course , but you knew that ! The beanstalk that sprouts overnight goes miles into the sky and Jack decides to check things out . This really becomes an otherworldly fantasy with some crazy sight gags that include stinky feet and a hen that lays golden coins that automatically go into a cash register . " Fee fi , fo fum " about sums up this entertaining classic cartoon .
Guest Stars Add Spark To This Melodrama	The end of prohibition is less than a year away and the gangsters are starting to look for other avenues to keep their criminal activity alive , Walter Winchell informs us in the opening narrative . Crime now is centered on such things as " the numbers racket , call girls , gambling and dope . " This story , however , taking place in early 1933 , involves a guy who still wanted to control the liquor business and take over the speak-easies using strong-armed methods . The man : " Big Jim " Harrington , played well by Ted de Corsica . " Big Jim's , " number one thug in his gang is " Loxie " is played by one of my favorite character actors of that era : Timothy Carrey , who I first saw in the great film noir " The Killing " ( 1956 ) . The twisted , sick grin on Carrey's face after he lights a match is about to ( maybe ) set nightclub owner " Benny Hoff " on fire is chilling ! He has that sadistic grin throughout the program . Other pleasant surprises are " Johnny Paycheck , " played by Cameron Mitchell and " Renee Sullivan " played by Phyllis Coates . The latter was TV's first " Lois Lane " on the George Reeves - starring show . By the way , I wonder if the real Johnny Paycheck's parents got the idea for their kid's name watching this episode . Anyway , as for Harrington and his brutality , the violence was a police matter but the whiskey , a federal one , which brings in our her " Elliott Ness " ( Robert Stack ) and The Untouchables . The story is okay , not as good as looks like it's going to be after the first 5-10 minutes because they go too long on the relationship of Johnny and Benny , but it's nicely filmed and the actors make it worthwhile , especially Carrey , who never looked so evil . . . . and Coates , who never looked so sexy .
Spoofing Abbott & Costello , And Introducing ' Tweety '	A takeoff on Bud Abbott and Lou Costello , famous comedians of the classic era , we have two cats : " Babbit " and " Catstello " just trying to survive and find food , like climbing a very tall tree for a bird snack , if they can get it . That little bird turns out to be " Tweety , " the little yellow ( later on ) canary making his Looney Tunes debut . Actually , more than half of this cartoon features Tedd Pierce and Mel Blanc imitating the two comedians . They are far more scenes than the little bird but the best scenes are the ones with the little bird high up in his nest . Tweety is naked - no feathers . It's kind of weird , being skin color all over . It's like he's just a tiny baby that has been recently hatched . Anyway , he won't put up with a cat trying to get him - this is one strong little " boid . " " Catstello " can get a little too loud and abrasive ( Blan was never subtle with his voices ! ) but otherwise this was a fun cartoon and interesting Tweety's start in animated films . I thought the best thing about the cartoon was the direction by Bob Clampett . There are some great " camera " angles in here and it's drawn cleverly in many spots .
Wimpy's Trademark Line	This starts out like a Betty Boop cartoon , meaning with a song . Popeye and Olive have opened a diner and they are seen outside of it on opening day , singing and dancing " We Aim To Please . " After that , we see Wimpy and Bluto standing on the other side of the street , observing . " Watch me obtain a hamburger without the necessary fee , " says Wimpy . He goes inside and says , " I'll gladly pay you Tuesday for a hamburger today . " That line went on to be used by him for the next 30 years . It became his trademark , along with the hamburger-eating , of course . There's not much of a story to this , but it was very entertaining . We only see two customers , but they are Customers From Hell , mainly Bluto . Wimpy won't pay , of course , but Bluto's aim is to demolish the place ! He does everything he can to disrupt the the diner and act like some moronic vandal , just for the sake of being a no-good you-know-what . If you have this cartoon on DVD , freeze-frame she shot where Popeye shows the menu and read it - it's pretty corny and funny .
A Loving Tribute To ' Bogie '	This is one of the longer bonus features you'll see on a DVD but it is well worth your time if you are a fan of Humphrey Bogart . The late actor's wife , Lauren Bacall , looks back fondly at her hubby , so this is a loving tribute . There is a lot of information here , along with film footage of his famous and not-so-famous films , plus a few home movies and a television clip or two . Actually , anyone who lives classic-era movies should enjoy this documentary , which can be seen as a bonus feature on the two-disc Special Edition DVD of " Casablanca . " It was originally aired on television 20 years ago . Bacall doesn't mention any unpleasant things about Bogie so you don't get the whole picture , but she a nice job of discussing her late husband , who has been deceased now for a half century . Bacall is eloquent in her reminisces . So , too , are the many varied contributors in this tribute to " Bogie , " from directors to actors . Some of the interviews are archive footage as those folks had also passed away when this documentary was made , but most are done " live " for this documentary . Director Richard Brooks seemed the most dramatic of the group . Some of the interesting things one wouldn't see just in Bogie's film career but are shown in this documentary included : Bogart being interviewed on the old Ed Sullivan " Toast Of The Town " TV program and cracking jokes on the Jack Benny Show ; film clips from Bogie's first films in 1930 where he's actually a fresh-faced young man ; clips on the set in Africa of " The African Queen " where he admits he spent most of the time griping about being there ; home movies of his wedding and Bogie playing with their kids ( Bogart turned father at the age of 49 ! ) , and much more . . Bacall shows clips of her husband doing what he loved most : sailing . He was a true man of the sea and thought that was the greatest spot on earth to be , where it was calm and quiet . She also mentions that her husband was not the guy everyone saw on screen . In addition , we got some inside information about the filming of Casablanca , and how tense the actors were since nobody - including the writers - knew what the ending was going to be until they just about reached that part . I never realized Bogart was in a film in 1953 that actually was the original " MASH " military-comedy . They just didn't call it that , deferring to " Battle Circus , " instead . Overall , although anything but objective , it's a nice , kind tribute to one of the most famous actors in the history of film .
One Way To Get Your Message Across !	I only looked at this because a friend loaned it to me so , at zero cost , what could I lose ? Well , it was a lot better than I anticipated . Oddly , even though it's only 80 minutes long , I think this could have been better with about 10 minutes chopped off . It starts to repeat itself too much near the end . You have to remember , almost the whole film takes place within a phone booth ! Colin Farrell does a super job playing a sleazy guy held captive in the phone booth by a threatening sniper-caller . The story , although simple , holds your attention because there is great suspense , innovative camera-work , an involving story that hooks you in pretty fast and some great sound . I hope you have a surround sound system because the caller's ( Keifer Sutherland ) voice on the other end of the line is something to hear ! There is a big moral message in this film , too , about doing the right thing and paying for your sins , which Farrell sure did . It was really refreshing to hear that message , effectively told . Maybe some of us need a sniper to get the message across , but I hope not ! Are there holes in this story ? Sure , but it's still good and has a cool ending . The only warning I would give readers here is the language : this is a very profane film with Farrell going overboard on the f-word . If that offends you , then stay out of this phone booth ; otherwise , it's pretty entertaining
Could Have Been Super With Different Ending ; Still A Top ' Classic '	The first movie to sweep all the major Academy Awards , this film is still popular today . That's probably so because the dialog between the two stars of the picture - Clark Gable and Claudette Colbert - is just great . Those two make this fun to watch . I enjoyed it , however , much more on the first viewing than subsequent ones . It lost some of its zip after I knew what to expect . The ending , too , was very weak . Over the last 20 minutes , the two stars go their separate ways ( until the very end ) and the story gets very stupid . The nice romance that had developed between the two seemed to have disintegrated when Gable left one early morning ( for good intentions ) but didn't tell Colbert . The latter thought Gable ran out on her . Hollywood , in films of the 1930s and 1940s , loved to have romances in which confusion abounded and everything was misinterpreted for the worst . . . . until the happy ending when the truth somehow would surface . That same theme was in here , along with yet another trivialization of marriage , another common theme during the classic era . Colbert says it herself in one line , mentioning she doesn't care for this other guy , but what the heck , might as well get married , what's the difference ? Huh ? If the scriptwriters here would have just kept the " road " part of this film going longer - with Gable and Colbert trading barbs - it would have been super . Gable has the best lines an is the most fun to watch but Colbert can hold her own . She looks really pixie-ish and cute , although most of her closeups are done with a fuzzy lens , another habit of filmmakers of that era had with female stars . One of the film world's most famous scenes is in this movie : the hitch-hiking scene in which the cocky Cable explains the different ways of successful thumbing in order to get a ride . . . . and gets nowhere while Colbert , on her first try , gets a car to stop immediately after she lifts up her skirt ! That is still one of the great comedic scenes in movie history . Overall , this is still one of the best comedies of " The Golden Age , " even with its faults .
A Totally-Insane ( But Fun ) Episode	There are so many wacky , insane things in this episode , I wouldn't know where to start . Suffice to say , this show continues people with green blood , a deer killed with a crossbow and then having a skirt put on it ; a lady who wears tinfoil and says she communicates with aliens , a 60-some year old married couple who die in their sleep in the same night but aren't murdered ; a ultra-violent drunk who is beats up several officers at police headquarters , is pepper-sprayed and then tasered and then bursts into flames and dies . In addition , there are lawnfuls of dead squirrels at the old folks place and at their welder / sculptor neighbor's , who is a woman who is flaky . . . . . . and then there is the big story about brutal migraines and what they are doing to some of the above-mentioned people . Among the wacky , sad to say , are the three usual CSI suspects : the ludicrous " Hodges , " Wendy , " and " David . " The latter , the assistant ME , is brought to tears over a dead animal but is never upset at a human being killed . Another CSI worker , the female who wears glasses ( " Mandy ? " ) , tells Hodges he'd better stop living with his mom if he wants a girl , meaning her . There is a lot more , but why spoil it ? At the end of the show , Grissom gives his " Theory of Everything " which could possibly tie all the bizarre events together . His New Age speech all being tied together by some invisible string is utterly laughable , but he's serious and all his CSI subordinates seem to nod in agreement . Man , these " scientists " will anything about the universe , except about a God , of course . None of the three CSI shows gets as bizarre as this one has done the last three years . Sometimes it's funny , sometimes it's insultingly-stupid but it's usually pretty interesting . Never a dull moment in Las Vegas , I guess , especially when you have wackos as the good guys and the bad guys !
Great Suspense	This gets high marks for suspense alone . It is a very tense movie , guaranteed to keep the first-time viewer glued to his / her seat . It might even raise a few hairs on the back of your neck ! Dramatic music also helped with the suspense . In addition , we get some fine acting performances from Richard Gere , Laura Linney and Will Patton . Don't be fooled , however , with the " based on a true story " tag line . It might be " based " but that could mean only a very , very small part of this film was actual ; the rest presented for dramatic purposes . This film is a good case of that , from what I've read . Nonetheless , it's interesting , has good visuals and decent sound and some genuine creepy moments . This definitely a film to have on DVD , as opposed to VHS , although I suppose at this point , few people buy tapes anymore anyway . Those looking to curl up on the couch with a good thriller : give this movie a look .
Bugs Vs . The Oil Baron	Wow , the puns and the parodies , etc . , are in full bloom right off the bat in this takeoff of Texas and it's oilmen and all their money . Bugs ' even has his own address : " Deepinhola , Texas . " Down there , in his semi-fancy hole in the ground , Bugs is first seen singing and playing the banjo . Here are some of his lyrics to the famous song " Home On The Range : " " Oh , give me a home , where the billionaires roam , and the oil and the cattlemen play " With their gushing oil wells and their gushing hotels , and count up their money all day . . . . . . " Well , you get the idea : this is oil country and tons of money The first real sign of that when we soon see the longest limousine in history roll up and we get the two other main characters of this story : two small dudes : the billionaire oil man and his chauffeur " Maverick . " Since , as the little oil man states , there shouldn't be a hole in Texas that isn't gushing oil , they see Bugs ' hole in the ground and want to convert that to an oil well . That's the theme of this story , and you know Bugs is not going to allow that ! The oil man , in essence , was Yosemite Sam without the beard : same Mel Blanc voice , same stupid , obnoxious character and same foil for Bugs . The ending was good , with Bugs explaining to us how this improbable thing we see could happen .
Daffy Is One ' Scrappy ' & Patriotic American !	As others have explained here , this cartoon was made as part of the film industry's bid to help the U . S . and Allies with the World War II effort . The message in this one , with Daffy Duck providing the message with laughs , was to encourage people to save scrap so that it could be converted to weapons and ammo . Signs like " Get that lead out ! ( along with iron , brass , tin , etc . ) are at Daffy's Scrap Heap , where he does his bit to help win the war . Any question that this cartoon is anything but that is erased in his first scene when we see him with an air-raid helmet on and he's singing , " We're in to win , turn in your tin . . . . . . To our nation's call every rubber ball , Goes to conquer freedom's foe . " You get the idea : this is more of a patriotic message instead of the normal wacky Looney Tunes effort . However , that's not to say you won't laugh with Daffy in here , or enjoy the inventive artwork and direction by Frank Tashin . Much of the story tells of Hitler hearing about Daffy's scrap pile and he sends a billy goat ( don't ask ) to destroy it . The German leader is shown , it's safe to say , in a very unflattering light ! No objections there , from anyone I've hear , and none from me . It's ironic that our foes in WWII were depicted so negatively but Hollywood doesn't say one word today about the Islamic terrorists trying to destroy the U . S . Today , as I write this , there are several anti - American military films that are being shown and nothing which makes the enemies look bad . Over 3 , 000 citizens are murdered in the World Trade Center buildings and today's Hollywood only makes films mocking our soldiers ? Unbelievable ! Think about it . Watching this cartoon really makes the contrast really stand out , especially at the end when Daffy Duck is transformed into " SuperAmerican . " .
Even Better If You've Seen The Famous Site	An excellent second half of this film elevates it overall as the Alcatraz inmates plan and then execute their escape , narrowly missing several disastrous occurrences . The suspense during those scenes is outstanding . Clint Eastwood is good as the fairly low-key character " Frank Morris " and most of the inmates are likable guys ( which was highly unlikely in real life ) . For tourists of San Francisco ( of which I was one about five years ago ) , I would recommend taking the Alcatraz tour . It's fascinating and makes this movie even more interesting once you've seen the place . I notice the people here at IMDb make the same recommendation on the title page of this film . Much of the rest of the cast are not well-known actors but they do a fine job in here . This is one of director Don Siegel's final films . He worked with Eastwood on " Coogan's Bluff " and then " Dirty Harry . " Transfer-wise , the DVD was not that impressive , a bit too grainy for the usual standards . However , the story is always interesting and the movie is definitely recommended .
My Favorite Of The ' Riverdance ' Performances	This is a " revised " Riverdance presentation , staged at Radio City Music hall in New York City . Of the three Irish " dance " musicals that I watched during the mid to late ' 90s ( which includes the first " Riverdance " and " Lord of the Dance " ) I liked this one the best . I thought it was better than the original , held in Dublin , Ireland , because it adds segments that are mostly good , it has a more varied and colorful stage setting and it eliminated apiece for two from that original that wasn't good to begin with . This is just a very solid show with few weak spots . To be certain , there are some songs / dances that are just " fair " but none that are poor , which is amazing considering there are 20 numbers in all . The cast is similar to the first Riverdance with the main exception of Colin Dunne replacing Michael Flatley as the featured dancer . Both are extremely talented . The major difference might be in their looks with Dunne a little , goateed black-haired guy while Flatley is the clean-shaven blond . I prefer Dunne because Flatley's ego is so big he gets annoying at times . The female lead , Jean Butler , thankfully , is still there and is great to watch : what graceful beauty and talent ! Butler and the rest of these women have the greatest legs I've seen on dancers . I also enjoyed the dancing of Maria Pages , a Spanish flamenco performer , and two guys : Daniel B . Wooten and Ivan Thomas . One number - with those two pairing off against Dunne and two other dancers - 0 is called " Trading Taps " and is terrific fun to watch , maybe the highlight of the whole show . I have no complaints about violinist Eileen Ivers , either . The " fast " Irish songs here appealed to me the most . I appreciated the audience not getting in the way of the performance either with shrieks and screams like the women do in the " Lord Of The Dance " video .
Nice Camera-work In Here	This is a very entertaining Sherlock Holmes film with some of the best - maybe THE best - camera-work I've seen in the Basil Rathbone-Nigel Bruce series . The photography was better than the story , which was disappointing only in that it was too easy to spot the killer . Heck , even I found it no problem , so it must have been too easy . The characters were interesting and all quite different . Some were mental patients who had suffered from World War II . Miburn Stone played the lone American and I didn't recognize the man who went on to play " Doc " in the long - running hit TV series " Gunsmoke . " However , his voice sounded familiar .
Now Here Is Something Different !	Can you say " different ? " Have often do you see a movie in which the lead character never utters one word ? That's the case here , a unique story of an alien who crashes near Harlem , a famous black neighborhood in New York City . The alien is a black man , so he fits in despite not being able to speak ! He's just looked upon as another " brother , " as the title indicates . Two aliens come after him - white guys , naturally . In the Liberal world of films , white people are bad and black people are good 99 percent of the time . . . . . at least when there is a contrast between the two . Writer-director John Sayles is a prime example of this type of racist thinking . But he wrote a fun film here , I have to give him that . Even though some of the scenes make absolutely no sense , it's an entertaining movie start - to-finish . Joe Morton plays the sympathetic alien with three toes and strange nails . You have to root for him because he's portrayed as such an innocent , harmless creature . The best part of the film is the humor , some subtle , some not-so-subtle . The guys in the neighborhood bar where the alien hangs out brought the biggest laughs . I find this a lot of fun to watch every three or four years .
Sad To Say , The Last Of The Droopy Theatrical Cartoons	Droopy takes a commercial flight to Ireland and winds up taking a solo sightseeing tour , buying a little leprechaun hat from a lady on a street corner , and then visiting " Shillelagh Castle . " En route , our favorite Irish dog , Butch , spots him and thinks he's just seen his first real leprechaun ! Butch follows him into the castle , where Droopy sees a painting " The Mad Duke , " who supposedly haunts the castle . The guy looks just like Butch , so Butch jumps into a suit of armor and spooks poor Droopy . The two then go at it , both thinking the other guy is someone else - either the Mad Duke or the valuable leprechaun . Sooner or later , one of them figures it out . This was the last of the Droopy cartoons , at least the ones in " The Complete Theattrical Collection " DVD package that came out recently . I am sorry to see it end . These were some of the best cartoons I've ever watched . This DVD set is recommended for anyone who loves to laugh
Genuinely Nice Bio Film That Hits Mostly The Right Notes	This is simply a nice , dramatic story of a music teacher's life . Richard Dreyfuss plays the teacher , " Glenn Holland . " It spans 30 years of his career with a tear-jerking ending . Endearing characters make it a memorable film . The focus of the story is Dreyfuss and three students he gives special time to over the years . A big subplot involves the teacher and his hearing-impaired son . The students are winningly played by Alicia Witt , who plays the sweet girl who goes on to become governor ; Terrence Howard , a really nice kid who gets killed in Viet Nam , and Jean Louisa Kelly , the last and most memorable student perhaps , an extremely talented singer who goes on to a career in New York City . Interwoven are some personal stories , particularly with Kelly's character , and with fellow teachers ( Jay Thomas playing the most likable ) and school administrators ( Olympia Dukakis and William H . Macy ) . The most personal , of course , involves his hot-cold-hot relationship with his disabled son ( played by three different actors as time passes . ) Glenne Headly , meanwhile , plays Dreyfuss ' wife . As you can see by this cast , this is a well-acted movie with the only flaw being the screenwriters unable , as Hollywood seems to be , to control their political bias by giving unwarranted cheap shots to Republican politicians who are pictured as being against the arts ; atheist John Lennon almost deified in this film as one of the " heroes " of the 20th century , plus a few more digs and plugs here and there , all with the normal Liberal bias . Propaganda-aside , it's a genuinely nice film about people who succeed through dedication to their professions . The movie seemed to appeal to a wide audience . It's very manipulative , but it works . It's also a plug , if you will , for deaf children and the problems they face and the difficulties parents face in raising a kid with that disability .
Short Message - And To The Point	I wonder if this was a major problem a long time ago . I'll bet it was . I am referring to the subject matter of this early and very short D . W . Griffith film : rude people wearing big hats to the theater and blocking the view of those in back of them . Considering that people have probably been inconsiderate for as long as humans have inhabited the planet , this might have been a problem . Since people haven't word big hats in a generation or two , a lot of people don't remember " big hat days . " Whatever , it makes for an amusing little film with a unique suggestion to dealing with the problem ! If people were slow to get the message , the director put in print at the end . The special-effects aren't exactly state-of-the-art for today's audiences but I bet they shocked the film-goers 99 years ago , when this was seen .
Real-Life Justifiable WWII Paranoia In Cartoon Form	This was my first look at a " Private Snafu " cartoon . All I know is I first see some nerdy - looking private walking around the Army camp and saying in rhyme , " I just a learned a secret ; it's a honey , it's a pip , but the enemy is listening so I won't let it slip . " After that I thought this was going to be very corny and stupid , but it was anything but . Afterward , when I saw Theodore Geisel , a . k . a . " Dr . Seuss " wrote it and Mel Blanc did the voicing , I wasn't surprised it was entertaining . Spies are everywhere , following Pvt . Snafu , even to the telephone in the town drugstore where our hero goes to call him mom . The German and Japanese stereotypes were typical of the day , so anyone who is offended watching today should not be . The Allies were not exactly fond of Germans and Japanese in 1943 ! It wasn't just verses that were clever . If you look close , you see some quick sight gags like two moose heads on the wall crossing antlers making the Nazi insignia . There's also a good message about how liquor loosens up our " zipped " lips . The main message was for everyone watching this in the theaters during a very tense time in the world's history : be careful what you say , that one careless word could leave to many people getting killed . This was a " From The Vaults " feature on the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume Three .
The All-Consuming Zodiac Killer	A couple of years ago , I read an article about how some people are still obsessed with the Zodiac serial killer case . Since the murderer was never apprehended , this case has fascinated a number of people for almost 40 years . There are websites and all kinds of people , apparently , who can't let go of this famous case . Lo and behold - here's a movie about that obsession . I , probably like a number of viewers , thought this was just another film about the murderer , and it looked that way for the first hour of the 157-minute movie . However , it turns out be just as much a story about one guy who has this obsession about finding the killer . That man is " Robert Graysmith , " a cartoonist for the San Francisco Chronicle . He is played by Jake Gyllenhaal . The movie is based on Graysmith's books on the Zodiac killer , so it's no surprise the story winds up revolving around him . For moviegoers looking for a hard-nosed , brutal serial-killer story , this must have been a disappointing film because it turns out to be a character study of " Graysmith " plus an in - depth behind-the-scenes look at police procedure which , as any cop could tell you , can be tedious work . However , there is still is enough violence and suspense , particularly early on , to satisfy some and there is a lot of information on the crimes itself , and a lot of suspects to entertain the " whodunit " mystery-solving viewer . I admit the story began to drag a bit after two hours but overall , I thought it was an intelligent , interesting profile of all concerned : most-likely killer , detectives , newsmen , witnesses , other suspects , Graysmith's wife - everyone who could possibly been involved with this long-standing unanswered crime case . In a way , this story reminded me of the CSI shows on TV where every five minutes we get a new can't-miss suspect who turns out to be a false lead . However , in this story , no one was ever tried and convicted . But , the movie does come to a conclusion on who the guilty party was , and makes a convincing case for it . Thus , at least according to the film , Mr . Graysmith's work was not in vain . ( The real-life suspect died of a heart attack , so we may never know for sure . ) The downside for Mr . Graysmith , and people we may not even know about , was that his life and others have been radically altered for the worse this obsession to find the Zodiac killer . It cost Mr . Graysmith his marriage . Overall , this is a bit long but it features excellent acting by everyone and offers diverse characters . I would like to have seen more with Arthur Allen . John Carroll Lynch is not a big - name actor but he's good and , for obvious reasons , a fascinating person in this story . Director David Fincher doesn't offer up the edge-of-your-seat thrillers as he did in " Se7en " and " Panic Room , " but this is still worth a look and recommended .
Phil Collins Gives You A Lot Of Bang For Your Buck - Almost Too Much	Phil Collins gives a long seriously long concert in Berlin , Germany , on July 25 , 1990 , doing 24 songs ! This is one of the longest one-man concert videos I've ever seen . Actually , as good as Collins ' songs are , and as good a singer as he is , it's almost too much . . . . at least for one continuous viewing . It's almost three hours of music ! I was surprised all of this could fit on a VHS tape . I'm not complaining , just saying it is very hard to sit down and watch this whole thing in one viewing . After the first look , I wound up breaking it into segments , and even skipping a number of songs that didn't have as much appeal as others . That's hard to do on the VHS tape I had , but I assume much easier on the DVD , which I wouldn't mind acquiring one day . Like all good performers , he has excellent backup help , instrumentally and vocally . The lighting also is very colorful in here which definitely adds tot he view-ability of the concert . You need colors and other visual gimmicks ( dry ice , in here ) , otherwise you're better off with just a CD . Phil , to his credit , is pretty animated , too , which also helps . He is so self-assured that feels comfortable with the huge crowd , even though he doesn't speak their language . ( He has to read his German from a sheet of paper . ) Anywhile , like Rod Stewart and others with unlimited energy , Phil just keeps going and going . Although some songs sound very similar , it's still very good , solid music and entertainment . You sure get your money's worth ! "
Sad Portrayals Of Ex-Child TV Stars	Pirated movies and Albanian hit men are two of the subject matters here as a former child acting star is found murdered . Actually , he was about a half hour away from being buried in Potter's Field . He had been listed as a " John Doe " when found in a ravine , dead for about three weeks and rotting . Not a pretty sight or smell ! " Skater Stevens " ( Noah Weisberg ) was one of those child TV stars you read about in real life who go from the penthouse to the outhouse , usually become a heavy drug user and have bunch of sad tales along the way after their TV sitcom ends . Fortunately , some of them survive and do okay . In this story , " Skater " didn't survive but he was into illegal activity , not just abusing himself with drugs . You don't want to aggravate the Albanian Mafia or the Russian Mafia or the Italian Mafia or any nasty organization . Meanwhile , " Detective Logan " continues to be entertaining . Chris Noth is turning out to be a fun guy to watch on this series , and someone who makes the periodic loss of Vincent D'Onofrio tolerable . . Eric Bogosian as his boss , " Captain Ross , " is interesting , too . He seems to have a bit more of a personality than his predecessor , " Capt . Deakins , " although I liked the latter . Julianne Nicholson is still a bit too new to make judgments , yet , although I do love looking at her freckles . I like the subtle looks she gives Logan here , both positive and negative . Matt Keesar also has a key role in this story , playing a guy that was on Skeeter's popular TV show , a guy who was always getting the best of poor Skeeter . His name is " Kirk Tunis , " and he's portrayed as a nutcase , too . In other child actors aren't put in a good light on this episode .
Nice Period Piece For A Heist Flick	Wow , this is a wonderfully-filmed movie that especially looked good since it was one of the first DVDs I purchased a decade ago . Rich colors and good period detail of 19th century England made it visually attractive . However , the picture was too grainy . I hope someone has re-issued this and given it the transfer it deserves . Beware that it takes quite awhile before the actual holdup takes place . This is almost a two-hour film and they build up slowly to famous heist . However , I didn't find any of it boring . This is rated PG but there are quite of bit of sexual innuendos early on by Connery as he woos Lesley-Ane Down . Other than that , it's a pretty tame film . Donald Sutherland adds a touch a touch of humor here and there as he and Connery pull off the suspenseful heist . . . . and it is suspenseful . Connery trying to maneuver on top of the train was a highlight , as was the " whooshing " sound of the train each time it passed under a bridge . The stereo in here is very good for a film almost 30 years old .
Fun And Educational , Thanks To Brown	This was an entertaining and educational trip around the world . It follows two American surfers who are seen visiting West Afrcia , South Africa , India , Australia , New Zealand and , of course , Hawaii . For one thing , it was interesting to see how they looked at prices of things . For example , in Africa , they are astounded at having to pay $30 a night to stay in a motel or pay $1 for a gallon of gasoline . ( I'll bet they would change their tune today ! ) The film gives you a good feel for the ' 60s surf scene with the lingo ( " stoked , hang ten , etc . " ) The surging can get boring after awhile but Bruce Brown , who made this film and narrates it , usually didn't overdo those parts and he does an outstanding job narrating to keep our history . He's interesting and he's funny . There are some memorable moments : seeing a place where the waves go past the sand right to the shore and then back out again ; the famous Waimea Bay of Hawaii , of the biggest waves ever to be surfed ; the perfect waves on the east side of Africa , the incredible scenery in New Zealand and the flies in Perth , Australia ! A fun movie . If you enjoyed this , check out the sequel " Endless Summer II . " That is very good , too , and with better camera-work .
A Lot Of ' Macs " For Your Money Here	Boy , there are really dragging out this deal with our star " Mac " ( Gary Sinise ) going through all this interrogation and court hearings , etc . , over the serial killer scumbag who jumped from the roof killing himself in last week's finale . For political gain and other reasons , the higher-ups - " Stanton " and " Sinclair " and a police advocate ( laywer ) who is some incredibly-smug woman - are all made to look nasty and self-serving as they try to ruin the reputation of " Mac . " The writers on this show ( and most others ) are so manipulative I almost laugh out loud sometimes . They make it so you just hate these people with a passion ! Subtly has never been a strong point with TV-and-film makers . Meanwhile , the sleaze factor is back as a man is impaled on a condom machine in the men's room somewhere at his bride-to-be's female party . He crashes the party , gets upset when he sees his finance being cuddled by - get this - ex-tennis great John McEnroe and storms into the restroom . Witnesses say McEnroe followed him there , and the next thing they new the man was found dead in that unusual spot . On top of that ludicrous and bloody sight , we get a bunch of wise-guy jokes ( " Dead Man Standing , " " safe sex , " etc . ) . The writers have every CSI member except Lindsay making professional jokes at every crime scene now . Although never a fan of McEnroe the tennis star ( or short-lived TV talk show host ) , I have to give him his due : he performs well in here and is funny . The guy appears to be a good actor . What the angle was involving him in this story was something I figured out early on . If an idiot like me can guess what is really happening , you can , too . Meanwhile , on a more positive note , " Don Flack " now seems to be sticking up for his boss instead of the other way around , so that's good to see . I would hate to lose him from the show even though he isn't a major character . Eddie Cahill does a nice job with that role .
This Is The Way It Should Be	In this television special , the first in the series I believe , Frank goes it alone . . . . and that's the way I like it . I bought this to hear and watch Sinatra , not other people . Here , Frank sings some of his more famous numbers ( and favorites of mine ) such as " I've Got You Under My Skin , " " I Get A Kick Out Of You , " " My Kind Of Town , " " Come Fly With Me , " " Witchcraft , " and " The Lady Is A Tramp . " I only wish the songs were a bit longer , as most of them were two minutes long . . . . or less . The show looked dated with the mid ' 60s set designs , music and even the jokes . The sets and script could have used some punching up . I saw this on tape a few times and I hope the DVD enhances the sound , more than what it was on the VHS . Sinatra also sounded a bit hoarse on a few numbers . However , he was till pretty solid on most of the work and his delivery style was always entertaining to watch . If you're a fan of his , this is a keeper since it has so many of his better songs .
Can You Say ' Over The Top ? '	In a season ( the third ) that is producing weird stories for the first time ( most weeks , thus far ) we get two outrageously-goofy stories . Get this : one guy named Noah has built an ark in his backyard and has four couples already living it in , prepared a new flood to occur any day . Noah is found shot to death in his home . He's covered with dollar bills . He turns out to be a guy with a long rap sheet but this particular " event " on the level ; he wasn't scamming people . So who killed him ? The second case has a man dressed as a cigarette . He died after someone set him on fire in his outfit . He was a fanatical anti-cigarette protester and evidence in his death leads , naturally , to the footsteps of a cigarette maker . That's what we are led to believe until it's discovered that the man really worked for the tobacco company . In a round-about way , he was supposed to be helping them promote a new , safer cigarette . I have to snicker at all the anti-smoking comments in here , although I agree with them . Suddenly , after all these years , Hollywood has finally started to stop glamorizing smoking . It took them long enough - about four decades ! . ( Actually , some of the " good guys " still smoke in feature films but their numbers are rapidly dwindling . ) Also , Stella finally tells Mac about her situation with the cut and the possible HIV infection . At least Mac asked the question I would asked : " Why haven't said something ? " She replied she thought she could handle it on her own , but admits this failing in that regard . " I'm here for you , " Mac replies in a real cliché moment . Melina Kankaredes is a somewhat hard-looking , tough-talking woman at times , yet very vulnerable at others . It's like she can't decide ( or her character " Stella " ) what she wants to me . I have found the same with Marg Helgenberg on the original CSI series . If that's not enough , " Sid , " the odd medical examiner , passes out cold and Stella saves his life . He turns out to be just fine , just an allergic reaction to something he ate . . I still prefer more straight crime stories , the kind this show featured in the first two years . I don't need all this weirdness to be entertained , but apparently the writers think their audience does . Now it's like they are competing the Las Vegas show with a " can-you-top - this ? " contest to see who can come up with the most far-out stories . Well , this episode is almost beyond description . If you still think I'm exaggerating , one of the killers was a guy dressed in a Dracula outfit !
A Winning Combination	After seeing how good the combination of director Frank Oz and actor Steve Martin was in " Dirty Rotten Scoundrels , " I wasn't surprised that the two would make " Bowfinger " interesting , too . It's not the caliber of " Scoundrels , " but it's still fun to watch . Eddie Murphy , as usual , is responsible for a lot of laughs as he plays two characters : this paranoid New Age-type follower and a very nerdy stand-in actor . In both roles , he's effective . Terrence Stamp , meanwhile , does his normal intense job of acting as the leader of a far-out " mind group " that one of Murphy's characters belongs . Heather Graham provides the sex appeal . Few women have made the transition from wholesome country girl to sleazeball in one movie as Graham does here . It's shocking but laughable at the same time , which pretty much describes this odd film . Nice to see Steve Martin back in form , too .
Some People ( or mice ) Enjoy The Chase	There was a lesson to this story , one of those " you don't miss what you have until you lose it " or " the grass is always greener on the other side , " etc . However you phrase it , Jerry discovers he'd rather have Tom chasing him around the house than no Tom at all . He misses the excitement . He doesn't think so in the beginning , " framing " our cat and having " Mammy Two Shoes " boot him out of the house for breaking a vase which Jerry broke . While the devilish mouse is singing " Happy Days Are Here Again , " in a few days he winds up bored out of his mind and wishing Tom was back in the house . Finally , he goes out to Tom across the street and they concoct a plan to get him back into the good graces of " Mammy , " so he can get his warm home back . This isn't hilarious but there are enough gags in here plus a rarity : hearing the two main characters speak English briefly - to definitely warrant watching this . Some of the facial expressions of Jerry made me really laugh . It was " cute " and funny at the same time . This was part of the Tom and Jerry Spotlight Collection Volume Two DVD .
I'll Leave The Interpretation To Others & Just Enjoy The CGI Artwork	This is more of visual experience than any story or point but . . . . wow , what visuals ! This is magnificently drawn and probably quite unlike any other animated short you've seen , although it did remind me of some of the cool stuff done when computer animation began with stuff like " The Mind's Eye . " This is more detailed , showing a Lord Of The Rings-looking figure entering a huge and different cathedral . As one poster points out , he apparently was waiting for someone . At any rate , we see at the end how the cathedral is partially updated , if you will . Not only the visuals unique and stunning , the music is equally dramatic . The short story , meanwhile , will up for many interpretations , which is why I downplay the story a bit . I don't pretend to have the author's intentions with this , just appreciate and admire the work he put into it . Kudos to Poland's Tomek Baginski , and I can see why his effort here was nominated for an Oscar . No matter how you try to interpret this , a undeniable fact is that it is stunning artwork , mesmerizing at times .
' Happy Easter ' From Little Quackers	The Easter Bunny delivers a gift to Tom and Jerry one Easter morning - a brightly-colored egg . The two adversaries fight over it , until it hatches on Tom's head . It turns to be " Little Quackers , " a tiny yellow duck who has been in a handful of other Tom and Jerry cartoons . Here , the little guy has two sentences he repeats over and over : " Happy Easter " and " Oh , boy ! " He says the latter each time he sees a " swimming pool " such as Tom's milk dish , or the household aquarium . the water cooler , the bat tub , etc . Neither Tom nor Jerry are thrilled with this little duck , and they follow him around , get wet a number of times and try to get rid of the duck . They come up with a good plan , but the duck has the last laugh at the end , which is cute . It's refreshing to see Tom and Jerry on the same page , for a change . Overall , not a lot of yuks but a very charming cartoon and definitely recommended .
Things Turned Out Better For Landau Than Lugosi	Martin Landau begins this " documentary " by telling us , " One of the things I said to Tim ( Burton , director ) was ' what you want me to play here is a 74-year-old morphine addict , an alcoholic and a guy who had violent mood swings ? That would be hard enough , but the character happens to be Bela Lugosi , who everyone knows . This could be the worst thing that ever happened to me ! " Well , Landau handled the assignment superbly , as anyone who has seen the movie would agree . In fact , he won the Oscar for " best supporting actor " for this role . So . . . . . I guess it was far from the worst thing ever to happen to the veteran actor . Special-effects guru Rick Baker contributed a number of things to this " behind-the-scenes feature " and said when he heard about this film being made " I just HAD to do it . I would have done it for free , being a big fan of Burton , Lugosi and Boris Karloff . Lugosi , as shown in the movie , certainly wasn't a fan of Karloff , but most people were . Attempts to help Landau with the strong Hungarian accent of Lugosi was not easy to do . They couldn't find dialect tapes . What Landau wound up doing was watching all 35 of Lugosi's films , and more , to get the accent down . He also went into drug and alcohol rehab places and noticed all small many of the people were , where the effects of the abuse and shrunken people . Thus , he tried to make Lugosi look small and frail in those " institution " scenes in the " Ed Wood " film . " Lugosi was a sad , lonely figure , " mused Landau .
Good Artwork & Harpoon Gag	Wile E . Coyote ( Famishus Vulgarus ) disappears literally in a cloud of dust that begins on the road and winds up hundreds of feet in the air as the Road Runner ( Birdibus Zippibus ) wins again in the opening scene of this cartoon . Wile goes back " to the books , " so to speak for his next attempt , reading " The Art Of Road Runner Trapping . " According to the book , there are four steps : 1 - Dig hole in the road ; 2 - Camouflage hole ; 3 - Wait patiently and 4 - Eat Road Runner . Our coyote has problems with step one in a funny scene when he is unable to control the jackhammer in trying to dig a hole in the road . So much for that plan . After that , it's brick , roadblocks , two birdseed traps , a long , long chute , a catapult , and a harpoon gun . The latter was the best " stunt " in the cartoon because it lasted a lot longer and very clever . I wish they draw out more of these ploys , because they always better than just the quick 10-second familiar-looking sight gags . I thought the artwork was better than average in this episode , which was part of Volume Two Of The Looney Tunes Golden Collection .
Interesting Portrait With A Killer ' Hero '	Here is a realistic-looking and an involving story of the street life in New York City's Bronx section in the 1950s and 1960s . Excellent acting and a good job of re-creating the era and site's atmosphere are main things going for this film . Also the soundtrack is very , very good . The main problem I have with the film is the fact that a cold-blooded killer is made to be the hero - a guy that you root for ! Unbelievable . Playing that killer is Chazz Palminteri , who outperforms the more famous and great actor and co-star Robert De Niro . Actually , the co-star is Lilo Brancoto , who was recently in the news for allegedly committing a major crime himself . Anyway , supposedly this is Palminteri's story of his childhood and features him as a young boy and then as a 17-year-old . He has a straight father ( De Niro ) but looks up to the area's Mafia leader " Sonny " ( Palminteri ) , who takes the kid under his wing for not ratting on him when he witnessed him killing someone . It may have a bad message , and gives a couple shots at the Catholic Church along the way , but the characters and the story keeps one tuned to the screen for the full two hours . It was good to see De Niro play the honest , hard-working bus driver who wants his kid to have character and not emulate the local hoods . This is a not a movie for those who wince at the f-word because it's used frequently . This is more of man's movie , really , with males dominating and some good advice on dating and what to look for in women ! " Sonny , " despite being a killer , is shown to be a caring , compassionate guy who cares about young " Calogero " ( Brancoto , and earlier as a 9-year-old played by Francis Capra ) . There are so many mixed messages in here - good and bad - it would make your head swim , but it is a crime film very much worth investigating .
A Bit Sleazy , But Very Funny	Considered by many who have watched all three of Christopher Guest's " mockumentary " films as his funniest , " Best In Show " is guaranteed to evoke a number of laughs and offend someone . This is a typical modern-day comedy meaning that sex jokes dominate and there is both a gay and lesbian " couple . " So , if you've heard this is about dog shows , don't rush out and rent this and watch it with the kiddies . It is anything but family fare . Yet , despite all the sleaze factor - and there is a lot of it - I still found this " charming , " for some reason . The laughs range from crude to subtle and the characters who enter their dogs in professional shows are really the subject of exaggerated ridicule here : from Yuppies to gay men to redneck hunters to dog trainers to nerdy types to whatever . No one pictured in this movie is a healthy , normal person . Everyone is " whacked " to some degree , except the announcer . However , his sidekick , the color man ( played by Fred Williard ) is brutal ! The message , obviously , is that some people just take their pets a little too seriously !
Wish There Was A Better Transfer Of This Nice Film	Not only is this a nice story , but it's beautifully photographed . That's why I was so disappointed with the DVD . The picture wasn't sharp , and even had an orange tint to it . I wound up trading it for something else . Perhaps if a better DVD transfer comes along , I'll re - purchase this . I love horse racing and a good adventure story , so this appeals to me since it offers both . The climactic race at the end is not very credible , but overall it's a fine film and certainly safe viewing fare for the whole family . It was good to see Mickey Rooney again . Kelly Reno , who played the kid , was fine , too - no young Mickey Rooney in his heyday , but still passable as an actor and likable . Teri Garr and Hoyt Axton had small roles as Reno's parents .
A Different , Inventive Kind Of Vampire Film	I've only seen a couple of Hammer horror films , but I'm impressed . They seem to be subtly effective if you're looking for a few thrills and chills , not overdoing the gore , being mild on the language but yet having a definite edge to them . " Captain Kronos " isn't super but it's enjoyable . The direction is excellent , the DVD transfer looked nice , and - like a good mystery - there's a good twist at the end regarding the murderer , er . . . . . vampire . For us guys , there are also a lot of pretty women in here , too . The acting isn't the best but who cares ? It's entertaining , and not made to be taken seriously . I enjoyed the team of " Captain Kronos and Professor Hieronymous-Grost , " and I'm surprised there wasn't a sequel . These two guys make a good team : Horst Janson as the younger , dashing swordsman , and John Cater as the older assistant . The latter provides a little comic relief , too . Their relationship reminded me a bit of Basil Rathbone and Nigel Bruce at " Holmes and Watson . " The good captain is not your normal vampire hunter . He's just as anxious to get it on with the ladies , and he has a sexy one for a partner in Caroline Munro as " Carla . " Kronos also smokes " herbal " cigars ! The brief touches of comedy , western , swashbuckling , horror , mystery , romance , sex , supernatural , and who-knows-what else all make it an inventive and fun hour-and-a-half . Hey , it even gives God several good plugs ! This horror movie is different , all right .
Looking For A Different Kind Of Animated Film ?	Now here is a modern-day animated film that is hard to classify . It's part film noir , part fantasy , part comedy , part Indiana Jones adventure , part Thin Man detective , on and on . One thing for sure : although kids might like it , this movie is geared more for adults . Even older adults as some of the humor is referenced by classic movies . I doubt if this was a hit movie probably because of the above . Animated films need to be geared toward young kids who want to see it , and then get their parents to take them to the theater . I'm not complaining , just explaining why some of you may not have heard of this film . I heard about it by accident , since it got very little publicity . More than the geared-toward adults-dialog , what fascinated me were the visuals . I read where other reviewers here on IMDb downgrade the artwork but I disagree . This is beautifully drawn with magnificent colors that are not bold and bright , Although most animated films of today feature bright and bold colors , which look fantastic , this looked good , too , because of the richness of the colors . It's hard to describe ; you have to see it . It just looks different , but very pleasing to my eyes . Overall , the story was only so-so and sometimes lagged in the first half of it , but I get the feeling this DVD will rise in my ratings as I see it multiple times . If you are looking for an animated film and story that is different , look no further .
Turning The Tables On The Tow Truck	This cartoon features " Mater , " the most lovable character in the great animated movie " Cars . " This seven-minute comes as a feature in the " Cars " DVD . Actually , all of the characters are in here , but Mater has more " screen time . " The story is a simple one of the other cars trying to teach Mater a lesson . In brief , they give him a taste of what he's been dishing out . The buck-toothed tow-truck has been going around scaring everyone with surprise attacks and they are tired of it . So , one night they all gather in a circle and they tell him a story about the dreaded " Gas Light " ghost . After everyone goes home , they sit back as the tow truck gets scared out of his gas line later that night by the " Ghost Light , " which is rigged up by the others to scare him . And , if he still didn't get the message , they set him up for another mind game and the cartoon ends with that thought in mind . Overall , it's not really all that funny ( except with Mater is shaking in fright ) but it's well - crafted and beautiful to watch , like the feature film . It could easily have been a small segment inserted in the film .
' Quirky ' Seems To Be The Most Popular Word To Describe This	This was a quirky film that surprised me , in that I liked it . . . . at least twice . By the third viewing , I had enough but I got my money's worth out of it . That's what I would recommend with this movie : rent it before considering buying it . It's very different , and you might love but also might hate it . What it is , simply , is a portrait of a very dysfunctional family and the father trying to re-connect with his kids after a long absence . Gene Hackman is the father , Angelica Huston the mother and the wacko kids - and other assorted strange characters - are played by Ben Stiller , Owen and Luke Wilson , Gwyneth Paltrow , Ben Stiller , Bill Murray and Danny Glover . This is mostly dry , dark humor with some funny lines delivered in deadpan style . Nobody is particularly likable but - with the possible exception of Paltrow's character - are not really unlikeable either . They are just strange . I enjoyed viewing the house with all its colors . For those who appreciate low-key absurd humor nd some pleasing visuals , you should like this film and I certainly recommend giving it a look .
Good , But Tough To Live Up To That Opening	I liked this film but I got spoiled with the first 20-30 minutes . It started off so intense that I thought this was going to be fantastic : an incredibly edgy film noir . It still wound up good overall , but it never lived up to that great beginning . The story slows down a bit once the scene shifts from the heist in Kansas City to the rendezvous of the bandits down in Mexico . It has as a full lulls here and there but still does enough things right to keep your interest . What it does is right is emphasize two things that a good film noir provides : tension and paranoia . All the crooks are assembled in one spot but only the boss knows who the others are . They don't know what any of the gang members look like since all of the thieves had to wear masks throughout the planning and execution of the crime . However , since the boss hired them , he knows them all . Also , down in Mexico , the good guy in the film , " Joe Rolfe " ( John Payne ) is an impostor , pretending he's " Peter Harris , " one of the crooks who got caught by the cops and knocked off just before heading south . Rolfe doesn't know , however , that the boss knows he's a phony . Payne's character got unfairly fingered in the robbery so he's down there trying to clear his name . All of this may sound complicated , but it isn't once you watch the film . Suffice to say it's interesting to see how all these guys slowly figure out who's who . I thought " Tim Foster , " played by Preston Foster , was the best character in the film , probably because he was right in the middle of everything . He was a bitter ex-cop and the brains behind the whole scheme , which could easily have been pulled off . He was just wasn't lucky , because he had a great plan . One of the people he had to fool was his daughter , who surprises him down in Mexico and further complicates the situation . Colleen Gray plays " Helen Foster , " but she doesn't really come into the story much until the last half hour . Her character did one implausible thing after another , things NO woman would do and softened the rough edges of this movie , which was a mistake . " Helen " wasn't even needed in this film . It would have been better as a straight male - only tough film noir . Speaking of tough : how about this " Rogue's gallery : " Jack Elam , Lee Van Cleef and Neville Brand ? Now there are three good faces for this genre of film . They were the other gang membersThere are a number of holes in this story , but you have to ignore them and go along for the ride which , for the most part , is a good one . It's recommended for all film noir buffs .
Hauer Always Good As A Psycho	This is a " sleeper , " an intense and involving thriller that grabs you from the start . . . . but a film not people know about . Hey , only 10 people have even reviewed it here and the film is 13 years old . To be fair , I did think the finish was unrealistic which the typical killer-talks - instead-of shoots mentality , a familiar flaw in flimmaking . Too bad , because the rest of the movie is very good with Rutger Hauer a convincing evil blackmailer . Few actors play a psycho better than Hauer ( see " The Hitcher " and " Nighthawks " ) . Rebecca DeMornay is a sexy woman in this film while her husband is the sleazy Ron Silver , but the latter's character is better than most the villains he usually portrays . This movie also has the unusual distinction of being a modern-day crime film with very little profanity .
Reliving The Campy Days Of TV's Batman	Ah , it was good to see Adam West ( " Batman " ) and Burt Ward ( " Robin " ) again , along with Caesar Romero ( " The Joker " ) , Lee Meriweather ( " Catwoman " ) , Frank Gorshin ( " The Riddler " ) and Burgess Meredith ( " The Penguin ) " - all the people who made the campy 1960s Batman so entertaining . This was the only feature-length film version of the famous weekly half-hour TV show from 40 years ago . Like the TV show , this film is fun . too . The first half of this film is a riot , very funny material and nostalgic , too . The second half begins to wear thin a bit as we accustomed to the humor and corny dialog , but it still put a smile on your face . The villains look and sound so tame compared to what we've been accustomed to the last 20 years with the Batman films , that they are refreshing for the first half of the movie but then become almost bland because there is little " edge " to them . Still , there are so many gags in here , and the film is so ( literally ) colorful , that chances are it will not disappoint you . For those who loved those old TV shows , this DVD is worth its weight in gold . Also , the transfer is magnificent : very sharp and clear .
One Of The Better Martial-Arts Movies	I was surprised I enjoyed much of this since martial arts movies are okay but nothing I really get into often . Jet Li plays the only likable character in this Asians vs . Blacks gang story . Some of the stunts were tremendous . Some were so over-the-top , so unbelievable that they were funny . The movie certainly isn't one to be taken seriously . The wild action scenes , fairly involving story and nice colors and interesting sound track all make this movie a cut above the normal martial arts fare . The excellent surround sound and sharp picture make it a good one for DVD .
Very Comparable To " Paladin " But Not As Well-Known	This was another good western back in the ' 50s which gives me fond memories . I remember how me and my pals thought this hero was " cool , " something like Richard Boone was in " Have Gun , Will Travel . " The main differences in this western as opposed to most was that the title characterpacked a little derringer in his hat , and the setting was New Orleans instead of the old west . Otherwise , he was , like Boone's " Paladin " a smooth , dapper and cool customer . Jock Mahoney ( " Yancy Derringer " ) was the rugged , silent type , if I remember correctly . The shows were very interesting and we looked forward to them each week . Why this show only lasted on year is a real mystery to me . I don't remember anyone who didn't enjoy it . The mid-to-late ' 50s was a fabulous era for westerns on TV . If this ever came out on DVD , I would buy it immediately .
Good Suspense ; Bullock Tolerable For Once	This is a typical Sandra Bullock movie in which she plays a mousy ( but profane ) woman who is in trouble but finds a way to survive and be the hero . Sound familiar ? There are plenty of holes in this story . Things just don't add up and some of the suspense is a little corny . But - that suspense is very good . There is a lot of tension in this story which has strong paranoia running through it . The story starts off slow but kicks in pretty soon and stays that way , making it an involving movie for the viewer . That's why I give it a pretty good rating - the movie gets you involved in it . Bullock is more cute than annoying , which she normally is to me , so this is my highest-rated movie with her in it .
' Silent ' Ben-Hur Also Has A Lot To Offer	After seeing the famous 1959 version of this film a number of times in the last 45 years , it was interesting to contrast this 1925 silent version to it . However , let me say right off the bat that I enjoyed both versions , and I am not going to get into the " which movie is better ? " argument . This silent-film version was more true to the book than the more-famous 1959 movie , mainly from the Christian angle . Just look at the main title and notice " A Tale Of The Christ " was dropped for the ' 59 film even though that is the official title and the name of Lew Wallace's book . In this film , the life of Christ is much more prominent , and that's the major difference . Both films feature a cast of thousands , the great sea battle and the dramatic chariot race . We have the intense and bitter rivalry between Judah Ben-Hur and Messala , capped off by the chariot race . To compare action scenes would be unfair since cameras and technical knowledge improve with time . Both versions wowed audiences in their day . The chariot race in the ' 59 version is still considered by some the great action scene ever filmed , especially since it was done without special effects . Unlike the ' 59 movie , this silent version had TWO big stars in the leads : Ramon Narvarro and Francis X . Bushman , playing Ben-Hur and Messala , respectively . It also has an interesting mix of ( mostly ) black-and-white and tinted scenes . All the scenes involving Jesus had color . As in the ' 59 version , you never saw Christ's face . Both had touching scenes with Ben-Hur and his sister and his mother . Speaking of women , a shocker in this silent version was a quick parade of topless women . At 2 hours and 25 minutes this Ben-Hur was shorter than the ' 59 version . However , this is a long , long movie for a silent film and many people today probably wouldn't put up with no dialog for that long , but if you appreciate great film-making - from any era - this is a " must " for your collection .
Harrington Is Great As The Voice Of ' Deux-Deux '	A shipload of bananas is hijacked . Well , that's an original premise , I'll say that . I don't think I've seen that storyline in the thousands of films I've watched . It's no surprise there is an ape involved ! The " trail " leads to a little English sailor with a strong accent , who says " me " instead of " my " and " bananers " for " bananas . " He also only has one tooth and a very long , crooked nose . The inspector , who is into martial arts and doesn't think he needs any help in capturing this little guy ( not knowing the all-powerful ape is nearby ) , finds out otherwise ! Pat Harrington Jr . , was a particularly good job with " Deux-Deux's " voice in here . Harrington is a real star of this animated series , voicing both lead roles in each cartoon . This short was part of the DVD " The Pink Panther Classic Cartoon Collection , Vol . 6 - Inspector Cartoons . "
Nice Story With Appealing Cast	This is one of those old-fashioned , nice stories with generally nice people , some good lessons to be learned and some touching scenes . You just have to go with the fantasy-type theologies , in this story dead people coming back as angels-you-can see . Irene Dunne never looked better , although the soft-focus lens helped her looks . She isn't beautiful but she's wholesomely pretty , and thus appealing . Spencer Tracy gives his normal strong performance but I liked supporting actor Ward Bond in here better . Tracy gives an excellent short speech at the end of this film . The special-effects in the aviator-war scenes were not good but , hey , this film was made about 65 years ago . You could tell the planes were model airplanes on several shots . Note : this film was re-made by Steven Spielberg 40 years later under the title " Always . " That was a nice film , too , but I think I'd still take this version .
Nothing ' Sorrowful " About Shirley	Despite only two songs , it's another entertaining Shirley Temple film . The story is familiar ; it's been done several other times , once under the name " Sorrowful Jones , " with Bob Hope . This movie is a bit different from that one , so you could own both and have two different slants on the famous Damon Runyon story . This version has a lot more comedy from the supporting players , since Temple is cute but she ' isn't going to be the main source of humor as Hope was in his films . In here , all the bookies and gangsters provide the humor . The leading male , played by Adolph Menjou , is a sourpuss but still likable . The leading adult female , Dorothy Dell , was a bit tough-looking , I thought , for this role . Temple doesn't play as sweet a role as she did in most of her films , but she still has her tender moments . Nobody can produce a sentimental scene as quickly as Shirley could . In all , a nice film and enjoyable from start to finish . Note : This was the best colorized version I have seen of Temple's films . Perhaps that was because MGM did this , not Fox , which did the others . It advertises " stereo " but I didn't hear any .
This ' Whopper ' Is Out Of This World !	One thing I can say about these " Willie Whopper " cartoons : they are never boring . They are as wild as Willie's imagination , filled with tons of sight gags , so many that there usually isn't much a story , just continuing craziness . This episode is a prime example of that and is the only I've seen so far that might have been a dream instead of Willie telling another " whopper . " Whatever , it's pretty insane as our boy winds up on some goofy planet . He got there after the helium gas his dentist gave him blew him up the size of an hot-air balloon and he floated up and out of the dentist's office right through the roof of the building ! That kind of gives you idea of how loony this story is going to be , and it really gets nuts as Willie winds up on a planet with bizarre characters . Suffice to say if you seeing one nutty cartoon-like visual joke after another for seven or eight minutes , you'll enjoy this .
Lots Of Great Songs Presented Well , But . . . . .	James Taylor performs almost two hours worth of songs at a semi-famous theater in New York City in the late ' 90s . These are mostly great songs , about every hit song he ever had and more , and his voice is in fine form . The only problems I found was that it got monotonous after awhile . Although likable , Taylor is not exactly an animated performer , nor are his shows . After a half dozen or so tunes they all start sounding similar . This is better just played as background music while you are doing something else . In other words , it's better served as a CD rather than a DVD . But it's an excellent concert as Taylor and his band perform beautifully .
Nicely Filmed Early Silent Film	For a film so old , I thought this was one of the better-photographed efforts of its day . The composition was outstanding . Just examine those shots with the wife standing on the beach and her husband and small crew rowing off into the ocean . It's perfectly framed . As for the story , it's based on a poem called " The Three Fishers , " which is shown here during several interludes . It's a wonderful poem . Because films were so short , you can really have time fly . Nowhere is that more evident than in this film . In a matter of a few minutes , we see years pass by a seaman leaves his family , a wreck ensues and the man survives but loses his memory . He doesn't know who is wife is and seems to be a totally lost soul . In the interim , the baby they apparently conceived before we went off to sea has now grown up . She's played by the famous Mary Pickford . In the story , the daughter gets married and the poor wife , thinking she's now all alone in the world , gets a nice surprise when her husband returns from another voyage . His memory is back . . . . . and all is well ! Many things happen to all of us in our lifetime , but that tide just keeps coming and going , unchanging . Nothing that profound , frankly , but that's the message . This story would have had a lot more impact had it been drawn out more , but trying to rush all of this into 14 minutes makes it way too hurried .
Poor Wile E . Coyote ; At Least He Never Gives Up	It's amazing the number of ploys that Wile E . Coyote tries - and has backfire - in just a s six - and-a-half half minute cartoon . The beating the poor guy takes each time is unbelievable , but have you seen a more determined character in a cartoon ? One that doesn't let defeat discourage him ? I'd like to see him win , just one time . In this cartoon , he gets blasted by not just one , but two big trucks , along with an assortment of other things including the ever-present anvil . For some reason , I laughed loudest at the quick-drying cement routine . This cartoon is part of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 2 , and can be seen on disc 2 .
Good Re-Make Of ' Lecter Film '	This is a very good " remake " of Manhunter " which was the first Hannibal Lecter movie but didn't get the press the others did because it didn't have Anthony Hopkins as the famous criminal . After " Silence of the Lambs " became so popular , and the sequel , " Hannibal , " it was decided to re-do that first film and this time obtain Hopkins ' services . It worked because not only do you have the incomparable Hopkins at Dr . Lecter but you have one this generations best actors , Edward Norton , as the leading character " Will Graham . " Norton , as always , gives a solid performance . And - look at the backup cast : Ralph Fiennes , Emily Watson , Harvey Keitel , Mary Louise Parker and Philip Seymour Hoffman . Not bad . This is one of those movies that gets better and better with each viewing . On my first look , I was disappointed Hopkins didn't have a bigger role but , after I knew what to expect , subsequent viewings made me appreciate the film's effort as a whole , and it's an underrated flick and a fine addition to the " Lecter " series .
Good Movie , But I Still Prefer Stack Over Costner As ' Elliot Ness '	I never could quite reconcile Kevin Costner's somewhat-high and weak voice with some of macho characters he played when he was younger , but I can get past that after a film has settled into the story . Costner is a good enough actor to make me believe he's anyone after awhile . However , after years of growing up watching Robert Stack playing " Elliot Ness " on TV on the hit series , " The Untouchables , " it took me a bit to accept Costner in that role . That part will always belong to Mr . Stack . At first , he just did not speak with the authority of a tough Chicago cop out to get Al Capone and the racketeers from the Prohibition Age in Chicago . His partner , " Oscar Wallace , " played by the little nerdy-looking Charles Martin Smith as a gun-toting T-Man , is even harder to believe . Of the " good guys , " Andy Garcia is the only likeble and believable guy . Sean Connery has the best character in the film ( " Jim Malone " ) and is the most interesting to watch . Nonetheless , it's a good story with good characters and just about he right amount of action . It moves very well , which tells me the movie is entertaining . There are a few memorable scenes , such as the shootout at the train station with the baby carriage descending the stairway and a memorable scene with Robert De Niro as Capone . This is a tough , very violent and bloody movie . . . . . nothing like the old TV show .
Not That Humorous , But Very Touching	" Marc Anthony , " the big , brutish-looking-but sensitive bulldog , has a new friend , a tiny little kitty who makes a " home " by sleeping on Anthony's back . The big dog takes a shine to the little one and then protects him as he gets , or seems to get , into domestic trouble . The homemaker in the house makes it clear early on to the dog that she doesn't want him bringing anything into the house . The dog thinks he has to hide the cat , but the little animal gets loose and gets into various predicaments . While trying to hide the identify of the cat or save him being being in the mix-master and being made into a cookie , the dog is always pestering the woman and getting admonished . I read somewhere where this cat was in subsequent cartoons and named " Pussyfoot . " The beginnings of this animated short were both touching and very funny . Then , the one - joke story started to drag a bit until Marc Anthony thought the cat was killed a cried a river of tears , which actually was funny . ( I've never a dog cry or sweat like this dog ! ) They even showed the poor dog's bloodshot eyes after his crying spell ! Another very funny touch was when the dog came back in the house and was given a cookie by the woman . He thought it was the poor little cat-made into-a cookie and placed it on his back where Pussyfoot laid before . This is one sensitive , caring dog ! The end of this is more of the same - more touching and sweet than humor - but it was nice to see .
An Updated Noah's Ark Story	What a shock to hear someone talk right away in this cartoon ! That almost never happens as these Pink Panther cartoons are 99 percent dialog-less . Nonetheless , we hear a " Big White Hunter " type guy traveling with his guide in a jeep along the Africa plain mention about " a story about some guy who cornered all the animals in the thing called the Ark . If it can be done once , it can be done again . " He builds the boat and names it after his girlfriend : " Nora's Ark . " The twist is that , unlike God producing all the rain , this guy sends fliers out to the animals , warning of a big flood and telling them to come to his ark ! Pretty clever ( with a few holes in the theory , but , hey , it's a cartoon ) . Anyway , it works and two of all the animals trot into the boat . . . . except the ( one and only ) Pink Panther . Where is he ? The hunter goes after him , despite warnings that the PP is " taboo . " Overall , despite the ludicrous ( and elitist ) stereotyping of a big-game hunter and of a Texan , it's a fun cartoon with some nice artwork . The rain effect , and the ark and animals are all drawn really well . The very last scene has the Panther utter a sentence , and we discover he's British !
A Beloved , Very Likable Film , But Twice Was Enough	I took me over 30 years to finally watch this film , something I did in 1998 . . . . and I could see why this is such a beloved film . I watched it one other time , about five years later on DVD , but didn't enjoy it as much and traded it for something else . However , I still have a high regard for the film . The film is a throwback to something you might see in the 1930s or ' 40s - a super-nice , old-fashioned movie led by Julie Andrews , who probably never again looked as pretty and wholesome as she did here . In fact , her image from this was so squeaky-clean that she went out of her way to play some sleazy parts in coming years . Too bad . At least here , she's a joy to watch . The kids are all nice , attractive and well-behaved , something else you don't see much anymore on film . Christopher Plummer is the male lead and once he loosens up , he's fine , too , as is the usually-funny Richard Haydn . Even the bad guys in this film - the Nazis ( which include Eleanor Parker ) - aren't prevalent . They don't have a lot of scenes in here even though they are an integral part to the story . The film is nicely photographed , too , and I don't mean just the Austrian Alps . I did think there were too many songs in here , something of them done twice . That's too much . Maybe that's what made me think two viewings were enough . ( I'm not big into musicals . ) On my second viewing , for some reason , I found the movie too boring in too many spots , which means a number of them since it's almost three hours long in total . It was slow-starting and I just couldn't get into it . I am glad at least I could enjoy this once .
Give It A Second Chance , If Needed	I admit I found it disappointing on the first look but I decided to give it a second chance and was glad I did . Only then did I appreciate Bill Murray's great performance and the wonderful photography in this movie . The vivid colors in here are really something to see . It's odd how some movies are so much better the second time around . This is a very , very low key film about loneliness and about being in a culture that is totally foreign to you where few people speak your language . In this case , it's Americans - or at least the main character of film ( Bill Murray ) - trying to cope in Japan . The film is almost two-in-one : a travelogue and a story . The former because you really get the feel of what it is like to be a non-Japanese speaking person in that country and what the customs of the people are in Japan , at least to some degree . . . . and it's interesting . Murray is the star of the story and any plaudits he's received for his performance are well - deserved . His facial expressions alone are classic ! Scarlet Johannson is the female lead and she , too , is interesting to watch . These two make for a fascinating " odd couple . "
Finding The Kidnap Victim & Soap Opera In The CSI Office	Some bimbo sipping her cocktail at an outdoor restaurant table gets a call on her cellphone from a desperate woman . She almost hangs up but stays on and hears this woman pleading for help , asking " Mitch " to save here . She obviously dialed the wrong number but at least the bimbo - who is shown to be really shallow - does the right thing by going to a nearby policeman . " Lt . Horatio Caine " ( David Caruso ) conveniently is nearby and he takes the phone from her and hears a man threatening the woman followed by a shouts from a male and then a gunshot . The CSI quickly finds out who she was really calling . ( It's a little too quick for believability considering all the numbers involved . ) They discover that " Mitch " is her husband she was trying to call him . He knows about the kidnapping because he'd received a ransom and death threat if he called the cops . He's frantic , but cooperates with Lt . Caine . The rest is the usual : every suspect they have who looks like the guilty party only leads them to the next step . This is typical for the CSI shows where you usually don't see the real killer until the end . Anyway , nothing special but a decent show . A quick sidebar as " Ryan Wolfe " ( Jonathan Togo ) trying to date " Natalia " ( Evan LaRue Callahan ) . She was Eric Delko's ( Adam Rodriguez ) former girlfriend who still , obviously , has feelings for the latter . It's all very soap opera stuff but the writers like to fit this kind of stuff in every show .
Some Good ' Ole Southern Charm	Here's a bit of an unusual film : a modern-day movie made more for adults than kids but could be equally enjoyed by both . There are 9 " damns " and a few other profanities , but nothing earth-shaking . It's simply the memoirs of Willie Morris , a southern boy who wound up as a famous writer and editor of Harper's Magazine . Being that magazine is pretty Liberal , you get Liberal slants in the movie ( racial and anti-war sentiments ) but nothing heavy-handed . As a good story does , it makes you care about the characters , especially the lead one . In here it's " Willie " and his dog " Skip . " Early shots of Skip growing up - measured in how he related to the toilet bowl - are funny . You also care about his parents and are glad when the dad ( Kevin Bacon ) softens his stance on things . As a guy , I appreciated just looking at Diane Lane . What a gorgeous face ! The cinematography is pure southern charm and looks great on DVD . It's not all sweetness . There are some angry moments and some sad ones , to be sure . In summary , however , a nice film . . . . . pure and simple .
I Like This . . . . . Which Surprises Me	Most people didn't like this movie , from what I have heard and read over the years . Some of my friends who saw it didn't like it either . For some reason , I did , and that was despite a few things I normally don't put up with ( too much usages of the Lord's name in vain and the usual anti-military agenda . ) However , I found this a very fast-moving , involving story with Nicholas Cage playing an extremely interesting person : " Rick Santoro , " a guy who acts like a complete crazy man at the beginning but slowly gets it together as the film goes on . Gary Sinise plays his normal corrupt role ( this was before his CSI : New York days ) and Carla Gugino was very easy on my eyes . Brian DePalma directed this , so you know it's going to be stylishly shot , too . This looks very good on DVD . All the characters are interesting , actually . One complaint I agree with : the ending was a bit weak and detracts from the story . It's a rough film but edgy and interesting . Don't be discouraged reading a lot of negative reviews about this . It's good entertainment .
A Good Mix Of Cerebral And Action	These were usually interesting stories of the FBI's profiling group called the BAU ( Behavioral Analysis Unite ) in which crimes ares solved by understanding what kind of person commits then . Most often , after figuring out who the killer is , the group goes in and captures him or her . The first 30 minutes of each show are basically cerebral while the last 10 minutes are action - oriented . Profiled and - hopefully - caught are serial killers , usually , there are also serial arsonists , rapists , etc . Co-heading the unit are veteran actor Mandy Patakin who plays the stone-faced , 50-ish " Jason Gideon , " and the younger " Aaron Hotchner " ( Thomas Gibson ) . The latter is the most stable person in the unit and the only one married with a family . The rest - like most crime shows today - are single people and usually in their late 20s or 30s . I guess , technically Hotchner heads the unit , the it feels more like Gideon does . It's his narration that beings and ends each show . Completing the team , you have the young , nerd-looking " Dr . Spencer Reid " ( Matthew GrayGruber ) who seems to know everything about everything ; the volatile " Elle Greenaway " ( Lola Glaudini ) ; the macho " Derek Morgan " ( Shelmar Moore ) , group spokesperson " J . J . Jareau ( A . J . Cook ) and he computer geek " Penelope Garcia " ( Kristin Vangsness ) . Story-wise , the show has the usual Liberal bent of today's TV but doesn't go overboard with it in most cases . Many of the shows feature a very tense conclusion as someone is being saved at the last minute from some serial killer . Not that it matters , but after watching the complete first season on DVD , I liked " Hotch " the best and " Garcia " the least . I look forward to seeing the second season on DVD , as well . ( I refuse to watch regular TV with all the commercials ruining the shows . )
Hard Movie To Like At First , But It Gets Better . . . . Much Better	This film came out the same year as " Saving Private Ryan " - two blockbuster 3-hour World War II movies - but was nowhere the same success at the box office . Up until lately , I agreed with most other people that Steven Spielberg's film was more more appealing than this Terrence Malick movie . . . . but now I am not so sure . I find both of them fascinating . It took me a long time to come around to liking this film . One problem was I expected more since I had to wait 20 years for another Malick film after his fantastic " Days Of Heaven . " always one of my all-time favorite movies . I appreciated that Malick , in his two previous films , wasn't just a visual genius but had characters that expressed themselves without a ton of crudeness or profanity . In this film , Nick Nolte , ended that verbal romance with an assault of GDs that rattled off like a machine gun . That , and narration that sounded like some stoned-out New Age-guru or some ' 60s freak , , turned me and millions of other viewers off , most of whom could make no sense of the almost incoherent ramblings . Well , that narration , as I have since discovered - especially by putting the English subtitles on - is not what I thought and Nolte I can just do the opposite : hit the " mute " when he starts another of his obscene tirades . Now , the film is what I'd hoped it would be ! It only took four viewings for me to fully appreciate this film . Hey , some of us are slow learners , I guess . The narration , to the best of my assumptions , is simply the anguish several of the soldiers feel as - in the middle of a horrific war - they try to make sense of life , death , suffering , war and spiritual matters in general . They agonize over loneliness of being separated from their wives and family , or they compare two extremes in civilizations as they now exist in one that is far removed in one they came from . Spiritual matters are discussed by Believers and non - believers , optimists and cynics . Seeing the narration on screen in the form of subtitles helped make me appreciate and make sense out of them . It's pretty heady stuff , as it turns out . Some may still think it's pure nonsense , but I'm willing to give Malick the benefit of the doubt . Meanwhile , the action scenes are excellent . In " Ryan , " they centered more in bombed-out cities , but here the fighting takes place in a remote jungle . This really is the story of Guadalcanal . The scenery , much of it filmed in either Australia or the Solomon Islands , is just gorgeous , just the kind Malick loves . A true lover of nature , Malick gives us one spectacular scene after another with all the greens of grasses , tress and leaves you'd ever want to see , complemented by an assortment of exotic birds and reptiles . It's just stunning in parts . If you ever call a war movie " arty , " this is it , with the great nature shots and reflective narration . They both provide needed relief from the intense action / profanity / suspense which occurs in the middle of the film as the Americans attempt to secure the top of a hill fortified by Japanese troops . The action scenes are realistic , have wonderful sound and well-filmed . The soundtrack also is very nice . As stated earlier , my only complaint was Nolte's character , " Lt . Col . Tall . " who is the Hollywood stereotype of a gung-ho military officer they don't like ( and they don't like many ) . He's constantly screaming and is so abrasive he almost ruins the film . Actor-wise , what's interesting is that a number of these " stars " in here were relative unknowns when this came out in 1998 - men such as Jim Caveziel , Adrien Body , Ben Chaplin and Elias Koteas - and now they are established actors whom most of us are familiar with . Despite the other big names you see advertised here , the stars of this film are Caveziel , Koteas , Nolte and Sean Penn . Many of the " names , " such as John Travolta , George Clooney , John Cusack , etc . , have only very minor or cameo roles . Anyway , if this movie turned you off when you first saw it , please consider giving it another shot . You might be pleasant surprised . It's better than what first meets the eye !
Three Charismatic Actors Elevate Hard-Edged Western	I like westerns and I like this film but I admit this is a bit hard-edged for me . It took me a couple of viewings to appreciate it . It's a tough movie with a good cast and no nonsense . The characters in here aren't the talk-now-shoot-later variety . There are a few memorable and very tense scenes in this film , and a fair share of profanity , too , including too many usages of the Lord's name in vain . Watching the likes of Clint Eastwood , Gene Hackman and Morgan Freeman as the three main stars , however , is pretty entertaining . How often are those charismatic actors NOT entertaining ? Eastwood ( " Bill Munny " ) plays his normal type character , so you know what to expect with him . Hackman plays the bad-guy sheriff , " Little Bill Daggett . " Authority figures are almost bad people to Hollywood . Morgan Freeman plays Eastwood's lower-key old partner , " Ned Logan . " In the minor roles , Jaimz Woolvett , who played " The Schofield Kid , " reminded me of a young David Arquette but I haven't heard Woolvett's name since this movie . Overall , a rough film but a pretty solid western which would have been better and accepted by the public better had the language been toned down .
The Likes And Dislikes Of The Marx Brothers	This documentary has an appropriate beginning , showing a number of people reciting one adjective apiece to describe the Marx Brothers . I don't have to repeat them here ; you know what people are going to say - mostly things like " zany . " I liked what Carl Reiner said : " our court jesters . " Yup , for years - especially in the 1930s with films like " A Day At The Races , " the Marx Brothers were America's court jesters . In this half hour collection of comments and scenes from the MB films , we learn about these famous comedians and some of the reasons their movies were so likable . We learn how and why their stage careers helped them immensely in their films and how some of their best-known movies have similar characteristics . We learn what a key man Irving Thalberg was to their career and how much he was missed after his tragic death at the age of 37 . Jack Warner replaced him and Groucho and the boys did not get along with him . When Thalberg died , in effect , so did excellent Marx Brothers films . They loved Thalberg but hated Mayer and director . ( You'll have to see this to find out who ! ) There are all kinds of stories in here about the boys , except for Zeppo who wasn't on film long with the other three . It was nice to see Margaret Dumont receive a tribute for her contributions and it was almost shocking to hear about Chico's exploits with the women . This guy got about every woman in Hollywood , it was said in here , which made Groucho - who also loved the women - very jealous . Speaking of women , we see Maureen O'Sullivan today talking about Groucho . It's always interesting to see what classic-era movie stars look like today and I give people like O'Sullivan credit for doing the interviews knowing she's an old lady now , not the glamor girl of the past . Her comments on rebuffing Groucho's advances were fun to hear . If you're a Marx Brothers fan , this is a " must " bonus feature to watch . It can be viewed on " A Day At The Races "
This Seagal Flick Took The Cake	This was a fast-moving Rambo-style action flick ( good guys never get hit despite 10 , 000 rounds of ammunition fired at them ) that was very popular . It spawned a very weak sequel , par for the course . Several reviewers here wrote that it is Steven Seagal's " best movie , " and I wouldn't argue with that . . " Under Siege " probably was more popular than the normal Segal action flick because of several aspects : 1 - the interesting story featuring the " lowly cook " ( as Seagal described himself in this film ) beating a bunch of terrorists taking over a U . S . Navy vessel ; 2 - the over-the-top villains portrayed by fun-to-watch actors Tommy Lee Jones and Gary Busey , and 3 - the fabulous looks and body of Erika Eleniak , who pops out of a cake topless in a sight that every guy who saw this film remembers . Jones was just about hitting his acting career peak as he demonstrated the following year with his Oscar-winning performance in " The Fugitive . " Busey was the opposite , nearing the end of his run after a starring role as singer " Buddy Holly " made him famous . This film might be Segal's most successful , or at least in the top three . His star has faded since the new century . Eleniak never made it far past the cake . She played " Elly May " in " The Beverly Hillbillies " the following year and nothing but ' B ' films after that . The first part of this movie is far better than the second . It gets out-of-control by the end , as most of these action films do with the violence overdone and with little credibility . But watching the three leads , and ogling Eleniak , always make this film fun to watch for a little while , at least .
A Film That Needs To Be Checked Out Twice	This is one of those decent crime movies that few people have heard about . It has a lot going for it . I should rate it higher since the story kept my interest all the way both times I saw it ( four years apart ) . The violence and profanity are not overdone , the main characters are very interesting and the story finishes with a unique twist . Actually , that twist is something you have to ponder to determine whether it makes sense . I am not sure it did . You'd have to watch this again soon and check on a few things . It's either very clever or its totally unfair to the viewer , which is why I kept it at an ' 8 . " It's nicely photographed and I bet it looks much better on a widescreen DVD than on the tape I viewed it on in the ' 90s . Liam Neeson and Laura San Giacomo star . I was familiar with the latter from the film , " Quigley Down Under . " She's much more appealing in that film than this one . Neeson is almost always interesting to watch .
Animated Tarzan A Pleasant Surprise	I found this surprisingly good because not only was animation well done - which they all seem to be in the past decade - but an involving , action-packed story that was interesting start-to-finish . The action is not overdone , however . The color in here is magnificent and it looks spectacular on DVD . The film turned out to be a good combination of drama , action , comedy and romance . I would think this would be a little too frightening , however , for little kids , for those wondering about that . The only negative I had was listening to the grating voice of Rose O'Donnell . That , and her New York City , accent , is definitely not appealing . Otherwise , I have nothing but good things to say about this film .
The Good & Bad Of ' Se7en '	I am shocked that I watch , much less own , this movie , and as often as I do . It's so dark , so uncomfortable to watch in many spots and so profane ( although I use a TV Guardian ) that it's not a very likable story and film . . . . . but I find it fascinating . Let's continue on with the bad , and the good , of this film - at least from my vantage point . THE BAD - As a Christian , I get tired of seeing the villains , the sickest of serial killers , portrayed as Christians . It's unbelievable Hollywood bias that would never be tolerated if minorities were the constant victim of this kind of prejudice . In case , you don't get the message they even pass by a brightly-lit neon cross in the guy's room ! That , and another cheap shot about a Southern Baptist being the killer , and comments about the sicko " preaching a sermon " plus Kevin Spacey's talks about people's sins . . . . all are designed to portray a sick killer as a religious nutcase . Also , for further Liberal slants , good-guy Morgan Freeman is talking to Gywneth Paltrow at a neighborhood diner and he relates having talked an old girlfriend into having an abortion which Freeman says , " to this day , I am positive it was the right move . " Yet , he also says it was a mistake and he regrets it . Huh ? ? Other negatives include too many f-words and usages of the Lord's name in vain , mos of them said by Brad Pitt . There are also several really , really downright gross scenes in here . If you don't expect them , you can easily be shocked with these disturbing images : some very sick pictures of tortured and mutilated bodies . THE GOOD - Despite all of the above , the story - as shocking and sordid as it is - is a fascinating one . It gets you so involved that it's almost impossible to put down , even with the unpleasant scenes . The finale is memorable , too . I also appreciated the wonderful cinematography in here . There are some strange colors in here but it all looks fantastic on the special-edition DVD . Spacey was relative unknown in his acting career at this time was riveting in that final 30 minutes when he had his speaking lines . All the actors in here are excellent . This is a film that is impossible to forget . OVERALL - As a friend once told me , " This movie is very disturbing . " It's also extremely interesting , but beware it's not easy to watch .
Olivier Elevates This Solid Soaper Big-Time	This was a pretty powerful melodrama , thanks to the great performance of Sir Laurence Olivier . Olivier plays an unhappily-married older man who falls for the young and beautiful Jennifer Jones ( not hard to understand ! ) . . . . . and pays a huge price for his adultery . Olivier is near-mesmerizing in this film and Jones is absolutely gorgeous , as she was in " Portrait Of Jennie , " made about five years prior to this film . Eddie Albert was a bit annoying ( but effective ) in his role and Miriam Hopkins is downright brutal in her small part as Olivier's wife . The shocking thing about this film was the subject matter , rare for its day . It was ahead of its day in one respect : it makes the adulterers into the sympathetic " good guys . " I'm surprised that got by the censors of the day . Jones ' character is oddly innocent for someone " shacking up " with Albert . I am not a fan of soap operas , but this was highly involving , a tough story to put down once it started I didn't particularly like the ending , but are you gonna do ? Note : One of the scenes near the end was inserted on the DVD . It had previously been cut out of the theatrical release . That " flophouse " scene was one that was not passed over by the censors .
' Trading ' Good & Bad News	Good news and bad news about this semi-famous comedy from the 1980s : BAD NEWS - Hollywood's liberal slant was all in here , in full force of its stereotypical characters it likes to present , such as ( 1 ) the hooker who is beautiful and has a kind loving heart ; ( 2 ) the black guy who , despite no training , all of a sudden is smarter than all the white guys in the financial world ; ( 3 ) all rich people are snooty while the lower class are nice and good-hearted and , ( 4 ) several cheap shots at Christianity . I also was sorry to hear two veteran classic film actors such as Ralph Bellamy and Don Ameche spout of bunch of profanity near the end of the film . It really degraded these veteran stars . GOOD NEWS - Despite all the baloney above , this was an extremely entertaining and funny movie , start to finish , so much so that it gets away with all the above ( to those like me offended by it ) . All the actors in here are fun to watch and there are a number of laugh-out-loud scenes . Of course , with Eddie Murphy and Dan Aykroyd , that's not surprising . Murphy gets the bulk of the laughs . It's really his movie . For the guys , however , Jamie Lee Curtis is one to remember here .
A Treat For The Eyes & Ears	Special-effects and terrific 5 . 1 surround sound are the highlights of this science fiction film . And what highlights they are - tremendous in both categories , at least for 2000 when this film and DVD came out . At the time , they were the best special-effects I had ever seen , but strides are being made so fast in that category that every few years we movie fans are stunned at something new we see . Audio-wise , the rear speakers come into to play as well as any movie I've heard . As for story , once the beginning plugs for evolution and political correctness are over with , it is a simple good guys-trying-to-get-the-bad guys fare . It's pure escapist fun made so with tons of sci-fi effects . The characters aren't particularly involving , either the " good guys " or the " bad guys . " The two leads , played by Hugh Jackman and Anna Paquin , should have been , but weren't . Jackman's " Logan / Wolverine " always seemed to be pouting and angry , but I guess he's a favorite of females . For me and most males , Rebecca Romjin-Stamos was a treat for the eyes . Her outfit was something to behold . If profanity bothers you , the film was treat in that department , too , as there was very little . Obviously , this film was popular enough to spawn not only a sequel but more in the making .
Generally Enjoyable , Highlighted By Pod Race ; A Tip - Use Subtitles	I believe George Lucas said he was inspired by the chariot race in the 1959 epic Ben-Hur , and thought of it often when he staged the big pod race scene in this movie . So , when I watched the film again the other day , the third or fourth time I've seen it , I kept looking for comparisons . Well , suffice to say nothing will surpass that chariot race , which had no benefit of any special-effects while this was almost all computer-generated . Nevertheless , the pod race in here was a lot of fun to watch , had excellent surround sound , was exciting and the highlight of the film . Oddly , in this movie instead of a man you have a small boy as the good guy - driver , so to speak . Young Jake Lloyd who plays " Anakin Skywalker . " He's the key character in this Star Wars saga , the boy who later becomes the father to Luke Skywalker and winds up being revealed as Darth Vader . But . . . . this is long before thatThis movie , the first Star Wars movie after a long hiatus ( 16-years ) disappointed a lot of fans but I thought it was entertaining overall . My main complaint was trying to understand " Jar Jar Binks , " but on the DVD I can use English subtitles and thus understand all the strange things he says with his Caribbean accent . It makes the movie more enjoyable and I strongly recommend doing that . As usual , there is a ton of astounding visuals in here , all kinds of strange characters and excellent " effects . " Yes , the action gets hokey in spots , especially near the end , but what modern-day action film doesn't ? Liam Neeson makes for a solid male hero and Natalie Portman is a appealing as Queen ( Padme ) Amidala . Lloyd is no Haley Joel Osment , but what can you do ? At least his character wasn't some brat , and he's tolerable . He has acted in much since then , although I saw him in a nice movie called " Madison , " with Jim Caviezel . People who are really " into " this Star Wars saga , and take it seriously , were , as mentioned generally let down with this movie . I guess they expected a lot more after waiting so long for the next installment . I just watch it for the enjoyment of an escapist film and as someone who usually enjoys good visuals . I repeat : put on the " English subtitles . " That helped a lot , believe me .
Very Good Noir Photography In Here	This movie has some of the best film noir photography I have seen in all the Charlie Chan entries . This is one I am still waiting to have issued on DVD , so I can enjoy those visuals . Storywise , it's a decent story with an interesting cast of suspects . My complaint is fairly minor : it is a little below-average in the amount of humorous Charlie Chan proverbs that we Chan fans love so much . Otherwise , I enjoyed the movie . Although not Charlie's official chauffeur-assistant in here as he was in most of these Monogram Chan films , Mantan Moreland ( " Birmingham Brown " ) plays his usual role as a guy helping out and adding humor . He's a likable guy as are all of Charlie's kids , two of them joining in this mystery . We get Number Three Son " Tommie " ( Benson Fong ) and daughter " Iris " ( Marianne Quon . Chan's kids are always nosy , goodhearted and , in the latter-day films , not that helpful . A few quick action scenes help keep things rolling and , as usual , we get Charlie's summary of the case at the end in which our hero exposes the crook . Overall , is this a great Charlie Chan film ? No , it's average . . . . but just average is still good to me . I love these films and hope all of them eventually are available on disc .
Kind Of An Odd ( But Still Good ) Late-Entry Tom & Jerry	This is a Robin Hood story about Jerry and his pal Tuffy getting their famous pal ( Robin Hood ) out of a jam . The authorities had caught the famous bandit and were going to hang him , but the little mice are determined to save Robin . Two things you see and hear grab your attention right off the bat : the beautiful , lush Sherwood Forest painted on the widescreen CinemaScope format and Tuffy speaking " the King's English . " Expressions such as " blooming " as in " let's crash the blooming party , eh ? " sound funny coming from Tuffy . By , the way Tuffy does all the talking ; Jerry says nothing in the whole cartoon . Tuffy is a bit rough with all the " blooming " this and that ( six times ) along with a few other marginal exclamations . His dialog was funny at first , then got annoying . That fine artwork , by the way , continues with some of the best I've ever seen in a Tom and Jerry cartoon , maybe even the best . Most of the story is Jerry and Tuffy trying to break Robin Hood out of jail while Tom , the guard , does his best to thwart them . The main gag is Tuffy trying to get the key to the cell out of Tom's stomach . Overall , this is decent . It certainly was different enough , regarding the normal Tom and Jerry cartoons , to be almost a curiosity piece . It wound up being the final one in the recently - released " Tom and Jerry Spotlight Collection Volume 3 " DVD .
Heart-Wrenching Film	If you have any kind of heart and compassion for people , this is a tough movie to watch , at least in the second half of it . It's in that segment where we see nice little kid get beaten up and then a retarded ( mentally - challenged ) man go off the deep end after he witnesses this brutal act against the child . It's not pleasant material . However , it's a good movie and the acting is good , too . The story will sit with you awhile . " Dominick " is the mentally-disabled guy and is played by Tom Hulce . I think this might be Hulce's best role ever . He's looked after by a med student , " Eugene , " played by Ray Liotta , who became a star the following year with Kevin Costner's " Field Of Dreams . " Dominick is a goodhearted garbage man who reads " Hulk " comic books and loves wrestling . He's the type of " slow " guy that you can't help but love and root for to live a happy life . When he freaks out , it's for several good reasons and . . . well , see the film for the whole story . It's worth your time but be prepared to go on real emotional roller coaster and possibly be very upset at some things you see .
Familiar Storyline But With A Few New Wrinkles	Although this story takes place back in the old days of France , the storyline is one that was used many times in modern settings in Tom and Jerry cartoons : a threat by an adult to Tom to do something about " the mouse " or it was curtains for the cat . Usually , it meant being tossed out of the house but here , it's the threat of the guillotine if Tom doesn't make sure the " mouseketeers " don't keep quiet so the house-owner can go back to sleep . Whenever Jerry hears threats like that directed toward Tom , he does his best to make sure he gets the cat in trouble by doing what Tom's not supposed to do ( and one wonders why I and others root for Tom in these cartoons ! ) . Jerry has his little gray French mouse friend " Tuffy " with him so the two of them try to make as much noise as possible . We see some repeat sight gags such as Tom balancing a half dozen dishes on his paws to keep dishes from breaking , etc . Even though some of the cartoon is also a direct rehash from others as the early gags are very similar , there were enough original gags - and good ones - to still make this fun to watch . Tom provides the humor as he has to be on his toes , literally . The artwork in here is excellent and CinemaScope a good format to show it off . The colors are brilliant . One scene has the magnificent castle on the left and rolling purple hills in the background of lush yellow / green grass and wheat in the center and right . It's just beautiful .
Walken Makes This Preposterous Story Fun	This was a different kind of horror movie with bad angels as the main attraction . Actually , the main attraction is Christopher Walken in the role of " Gabriel . " He's extremely entertaining with his mixture of humor and evil . He admonishes people for profanity ! Of course , the theology in this movie is so preposterous it's hilarious . In movies like this ( actually almost all movies ) you aren't going to get Biblically-based stories , just a lot of mumbo-jumbo passed on as such . At least in the end , the hero of the film correctly identifies the warring angel as one doing so strictly out of jealously for God . That's Bibically accurate , but the rest of the theology here is totally bogus . You just hope people aren't gullible to believe this stuff . However , a lot of people probably don't know there are such things as bad angels , so that part is true . Theology-aside , this is a very entertaining movie . The language is tame but beware there are a couple of very gory scenes that might offend . The special - effects are good . Walken is a " trip " to watch and Virginia Madsen looks beautiful .
' Great Horny Toadies ! '	This is one of those Bugs Bunny versus Yosemite Sam cartoons except Sam , in this story , is called " Chilacott Sam . " However , it's the same loud-and-obnoxious two-gun sawed-off , red-haired and greedy " varmint . " In this cartoon , he's a " claim jumper , " a guy trying to steal other's gold discoveries up in Alaska . By the way , there is some beautiful artwork in here with all the mountain scenery . When he finds out Bugs has a green thumb-type magic touch for finding gold , Sam follows him and offers to be his partner . " All you have to do , " says Sam , " is find all the gold and I'll share it with you 50-50 . " " Honest and for true ? " responds Bug sarcastically while giving us - the audience - a look . " Well , what are we waiting for ? There's gold in them thar hills . " One of Bugs Bunny's favorite things had to be making an idiot of those who think they are putting something over on him . He likes to play dumb and then totally ruin the person . He's very sadistic at times and very funny ! I loved some of Sam's exclamations in here , such as the one you see in the subject head here . It was just one of many Sam used in this cartoon .
The Good & Bad Of ' The Quick And The Dead '	Like the western " Wild Bill " that also came out around this time , this is a pretty wild , almost cartoon-like western . It has many pluses and minuses . GOOD - Great sound , interesting camera angles and very stylishly shot . The visuals and audio make it interesting alone . Add a simple but interesting story filled with wild cartoon-like characters and you have a fun , fast-moving film . Western purists will hate the movie because it's filled with over-the-top characters . The most interesting , I thought , was Gene Hackman as the villain and Russell Crowe as the good-guy " preacher " named " Cort . " Sharon Stone's character , " Ellen , " is very reminiscent of the one she played in " The Specialist , " a movie which came out the previous year in which - as in this movie - revenge is her main motive . BAD - This is only bad if you are religiously-inclined . The " preacher " in here is questionable as such . No real preacher uses the Lord's name in vain which Crowe did twice here . His theology also is not Biblically , more like clueless Hollywood stereotypes . Also , there was a bit too much of the feminist slant in here . Then again , since Stone co-produced the film , it's not surprising . Actually , her character - especially when she begins to soften a bit - is interesting , too . OVERALL - Despite the usual bias , the movie is fun to watch and entertaining .
Despite Sayles ' Slants , It's A Good Baseball Story	This was a well-done account of the famous 1919 Black Sox scandal in Major League baseball many years ago . The movie features an excellent cast and does a nice job of re-creating the era . The music of period is effectively used here , too , as are the interior and exterior of the ballpark . The most memorable players seemed to be pitcher Eddie Cicotte ( David Strathairn ) and infielder Buck Weaver ( John Cusack ) . Cicotte , being the ace pitcher on the staff , was the key player involved in fixing the 1919 World Series and Weaver stood out because he was made to look as a totally-innocent player who got unfairly blackballed from pro baseball . At least this is according to John Sayles , who directed the film . Sayles also shows " Shoeless " Joe Jackson , the most famous player of that scandal , to be just a naive , kind of dumb guy who didn't know what was going on . ( However , history records Jackson making an unusual number of throwing errors in the field , which makes him suspect . ) Sayles also goes out of his way to make Chicago White Sox owner Charles Comiskey as a notorious tightwad who invited this sort of thing ( players taking bribes ) by grossly underpaying his players . They also make a point of showing him screwing Cicotte out of a big bonus . The filmmakers almost make the crooks into the good guys ! Gosh , Hollywood would never do that ! So , as you can see , so don't take this story as " gospel . " I'm sure some of it is very true , but how much ? The baseball scenes are realistic in the field but aren't all that credible pitching and hitting . Note : Sayles has an acting role in here as does real-life sportswriter Studs Terkel , who isn't a bad actor ! Michael Lerner , Charlie Sheen , Christopher Lloyd , Michael Rooker , Clifton James all add to this deep cast .
Flip's Drug Store , Where The Celebrities Hang Out	Flip is the owner of a brand new drug store , and you'd think it was the Academy Awards night . There is a spotlight , a red carpet and a list of celebrities that all show up for this momentous occasion . We get the normal ones you'd see in a Flip The Frog cartoon , namely Laurel & Hardy , Jimmy Durante , Charlie Chaplin ( or Eddie Cantor , I couldn't tell ) , The Marx Brothers ( all four of them ! ) , Mae West and a few I didn't recognize . Who knew that drug stores were that big a deal ? Anyway , we see some clever ways Flip serves these famous people at the counter . The frog makes a total fool of himself over Mae . Also inserted in this story is a flaming homosexual type . UB Iwerks often made fun of gays and had them look like the guy in here , so this cartoon will definite and justifiably offend members of that group . The gay guy drinks a strange potion and suddenly turns into a " Mr . Hyde " and demolishes the place before being squirted a " pansy spray " and returning to normal . There weren't many laughs in here but it was a fast-moving , entertaining cartoon and it's always fun to see these old movie stars parodied . The Marx Brothers all trying to drink - with four straws - a soda , was one example of the topical humor .
From Tasers To Eeels : Shocking Stuff !	Things that literally shock us are the topic in this edition of " Marvel Marvels . " Topics include the Taser gun , lightning , power lines , the electric chair , electrified fences , the " third rail , " Etc / defibrillators and electric eels . " Thomas A . Swift's Electric Rifle " became TASER , a gun that was invented almost 50 years ago but needed further work to perfect it . Now , Rick Swift and his Taser International have done just that , give us painful demonstrations and explanations on how it works . It's proved to have saved many lives . This opening segment might have been the most interesting of all the topics . The lightning section mostly dealt with how airplanes are made to safely protect themselves from lightning . As for power lines , we learned how 90 percent of the outdoor lines still are not insulated and how dangerous they can be . As far as the electric chair , it's rarely used anymore , its days long gone . In its history , only one man survived it , and that's because an operator of the chair messed up ( and was fired ) . The electrical fence , however , as installed in high-security prisons is doing well . . . . . so well that no inmates anywhere have even attempted to get past it . Touch it once , and you're dead . The rest of the topics were pretty boring except for the creepy electric eel , which is amazing creature . This fish has many interesting facets to it .
A Good Start To Check Out The Boys	There are a lot of funny scenes squeezed into one of the thinest " plots " you'll ever see in a story . Our heroes - Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy - simply want to go to the annual convention of their group - " The Sons Of The Desert " and want their wives ' approval to make the trip . As it turns out , they go anyway and , well , it's one wild scene after another . Along the way , we see all the trademarks of these two famous comedians : Laurel scratching his head , crying when in trouble , having the better heart of the two and providing some clever slapstick and dialog . Hardy does his normal routine , too , with the dirty looks , the scheming and the pratfalls . The women are the bosses and Hardy's wife is the toughest of the two , throwing plates at Olllie's head ! These are tough old bags . Oddly enough , on the second viewing of this film I found a bit slow going , which I didn't find the first time . Charley Chase , a famous silent comedian , is also in the film as are a few things you wouldn't associate with Laurel & Hardy : some sexual stuff ! Really ! There is a dance number in the middle of the film where I swear I saw a see-through blouse on the main dancer . Also , there was a play - on-words here about some woman " who likes to pump the organ . " Well , this film was made a year or so before the Hays ' Code went into effect . At any rate , if you have never seen the famous duo , this is a good place to start .
Crazy Baseball A La Avery	Being a Tex Avery cartoon , I wasn't surprised this was clever and had some laughs . Tex was one of the best . This baseball story is played at " W . C . Field . " ( We then see a disclaimer stating " The guy who thought of this corny gag isn't with us any more . " ) The game pits " The Yankee Doodlers " versus " The Draft Dodgers . " As you can tell , this one is REALLY corny . . . . but it sure is fun to watch . It's another of those baseball cartoons that mainly feature the pitcher , his assortment of pitches , and problems with the batter and umpire . This one also has a strange , " sad " ending ! This animated short was one of the features in the Jimmy Stewart baseball movie , " The Stratton Story " DVD .
Underground Scene A Change Of Pace	This is more of the same thing that made this cartoon popular . . . . . but who's complaining ? It's always fun to see the poor coyote try various contraptions to get the Road Runner , and then get pulverized by every one of those inventions . The underground cave chase was different from the normal fare and was clever . It gave us an aerial view of the chase in a maze-like structure . I didn't say it was hilarious ; just different from the normal above-ground antics . This one , along with some other Road Runner shorts , are featured on the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 2 and the transfers of them are spectacular . The colors are magnificent .
Stewart , Adams & Mann : A Good Combination	Now that this is out on DVD , I hope to be able to view this on a better format : widescreen and a clearer prettier transfer . As with many westerns , there is a lot to like visually . That includes Julia Adams , who plays one of the leads : " Laura Baile . " Adams was a decent actress and had a very pretty face . I wonder why she never made it as a " star ? " Overall , this classic-era western has a pretty good story , a good cast led by James Stewart , and enough action to keep ones interest for the hour-and-a-half . I enjoyed most of the characters . Arthur Kennedy , Jay C . Flippen , Rock Hudson , Lori Nelson , Stephin Fetchit and Henry Morgan all comprise a well-known cast . My only complaint was the " Rambo mentality , " with two scenes in which good-guy Stewart should have been easily shot , but wasn't . In summary , pretty good storytelling and one to have in your collection if you are a fan of westerns , especially when Anthony Mann is the director . He and Stewart teamed up on several very good westerns in their day , and this is one of them .
Real Heroes , And An Era That Went By All Too Fast	An interesting insight into the United States ' space program , beginning with the exploits of fighter pilot Chuck Yeager ( Sam Shephard ) and concluding with the dramatic flights of the first astronauts . Those astronauts - the Mercury 7 pilots - are a varied group of aviators and they are all pretty interesting guys . John Glenn ( Ed Harris ) gets favorable treatment in here among the group . Gordon Cooper might be the wildest with the cocky and humorous Dennis Quaid playing him . Overall , it's a good cast including not just the fliers but their wives . I also enjoyed Scott Glenn as Alan Shepard and Barbara Hershey as Yeager's wife . Yeager's feats were perhaps the most interesting and they set a fast tone to this 3-hour film as we witness him breaking several sound-barrier records prior to the formation of the astronaut team . Then we are treated to a long-but-interesting segment of how those first astronauts were trained . The only unnecessary and ludicrous parts of this film were the ones on Lyndon Johnson , where they made him into a total fool . It was as if the screen writers had a personal vendetta against him , to make him look almost like a cartoon figure . And the bit with the Australian Aborigines smacks too much of Hollywood's love affair with tribal religions . I sincerely doubt some sparks from a fire on earth could be seen miles and miles above in space . At any rate , this was an informative look at a period in our history than came-and-went way too fast . Sad to say , most people know very little about those first astronauts , who were true heroes . At least this film gives them their due , as well as to Yeager , who deserved this tribute , too
A Very Emotional Story	This is an extremely-powerful based-on-a-true story film that can be infuriating to watch . I say that because how brutal a hounding press can be to people , in this case an innocent Australian couple charged with killing their baby . Meryl Streep received a lot of recognition for her performance when this film came out but I thought Sam Neill was just as good . Let's just say they both were excellent but the role was little harder for Streep because she had to learn an Australian accent . ( She learned it so well I had trouble understanding her in parts . ) Without giving anything away , all I can say is this movie will wear you out emotionally .
Amusing , Inventive , Colorful & Predictable	This was very good , except for two things which I'll mention at the end . The animation is great , highlighted by Nick Park and company's trademark of exaggerated teeth and mouths of the characters , which make you laugh almost every time you see someone . The color was magnificent , too . The best part of the film , however , is the clever comedy woven throughout . This is another of these animated films in which there is so much to see and hear each frame that it would require many viewings to catch all the gags . It's just a funny exaggerated look at the oddball " Wallace " and his silent-and-smart dog " Gromit . " Along the way , it pokes fun people who get carried away with their vegetable gardens , something akin to how the obsessive dog lovers were pictured in " Best Of Show . " My only complaints were two typical traits of today's films , animated or not : 1 - let's make the cleric in the film look like a total idiot ; 2 - let's overdo the final action scene with the predictable result but way overdone . Those aside , this is still a very amusing film that should provide a lot of laughs to many people and a movie to enjoy multiple times .
Pepe Might Have Stunk But He Had Spunk	" A romantic womanizer of the ninth degree " is the way critic Leonard Maltin describes the cartoon character " Pepe LePew , " a creation of writer Michael Maltese and director Chuck Jones . Maltin loves the character's fake French accent and language and the fact that the locales for many of the cartoons have such a European flavor , especially French . These LePew cartoons have a lot of style to them . Film director Joe Dante says young people today have no idea Pepe is a parody of classic-era actor Charles Boyer . " It's the only link these younger people have with the famous actor , " he notes , " because they've never heard of Charles Boyer . " Everyone in this DVD bonus feature - about a half dozen people , compliment the work of Jones on these cartoons , even though most of the plot lines were all the same ! They point out the amazing colors , artwork and style they have over the other Looney Tunes cartoons . The men in here also comment about Pepe's always-optimistic personality and drive . Personally , I never though the cartoons were that funny but after listening to this behind - the-scenes documentary , I have a new appreciation of them .
From The Famous Astin-Martin To The Rocket Belt To The Q-Boat & More	Instead of showing all of the wild James Bond gadgets throughout his long film series , this program concentrated on 5-7 items ( but did mention others ) . The writers decided to break it down into five major categories : 1 - cars ; 2 - boats ; 3 - guns ; 4 - flying machines and 5 - covert spy gadgets . The car segment was focused on , as they said , " the most famous car in the world . " That would be the Astin Martin DB5 , made famous in " Goldfinger . " That was the auto which had machine guns in it , oil slick apparatus and other goodies never seen on screen before . We also see another really nice car from " Goldfinger " - the expensive " Rolls Royce Phantom 3 . " The featured boat is the sleek " Q Boat , " named after that eccentric maker of Bond gadgets in his movie , " Q . " We go to the USA Midwest and witness a demonstration of the boat and what it can do on the Kankakee River . Not many speedboats can go 80 mph and have 350 horsepower with a such a light load . It was seen in " The World Is Not Enough . " Later , we see other boats that were in other Bond films . The gun segment was mainly showing how guys are trained at a special tactical training school in the art of everything you see Bond do : fighting skills , weaponry , flying , boating , you name it . It's pointed out that no one in the world can learn all of these skills at an extremely high level ( but James Bond , of course ! ) Two flying machines are featured : the " Rocket Belt , " first designed and tested at Textron Corporation in Buffalo , New York , in the late ' 50s and early ' 60s , and then the " Auto Gyro , " a small helicopter-type machine that can be used anywhere . The " Rocket Belt " has been demonstrated all over the world . Put simply , a man puts this apparatus on , which is like a back pack , and - zoom - he's up in the air flying . The few men that have been trained to do this over the years are interviewed and seen from tests to performing at big events like the Super Bowl . Eighty-five year old inventor and flying of the Auto Gyro is Ken Wallis , who tells us and shows us what his cool machine does . " Little Nell " was the name of one of these flying machines , the one you might have seen in " You Only Live Twice . " Finally , we go to a store in Beverly Hills , Ca . , where a man demonstrates some of the gadgets they have in their " Counter Spy Shop . " These things are incredible , but seemed to me to be most valuable to crooks and cops , not everyday people . They have machines that can tell you if someone is in your house wearing " a wire ; " voice machines that can tell you if someone over the phone is lying ; whether your phones are being tapped ; machines to change your voice and see through walls , etc . , etc . Pretty neat stuff !
Just Ask Joyce : No Justice Done In This Case	This is a tale of a woman being charged with masterminding a contract murder and spending three years in jail apparently for nothing . I say " apparently " because the case has never been solved but , as the narrator indicates , you'd have to be pretty dumb not to figure out the husband did it . He got away scot-free . The story takes place in Phoenix , " the Dallas of the desert , " as it's called here in this program . It has three million people and a lot of prosperity . It has tons of new folks arriving every day , and that's been going on for awhile . Hey , you can play golf all year and go skiing in the mountains . You have it all except beach-front property , as one resident says , " and that could happen some day with a big enough earthquake . " One of the people who came out West to Phoenix was Joyce Ross , who wound up marrying playboy Ron Lukezic . The story - in a nutshell - involves Ron and his business partner Patrick Redmond . The two disagreed on how to do their business and Patrick put the kibosh on a deal that would involve Las Vegas mobsters . Shortly thereafter , he was killed in his home . Three men were arrested but the major part of the story involves a mob squealer's story that claimed Joyce did the killing . The fact that it took three trials and three years before she could finally get out of jail makes you shake your head in sympathy for the woman . Once the first trial started , her husband hightailed it back to New York City , leaving his wife and three step-kids behind . Nice guy , huh ? Anyway , it's another interesting show but a frustrating one because there is no closure to this case . Justice doesn't always occur in this life and this is one example , unless something happens in the future . The husband was the only one who could benefit from the killing , as it is pointed out in this " City Confidential " program . Heck , even the guy who lied his butt off hasn't been punished .
For Its Genre , This Is Surprising How Good It Is - Nice Effort !	First , this is a nice-looking film with a good DVD transfer . Seeing an early ' 50s sci-fi film Technicolor is nice . Also , having just watched - I'm not kidding - " Plan 9 From Outer Space " and " Invaders From Mars , " this George Pal film looked like multi-million dollar Oscar winner in comparison . Except for the ending scene , the special-effects were passable , the acting was good and the dialog pretty realistic . The story plausible ? Of course not , but what they did know of space travel in 1951 ? Hell , we didn't send a man on the moon until almost 20 years after this movie . No , this is not one of those popcorn flicks that " is so bad , it's good " or just plaint stink . No , this movie is just good . . . . . . period . . . . even today , almost 57 years later ! . This was a no-nonsense survival story without an overdone corny romance , no stupid or obnoxious kids nor goofy-looking adults . It had a solid reverence for God and to science at the same time , a realistic portrayal of people under stress and how they would react knowing their world was coming to end . For a mostly talky film , it moved fast with few , if any lulls . John Hoyt , who plays the wheelchair-bound millionaire " Sydney Stanton , " may not be a " name " actor but he's very good . Check his resume : it's awesome . The man was in about every good television show for decades . The man could act . So did the rest of this cast . Overall , this " modern " Noah's Ark story was a good one , and far , far better than your normal sci-fi flicks from the time period . Well done !
Rags and Red Bring A Lot Of Laughs	If you like old-fashioned corny humor you'll love this . I'm hesitant to give a movie this silly , corny and stupid eight stars but I had to because overall it was fun to watch and provided a number of genuine laughs . In fact , some of the scenes were downright hilarious . A lot of it is innocent old-time slapstick and , if it entertains , it did its job . This was my first look at early Red Skelton films ( I had only known him through his TV show ) and it reminded of some Bob Hope films except this one had more slapstick and action . It inspired me to go out and buy other Skelton comedies on VHS but , unfortunately , none ever measured up to this one . The real star of film might not have been Skelton , anyway , as Rags Ragland , playing the chauffeur , had perhaps the highest percentage of funny lines . The baseball scene in here also was very good . Yes , this is stupid , generally-speaking , but it's really entertaining . If only two people have reviewed it ( as of my review ) then apparently a lot of people haven't seen this . That's too bad , especially with the older crowd , because they've missed a funny movie .
Solid Effort , But Was Academy Making Up For Lost Time ?	I agree with the reviewers here : this was good , but " the only Bugs Bunny cartoon to win an Academy Award ? " That is ridiculous . I can only surmise that it was similar to what has happened to many famous actors . They had never won an Academy Award so near the end of their careers , the Academy gives them them on Oscar to make up for past omissions . Here , " Bugs " gets rewarded for years of service , in reality . By the end of the 1950s , Bugs ' great career wasn't far from being over . This is a funny , beautifully drawn cartoon worthy of praise ; it's just not exceptional . In a nutshell , court jester Bugs Bunny makes a fool out of the Yosemite Sam a . k . a . The Black Knight , the latter guarding the treasured " singing sword . " Bugs has to get past the knight , his dumb dragon - who has a cold and a sneezing problem ! - to get the sword and return it to the good guys . Some of the jokes are inventive , some are old , but the story entertains all the way . It's also 30 seconds shorter than most LT Bugs Bunny episodes . Overall , it's still a solid effort .
The Memorable Good & Bad Of Ray	Jamie Foxx does a fine job of impersonating the famous blues / soul / country singer Ray Charles . To the film's credit , it shows both the good and the bad regarding Charles ' character and the choices he made , both personally and professionally . This is a slick-looking film that provides you with a rich feel of the periods in which the story takes place . Not only does it look good , it sounds good . I only wish there was more music in here . When it's inserted , it's fabulous but there isn't enough of it . Assuming , at least for review purposes , that the story was true , I was impressed and disappointed with Charles , meaning the story left some memorable impressions since I'm writing this 16 months after viewing it . Main impressions include : GOOD - Re-living Ray's immense talent and his foresight to step out and take chances musically , such as going " country " for awhile . The man had supreme confidence in himself but didn't come across as arrogant about it . Also memorable was showing him beating his heroin addiction - with no help ! That's just amazing . BAD - I also remember through this film how easily hooked Ray got in the first place and disappointed he was so unfaithful to his wife . A really sad comment was that his wife was more upset with him for missing his kid's Little League games than she was for all the cheating he was doing on her , even fathering a child with a member of his singing group . The only negative I had with the filmmakers was the overemphasis of his problems being blamed on one early childhood event , the accidental death of his brother . That tragedy was used as cop-out for all Ray's misdoings as an adult , which is another example of a culture in which people refuse to take responsibility for their actions . Note : There is an extended version with the DVD but word has it that it is so poorly edited that it's not worth watching , so stick with the " theatrical version . "
A Strange Documentary About An Even-Stranger Person	This is a very , very strange story and even a different kind of documentary . From what I could see here , scanning the reviews , most of them were not favorable toward this . Myself , I found it slow in the first but more and more fascinating as it went on . It's just so bizarre , it's hard to know what to think as you watch this . When it was over , I found I was glad I took a chance on this DVD and will watch it again . But - it's not a happy experience . . . . . and it is a bit haunting . I would just comment on a few things : 1 - I agree that , considering the subject matter and strange character ( Henry Darger ) whom this is about , this documentary should have been more interesting ; 2 - I did not object to the artwork coming to life on occasion . It added badly-needed interest to the presentation . You never quite knew what you were going to see next , and I liked that ; 3 - I enjoyed the two main voices , those of Larry Pine and Dakota Fanning . Pine voiced Darger as an adult and Fanning was the narrator and represented the Vivian Girls . Although young for this kind of role and vocabulary , Fanning is an exceptional young actress and seems to handle to everything well . Both did an outstanding job and the two complemented each other nicely , too . 4 - I disagree with those who assumed Darger had no idea the physical difference between men and women , which is why he drew penises on the little girls . Come on - how naive can you be ? Everyone - even shut-ins - knows the difference , whether one is celibate his / her own life or not . People see nudity throughout their life , even in the most innocent of places such as statues in public parks , museums , galleries , almost anywhere . He knew . Lord knows why he drew what he drew but let that remain his business . 5 - The more one listens to this account , the more insane Darger appears . I wasn't totally sure of that until he went into his " weather " phase . Holy smokes , this man had problems ! It's sad , in a way , and is a prime example of how much an imprint your childhood has on the rest of your life . With a " normal " childhood , with a loving mother and father , would Henry have been a " normal " adult ? Anyway , I found his book - from what Dakota and the others read from it - somewhat boring and definitely depressing , to be frank . To me , in addition to being immense adventure story it is , it was just as much - if not more - simply a long diary of man wrestling with his tortured soul . Definitely recommended , but know what you're in for .
Still Very Good Even When You Know The Ending	This was hyped big-time when it came out and , if memory serves me , was a good conversation piece among those who saw it at the theater . I didn't see it for a few years afterward , on tape and now on DVD . It was very good but I didn't find it as " the greatest movie ever " as some did . It is an involving story , however , and I've come to appreciate it more with multiple viewings . I've seen it three times , the last one looking for mistakes to disprove the surprise ending . . . . but couldn't find any . The filmmakers covered their tracks . However , a couple of scenes were misleading . Those who have seen this movie know what I'm talking about . For those who haven't , I'm not going to spoil it here . I enjoyed both Bruce Willis and Haley Joel Osment as the two leads . Willis has had many action-packed , profane macho roles in his career but I like him best when he's low key , as he is in here ( and in " Unbreakable , " to name another fairly-recent movie ) The story is slow-paced but it sure is not boring . In a way , it's nice to see a slower-paced film be a big hit , as this was . Osment , meanwhile , is a terrific child actor , as he has proved in other films . He's simply one of the best of his young generation . He and Dakota Fanning are the two best child actors I've seen in many years . This isn't just some supernatural-horror movie . It's a nice human interest story . There is one scene late in the movie in which Osment's mom is having a talk with her young boy in the car . It is an extremely touching scene that brings tears - a great moment in the film .
Nice Movie About A Great Player and Genuinely-Nice Man	A lot of non-baseball fans still liked this movie a lot , and that's probably because it's more about a nice guy than it is about a ballplayer . New York Yankee great Lou Gehrig is the subject . Gehrig was often in the shadow of the great Babe Ruth , but was tremendous player in his own right and a far better human being . It's tough to find many nicer movies than this one : a totally inoffensive , sentimental and old - fashioned film about a super-nice guy , played by a popular actor : Gary Cooper . Except for one sportswriter , there were no villains or nasty people in this movie . Teresa Wright plays " Eleanor Twitchell , " who becomes Gehrig's wife and Walter Brennan plays sportswriter and friend , " Sam Blake . " The real Babe Ruth played himself , which was nice to see . Even though Gehrig died at a fairly young age of a disease now named after him , overall this was a feel-good movie of the highest sort . This was so nice a story that even the cynical critics dared not criticize it . It leaves you with tears in your eyes at the end .
Good Christmas Episode	This was a nice - and funny - Christmas episode with some nice messages . It opens with a Christmas party at the police station . Capt . Stottlemeyer receives a bottle of port wine as his gift from his " secret Santa " but isn't interested in it . He can't find the gift he supposed to give to someone so he gives that instead . It's poisoned and the cop who drinks it dies . I won't say anymore because this has a few twists to it that are interesting . The funniest part of the show was when Monk went undercover as a Santa in the mall . That was only a short scene , but it was very good . There are some warm , sentimental moments in here , too , for most of the cast members and a few others . This is an episode that leaves you with a good feeling . . . . almost perfect for the Christmas season .
Llloyd Nolan Outstanding As ' Bugs Moran '	Lloyd Nolan stars as George " Bugs " Moran , the number two man on the wanted list now that Al Capone was behind bars . The date is March , 1932 , and Moran is kidnapping people among other things . In this episode , he kidnaps a small boy about 12 . Elliott Ness , who has to go to Washington to give details of Capone's case , leaves " Martin Flaherty " in charge . Marty has Moran tailed night and day . After Moran makes a phone call to the parents of the young boy ( whose father is played by Jack Warden ) , Flaherty starts to get wind of what the famous crook is doing . This episode is good because Nolan made it so , especially with his speech to the union workers . His kidnapping plan was solely to get control of a local truckers ' union ( the boy's father was president of the union ) and the speech he gives them is riveting . That was the highlight of the show , I thought . I also was impressed with the ending : a very realistic one , and not one you'd expect . The only disappointment was Robert Stack taking the week off as " Ness . " He only had two very short scenes . ( Odd the star of the show would take off in only the fourth episode of the series . ) One last thing that really impressed was the quality of the transfer . So far , this Untouchables - Season One DVD looks good . For TV shows that almost 60 years old , the picture is sharp and the black-and-white contrasts outstanding . In spots , it looks like an excellent film noir of the ' 40s .
Best Episode Yet , Thanks To Bendix	William Bendix , before he became well-known as the lovable " Chester A . Riley " of TV's " The Life Of Riley , " was an actor who played a lot of brutal gangsters in movies . He once punched Alan Ladd in a movie and knocked him out cold . ( Bendix , apparently , wasn't acting ! ) . Anyway , he's back in this late ' 50s crime show playing another tough " animal , " was Walter Winchell describes him in the introduction . Bendix plays " Wally Legenza , " a savage killer and leader of " The Tri-State Gang , " which hijacked a lot of trucks . This episode features a number of " name " actors in addition to Bendix : Alan Hale , Jay Adler and Gavin MacLeod , to name three . Florence Halop may not be a " name " but she's face you've seen many times if you are over watcher of classic TV shows . Nonethess , Bendix makes this best show thus far in Season One . He has a lot of the wisecracks like I loved hearing so much in " The Blue Dahlia , " a film noir of the ' 40s . Here , as " Wally Legenza . " Bendix just made me laugh out loud a number of times with his brutal tough-guy dialog . Great stuff and great photography , once again , too . This looks as good as any noir . This episode makes the purchase of this half-season on DVD worthwhile .
Great Mix Of Comedy & Crime	Way too much objectionable language is the only fault of this otherwise extremely-entertaining film that is justifiably popular . Humor is what makes this " crime film " stand out as tough guys Robert De Niro , Joe Pantoliano , John Ashton , Dennis Farina and others provide a lot of laughs as not-so-tough guy Charles Grodin is escorted from New York to Los Angeles to face retribution from a mob boss . The dialog between Grodin and his bounty hunter captive De Niro , is terrific all the way through . The soundtrack , featuring the guitar of Ry Cooder , also is outstanding and adds to the fun of this film . The capper to this likable story is the satisfying ending , which almost everyone seems to like .
A Different Shade Of Film Noir	This is the kind of film that can stay with you for awhile after you watch it : a haunting kind of film that isn't always pleasant or easy to understand but you remember it . It also helps to have a fondness for the 1940 film noir movies . It doesn't help that it appears racist in nature with people of one color all being the bad guys while people with another color all the good guys . I won't say which is which , but if the colors were reversed , there would have been an outcry about the obvious bias here by screenwriter-director Carl Franklin . Despite this , it's still a fascinating movie that just oozes with the 1940s atmosphere . Great narration in there , a la film noir , great automobiles and great sets . It puts you right into the late 40s in Los Angeles , a little bit like the film Chinatown . Denzel Washington does a nice job with the narration and the lead role , the character of " Easy Rawlins , " off the book by Walter Moseley ( which I read and recommend ) . Tom Sizemore and Don Cheadle play very intense characters in supporting roles , particularly Cheadle as the trigger-happy " Mouse . " Jennifer Beals is alluring as the mysterious " Daphne Monet . " The film is a bit confusing in parts and was especially so for me since the book was not exactly the same and had a totally different ending . Nonetheless , the film has always fascinated me and drawn me back for multiple viewings . It's good storytelling and it would be fun to see more of Moseley's books translated to the big screen .
You Know You Are In For An Intense Episode When ' Clavo Cruz ' Shows Up	Two cops are bringing a truckload of confiscated weapons to be destroyed when they are rudely interrupted on the street as a semi-trailer suddenly impedes their progress . As the cops screech to a halt , something explodes beneath them and overturns their van . Now all the rifles are dumped out in the street and worse things happen . One cop is dead from the accident and another struggles with some guy and is shot and killed . All of this was planned as we discover early on in the show . A real baddie from past CSI-Miami shows , a name I hadn't heard in awhile , pops up here : " Clavo Cruz " ( Gonzalo Menendez ) . Eric fills in Natalia about that scumbag's history with Horatio and the department . About halfway through this episode , we get another story when a young , Hispanic teen boy is shot and killed , presumably from the one of the guns taken from the heist earlier . The second half of this gets really intense , which is no surprise considering Cruz - perhaps the most vile villain in the history of this program - is involved . The story winds up being a two-parter as one of the CSI regulars is shot twice , the second bullet entering his brain . It's Eric Delki .
Something Different From Early Disney	More frustration for poor Pluto , who thought he was in dog heaven after he and Mickey drive up to " Camp Utopia . " This place looks like it's in the middle of a redwood tree forest , and it's beautiful . ( The artwork in here , too , is fabulous - tremendous colors . ) Pluto has all the trees a dog would want and lots of forest critters to chase . Things are looking good . But , Mickey reads the rules of the camp and rule number one is " no dogs inside , " so Pluto finds himself tied up , muzzled and on the front porch . To make matters really bad , a fox comes by and taunts the dog and eats his food ! Pluto is not a happy camper at this pointThen this cartoon gets surreal . . . . and fascinating and Pluto has a dream where he is in " Plutopia . " Without giving it away , I think this is easily one of the most inventive Pluto cartoons I've seen and one the best . It's just so different . In fact , I think it was different from the normal Disney fare that they didn't quite know how to end this , so it ends abruptly . Overall , this is a cartoon to check out if you're an adult and like a something a little edgy and unexpected .
Fabulous Photography Elevates This Holmes ' WWII Tale	Here's another example of a film I first thought was so-so until I purchased the Complete Sherlock Holmes Collection that was carefully " restored " on DVD with a package of now-beautiful transfers of these famous films . Instead a poor - quality tape , which was the only thing available in the ' 90s , now every scene is clear . In this movie , having a good transfer is more important than normal because this might be the best-looking SH film of them all . There are a ton of night-time scenes , like a film noir , and a lot of facial closeups . In fact , I would say this movie was better filmed than many film noirs I've seen . The story is about a " Tokyo Rose " - type voice telling the British how inferior they were and how the Nazis were going to were going to commit their terrorist-type activities at the moment of the broadcast . And , indeed they did , as promised . This propaganda over " the wireless , " as Dr . Watson and other called the radio back then , was driving English folks crazy . The government and Scotland Yard , in desperation , calls Sherlock Holme to the rescue , if he can help . Holmes deduces that all these acts are only a prelude to some " huge , diabolical act yet to come " and sets out to discover what that would be and who is responsible for the broadcasts . He finds some in the high muckety-muck society that hired him is a traitor and doing the broadcasts from within , as well as spilling secrets to the Germans . Evelyn Ankers as " Kitty " helps Holmes and is a very attractive helper . Henry Daniell plays his normal irritating character ( he was good at that ) and Thomas Gomez was interesting as a Nazi . Overall , a decent story with super photography .
Very Intriguing & Haunting Story	I don't care for " coming-of-age " movies but this is a mixture of that along with a suspenseful story of an older man trying to keep his anonymity . Anthony Hopkins plays the latter and is riveting , as always . His character , " Ted Brautigan " is not an easy guy to figure out , but he has to be mysterious in order to keep away from the bogey-man bad guys called " low men . " That sounds goofy but if you watch the film , you know what I mean . The only things I didn't care for are the typical Liberal bias with cheap shots against Richard Nixon , J . Edgar Hoover and the FBI , all bad guys according to all liberal filmmakers . Also , some paranormal baloney was inserted , and wasn't needed . The kids - Anton Yelchin and Mika Bororem - are good , especially Yelchin , who has a far bigger role . It's nice to see a kid ( Yelchin's character " Bobby Garfield , " actually listening to an adult , as he does here . ) The romance between the two kids is handled well , not sappy . I very much enjoyed the cinematography . It's a wonderfully rich-colored film with a touch of film noir in spots with the cobbled street shots at night . Finally , this was a film that moved me with it sadness .
A Film Noir With A Heart	I liked this better than I thought I would . I read a number of reviews ( here , but mostly elsewhere ) before seeing it , so I knew the two main things to expect : a hard - hitting film noir in the first half and a melodramatic romance in the second . What I found was an interesting , fairly intense movie for all but the last 10 minutes ( but I liked that part , too . ) That second half was still a crime story a lot more than any romance as two guys tracked down a killer . To digress , the first part was in the big city and it portrayed Ryan as a too-gung - ho cop who's fast getting burned out on the job . He's sick of all the punks in the world and just wants to beat the crap out of everyone . When he is one punch away from being suspended and losing his job on a police brutality charge , the boss sends him up north to snow country to find a murderer on the loose in the great outdoors . That second half isn't some slow melodrama , as it's so often described . It's mostly more adventure as Ryan and Ward Bond track down the killer . Bond , whose daughter was the victim in this crime , is hell-bent for revenge . He makes Ryan like a calm-and-collected guy . Along the way , they meet " Mary Malden " ( Ida Lupino ) , who is the sister of the kid on the run . She's also blind . Ryan befriends her and she pleads with him to promise to bring her brother in unharmed . Her trust in him helps bring about his personality change . You can see he's starting to soften up , become a little more caring toward his fellow man . The ending of this film is not hokey - either in what happens in the manhunt or what happens to Ryan afterward . It's just a nice job of screen writing . I think this is a fine story , perhaps even underrated . I also think it is one of Ryan's finest acting jobs because he shows callous brutal toughness , loneliness and compassion all in the same film and he shows it convincingly .
Still Clever After All These Years	I really loved the first 84 seconds on this four-minute silent cartoon . The cartoon is one year short of being 90 years old as I write this , but it's still clever . We see the artist draw the main figure , " Bobby Bumps " and his dog " Fido " and those two plus the scenery comes alive in a speed-ed-up fashion that is interesting to watch . The dialog was presented into two different kinds of formats : in a comic-strip " balloons " and in " title cards . " I liked the former more , because it's almost like looking at a comic strip literally come to life . The story is a bunch of antics that go on in a diner / restaurant ( they used to call a " beanery " ) and in the kitchen as Bobby and his dog help out . Some of the gags are excellent . The dog is a riot . I've seen perhaps 20 silent cartoons as of this writing and , so far , this is the best . It was part of the Popeye The Sailor 1933-1938 DVD Package and can be seen on Disc two . Highly recommended . Don't pass this one up . It is part of the " From the Vault " features .
Very Intriguing Film With Great Ending	This is a much better film than I ever thought it would be , and intrigues me every time I watch it . Samuel L . Jackson's role is what mainly inspires me to watch this multiple times . His character is amazing and just leaves me shaking my head . This is a pretty low-key movie with the other star , Bruce Willis , playing an extremely subdued role for him , almost too subdued . There are times in here when you keep waiting for him to say something , and he says nothing . Half the time he's barely audible . But he and Jackson play off each other well , and this is very suspenseful film , even if a lot doesn't happen . To explain the story would almost ruin it , because it's preposterous . I'll just call an interesting fantasy-horror film with a little family story tied in with Willis ' wife ( Robin Wright ) and young boy ( Spencer Treat Clark ) . " Unbreakable " is beautifully filmed , has very little profanity in it , and a strange , strange story with a great twist at the end . . . . one of the best I've ever seen in a movie . This movie is done by the same man who did " The Sixth Sense , " M . Night Shyamalan , so if you enjoyed that you probably would like this , too . . . . . although it's so different I wouldn't want to predict who would like this film and who wouldn't . If you're open to try something different , give it a look .
A Popular Subject	Who doesn't like ice cream ? Most everyone loves it , I assume , unless they are allergic to it . This episode deals with this ultra-popular food , one in which nobody knows who invented it ! Historians do know where ice cream was " perfected , " though : Italy . That's where " Gelato , " is ; the name they used to call it . Gelato still exists and you can get it ( expensively ) in New York City . As viewers , we get a tour of several places in this Modern Marvels episode , beginning with the huge Dreyer ice cream factory in Bakersfield , Ca . Looking at their labels , it's identical to " Eydes , " which sells here where I live , so apparently Dreyer's goes under more than one name . Most of the tour is seeing how ice cream is made and packaged . Later , we visit two fantastic ice cream parlors in Cincinnati ; learn about ice cream cones , Eskimo Pies , soft-serve ice cream , Dairy Queen , frozen yogurt , the outrageous flavors at Ben & Jerry's and finally , the ice cream of the future " Dippin ' Dots . " I thought it was interesting to hear why the soft-ice cream has more taste than hard ice cream and the top five selling flavors in America . Want to know what they are ? Answer : 1 - Vanilla ; 2 - Chocolate ; 3 - Neapolitan ; 4 - Butter Pecan , and 5 - Cookies ' N Cream . Watching this show will make you want to rush out and buy more ice cream .
Are You A Cat Or A Mouse ?	Well , I have to give the writers credit for " originality " in this one , which plays better than it probably sounds in my review . When I read on the IMDb notes that Tom gets hit on the head and then thinks he's a mouse , it sounded kind of stupid . Maybe the premise was silly , but it turned out to be very funny . I saw sights in here I would never find in any other Tom and Jerry cartoon , such as Tom squeezing into Jerry's mouse-hole and trying to sleep on his bed ! Tom's squeaks are funny and it was fun to see him turn the tables on the maid , who was always giving him a hard time . It also was satisfying to see Jerry frustrated , for once , instead of the poor cat being flustered unable to get Jerry . Overall , a more-than-solid Tom and Jerry effort .
Fighting At The Rink , Not On It - Another Indictment Of Youth Sports Parents	This must have been a tough case for the jurors ; at least I found it so . I couldn't make a decision just on what this program offered , I know that . City Confidential almost always takes sides . The more you watch this interesting program , the more you see their bias generally and on individual cases . However , I thought they were more than fair in this instance , giving both sides equal time . It was a tough case involving two overzealous youth hockey parents . There was little premeditation , if any . These two guys didn't know each other . It was a fight in the corridors of the hockey arena and one guy killed another with one of his punches . That's all it was . . . . but did the man go too far ? Frankly , I'm not sure because the man who threw the punch that began the fisticuffs is the one who died . Yet , the two men had fought five minutes earlier , finished it , and the " victor " came back inside . Was he looking to continue the fight , or did he go back inside to check on his kid . You get both versions . Whatever , it was another indictment of what people used to call " Little League parents , " meaning parents who take their kids ' sporting events way too seriously . As pointed out in this program , that is a problem in hockey because the parents invest more money , for one thing , than in any other sport . Ice time is expensive and valuable and some of these parents and kids are at the rink in the middle of the night ! New England is one of the hotbeds of youth hockey in America . In the short profile of Reading , we learn that hockey fever there began in the 1970s when Bobby Orr and " the Big , Bad Bruins " brought a lot of attention to the Boston area . Perhaps the most interesting segment of this episode was the history of Michael Castin , the man who was beaten to death . He had a roller-coaster history of good and bad . Castin had a big alcoholic problem in high school , then went stone sober for eight years and got married , then went off the wagon and wound up in jail and divorced , finally to return as a " Mr . Mom , " spending all his time with his kids and being a devoted father . His mother is interesting here as she discusses her son , his problems , his good points and what happened to him . Of course , she's biased but she was very honest , too . The other key figure in this case was Thomas Junta , a parent who happened to come by and thought the play on the ice was way too rough for just a pickup game . . . . and wound up inadvertently killing the coach . In this program , his brother sticks up for him . It's a bizarre case but one that got huge media attention and , hopefully , toned down some of action on the part of spectators at youth events . However , every year we hear about some parents , whatever the sport , getting violently out of control .
' I Got Bombed At Harvey's '	Gee , talk about a poor loser ! ! A Hungarian refugee-made-good-in-America , John Birges became a high roller at Harvey's Wagon Wheel Casino in Lake Tahoe , Nev . , in the 1970s . As long as Birges was gambling ( and losing ) big bucks , the owner , naturally , treated him like royalty . That happens to a lot of big gamblers everywhere , and is nothing new . What was new in this case , however , was that after Birges began reducing his bets because of financial trouble and casino owner Harvey Gross started taking away special perks , how the losing gambler reacted . Birges , who had escaped Hungary during the Soviet invasion in the mid 1950s , decided he wanted his money back . He was talking three million dollars . He also was " talking " via a ransom-type note attack to the biggest homemade bomb ever seen at that time . Birges , with cooperation from his two sons , had the gigantic bomb delivered to the casino one afternoon . Under the guise of deliverymen from IBM , they wheeled the big thing right into Harvey's unoccupied office . When word got out and everyone in the building was forced to evacuate , there were those who were winning on slot machines and wouldn't leave ! Then there were hundreds of nosy bystanders who wouldn't leave , either , for days ! They wanted to see if something blew up . People are so insane that they not only stood too close ( until police finally forced them back ) but made a big joke out of it , wearing tee-shirts proclaiming " I Was Bombed At Harvey's . " What happens , regarding the main characters in this true-life crime story , and the big bomb , I'll leave up to you to see if you tune in this interesting episode . What you'll also see is the gorgeous Lake Tahoe scenery and a little bit of the town's history .
Vintage Clapton	Even though almost all the songs were very familiar by the time I acquired this tape , it's such solid rock ' n roll and offers enough variations on a few favorites that I still enjoy playing this . " Tearing Us Apart " with Clapton and Tina Turner is a highlight of this 62-minute concert , as is the venerable " Crossroads " as Eric puts a few new twists on it . " Layla " is the second-to-last song on the tape and perhaps a fitting way to end viewing this , as the last song , " Sunrise Of Your Love , " is not anywhere as good as on Clapton's " 24 Nights " concert . There is a rarity in here : a mistake made by Eric ( with a " sorry " captioned on the screen ) after he plays a sour note . Still , it's vintage Clapton and a very good one-hour concert .
Story Starts Off With A Bang , But Ends On A Sad Note	This starts off as a very bizarre story but ends with a tragic tale that devastates one of the CSI regulars , " Danny Messer . " ( Carmine Giovinazzo ) . Some obnoxious guy at the bar lights up an expensive cigar . It blows up in his face . This isn't some novelty-store item ; this stogie was constructed for a big , destructive bang , and half the man's face is blown off . Who did it , and why ? The investigation leads to " Laughing Larry " and other assorted strange characters . This story , despite the gruesomeness of seeing the lower half of a man's face blown off , is very interesting and has some comical moments , too . The second story is anything but comical . It begins with a small neighborhood boy , someone who lives a few doors down from Danny , knocks on his door and reminds him they have to go to church for the annual " blessing of the bikes . " The kid has a new bike and wants the local parish priest to bless it . That happens , and while Danny and the kid are heading home , Danny is diverted by a shot and yells for help . He tells the boy to race home and he'll catch up with him later . Another shot is fired and the boy is killed in front of a store . It turns out to be total accident ; the boy in the wrong place and the wrong time . After the investigation , Danny has to go home and tell the mother her boy has been killed . It ends on that dramatic note .
Not Exactly ' Peace & Love ' At Berkeley Thanks , In Part , To A Liberal Judge	How ironic : the town was founded by two missionaries who wanted to get away from the ultra-liberal heathen lifestyles of nearby San Francisco . . . . . and wound up decades later making City By The Bay conservative in comparison ! Yup , as the narrator says here , Berkeley was the " hippie hotbed " by the late ' 60s . It still is , in many respects . This ultra-liberal university-community ( which it hates to be called but the university does run the city , and has for quite awhile ) was shocked out of its " peace-and-love " haze of pot smoke in the late ' 80s and early ' 90s when a Hispanic man , active in the city's Waterfront Commission , " brutally hacked one person to death after coming close to killing two other people . The latter was husband-and-wife Robert and Barbara Mishell . Robert , a research scientist working at Cal-Berkeley , survived okay until his death just several weeks ago ( April 5th ) and his wife - to this day - still hasn't been able , literally , to speak . Zambrano was getting threatening calls from someone about his adultery and thought it was the professor and his wife . After the usual City Confidential profile of the area , in which CC shows us many of the wackos that make up this town , particularly on Telegraph Avenue were " misfits and outcasts " proliferate , which is what happened when the University's influence mushroomed in the mid ' 60s and thereafter . Berkeley citizens pride themselves on their diversity and " accepting ways , " so they were more than happy to see an Hispanic man , Enrique Zambrano , make good . Unfortunately , this man - and every race has them - turned out to be a psychopath murderer . Meanwhile , Mr . Mishell remembers waking up and finding the back of his head all bloody . He then discovered his wife lying in a pool of blood in another room . The last thing Mishell remembered was Zambrano , who he had hired to work on the patio next to the family swimming pool , had visited him that night . To condense the story , Zambrano was a real hothead . His violent outbursts after becoming a commissioner of the Waterfront Commission were getting attention . If he didn't have a level - headed friend named Luis Reyna , who knows if he wouldn't have punched people out at the meetings . Anyway , the really interesting part of this story is what happens after Reyna hears about the professor and his wife being beaten senseless . He knows his friend did it . Two months later , he goes to the cops and Zambrano is arrested . A short time after , a Liberal judge named Julie Croger , reduces Zambrano's bail from one million dollars to $150 , 000 which the killer has raised . Now , he's out on bail , and poor Mr . Reyna is panicking , fearing for his life . As it turned out , Reyna had good reasons to feel that way . The poor man was not only killed but chopped into pieces . Zambrano then fled the country and wasn't arrested again until over a year later when he was tracked down , thanks to the TV program " America's Most Wanted . " The program details what happened in this bizarre set of circumstances , and then the results of the trial and how all of them has made even ultra-tolerant Berkeley a little less trusting of people .
Good Mix Of Humor & Suspense	A pizza men is 40 minutes late delivering a pizza to Natalie , her daughter and Monk . Natalie notices the man left her a $50 bill by mistake , rushes out to tell him , but he had just driven away . She follows him and discovers him parked in the middle of the city , dead in his vehicle . . . . but he's not the guy who delivered the pizza . She spends the rest of the show trying to find out what's going on here . There is another story , a bigger one that all the cops are in on as a prominent female judge is missing . Capt . Stottlemeyer has to bring all the evidence into Monk's bedroom so he'll look at it and help solve the case . Much of the show is devoted to how Monk's illness which , of course , he makes into a huge production . His carrying on and actions while suffering no more than a bad cold are pretty ludicrous , as you can imagine if you've seen this show before . The ending is suspenseful and the episode overall is very entertaining .
That's Why They Called Her Fat-ima !	Trudging through the snow , Felix does not look happy , especially when he sees a big billboard advertising " See Egypt - Land Of Sunshine And Warmth . " " I'd give four of my lives to be there , " he tells us ( through comic-strip-type dialog since this is a silent movie ) . Felix then moves on , shivering before stopping at " Abdul Ahmed's " antique store when he hears someone loudly crying inside . It's the store owner , who laments " I just got word that my sweetheart in Egypt is in the Shiek's clutches . " ( " Shiek " is a title you only seem to hear in the silent movie era . ) Felix spots a magic carpet in the store and tells the owner , " Don't worry . I'll go to Egypt and rescue her ! " He says the magic word ( after missing the first time ) and off he goes ! This whole story is totally implausible but , hey , that's a cartoon for you . In here , Felix can translate hieroglyphics , find a note by the captive " Fatima " in the first 20 seconds upon arrival in Egypt , talk to a camel , have the camel drink the entire Nile river and much more ! I loved the dancing mouse and poor Felix's attempts at trying to get the huge Fatima on the magic carpet . The ending is very unpredictable and funny . Obese people would not think this is humorous . This cartoon was part of a collection of in the " Presenting Felix The Cat - The Otto Messmer Classics - 1919-1924 " DVD , with original organ score by Dave Wickersham .
Very Strange And Extremely Entertaining	Wow ! This has to be one of the more unusual movies I've ever seen , one that is leaves you shaking your head in amazement . I am hesitant to say too much for fear of ruining this for anyone who hasn't seen it . There is so much one could write , pro and con , about the material in here . Suffice to say if you like modern-day film noir , or " neo noir , " as its often called . . . . . then check this out . An hour after watching this , I was still muttering to myself , " Man , I can't believe what I just saw . This was a wild two hours . " I think that's the best recommendation I can give : this is pure entertainment , two hours of a story that grabs you right from the start and never lets go ; a very involving story . Kevin Costner and William Hurt are tremendous in here , and worth the price of the rental alone . The whole cast was good but the dialog between those two guys - one real and one imaginary - have to be heard to be believed . There are a few parts I would have changed , including the ending , and I didn't particularly care for most of the characters but overall this is so fascinating a story and so entertaining , it didn't matter what I thought of the characters . If you want something entertaining , a little thought-provoking , edgy-yet-moralistic , good acting and photography , this is a pretty good value for your rental money .
Monk Fits In . . . . . For Awhile	A man is crouched down besides a parked car in an indoor garage next to a big office building . The attendant spots him , goes over to see what he's doing , knows he's up to something and starts to call the police . The intruder shoots and kills him . A minute later , an office executive walks to his car . The intruder puts a gun to his back but instead of killing him , makes the man open his car and slam the door on his hand ! , breaking it ! , of course . While the man screams in pain , the intruder flees . That executive , " Warren Kemp " hires Monk to find out to did this and Monk goes undercover in the office . Monk loves the routine , cubicle existence and actually fits in here with the workers . He's thrilled to actually be accepted by other people . That , unfortunately , comes to a halt because of a bowling match . This was another fine episode . It had a lot of facets to it , including a possible romance and a good look into human nature . Christopher Nieman was particularly entertaining as the idiot office nerd .
Monk : ' Marathon Man '	There are two stories-in-one here , at least at the beginning . It turns out , of course , there is a connection . Overall , it's a very good episode , a fun one for the most part . We have the normal dramatic opening . Here , a robbery of an armored truck , and the armored guys killed ( we don't see that ) . After the commercial break , we have Lt . Randy Disher having a major toothache and going to the dentist . While under , anesthesia ( but partially aware of what's going on ) , he witnesses the dentist getting into a big fight with someone who had just come into the room . Randy tells Capt . Stottlemeyer , Monk and Natalie about it but no one believes him . In frustration , and tired of being the butt of jokes , he quits the force ! Despite those serious scenes , it's a funny show with Monk at the dentist office , first as a visitor and second as an unwilling " Marathon Man " participant and Randy trying to be a rock star ( in his mind ) .
Shalhoub & Turturro Make For Fascinating Brothers	A little mousy-looking guy comes out of a small grocery store and follows a cop to the latter's Brinx-type vehicle , asks him for a light and then shoots and kills him . That's the opening scene . It turns out the man never looked in the truck so robbery wasn't the motive . We then switch to the next " story " being that Monk's father , who he and his brother Ambrose haven't seen in years , is visiting to city on Halloween night and is going to meet them at Ambrose's house at 8 . Just before that , with Adrian , Natalie and her daughter all at the bizarre house of the bizarre Ambrose ( John Turturro ) , a small " Frankenstein Monster " appears at the door , clubs Ambrose over the head and takes candy . Later , the man does the same thing a bunch of kids in a park . Monk discovers the only kids robbed of their candy are the ones who visited Ambrose's house . Also , Monk discovers a the same clue that he saw at the murder scene . What is going on ? Why is this wacko stealing candy and killing someone ? This was an excellent episode , combining suspense , humor and sentimentality . There is a lot of warmth to this story . I hope Turturro and his character are in more episodes because the two he's been in have been terrific shows .
Wow , This Is Amazing Considering When It Was Made	This was my first-ever look at a cartoon that was made during the Silent Film Era . Boy , it was different . Dated ? Sure , but there were some cool aspects to this film , made 85 years ago . If you think mixing live shots with animation is something that came along with " Who Framed Roger Rabbit , " I have news for you - they were doing it ( or trying ) way back in the early 1920s . They mixed some live footage - such as fans at baseball game or pictures of skyscrapers - in with the animation . So , we saw " Willie Brown , " a little boy being chased up a skyscraper by a policeman . Yes , it wasn't exactly state-of-the-art graphics but it wasn't bad . Later , we see Felix get in a game , take a train , etc . It was still crazy stuff you could only see in a cartoon , question marks coming out of Felix The Cat's brain and then Felix jumping on top of those question marks to get to the top of a building to visit Willie in jail , or other typically-impossible things only possible in animated movies . The story simply involves the home baseball team , " The Nifty Nine " playing the " Tar Heels " ( a black team . The cartoon is a little racist . ) . The game is at The Polo Grounds , where the New York Giants played for years . You see real-life shots , once again , of the fans and the stadium . Back to the animation , we see a a clever ending to this as Felix comes up with a plan on how to save the home team from getting clobbered by the opponents . Overall , this was very entertaining . It's also a curiosity piece because it's primitive and different from stuff we saw in succeeding decades . This cartoon was part of a collection of in the " Presenting Felix The Cat - The Otto Messmer Classics - 1919-1924 " DVD , with original organ scores by Dave Wickersham . Thanks to the restoration job , the print quality is pretty darned good , too , considering the age of this animated short .
Monk Helps Out A Different Kind Of Inspector	I love the opening to this . Monk is buying a shirt , his normal , customary shirt . Monk looks for " Dennis , " his normal salesman but it seems Dennis has quit because some unknown customer was driving him nuts . Hmm . Anyway , Monk wants the same size , the same print - and - won't accept the shirt unless the little tag inside the shirt says " Inspected by No . 8 . " He knows " Inspector 8 " is the best . The salesman finds one that matches all of the criteria but there is a flaw in the shirt . Horrified , Monk winds up going to the place they make and inspect the shirts and tracks down " No . 8 " to see what's wrong . He's right ; there is something wrong . " Maria , " the inspector , is extremely upset because her son Pablo was accused of a murder he didn't commit ( so she obviously can't focus on her work . ) . Monk would prefer she just focus on her work so he can get his perfect shirts , but Natalie talks him into investigating the case . This episode has a big-name guest star , Malcolmn McDowell , who plays snotty fashion designer " Julian Hodge . " Monk and the crew go behind-the-scenes of high fashion modeling to find out if Maria's son is innocent . Along the way , Natalie's 13-year-old daughter Julie gets a taste of modeling . This was a very interesting story with a neat twist at the end .
A Diverse Offering Of Blues Talent ; Don't Overlook The Extra Songs	Overall , this recent concert was good and offered a wonderful group of diverse artists . I had never heard of about a half dozen of these performers and really liked a lot of the " new " faces ( to me ) . They ranged from a few old-time gentlemen to a couple of young women . Macy Gray blew me away with her rendition of " Hound Dog . " I also had no idea Natalie Cole could belt out the blues as she did . Wow , that was a pleasant surprise , as were the two Aerosmith performers , Steve Tyler and Joe Perry . I thought they were just rock / heavy metal-type guys . Wrong . Kim Wilson on harmonica was great , and Buddy Guy playing guitar is always awesome . How about the band ? There were some heavy hitters in there and they left no doubt what a great time they were having helping out most of these performers . The only negative to this DVD , as a few others have pointed out , is the ridiculous rendition by Chuck D of a John Lee Hooker classic . Plus , he made things worse by turning the song into some really lame anti-war diatribe . This is where the expression , " Shut Up And Sing " takes hold . There is always some moron who has to get political , where it's not the forum for that sort of thing . The real question is , " Why was this included in the DVD while so much other good music was not included ? " Anyway , B . B . King finishes up the disc on a positive note and then Bonnie Raitt and Robert Cray join him as the ending credits roll . This is more of a concert than a documentary but the songs are short , too short for my tastes since I enjoyed them so much but , hey , there were a lot of " acts " to squeeze into this 103 - minute DVD , so I understand . I'd rather have paid more and had a two-disc DVD and heard the entire night's offering . That would be awesome . Speaking of that , don't forget the extra bonus tracks on the " features " part of the DVD . There is some excellent music in this , some of it , I found , better than many of the performances on the main concert . The two Aerosmith dudes , Greg Allman and guitarist Warren Haynes , Buddy Guy doing another number and a " 21st Century Blues " rendition of " Revelation , " featuring Chris Thomas King . These extra songs are not to be missed . Any fan of blues , I would suspect , would want this in his or her collection .
" Judge Betty " Doles Out Justice	Wow , Betty is having a bad day . It starts off well , with our girl singing her usual uplifting song en route to the bus stop on her way to work . However , some idiot keeps saying hello and slapping her too hard on the back . Then she gets on the bus and two busybodies have their noses in her newspaper . Then some slob blows cigar smoke in her face and then a fat lady almost sits on top of her . To cap things off , when she gets off the bus , the inconsiderate idiot in a car races by and splashes mud all over her . Betty is still fuming at work . Apparently she works in a court room because while tiding up at the judge's desk , she dons the robe and fantasizes about taking care of these " pests . " She has been muttering about " all these pests in town and I wish I was a judge and could do something about them . " Well , we then see her fantasy and what she'd like to see happen to these obnoxious , rude people . It's pretty wild , and so is the ending . It's another solid Betty Boop cartoon , meaning fun to watch .
Fascinating Quirky Film	Here is one more somewhat-unknown film I wish got more notice , although I'm not sure how many would like it because it's so different . It's a bizarre combination of humor and tragedy , of supernatural and straight drama . It's just an odd mix , but I find it very , very interesting and I've seen it three times , equally fascinated each time . The movie goes back and forth between drama and comedy which makes unsettling for some viewers , but not me . It kept me on my toes , so to speak , even with those multiple viewings . Also in here is another example of how good comedians can be in dramatic roles , in this case , veteran comic Jerry Lewis . Oliver Platt plays his son , and does an outstanding job as the main figure in this film . The comedy is really provided by others , most notably the most tragic figure in the film : " Jack Parker , " effectively played by Lee Evans . There is really is no way to adequately explain this strange film in a few paragraphs . I would just say if you are looking for something different , give this a try . And stay with it , even if the first half hour is not to your liking . You will be rewarded .
Strong Epic Film Which Got Shafted At Oscar Night	What a powerful story ! It's hard to believe this epic movie - three hours in length - was nominated for eight Academy Awards and came away with nothing . It seems unjust . Well , not everything is " just " in this dramatic story , either . Good people die , bad people live . Incredible joy and sorrow are but a few minutes away . The story is well-told and thus keeps your attention , is well-acted and is nicely - filmed . My only complaint was the last 13 minutes when the film got a little too political and , of course , tilted to the Left as films tend to do . Otherwise , I throughly enjoyed the experience of watching this long movie , and sorry I didn't watch this years ago . Well , better late than never , is all I can say . This movie is worthy of any serious film collector's attention . Robert Wise directed and he did a fabulous job . I just love some of the shots and camera angles in this widescreen production , which was done justice in a recently - - released two - disc DVD . The cinematography was by Joseph MacDonald . I'm sorry he didn't win an Oscar . The story has something for everyone : several action scenes , two romances , a little humor , some flag waving and flag disparaging , and a lot of drama and intrigue . I also found two interesting character studies : " Jake Holman , " by lead actor Steve McQueen , and " Captain Collins - , " with Richard Crenna . Both men delivered numerous surprises . There also is a lot of hostility by the Chinese toward the " invaders , " the Americans . China's revolution during the period this story takes place ( md ' 20s ) had two factions : the Nationalists , led by Chiang Kai-shek , and the Communists . The former was generally a peaceful organization , the latter , pretty violent . Neither one wanted outsiders running their country any longer . The cast - well-known and not-so well - - known , was solid from McQueen on down . I think it was odd to hear Richard Attenborugh with an American accent but he did a nice job with it . Crenna played the most interesting character , in my opinion , as captain hard to figure . As for the supporting actors , Simon Oakland ( " Stawski " ) and Mako ( " Po-han " ) stood out to me . I'm not going get into the story , as enough reviewers have already done that . Photograhy-wise , it was nice to see most of this shot outdoors , not on some studio lot or sound-stage . I enjoyed all of the shots of the ship , the " San Pablo . " The new DVD sports an outstanding transfer . Audiby , i's advertised as 4 . 0 sound but there is no rear speaker audio in here , so 3 . 0 would be more accurate . Overall , a memorable story and highly-recommended .
Popeye Can " Stands No More "	That's all I can stand ' cause I can't stands no more ! " That'a line Popeye would use many times over in the hundreds of cartoons after this one , but it's first used here as he watches a hypnotist on stage make a fool out of Olive . Miss Oyl is made to imitate a chicken by the hypnotist , our old buddy Bluto , who is " The Great Hypnotist " in this episode . When Popeye's had enough , he jumps on stage and the cartoon really gets wild after that with both guys making total fools of the other . . . . and the packed audience loving every minute . This was a humorous Popeye , entertaining all the way .
A Beautiful Look At The ' 40s During WWII	I acquired this mainly because it is a beautifully-filmed period piece centered around World War II . There are several train station scenes that I think about when recalling this film . They are a couple of the highlights of the fine cinematography and set designs in here . Overall , the movie had nice 1940s feel to it with the cars , dress , hairstyles and colors . It also is good to see this on widescreen DVD . The story also is interesting but not exactly plausible in one major regard : Melanie Griffith as a spy . sorry , but the bimbo-like quality of Melanie's voice , doesn't lead credence to playing this kind of character . I just can't picture her as some super-intelligent spy , but maybe she's a lot smarter than the roles she usually plays . Otherwise , this is a well-done , involving suspense film that I enjoy from start to finish .
Liked The Dialog Between ' Clavo ' And ' H '	" Eric Delko " ( Adam Rodriguez ) fights for his life as the second part of this two-part story begins . The writers always dramatize things to the hilt so they make it appear Eric is next to dead , before reviving him . The next task is the find the shooter and to get Clavo Cruz , who is still on the loose and with a hostage . The hostage situation turns out to be an interesting one , with a twist you won't see coming . The rest of the story has the cat-and-mouse game between CSI and Clavo - with great dialog between he and Horatio , and a story about " blood diamonds " being in back of a number of things here . Overall , a solid episode and we find out Eric is going to make it , but he may not be the old Eric . Stay tuned for more on that .
' Muscles ' Bowls ' Em Over	A mouse named " Muscles ? " Yup , he's here and just hearing that name makes you figure this is going to be a funny Tom and Jerry episode . . . and it is . " Muscles " is a relative of Jerry's and gets the call when Tom is being unusually nasty to the mouse we all know . Muscles , a tough guy with a bowler hat , lives elsewhere and is so tough he beats up all the alley cats and is feared by them all . Once he arrives at Tom and Jerry's place he wastes no time with our famous cat . He tells him plain as can be to stop messing with Jerry . . . . or else . Tom realizes he's in for a battle and immediately begins to train with weights to build up his muscles . The battle is on . Need I remotely suggest who wins ? Regardless of winners and losers , this was a very entertaining cartoon and actually not as violent as I've seen in many other T & J cartoons . The storyline is just that , but I thought the comedy routines , just as Tom literally turning into ten bowling pins and then back into a cat , were emphasized more than anything .
Interesting Story Of An Amazing Athlete	This was an enjoyable , interesting biography and another instance of Burt Lancaster giving an intense acting performance . Sure , this is revisionist history here but it did show both the good and bad sides of Thorpe , one of America's all-time greatest athletes who excelled almost a century ago . Some still think he is the best athlete ever in the history of the United States . Lancaster was in great shape to play Thorpe which helped make him look convincing as a top athlete . Charles Bickford was very good as " Pop Warner , " Thorpe's dedicated coach and a famous sports figure in his own right . Phyllis Thaxter was wholesomely attractive as Jim's wife . None of the leading actors who were Native Americans , as Thorpe was , are played by actual Indians but that's classic Hollywood . It takes away from some of the realism of the film . The movie features a good mix of melodrama and sports and interesting characters . It's good entertainment .
A Brutal-Yet-Touching Film	For a martial arts picture , " Unleashed " was above average because it had some heart and soul to it . . . . . not just people beating the crap out of one another for two straight hours . However , be wary of those who claim this isn't an action film . That's not true : there is a lot of action , quite a bit of brutality and profanity , mostly by Bob Hoskins ' character " Bart " in this movie . Hoskins plays profane , nasty slave-owner who has locked up and trained " Danny " ( Jet Li ) to be the ultimate fighting machine . Once Danny is " unleashed " ( literally ) he's a killer and helps the gangster Bart in his criminal work . Then , in a moment of further greed , Hoskins agrees to enter his man in a death match with a lot of money at stake . That match turns out to be a farce with Danny winning in a matter of seconds . The other promoter wants a rematch , and with more entertainment . In the meantime , however , Danny escapes his captors and winds up at the house of an older blind American , " Sam , " played by Morgan Freeman . He and his 18-year-old daughter " Natalie " ( Kelly Condon ) befriend young Danny , slowly bringing him out of his " animal " state . Everyone discovers Danny has some very human characteristics and is basically a nice , gentle guy . The family helps uncover that through music ( piano playing , to be exact ) . These are all touching scenes . But then - and this is almost a cliché in these kind of films - the bad guy comes back , snatches him away and his former bad life comes back . . . . except Danny is a changed man . How he can get out of this latest predicament and what happens to this new " adopted " family , takes up the rest of the story . That last part has the same thing : ultra-violent and touching scenes . Jet Li does an excellent job in here , not only displaying his amazing physical talents but also showing us he has warmth in his face and heart . Overall : a brutal , yet touching film : an odd combination .
Betty's Show , Whole Cartoon - Very Entertaining	This is primarily one song-and-dance routine by Betty , but I really enjoyed the prelude , so to speak , in which she finished one act and flew in her own plane all the way over to Japan for the big number . The airplane made me laugh out loud several times , sprouting legs and running down the runway , getting ahead of itself mid-flight , etc . There were a lot of good sight gags with that plane . Then , Betty performs the title song to a sold-out audience in Japan and leaves . The song is good and so is the presentation , with little dancing people-lamps and other props . Betty sang song " catchy " tunes in her day . This is entertaining . . . . . all of it .
Extremely Colorful , A Fun Film Enchanced By Emma's Title Role	This was a pleasant surprise , much better than I anticipated . I figured Emma Thompson would be good in the title role because you can usually count on her to be entertaining in form or another , cerebrally , emotionally or comically . What I didn't figure on was the fun , extremely colorful story , overall . This was like a banana split for your senses - all kinds of wild treats for the eyes and ears . . . . . to taste , so to speak . This film features outrageous color schemes from the word " go , " from the interior of the " Brown's " house , to everyone's apparel to the scenery outside . It almost reminded me " The Cat In The Hat " with its crazy colors . All the characters are as exaggerated as the colors , too . The kids may be brats but they aren't bad once they get some needed discipline and love from Nanny McPhee . They are still fun to watch , and all are quite different in appearance and mannerisms . Thompson is a howl as Mary Poppins-like McPhee and so are the supporting characters . There were no sappy songs , either . This is not a musical . The only character annoying to me was the kids ' dad , played by Colin Firth . The actor was fine but his character was so wishy-washy , so wussy , he was barely tolerable for much of the film . By the way , you might not recognize the famous Angela Lansbury in here . Everyone , including her , must have had a great time filming this movie . Only the final wedding segment got carried away with juvenile silliness ; the rest was fun for adults and well as the kids , who must have loved this all the way through . This is simply good entertainment and highly recommended .
The Inspector Is No Match For ' Moose '	The famous criminal , " Toulouse La Moose . " has escaped to Cherbourg after jumping bail He is apprehended there and the Inspector is given the assignment to bring him back to Paris . Our hero handcuffs the big crook , thinking that will stop him from getting loose again . Wrong . After a mishap on " The Orient Express , " what ensues is a long scene in which the big , strong thief literally drags the Inspector around the countryside and the two of them wind up getting more than their share of lumps in humorous ways as they strive to free themselves from the handcuffs . This was another good one , three in a row in this set . It's on the DVD " The Pink Panther Classic Cartoon Collection , Vol . 6 - Inspector Cartoons . " Note : It was the first Inspector cartoon in which there was no " Deux-Deux . " Once again , I enjoyed the artwork in here as we followed these two guys through streets , trains and haystacks . The episode ended with a great pun , too !
' Shane ' And ' Messer ' Make It Memorable	At first I thought , " What's the big deal ? " Usually , the opener is a bit shocking , but this nothing seemed out of the ordinary . . . . . until the criminal they just caught was one of the CSI guys : " Sheldon Hawkes " ( Hill Harper ) . Well , you know they've got the wrong guy . He just happened to be wearing the same green hood the " perp " was wearing , was the same skin color and had a big wad of cash on him . How is Sheldon going to get out of this mess , with his crew's help , of course , remains to be seen . Somebody set him up , big-time . The cool part of that story is that the man who did this was just in an episode a few weeks ago and escaped out of custody . It's our buddy " Shane Casey , " played by that " Termintor 2 " punk kid , Edward Furlong ( who is now 30 years of age . ) A secondary story involves a murder at a porno shop on 42nd Street called " Peepin ' Tom's . " It's okay , but the other story totally dominates to the point where this one is superfluous , although the two stories connect . One note : the captain in this episode is an idiot and the type of guy Hollywood likes to show in that position , someone that would not see in real life . Thankfully , we only have two short scenes with him . The ending was excellent , very suspenseful and featured excellent acting by Furlong and Camine Giiovinazzo ( " Danny Messer " ) . It helped make this an excellent episode , start-to-finish .
Leaves You Shaking Your Head !	This is an excellent modern-day film noir . . . . " excellent " in that it's interesting , start-to-finish . There are some holes in here and some goofy parts that make you shake your head in disbelief . . . . . but I haven't found anyone who didn't get caught up in this story . The movie has the right amount of action , suspense , plot twists and interesting characters . In addition , it sports some nice colors and cinematography plus a good guitar-based soundtrack . I labeled this crime movie a " film noir " because it's gritty and the all the characters are no good . Even the only supposed-good guy , played by Nicholas Cage , gets himself in trouble by lying and has a quick affair he should't have . He also does something at the end which isn't right , but I'm not going the spoil it by saying . Suffice to say , however , that the rest of the characters are so bad they make Cage look good ! Speaking of " bad guys , " does anyone do it better than Dennis Hopper ? Not many . At least in the " deranged " category , he's tough to beat . Lara Flynn Boyle is fun to watch for a bunch of reasons . J . T . Walsh gives another great supporting performance , too . This is one of those films that never got much publicity , but it should have . You'll have fun watching this . By the way , try saying the name of this movie out loud three times fast without messing it up !
Slow Start , But Once The Game Is Played It's Hilarious	The first half of this is explaining , through some somewhat-amusing examples , the basics of baseball : hitting , pitching , the different kinds of pitches , etc . The really funny part begins when they show the bottom of the ninth inning of the last game in the World Series . It's The Gray Sox versus the Blue Sox . One team is leading 3-0 and their pitcher is throwing a no-hitter . What happens after that is hilarious as the losing team creeps back into the game with a climactic finish . The scenario is completely exaggerated for a humorous effect and it works . I found myself laughing out loud at a few of the scenes . This short starts off slowly and gets better and better as it goes on .
SRV Makes For A Great Workout !	It took me a couple of viewings to fully appreciate this concert . It sounded like too much of the same thing over and over but , man , it gets better and better with each viewing . . . . and the louder you play it the better it sounds , too ! Vaughan and his boys are seen and heard at the El Mocambo nightclub in Toronto in 1983 . It was small intimate place and SRV must have made it sound deafening . The first 40 minutes are about as good a rocking time as you ask for , and it makes a great workout video if you're on an aerobics machine . In fact , I can't think of a better workout tape . Visually , the most memorable scenes are probably with Stevie Ray playing the guitar from behind his back and behind his head ! The man was talented ! The only song I didn't care for was " Third Stone From the Sun , " but that was past my 40-minute workout anyway . Earlier , he did another Jimi Hendrix number that was much more preferable : " Voodoo Chile . " Vaughn was the only guitarist I've heard that could a decent imitation of Henrix . ( There may be more that I don't know about . )
Simply Nice Feel-Good Film	This was a very pleasant surprise , a nice movie with one of the simplest " plots " you'll ever see yet one that was fun to watch develop . There are no nasty characters . They aren't all goody-goodies , either , but they're all interesting people to watch . The story is simply about a pair of cartographers ( map makers ) who measure a " hill " in Wales and much to the displeasure of the locals , it isn't tall enough to be considered a mountain , which is what the townsfolk always considered it . So , the locals work together to build it up so it will qualify to be officially labeled a mountain . Sounds simple and even stupid , but it isn't . Along the way , a romance buds between Hugh Grant and Tara Fitzgerald . There also is some nice cinematography in here . Some might find it boring but I didn't . There was just something about this , a charm that made me feel good as I watched it and had me smiling even more by the end . This is a " sleeper , " a movie you might pass up . . . . . but don't .
Fighting Over A Veiled Girl	Before I get into the story , I have to comment about the artwork in here . It was fantastic ; the best I've seen so far in these black-and-white episodes . The detail work alone was astounding and must have taken a lot of effort . Popeye is getting tired of the life of a bachelor . The last straw was burning the dinner . " It's no use , I have to get me a wife , " he says . Popeye then goes down to the " Matrimonial Agency " where the clerk tells him to pick out someone on the wall ( there are pictures of a lot of women . ) He sees a photo which also says " Anxious to Meet A Real Man . I am Good Cook . " It's Olive Oyl , of course . And , of course , Bluto just happens to be in the store and looks at Olive's picture at the same time . What a coincidence ! The fight over Olive - who has a veil over her face until the very end - produces some funny moments . The action moves from the Agency , down the street and into the Justice Of The Peace and has a very good ending that I won't spoil . Suffice to say , I wish it was the kind of ending seen in Popeye cartoons in later decades .
Brooks ' Farce Provides Lots To Like	This was another entertaining Mel Brooks farce , a la Young Frankenstein and Blazing Saddles . If you liked those , you'd like this . Peter MacNichol almost steals the show in this film as " Renfield . " He just drives me buggy . Leslie Nielsen , who revived his career later in life playing goofy roles , also is very good , this time as ' Dracula . " Actually , I thought he was far better in here than in those other spoofs , such as the " Naked Gun " series . It may be his best comedic role . The two women in here , Amy Yasback and Lysette Anthony , are beautiful , and well-endowed as Brooks - and a lot of us guys - likes ' em . They are in the film for their looks while the other two provide the laughs . Story-wise , it's just a light-hearted look at the story of Dracula , told many times in the films , mostly in the serious vein ( pun intended ) except for " Love At First Bite " which was similar in laughs to this . After watching this film , I could never look at garlic or blood the same way ! When you need some good laughs and nothing else , this will fill the need for an hour-and-a-half .
Two Intense Stories , And A History Lesson	There are two stories here and the unusual thing is that the domestic one is the main story , over the " action " segment . Perhaps that's because it has to do with Jonas Blane's family , so that usually gets top priority on this show . It's a bit of a soap opera and a preaching effort from the racial standpoint as see ( a ) a young male husband as a bad-guy ( wife beater ) and ( b ) racism against blacks back in the Army in the Korean War . That part has to do with the title , " Silver Star , " the award given Jonas father , 52 years late as they point out numerous times . Am I imagining things or has this show suddenly taken a left turn politically the last few weeks ? We have had several stories with the U . S . government and political guys as the villains , along with Tiffy beginning to do work with a self-described left wing protester , and other things . I would prefer no bias , just straight military stories , but Liberal slants seem to be inserted in so many other shows , it wouldn't shock me if they started that baloney here , too , but I would be very disappointed as I like this program . I did enjoy listening to Jonas give the kid some really intense , short speeches . No one can deliver dramatic lines like Dennis Haysbert ! It's no shock he's the star of this show . There are some touching scenes with Dennis as a young boy and an incident involving his father . Mixed messages are sent on that incident : good and bad . The " action " segment is very dramatic as Bob and Mack try to talk down a man who is trying to fly a plane after the pilot is mysteriously found dead . The man says he's a former Ranger but Mack and Bob have their doubts . . . . yet something strange is going on . This guy is part of some secret operation and has a lot on his mind he wants to confess , if these guys can talk him down . The ending to this part was kind of a shock . In all , both stories were very intense , making this an above-average episode .
It's Enough To Drive An Irish Dog To Drink	This is different in that we get two Droopy dogs : he and his twin brother " Drippy . " In this story , Droopy is working for a butler in a big mansion and the butler is going to be away for a few days . He needs a replacement and Droopy gets Drippy to handle the chores . Drippy sounds like Droopy but is a lot more physical . You can tell by the little derby on his head which tough guys apparently used to wear in the 30s and 40s . You can also tell when Drippy enters the mansion by punching holes through the door ! No stranger is allowed in the house is the rule number one , Drippy is told . Guess who wants to hide in the house for a few days ? Yup , our old friend " Spike . " My favorite bad guy-bulldog also has a derby and speaks with an Irish accent in this cartoon ! He made me laugh just listening to him . He's always funny as it is but an Irish brogue , he's really good ! Spike's first plan is to hoodwink Drippy into giving him food . He gets his answer quickly , belted a few hundred yards with Drippy's only remark being " no strangers . " The gag for most of the cartoon is Drippy doing his job of making sure there are " no strangers " while Droopy being a nice guy and trying to help the big dog . All the time , the poor bulldog has no idea Droopy has that slugger for a twin brother . All he knows is that one minute everything is good , the next minute he's getting clobbered . Whatever . . . . . it's funny material and I actually felt sorry for poor , clueless Spike who takes some brutal ( but laugh - out-loud ) beatings ! p . s . His double-take at the end of the cartoon is one of the best I've seen .
This Show Had Several Very Interesting Aspects	Stories involving the dismantling of a bomb with lives in danger are always riveting . I have yet to see one that wasn't , and this episode is no exception . It was neat to see how " Hector " traded places with a guy who couldn't move a muscle or he would set the bomb . ( I am not giving anything away because now poor Hector is now on the spot ! ) . Also , there are tense scenes with Col . Ryan escorting a dignitary down a blown-out elevator shaft , and well as other tense moments . All of this takes place at the United Nations . In a secondary story , Molly and Tiffany are in Vietnam trying to see if they can find a long - lost MIA . A woman they knew back home received an offer that , for $5 , 000 , her son would be located . In the third story , the immoral Crystal , who looks and talks like a 14-year-old comes over to Mack's house since Tiffany is out of the country and he wants to have nothing to do with her . I guess he got a change of conscience after banging her in the car the previous night in this TV show which turned into the semi soap opera the past month . The Vietnam story turned out to be very interesting , and another case of a very selfish person . The UN mayhem turned out to be revenge over a long-ago car accident which killed a man's son , so it wasn't anything something political . Overall , even with the " soap " story inserted with the irritating Cyrstal , is was a very entertaining episode .
Battle Of The Blacksmiths	Here's something unusual : a blacksmith shop run by a woman . It's the " Ye Blacksmith Shoppe , Olive Oyl , Proprietress . " She may be thin as a rail , but Olive is tough as she shows in the opening scene when she gets mad at Wimpy . After she boots him out for his incompetence , she puts a sign on the wall , " Blacksmith Wanted : Must Be Strong ! Handsome ! Willing ! " Popeye comes along , sees the sign , straightens hair and says , " That's for me ! " Unfortunately , Bluto , who owns a bar across the street , also sees the sign - and the competition is on as Olive tells , " Ok , show me what you guys can do ! " We then get a bunch of strongman-type contests where each guy tries to top the other , a familiar competition in Popeye cartoons over the years . The feats of strength that these two guys accomplish here are incredible . Once the action starts , it just keeps accelerating to a fantastic finish . . . . so many sight gags you can't count them all . This marks two straight totally insane , wild Popeye cartoons so it appears he's hit his stride here by 1934 . This is very entertaining stuff .
A ' Sleeper ' Of A Modern-Day Noir	This is one of those sleeper films , a good one that is not very well - known . . . . . but should be . I really liked this modern-day film noir when I first saw it over a decade ago and the three additional times since . The movie has all the features of a good noir , most of all a feeling of impending doom throughout , which a good noir exhibits . You know some bad things are going to happen , but you just don't know what and when . That uneasy mood runs throughout the film . Add some tough characters , great cinematography ( nice colors , too , in this case ) and even a good blues music score and you have an interesting film . The story here revolves around a ruthless American businessman trying to buy up an entire block of the businesses in one area in Britain . There's humor in here too with a goofy Polish jazz band , which looked and sounded just awful , and just enough action throughout to keep from getting too talky . Tommy Lee Jones , Melanie Griffith , Sting and Sean Bean star and all are fascinating to watch .
One Of The Most Unique Cartoons Ever	Wow , this was a shock - the real voices of Jack Benny and his TV stars : " Jack , " " Rochester , " " Mary " and " Don . " Mel Blanc voices " The Maxwell . " Anyway , it's strange to hear the real Jack Benny voice himself in this cartoon as we see him playing his violin early on and comparing himself ( favorably ) to the great violinist Isaac Stern . The jokes are typical Benny lines , except he's a mouse here so counts his cheese instead of his dollar bills . The extent to which he locks up the cheese is extremely funny . In this cartoon , we get all the regular Benny jokes and blank stares ! This is almost like watching the real Jack Benny Show . The ending of this cartoon makes this a unique Looney Tunes one - a real treasure for Benny fans . ( A hint : we see the actual Jack Benny ! )
The Mice And The Cat Turn ' Mental	It's nighttime at the Hunka Cheese Factory and Hubie and Berite have eaten all they can eat . Their stomachs are dragging on the ground , and they're almost gagging . Hubie points out , " The avenge mouse eats 12 pounds of cheese in a lifetime . I figured tonight , we've lived 2 , 000 years . " In their twisted way of thinking , they figured since they've eaten all the cheese they could eat , there is nothing left to live for , so they write a suicide note stating " Goodbye cruel world . ( signed ) Hubie , Bertie , P . S . we've lived a full life . " The funny stuff comes when the two crawl into the big ( and stupid ) Claude the cat's mouth . . . . but cat wakes up and thinks all of this is too good to be true , or a dream , and spits them out . It goes on from there and the mice keep trying to be eaten and the cat keeps being suspicious and spitting them out . The cat even runs into the house's library and looks up " Mental Diseases - Their Causes and Cures " thinking either he or these little mice are nuts . The ironic twist is that the cat winds up thinking he , too , should end it all . We also get a dog involved . A bizarre but clever cartoon that doesn't evoke a lot of laughs but has a unique story .
You , Too , Can Visit ' Field Of Dreams '	This is cool - a tour of the house and the field used in Field Of Dreams . The people who own and live in the house give tours of the place in Dyersville , Iowa . Actually , two families own the entire property but the Lansings own most of it and are featured in this " tour " that is part of the Anniversary Edition DVD . Boy , they've really made it a commercial production , with a souvenir building and a lot of signs , but that's okay because it least it has given thousands a people a chance to see this place and it is free of charge to use the diamond . I admit I would love to go out there and step on that diamond and sit on the bleachers looking out at the ballpark and cornfields . It has to be a thrill . The folks they interview all seem all excited . There is a local team , too ! They call themselves " The Ghost Players . " They come out of the cornfields and entertain the crowd . They have the same old uniforms . It's pretty amazing . They've become somewhat famous , traveling all over the world . Even in Japan there was a sign welcoming them saying , " If you build it , they will come . " I love it ! Unlike most bonus features on a film , this one features all " average " people being interviewed , those who own the property and some of the over one million people who have come to visit these " hallowed grounds " in Iowa .
A Headless Go-Kart Driver , A Dark Restaurant & Assorted Other Goodies	While " Sara " is being interviewed by " Conrad Ecklie " ( Marc Vann ) , head of the crime unit , on her no-no - meaning having a romantic relationship with a fellow employee " Grissom " ( William Petersen ) we wind up with two murders for this week's episode . The first is dramatically discovered when a severed head in a football helmet comes bouncing down the highway ! The other is a Hugh Hefner-type who is found with a fatal head wound while dining in a " dark restaurant . " Yes , dining in total darkness with blind waiters is the deal in this bizarre story , meaning " normal " for CSI . Interesting to see Karina Lombard again . ( " Pippa Sanchez " ) , the owner of the weird restaurant . I hadn't seen her since 1996 when she had a role in " Last Man Standing " with Bruce Willis . About 39 years old now , Karina looks better than ever and I liked her accent in this episode . Her bio here at IMDb notes she is fluent in five languages ! Meanwhile , is this the end of " Sara Sidle ? " Apparently as I think she made a remark to " Gil " at the end of the show about moving to Sweden or something . I may have heard wrong . She said she didn't want to mess up the CSI team with this " scandal " with " Grissom . " That's a shame ; she will really be missed . The regulars on this CSI show have been here now for eight years and any one of them leaving would be a big loss . ( I've watched this series strictly on DVD the last three years , so I'm a little behind the " real time " of these episodes . )
A Great Little Story That's Fun For Kids & Senior Citizens	This was a nice little half-hour movie , which reminded me a bit of another film of similar length that was popular 50 years ago : The Red Balloon . " Paddle To The Sea , " made 42 years ago , never got the publicity or achieved the popularity of " The Red Balloon " but if you liked the latter , you'll like this . I enjoyed them equally . This is a Canadian movie which begins by showing a boy whittling this amazing piece of work : an Indian - very stoic looking - sitting in his canoe . On the side of the boat , he asks that anyone who handles this piece of art , " please throw it back in the water . " The boy decides to let this boat go as far as it can in the water . Although he lives on a mountain , he knows once the ice of winter melts , the boat will slide down the steep hill into a small creek and then into a river , into a bigger river and , hopefully , all the way to Atlantic Ocean . We ( the camera ) follow the progress of this little toy boat through several seasons , some human contact , some contact with sea creatures and birds . The little boat navigates down small rivers , rapids , whirlpools , big rivers , small lakes , big lakes , canals . . . . you name it . Unlike most of the reviewers here , I never saw this movie as a kid . I am only seeing it now as a 60-year-old man , but I enjoyed it as much as any kid . This is " good stuff " that should appeal to anyone .
Sheen Shines In This Unique Classic	Well , I've watched this movie for over 25 years now and it's still almost as interesting as when I first saw it . It is definitely one of the most unique films ever made . I still think Martin Sheen got " dissed " big-time in the billing , too . He dominates the film yet gets lesser billing than Marlon Brando , who only appears in the last 30 minutes of this 2 hours , 17 minutes film ( theatrical version ) . How unfair is that ? Sheen is fantastic in here , especially his narration , which runs throughout . It's one of the best narrations , if not THE best , I have ever heard in a movie . His voice is just haunting as he relates his thoughts on this incredible , nightmare-like adventure . I never fail to appreciate his work in this movie . The other thing that strikes me about the film over the years are the number of memorable scenes , ones I have never forgotten , such as . . . . . . Sheen losing it in his hotel room in the movie's first scene ; Robert Duvall and the totally out-of-place surfing scenes and then the ensuing attack with Wagner's dramatic classical music blaring out of the helicopters ; The Playboy bunny entertaining the troops ; Frederic Forrest being freaked out seeing a tiger close up in the jungle ; the weird scenes on the long riverboat ride ; the appearance of hippie journalist Dennis Hopper greeting the crew in Cambodia and then Brando's bizarre character . It goes on and on with strange scenes . That's not to say I enjoyed everything . No , there are a few very unpleasant scenes , such as the one in which an ox is sliced in half ( can't watch that anymore ) , an innocent family is slaughtered on a small boat by Sheen's young stoned-out crew , and the crew is a little too goofy at times . Then , there is the huge amount of profanity , led by way too many f-words . So , there is a lot of good and a lot of bad things in this movie for almost anyone who watches this One thing for sure : it is a film you WILL remember !
A Well-Acted , Powerful Story	I thought this was a powerful movie about ' 60s radicals on the lam for 14 years and a crisis that develops when the family's 17-year-old son is talented enough to enter Juliard School Of Music which means , because of identity problems , they may never see him again . Judd Hirsch and Christine Lahti play the husband and wife and River Phoenix and Jonas Abry are their kids . There is excellent acting in this film and particularly by young Phoenix . The story shows us a good portrait of what it must be like to live in hiding . Politically , people will view this movie as they think ( conservative or liberal ) because it could be viewed a number of ways . To me , it showed the worst of what could have happened to young people in the ' 60s who believed they were doing the right thing but broke the law . . . . and paid the consequence . The sad part , as this shows so vividly , is how it affects the rest of the family and others . I think the most powerful scene in the film is when Lahti meets her dad after 14 years in hiding : very , very emotional stuff and one of the most intense short talking scenes I've ever seen on film .
The Most Entertaining Hot Dogs You've Ever Seen !	The bulk of this cartoon is a wild chase scene between Flip The Frog and a purse snatcher . Flip is a hot dog vendor at the circus and the opening gags are very funny . Where else but a cartoon to you see the following ? A customer approaches , and asks for one hot dog . Four little dogs come out and dance and the customer picks out his favorite . The hot dog is then told by Flip to lie down ( on the grill ! ) , roll over , then go over and dip his butt into a jar of mustard and then lie on top of a bun . The little hot dog then closes the top part of the bun on himself and waits to be eaten . On the first bite , though , he yells " ouch " and jumps out of the bun . . . . . only to be eaten by a nearby two-head Siamese twin ! That's the wacky world of these UB Iwerks " Flip The Frog " animated shorts , which is why I really enjoy a lot of these . Anyway , a pick pocket comes along , steals a few things and then gets spotted stealing an old woman's purse . The bulk of the cartoon is Flip going after the crook and the crazy scenes that ensue . The two of them go at it while a three-ring circus is in progress , so you get some very wild sight gags , such as the two opponents running up , down and around a big horse while chasing each other . You see them on roller-coaster type motorcycle events , or the high wire . Along the chase are numerous innocent victims , such as a guy who gets eaten by a lion , or another who gets flattened by an elephant . It's another frenetic Flip cartoon , which means it is fun to watch , and with a surprise ending . Definitely recommended .
The Gulf Isn't The Only Thing Muddied In Biloxi	The episode turns out to be quite complicated , much more than the average City Confidential . They must have simplified them after this premiere . We get a judge and his political wife murdered execution-style and those involved are a variety of people , from hired a hit-man to the mayor of the town and the victim's partner , the head of the local " Dixie Mafia " and to a guy already in jail running a homosexual scam . This story has a lot of weirdness to it and reaches into a number of areas , making this gambling city on the Gulf Coast look pretty sleazy . City Confidential doesn't help that image by showing several scenes of strippers and guys putting money into the girls's stockings while discussing this case ! ! Leave it to Liberal TV to make a grungy story even more sordid . Without going into too many details and ruining this for anyone else , I will say the most interesting people , in my opinion , were accused mayor and the daughters of the man killed . His wife , by the way , was going to run for mayor . Being an anti-gambling advocate , she had her enemies in this city which features gambling as a pretty big industry . Her husband , who frequented and represented as a defense attorney a number of people of questionable character , had his enemies , too . Thus , figuring out who killed them wasn't easy . Hiring someone else to commit a murder also makes it tougher to solve , according to a lawman interviewed . It's also tough to figure when your supposed good friend ( s ) are involved ! Yeah , this was a tough case . I don't believe I've ever seen an accused man smile so much and look so confident and smug as Pete Halat , the mayor , going in and out of the court house during the trial . In interviews today , he still is very relaxed and talks like nothing has ever happened . The only difference is that he's sprouted a pony tail , something he didn't do when he was being elected mayor . The history of Biloxi also was interesting , as were some of the scenic shots of the muddy waters of the Gulf Of Mexico and the contrast between some really nice places and a very seedy-looking strip that now has been replaced by big casinos . City Confidential made this look like it could be a rough town , but prosperous . Of course , that was shortly before Hurricane Katrina hit it , and it don't know the city's status at this time .
I Wish They Would Have Kept Going !	Our pink hero is searching for used cars in a lot when he discovers a James Bond-type Aston Martin vehicle with all the gadgets . This little sports car intrigues and impresses him , so he buys it . As in other Pink Panther cartoons , an inanimate object turns to be human-like , so when our guy brings his new car back home and begins to spray paint the front of it pink , the car balks ! It wants no part of this spray-paint job ! The car - not the Panther - winds up in a drag race against an old lady , who turns out to be " Granny Flash : senior citizens drag champion . " This was hilarious , thanks to Granny , and I hated to see it end so abruptly . They could have continued this for another full cartoon with the just race between the two cars .
Still Shocking After All These Years	Few movies shocked people like this one when it came out . Almost 35 years later , it will still shock you if you've never seen it . It's definitely recommended , but beware of some very gross scenes , brutal language and a sordid and genuinely frightening story . The special effects still hold up . They don't look dated and they are just as creepy . The story starts a bit slowly , but once in kicks in , it's tough to put this DVD on pause . This is still an intense , repulsive and scary movie filled with memorable scenes as a demon takes control over a young girl's body . Two things bothered me in the film that probably don't upset most people : way too much usage of the Lord's name in vain - almost all by the girl's mother , played by Ellen Burstyn . The second - and I am not Catholic - is the pitiful portrayal of yet-another Hollwood weak priest . This priest is smokes , drinks , swears , steals , etc . . etc , and is a pitiful excuse for a cleric : just the kind filmmakers love to portray . One priest - get this - says his idea of heaven is to be a nightclub performer for eternity and have everyone like him . Obviously , people who makes films have NO clue about " religion . " Not a single clue . But , this was ' 70 : the most irreverent film-making period in our history , so it's no surprise . However - to its credit - the film does an excellent job of convincing even the most ardent atheist that demons do exist , that there really is a devil , and that he is not to be taken lightly . It's no joke , and the shock value of this film might have gotten some people to start thinking there is something to all this " spiritual stuff . " Whatever your theology , or lack of it , this movie is one you will never forget . It is beyond anything seen before it or since . I recommend the DVD that advertises this as " The Exorist : The version you've never seen . " That's the best and most complete version of this terrifying film .
Still Very Funny & Entertaining	There is no set definition of the word " classic " but I'm sure this film qualifies as such or will in the near future , since it was so unique and popular . . . . and remains so today , over 20 years old later . It's just one of those films that you remember seeing when it came out at the theaters . I doubt if anyone has forgotten the catchy theme song , either . Despite numerous viewings , I still find this very funny as I suspect many people do , because it entertains so well . I know the story is ludicrous and I don't believe for one second in ghosts so I ignore the " theology " and just laugh at Bill Murray , Dan Ackroyd , Harold Ramis , Rick Moranis , Annie Potts and Ernie Hudson . Murray , as he tends to do , grabs the spotlight more than the rest and delivers more laughs than any of the cast but my favorite was Moranis as the nerdy " Louis Tully . " I wish his role had been bigger . All the guys , however , plus Sigourney Weaver , the love interest of the always-horny Murray , are fun . I even liked the sequel because most of this cast was included .
A Ground-Breaker In Sci-Fi / Horror	Usually I don't care for films that have nothing but unlikable characters and a lot of verbal blasphemy , but this was so well done that I just had to have this on a good DVD because I'll always watch this film every few years . It's just too interesting to ignore . The attractions are the incredible suspense ; excellent photography and set design and memorable horror scenes . They didn't overdo the action scenes , either , as is so often the case with modern-day films . In fact , some of this might be too slow-moving for today's audience . The suspense , as crew members search for the killer alien , is almost unbearable at times and helps make up for the profane cast , all of whom are low-life people who would never be astronauts in real life . I personally applauded when Veronica Cartwright , who had one of the nastiest faces and mouths on screen , met her demise . The rest of the crew wasn't much classier . Since this movie came out , in fact , the sequels to this plus many other science fiction films seem to portray astronauts as trashy people which is the opposite of reality and just plain ludicrous . Anyway , Alien a memorable movie to anyone who has seen it . Who can ever forget the alien emerging from John Hurt's chest ? That's a scene that stays with you forever . Others have tried to imitate the horror of that scene , but never quite been as successful . The restored DVD gives this 25-year-old film a new appearance . It looks fabulous and really highlights the great cinematography and superb direction by Ridley Scott . This is just great entertainment if you want to spend a night on the edge of your seat .
' Pop " Goes Curly !	This very early Three Stooges effort starts off differently than almost all their others in that the three don't know each other . Moe is a fight manager looking for boxer ; Curly is a waiter and Larry a violinist . They all meet at this restaurant and when Larry starts playing " Pop Goes The Weasel , " Curly goes nuts and punches everyone's lights out . Moe hires the two so he can get back into the fight game . One day during some roadside training , they meet up with a pretty dame whose car is stuck in the mud . By playing the " Weasel " song , Curly lifts the car and solves the problem . She drives off as he jumps in the back seat ! The next scenes show newspaper headlines as " K . O . Stradivarius " ( our hero Curly ) beats all opponents and is now scheduled to fight for the championship . The last bout is something to see : probably the goofiest fight scenes I've ever seen on film , which includes the great silent comics . Larry Howard ( " Curly " ) was an underrated comic genius and shows it here early on in his career . It's the subtle things he does in this fight that had me laughing out loud .
Let Freedom Ring	Watching this documentary , I couldn't help of that hit song of the ' 60s by Janis Joplin called ' Me and Bonnie McGee " where a key line in the song is " Freedom's just another word for nothing left to lose . " That's what this film is about : freedom . It's not about the argument over who or what created the universe ; it's about the freedom to bring up the topic and / or discuss it . That fact that freedom has been taken away in this area has veteran actor Ben Stein , the narrator and star of this documentary , hopping mad . For conservatives , this extreme intolerance in academia is not a revelation ; it's been known for decades , but this documentary should open eyes for those unaware . Stein and others in this movie illustrate that today's intolerance shown by academia and by scientists is so pervasive that it can be compared to the fascism of Hitler . The beliefs of the Left , disregard for human life and their elimination of freedom are discussed in this film . Even worse , as we see in this film , if you even mention the words " intelligent design , " you are toast in the academic or scientific community . Stein interviews people are a testimony to that ; people who were dismissed from teaching for just utterly ( without preaching ) those horrible two words . Along with examples , we see how Darwinism is tied in with a lack of respect for life . The last segment of this documentary is a tour of some of those horrific places in Germany in which people were exterminated , not just for racial reasons but because they were physically or mentally challenged . They weren't fit for breeding and thus , according to the twisted beliefs of Hitler and his mentor , Charles Darwin - as pointed out in this film - were murdered . Academia - no surprise - reveres Darwin . Stein ties all of these things together . All of this is alarming but it's preaching to the choir because few people on the Left will look at this film and those that do , will not be tolerant to any of it's facts and opinions . As Stein informs us , we just hope this country doesn't totally give in to the PC Police , today's version of the Gestapo . His analogy to that in here is real and he calls folks to stand up for freedom to express one's opinions . For atheists , this movie will be annoying at times but at least they get a number of opinions from their side , including the most famous non-believer , Richard Dawkins . For those with open mind , this film is highly recommended . Stein , with his dry sense of humor , takes a troubling , important subject and prevents it from being too grim , although this is serious stuff , and he knows it , which is why he did the movie .
One Of Kilmer's Best Performances	Secret Serviceman extraordinnaire Val Kilmer tries to retrieve a kidnapped politician's daughter in this surprisingly-good thriller . There isn't a lot of violence in this modern day tough rescue story , but when it occurs , look out ! Kilmer is very good in here , one of his best performances ever and the film is nicely photographed . The only warning I would give viewers is the language , which contains about 25 f-words . The best plug I can give this film is that it was very entertaining , start to finish , and that's what most of us are looking for - entertainment . It keeps your attention the full 100-plus minutes , so what's not to like ? As mentioned , Kilmer is very , very good in here and , make no mistake : he's the show . Everything in the story really revolves around him . There was anything that struck a sour note with me , it would be the story with the kidnapped girl's father . I don't think he was realistic , but I won't say more in fear of spoiling anything for those who haven't seen this . Nonetheless , an under-publicized excellent film of 2004 .
Absolutely Stunning B-D Visuals & Audio	Boy , the visuals were as stunning as I had read they were ; absolutely spectacular . I hate to use this cliché , but this is a " must " for Blu-Ray fans . You have to see - and hear - this film in HD because it is a great treat for your senses . The surround sounds are everywhere while the colors and artwork are something to behold ! And , yes - it's still very pretty on a regular DVD , too . The story is " cute , " but nowhere near the visuals and audio . It's okay , subtlety humorous , dramatic and romantic parts . It gets a tiny bit preachy with the usual environmental digs and a comment about how fat we humans can get by lying around too much , but otherwise just plays it for comedy and cool-looking characters . Everyone and everything in this film is pretty amazing-looking . It's kind of a strange story , with much of it taking place on a big space ship . My favorite parts were in the beginning on Earth with the little robot WALL-E and his cockroach friend . There is so much to see in this film , it makes multiple viewings all the more attractive but , I'll assume , you're always going to catch some things you didn't see the first few times . Overall , not a super story but yet an amazing film , one that is one you want to show off your Blu-Ray DVD player to friends . This sets yet another new standard in animation .
' Show Me The Money ! '	This is a pretty , upscale , classy town that was quiet and peaceful until the fall of 1991 when a terrifying crime " shattered this idyllic town , " as narrator Paul Winfield says in the introduction . This is the kind of town Winfield and the City Confidential writers like to discuss : a place that looks almost Eden-eque until the dark side of human nature tears it apart . They love it , when that happens . This area in Rhode Island , debated by many if it is really a town or a suburb , is located between Providence and Newport . It has been home to many Italians . It features nice people , great schools , good beach front property and , most of all , safety for its families . The upscale Yuppies discovered this place in the ' 70s and ' 80s and in 1989 , the Brendel family became the latest family to flee big-city life for the peace-and-quiet of Barrington . They - Ernest , Alice and young daughter Emily - had come from New York City . Meanwhile , Christopher Hightower had a become a fixture in town , respected even though he himself hadn't much . He had been more of a " pie-in-the-sky kind of guy , " according to CC . He was an investor , however , and Brendel had money to invest . The two met and hit it off right away . However , a financial feud began when Hightower blew anywhere form $11 , 000 to $18 , 000 that belonged to Mr . Brendel . The latter then demanded his money and wrote a letter to the Trade Commission . The next thing people knew was that the Brendel family - all three of them were missing . Here's where it really gets bizarre , and makes this episode very interesting . Hightower announced that he had gotten a phone call from the Mafia and that they had kidnapped the family and wanted $250 , 000 . Hightower contacted Brendel's sister and told her they wanted $75 , 000 by tomorrow . She called the FBI . It was weeks before the family's dead remains would be discovered , accidentally by a dog , after police dogs and half the town couldn't find them . When Hightower wound up being arrested and the trial started , it got even more weird . All of it unfolded on TV , too . I don't want to spoil anything so I'll leave it there . Suffice to say this was an interesting case .
Innovative Film That''s Always Fun To Watch	This is one of the more inventive movies of the last decade , I would think . It was new , fresh and very different when it came out in the late ' 90s and still is unique and enjoyable as of this review in early 2006 . It's short - 81 minutes - but plenty long when you consider it's three versions of the same story , each version about 25 minutes after an opening introduction . That may sound too repetitive or boring for those who haven't seen this , but it is anything but overplayed thanks to the innovative camera-work and interesting angles on the same story . Watching it on DVD was better than the theater because the 5 . 1 sound is superior , plus you have the option of a good dubbed version or the original German with English subtitles . I use either , depending on my mood but I lean toward the German with subtitles . Franke Potente , who has since gone on to become better known around the world from the " Bourne " films , is the centerpiece of this film and very , very interesting . The looks of shock on her face , her flaming red hair and wild general appearance and the crazy things that happen to her are always fun to watch and hear . Added to the unique cinematography , which includes tricks here and there , is a pulsating electronic soundtrack that brings added life to this already kinetic , involving film . The high rating I give this film could really be summed up in two words : DIFFERENT and FUN .
One Of The Better Westerns Of That Era	I was very impressed with this film . I would have to rate it as one of the better classic-era westerns . I say that for the whole thing : the acting , mature dialog , no - nonsense story and excellent cinematography . Director Anthony Mann , who did several well-photographed film noirs around this same era , also made some westerns such as this one . It has that same film-noir look . Mann and Jimmy Stewart collaborated on several westerns during this period . . If you like this movie , I recommend the Mann-Stewart film " Bend Of The River . " In a nutshell , the story is about a man , " Lin McAdam , " ( Stewart ) who owns this prestigious Winchester 73 rifle , a weapon he won fair-and-square in a contest . It is then stolen and passed on from villain to villain . All of those villains are interesting characters . Aiding Stewart act out this interesting tale are Shelley Winters , Dan Duryea , Stephen McNally , Millard Mitchell , Charles Drake , Will Greer and J . C . Flippen . All of them are fun to watch . It was a bit of a stretch , however , to see Rock Hudson playing an Indian ( " Young Bull " ) , but you can't have everything .
Involving Story & Great Low-Key Performance By Ferrell	Most times , I find it interesting to watch a comedian pay a dramatic role . Here , will Ferrell plays an extremely straight , low-key character : an IRS agent who is part of a as strange story . Yes , the title to this movie is 100 percent accurate : " Stranger Than Fiction really describes this bizarre tale of a man whose life is being lived out as a writer of fiction stories types it up . In other words , the fiction writer's main character is a real-life guy . Emma Thompson comes out of semi-retirement to play the role of " Karen Eiffel , " a writer whose novels always end up with the hero getting killed . Also , she narrates the story to the lead character , who is the only one who can actually hear her voice . Slowly , as the story unravels , her latest subject , a " Harold Crick " ( Farrell ) discovers what is going on and tries to get her to change the ending ! Along the way , in a secondary part of the film ( the romance angle ) , " Crick " becomes involved with the unlikeliest of women : " Asa Pascal " ( Maggie Gyllenhall ) . Crick also makes a new friend who is an expert on authors . He seeks him out because that guy , " Professor Jules Hilbert , " ( Dustin Hoffman ) is the one who helps him discover whom the author is , the person who plans to kill him off . ( It's not easy to explain all of this in a handful of sentences , written off the cuff . Sorry . ) This all may sound like a suspenseful thriller but it isn't . It's a human-interest story which could have many interpretations . I read a few long reviews ( not here ) on this movie afterward and got two very diverse viewpoints : one with religious overtones and other totally secular . I didn't read anything into this except it being an interesting and original screenplay and well - acted . Ferrell was outstanding in his performance . I'm not really a fan of his irreverent comedies but I was very impressed with him in this movie . The only unlikable character was Thompson's but she comes around with a nice touch near the end . If you are looking for something different , and something to get your brain working a little bit , this is recommended . For those expecting the normal Will Ferrell wackiness , stay away : it's hardly that . I hate to use the cliché phrase " thought-provoking , " but I think it applies here .
Superman Takes Off On The Big Screen	It's interesting that another re-make is coming out this year . Man , time flies because I vividly remember when this movie came out and the excitement it caused . This was the first Superman anyone had ever seen with modern-day special effects , so it was pretty cool , to say the least . It's still very entertaining , and the more I watch this the more I'm amused with the villain ( Gene Hackman as " Lex Luthor " ) and the lines he delivers . He's a funny guy . Christopher Reeve , meanwhile , was always a popular " Man Of Steel " and the special effects are still fun to watch , from the long opening scenes showing the end of the planet Kryton all the way to the ending credits . There's a solid soundtrack to this , too . Personally , I didn't care for Margot Kidder as Lois Lane but then again , Lane's character in the 1950s TV series was a bit annoying , too . I guess it comes with her character . However , being a kid growing up with that series with all its innocence ( it's now on DVD , by the way , and worth a purchase ) , it was just too weird hearing Lois ask Superman what color her panties were ! Anyway , this is simply great entertainment . As a superhero , Superman has always been THE MAN . Three sequels followed this film , the second one being the best in my opinion .
The Biggest Killer : Sickness & Disease	What a tough year - 1862 - with thousands and thousands of men killed in several famous battles . We get a profile of the South's " Stonewall " Jackson ; we hear a condemnation again on Union General McClellan's inept leadership of the Union forces , and the Emancipation Proclamation is made by President Lincoln after the battle of Antietam . The most amazing fact in this " volume three , " I thought , was that twice as many men died in the war from sickness and disease than from battle ! Also amazing was the Union army losing 25 percent of its force to deserters . The account of this war almost made me root for the South , which I never have , simply because I ( and most others ) like to root for the underdog and the South is so badly outnumbered in almost every battle , it's astounding they ever won anything . They exhibited incredible guts and fortitude .
A Unique Popeye Cartoon In Several Areas	This Popeye cartoon is unusual in that Bluto not only doesn't know Olive Oyl but insults her when he first sees her , calling her a " long-legged scarecrow ! " In addition , he tells her to mind her own business . This Bluto is a mean guy , a guy who is mistreating the horse that is pulling he and an over-sized load of produce . The horse is ready to drop but Bluto won't even let the animal get a drink of water , taking a nearby tub of water and drinking it all himself and then constantly whipping the horse and punching him in the face ! Wow , this sort of thing wouldn't be shown today , even in jest . This guy is worse than Michael Vick with dogs ! After insulting Olive , Popeye confronts the big lug when he himself gets whipped . Bluto then throws a big bunch of bananas and hits Olive in the head . Wow , this is really different from the norm . In a way , I kind of liked it as Olive could be a pain . Animal lovers will really enjoy the " justice " at the end of this cartoon ! Note : This was not the voice I have ever heard doing Popeye . It sounded weird . I looked it up here and it's Floyd Buckley , who only voiced one Popeye cartoon - this one .
Famous Battles And The Role Of Women	The famous year of 1863 is portrayed here , beginning with the infamous battle of Gettysburg in the first week of July . The carnage of Pickett's suicidal charge , ordered by the usually - reliable Gen . Robert E . Lee , is described vividly . It's not a pretty picture with heads literally flying in the air and other brutalities . The women's role in the Civl War is detailed in this segment . They help the men by supplying food and medical help , as well as moral support . Women , especially in the South , were anything but casual bystanders . Once again , the South has almost no resources and the average citizen's ' house is turned into a hospital . Also interesting here was the account of the shelling of Vicksburg , where people were literally living in made-do caves to escape the intense bombing .
Tragedy , Sadness , Re-Uniting & Reflection	As in the first episode of this nine-part series , there are so many facts and memorable statements in here it would make your head swim . The statistics of the Civil War are staggering and unprecedented . To this day , more Americans were killed in that war than ALL the wars combined . After awhile , one almost gets numb hearing the list of physical damage done to the people of this country from this horrific time in our history . One of the biggest losses of course , came five days after the war was officially over when President Abraham Lincoln was assassinated . John Wilkes Booth shooting Lincoln at the theater and Lincoln's death the following day was not described in detail here , as I assumed it would be . There were a couple of moving tributes , however , to this great man and it was interesting to hear a little about the long train trip with his casket from Washington to Springfield , Illinois , his final resting place . Little was said , too , regarding Booth's escape and end . The rest of this concluding segment dealt with what happened afterward . Oddly , the final skirmish of the war wasn't until the following month and the South won that battle . A large segment at the end dealt with what happened to other principal characters of this war and opinions of the war in general , and whether we are still fighting it . I was particularly moved by the tribute to Robert E . Lee and by the comments made by historian Barbara Fields . It was interesting to see the white-bearded veterans of both sides embracing years later . I came away from this series with a great of sadness for all the suffering it brought .
A Popeye ' Opera ' With A Satisfying Ending	This was another different type of Popeye cartoon that one only saw in the beginning years of Popeye , in which a song sometimes opened the story , like a Betty Boop cartoon . Here , Popeye and Olive sing about " Barnacle Bill The Sailor . " Olive tells Popeye she can't marry him because she's in love with Barnacle Bill , so both sing different lyrics , depending on how they feel about " Bill . " In later Popeye cartoons , our sailor wouldn't be singing upon hearing bad news like that . He'd get sad , depressed or violent , but he wouldn't sing about it . Nonetheless , you know Popeye isn't going to take this lying down ; he never does despite Olive being the most fickle woman in the history of the big screen . A good portion of this is almost like an opera , sung to that " Barnacle Bil " tune , but it's a catchy song and has fun lyrics , depending on who's singing it . Bluto chimes in with his version . Like the other reviewers here , I enjoyed listening to it . The ending is terrific , one of the best I've seen mainly because that fickle woman gets what she deserves !
After Four Years Of Watching , A Handful Of Observations	Well , by now I have watched four years of this show , along with five years of the first CSI and two years of CSI-New York . . . . and I could say a lot but will try to condense my thoughts to just a handful of opinions , namely : 1 - This is the best-looking of the three CSI series on DVD . All of them look great on disc but the colors in here are the boldest and the most spectacular of any . Each episode is a tremendous visual treat . 2 - I know David Caruso is a controversial topic among CSI fans because of the way he delivers his lines , but I personally find it great . It's so outrageous it's fun . Sometimes I just laugh . Hey , it makes him different from William Petersen ( CSI : Vegas ) and Gary Sinise ( CSI : NY ) . I may be in the minority but I enjoy Caruso's overly dramatic delivery . 3 - This series has gotten better and better . I had some doubts the first year . It didn't seem half as good as the Las Vegas show , but it has improved significantly and I now rate it higher than the original CSI . 4 - As a guy I appreciate all the beautiful Miami women in this show , and there are tons of them , but I also think the show is geared more toward the 20-something crowd which leaves me out , being considerably older than that . Too many of these " kids " are sleazy , too , but that's what leads to problems and crimes . 5 - All the supporting actors on the show are good , too , as they are in all the CSI shows . I was sorry to see Rory Cochrane ( " Tim Speedle " ) quit and hope we don't lose any more of the " team . "
Slower Is Better In This Crime Tale	Made in the early 1970s , this was more of classic type crime story than a modern-day one in that the violence wasn't overdone and it was a slower-paced story than what you would see if re-made today . That slower pace makes for a better study of the two main characters , who were based on the real-life serial-killing duo of the 1950s : Charles Starkweather and his girlfriend . Martin Sheen's Starkweather-type character " Kit Carruthers " is amazingly low - key for a killer and Sissy Spacek , playing his girl , " Holly , " shows some really strange reactions ( she hardly reacts after Sheen shoots her father ) while providing fascinating narration . In fact , the more I watch this film , the more Spacek's narration is the highlight for me . It's great stuff . Being a Terrence Malick-directed film , you know you are going to get some nice photography . He really loves closeups of nature . Another plus is the absence of profanity . There is very little of it .
This First One Still The Best In The Trilogy	This movie put director Robert Rodriguez " on the map . " He followed up with two sequels : " Desperado " and " Once Upon A Time In Mexico . " Not surprising , the best of the three was this low-budget opening film . As Rodriquez had more and more money to spend on the sequels , the stories got more and more carried away with too many explosions and special-effects , losing the charm of this first effort . Unlike the sequels , this Mexican-made , so it is in Spanish with English subtitles . Don't let that scare you away . There isn't a great deal of dialog so keeping up with the subtitles is very easy . The movie has very interesting camera closeups and angles as Rodriquez showed he was going to be a stylish director . The story is simple but effective , suspenseful and even with some humor . Unnlike his subsequent films in this trilogy , the action is not overdone here . The length is also is a plus . At 80 minutes you can be thoroughly entertained in less than an hour-and-a half . The only disappointment to me was the print quality on th DVD , but I got an early edition . There might be better editions out since . It's not fuzzy but it's not sharp , either . Anyway : highly recommend for actions / crime buffs who like style in their photography , or saw the sequels and would like to know the history of this particular " Mariachi . "
Dylan Shocks The Folkies While Jimi & Pete Smash Guitars	Half of this hour-long episode is a tribute to poet-singer Bob Dylan and the other half is the continuation of the history of rock ' n roll , as the DVD title suggests . To this day , I still think Dylan is one of the worst singers I've ever heard but there is no denying his songwriting and his influence on music which is why , obviously , he got so much air time on this series . So far , nobody has gotten that much publicity on this Time-Life series , even Elvis or The Beatles , which doesn't make sense . Whatever , Dylan wrote a lot of great songs and is spoken of in God-like terms by other musicians interviewed here . Since Dylan started out as a folk singer , that genre gets a segment here on this fifth episode . Since it's not rock ' n roll and , it's admitted here by someone that " folkies " hated rock music , then why is it included in this series ? My guess is that folk music was so " socially aware , " so Left Wing , the editors here just had to give it huge notice and praise . We listen to some songs and hear comments by " bohemians from coffee houses " who hit it big in the ' 60s such as Joan Baez , Judy Collins , Dave Van Ronk , Phil Ochs , Richie Havens , Arlo Guthrie and Peter , Paul and Mary . The 1965 Newport Folk Festival , however , changed things bigtime , as we see . Dylan shocked people with electric material , literally , which is why this episode is called " plugged in . " Give Dylan credit ; he had guts . He teed off all the " folkies . " Where was his " integrity ? " they asked . Gee , what elitist snobs . Where is their tolerance ? Good for Bob . The second half of this hour-long show features , among others , Roger McGuinn and The Byrds , John and Michelle Phillips and The Mamas and the Papas ; Brian Wilson did not want to tour with the famous Beach Boys , wanted to make better music - " Pet Sounds " spiritual and sophisticated - and that was big breakthrough " Underground radio " begins and the first big star was Jimi Hendrix , who went to England , blew the other musicians ' minds , and came back to do the same here in the States . He is now of legendary status . What a shame he died early . Later , we hear from Pete Townsend , Peter No one ( " Herman's Hermits " ) , Eric Clapton and a few others as rock goes electric in a big-way and blues is introduced to white kids . The Monterey Pop Festival of 1967 is the first time Hendrix and others played for American audience . " That concert was the real ground-breaker for rock ' n roll , " remarks Al Kooper . Hendrix and The Who exhibited , as we see , a new theater , smashing up their guitars after their sets . The Who demolished about everything The rock ' n roll scene was really heating up !
' Omri " One Of The Most Likable Kids Ever On Film	I'm a sucker for nice kids , not those snotty ones seen so often in films from the ' 60s to the present . In here is a wonderful neat-looking little kid , Hal Sardino , who is unusual in that this is the only movie he ever starred in . To his credit , Scardino went on to live a " normal " life after this film , eventually going to college as a regular student like you and me with no celebrity status . The film is anything but " normal , " a fantasy about a young boy who receives a cupboard that transforms little toy figurines - in this case , an Indian and then a cowboy . - into miniature real-life people . Each time he opens or closes the box with the figures in them , they change to either real or back to plastic . Scardino , who plays Omri , " is fun to watch , if for no other reason than the great expressions on his face . He has to be one of the most likable children I've ever seen on film . Meanwhile , his best friend " Patrick " is the only villain , so to speak , only because he's a bit " defiant , " as his mother labels him and he almost spoils everything for " Omri . " It's a solid family film that is fun for both the parents and kids to watch at the same time . Both will get a lot of entertainment out of it . With just a bit of profanity early on and a bit of obvious political correctness , there is nothing in here which should offend viewers . Critics didn't seem to care for it , so you know it truly was a nice , wholesome film . . . . and fun to watch .
Ozzie : A Kid At Heart	This episode has to be seen to believed . Imagine a grown man of about 40 watching a little kids ' show , being interested in a toy they are promoting through a root beer company , sending away for the toy and then winning a bicycle . All the while he has to hum-and-haw about being an adult and doing all of this when it should be a little kid doing this . The really unique part is that no one makes fun of him for doing this , not the two Nelson kids or Ozzie's wife . That's how nice a family this is - it's amazing ! An even bigger ( or juvenile ) " kid " is " Thorny , " the next door neighbor , as we see in the final scene . This episode was fun because it was so different . I couldn't believe some of the things I saw and heard . The scenes at the TV station with " Captain Salty " were subtly clever .
Much Better Than The Critics Would Have You Believe	Make no mistake : ( 1 ) this IS a sordid crime story and ( 2 ) is is FAR better than the national critics - and the ones here - would have you believe . I have found it fascinating the three times I've watched it and look forward to seeing it again . It surprises me each time , being better than I remembered . It's nicely photographed , too . Why I can't get a widescreen DVD of this , I don't know , but all that seems to be available is full screen . William Friedkin directed this which usually means ( 1 ) a riveting story ; ( 2 ) stylish cinematography . That's the case here . I rate this movie so high mainly because it's so entertaining . And it doesn't overstay it's welcome at a short hour-and-a - half . There are some stunning action scenes with cars hitting people , cars hitting cars and a long , wild car chase through a parade in San Francisco's Chinatown . My only complaint is the normal Liberal in-your-face bias that Hollywood always seems to show . They just can't help giving you their pro-Democrat , anti - Catholic , anti-authority bias . Early scenes provide some cheap shots on Nixon and Reagan and later we see the film's two male starts talking irreverently in church . The governor is a sleaze in the story and the cops are corrupt . I've just come to except these modern-day film clichés and not let it interfere with my enjoyment of the film . Speaking of actors and characters , David Caruso and Chazz Palminteri are the two male leads I referred to in the previous paragraph . They are both good . Why Caruso didn't make it in the movies must have been due to the roles he took , not his acting . Linda Fiorentino does what she does best - plays a whore . There isn't a moral person in here , at least with the lead actors . That's no surprise since " sleaze king " Joe Eszterhas wrote the script . Nonetheless , those three actors are very good with Caruso , as the cop , the best . It's a crude story at times ( there was a NC-version available of this , as well ) , but it's very interesting start-to-finish , has some memorable scenes , nice San Francisco scenery and a nice soundtrack from Celtic singer Loreena McKennitt .
Looks Good , Feels Good	This was a wonderful , feel-good movie with tons of songs , many of them appealing . There also were some great dancing scenes , no surprise there since Fred Astaire is one of the stars . Astaire and Vera-Ellen paired up well for those numbers . This is one of the few films , even in the musicals , in which all the characters were nice people . In other words , there were no villains , no nasty people , which is refreshing to see now and then . It is supposedly the true-life account of songwriters Bert Kalmar ( Astaire ) and Harry Ruby ( Red Skelton ) . Ruby is good at writing tunes , but not with lyrics . Kalmar supplies the lyrics and dance . Skelton also shows he had a decent singing voice . The only unhappy moments in the movie are the squabbles between the two leading men , but that's not overdone and sometimes it's humorous . Skelton's character is the nicer of the two . The leading ladies are wholesome-looking beautiful women . Vera-Ellen is a Shirley Jones-type pretty blonde with a great dancer's body . She's enjoyable to watch . Arlene Dahl , who was stunning , is the other leading female but her role was minor , unfortunately . The movie is a good mixture of song , dance , comedy and drama and is an underrated film in that it that doesn't get a lot of publicity . Astaire was quoted as saying this was his favorite film . I agree . It's my favorite of his , too .
Very Humorous & Entertaining Episode	This was a hoot ! " Norman Shendley " ( Denholm Elliot , of " Raiders of the Lost Ark " fame ) , plays a man both haunted and delighted by his dreams . The dreams are so real that he , and we , aren't sure what's reality and what isn't . However , we can see the purpose of the " dream " as the story goes along : getting a man to murder his wife and run off with his hot secretary ! The dreams are a combination of sexual fantasies and nightmares . Regarding the fantasies , Lucy Gutteridge is the most fun to watch and gives a perfect demonstration on how wigs and clothes can make a woman look totally different . In each dream sequence , she's always " Lolly " but with a totally different look and character , although always the bimbo until the real and normal Lolly appears at the end . She does a great comedic job with this role . James Laurenson's facial expressions as " Raburn " are funny and Pat Heywood gives a realistic performance as Norman's wife " Emily . " She reminded me a bit of Anne Ramsey in " Throw Momma Off The Train , " but not as gruff . Actually , the more the story went on , the less of a villain she appeared . She and Norman , frankly , deserved each other ! I won't say more because I don't want to give away everything in this very inventive episode . I've only seen a few of these Hammer TV episodes , but this is my favorite so far . This was a great mix of horror , comedy , fantasy and suspense , with a heavy emphasis on the humor .
Informative & Interesting For All Beer Lovers	This program did a nice job giving the history of beer here in America . You get some good time-lines regarding the who and when of the growth , decline and then growth again of this very popular beverage . I was amazed to find out that in the days before the Mayflower dropped off the first Americans on this soil , beer had been considered than water in Europe . That's because in the process of making it and boiling it , it boiled off the impurities . The Europeans didn't figure out that the same should have been done to water , and people by routinely get sick drinking the H2O . Thus , the Pilgrams brought over barrels of the stuff and women , kids , etc . , drank it morning , noon and night . Anyway , the program explains a little bit what ingredients go into beer and how it's made , not going overboard to where it gets boring . We also learn about who started brewing it here in America , and how someone figured out how to keep it cold so it could be transported to other places . Eventually we wind up in Milwaukee and learn all about the big three Miller's , Pabst and Schlitz . Then history takes us to St . Louis and we hear the story of Adolphus Busch and the growth of the biggest brewery of them all : Anheuser-Busch ( Budweiser et al . ) We learn about the invention of bottled beer , how WWI and then Prohibition affected the business , and then how beer in cans and great advertising brought it back to prominence . From there we learn about " lite beer " and eventually micro-breweries . . . . . all aspects of the history and business of this beverage , which is today the most popular in the world . This was a very informative and fast-moving program .
These Guys Just Keep Going and Going and Going . . . . .	This isn't listed as such here since this was only available at a national electronics chain store , but it was a four-disc compilation of three major concerts the group did in their 2002 tour . The first concert filmed , at New York City's Madison Square Garden , is the best of the three , in my opinion , so it's appropriate it's mentioned here under its IMDb title . As many times as I watch these guys ( the Stones ) , and I've probably seen a half dozen of their concerts on either DVD or tape , I am constantly amazed at their energy level , and the good shape these performers are in to do this . They make look like hell facially , and I wouldn't want to guess all the chemicals and other bad stuff they've put in their bodies over the years , but they've obviously worked out a lot , have no fat on them , and have super endurance . Like the Energizer bunny , they just keep going ! Mick Jagger is the male version of Tina Turner , or she's the female version of him . Both are incredible to be dancing around stage as they do despite being 60-plus years old . Turner has finally retired from live performances but Jagger keeps going . So does Keith Richards , Ronnie Wood and Charlie Watts . The latter , the drummer , is the only guy who doesn't look like a degenerate . It's hard to say who's the scuzziest looking between Richards , Jagger and Wood . At least Jagger doesn't smoke on stage as the other two guys do in every concert . Anyway , the group has always been smart enough and rich enough to afford excellent supporting help . The best here might be keyboardist Chuck Leavell , who has been with them for a number of years . Bobby Keyes and the brass section is still top-notch as are the singers and new bassist Darryl Jones , who replaced the legendary Bill Wyman . Their songs may not be as diverse and well-done as the Beatles , but after watching this collection of three concerts on DVD , I have to think these guys must be the greatest rock band in history . They sound better 40 years later than when they were " kids " in the early ' 60s . Modern technology as given the band access to big screen , split images and all kinds of background entertainment that also helps these concerts become fun to watch as well as listen . The highlight of the Arena ( MSG ) show , to me , was the 11-minute version of " Midnight Rambler . " The " Stadium Show " also was very good , much of the same stuff as in the New York City concert with several other classics added such as " Gimme Shelter , " " Sympathy For The Devil , " and " Paint It Black . " You can't go wrong watching either concert . The third disc , " The Theater Show , " filmed in Paris , is weak with songs that weren't that good , too slow and without the normal Stones energy . There is a fourth disc with documentary material but I haven't checked it out yet . Overall , this is a worthwhile purchase . Too bad it's only available in one place .
Insane Premise Makes This A Good One	This is one of the wilder story lines I've seen so far in this collection of " Inspector " cartoons . It's so ridiculous it's funny and is going to sound strange just describing . Our Two Heroes have to go to the Marquis ' château to find a stolen diamond , which is the biggest you've ever seen - guaranteed . Since the Marquis has hired nothing but chickens as servants , our famous detective must question the chickens . Of course , he has to learn their language first and then use his chicken disguise . Then he tells one " suspect " a joke to get in the chicken's good graces . I can't go on - this is too crazy ! Suffice to say this certainly is an " original " story and I enjoyed the absurdity of it . Speaking of that , the ending is really absurd and is so abrupt , it leaves you saying , " huh ? That's it ? " The ending is either totally weak or genius , depending on how you view it .
Public Enemy : An Outraegous Film In ' 31 And Still That Way !	Although several " film experts " are in this documentary on the great classic gangster film , " Public Enemy , " most of the opinions are expressed by current movie director Martin Scorcese . You could just tell that if Jimmy Cagney was in his prime today , Scorcese would have him as his main actor . He loves him . . . . . but who doesn't ? Of all Scorcese's comments here , the one I liked the best ( and I think he did , too ) concerned the reaction the young people had when he showed this movie while filming " The Aviator . " Leonardo DiCaprio , other actors and a bunch of 20 - something guys who worked behind the cameras , all watched " Public Enemy " on a big screen on the set . They all loved the movie and applauded at the end . Nobody thought this film was dated and they were awed by some of the startling scenes they saw in this movie . " Public Enemy " is over 75 years old and young people still find this very entertaining ! It speaks volumes for the film . Scorcese also noted something else that I found very interesting : none of the violence in this movie is ever seen ! It's all done off-screen . You don't see it , but you are in the same area in which it happens and you get the idea of its brutality through reactions of other people , or their screams . It's very effective and impresses Scorcese , who admits his shortcoming in being unable to do this in his own violent movies ! He thinks it makes some of the violence much worse . He makes his point by showing us some good examples in this documentary . Also in this 20-minute DVD bonus feature , we hear comments about actress Jean Harlow and director William Wellman , and we see some of the famous scenes in this movie and what makes them effective . . . . . in addition to the violent ones noted above . First and foremost is " the grapefruit " in which Cagney mashes a grapefruit in the face of Mae Clarke . I agree , though , with Drew Casper , who thought more startling than that was the scene in which Cagney grabs Clarke by the hair and drags her across two rooms and boots her out the door ! According to the commentators here , that's what a lot of these gangsters acted like in real life : cocky and brutal . Cagney , who grew up on the tough streets of New York , was a realistic guy to be playing roles like the one he did here . He had the toughness , the accent and the screen " presence , " a word Scorcese likes to use . That's what " Public Enemy " has in spades : screen presence . If you have the DVD of this famous film , please check out this bonus feature . It's entertaining , too .
Is This The Best Dracula Film ? Maybe !	I'm not a big fan of horror films but I was very impressed with this one , titled " Horror Of Dracula . " ( For some reason , it's just called " Dracula " here on the IMDb site . This is a solid re-telling of the Dracula story with some legitimate thrills provided to the viewer along with pretty photography and sets and a tasteful lack of blood . I'm curious how this looks and sounds on DVD . Story-wise , they might have embellished some of the action scenes and made Dracula a little more powerful . ( I can't see him feeling a regular human being which he did here in the end . ) Other than that , it's a well-done movie with no exaggerated characters , nice colors , no problem understanding accents . . . . one of the better Dracula films ever made , just maybe the best . It's that good ! It also features two of the best classic ' horror " actors of all-time : Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee . Highly recommended , particularly for people who might be hesitant to watch a " Dracula " film . I'll think you'll like this version .
So Many Things You Can Say About This Film !	Do you notice how long many of the reviews are in here about this movie ? That's because there is so much one could say . This is an unusual movie , especially for a modern-day-filmed western . Brad Pitt and Casey Affleck are the " stars " of this movie but the biggest star to me was Roger Deakins , the man who photographed this film . Wow , this is beautiful ! It's so stunning to look at in so many spots that there were many times I was more involved in the visuals than the story . In that sense , it reminded me of the marvelously-photographed films of Terrence Malick . Kudos to Andrew Dominik for a similar style directorial performance here . Regarding the story , here's a warning to those who are expecting the normal western fare and want to see the usual amount of gun battles and related action scenes . This film is 2 hour and 40 minutes and there are not many " action " scenes . If you are hoping to see another " 3 : 10 To Yuma " re-make , you will be very disappointed . This story is slow . It's a character study of Jesse James and the man who killed him , Robert Ford . That said , I still found it a memorable film . The photography , the great acting and the uniqueness of the story were all good enough to keep me interested throughout . For once , I was glad to see James portrayed more realistically . Despite what you've seen on film in the past , this man was not a hero , folks . Sure he was a likable guy at times , and a nice father at times , too , but he was a thief and , much worse , a cold-blooded killer . You see that in this film . I have to say I can't remember a film I've seen in recent years in which the two lead characters ( James and R . Ford ) were so strange and unpredictable . For that , I have to really compliment the work of Pitt and Affleck . They were amazing and kept me guessing throughout the movie . They played very complex people . Another facet that I found unusual were the numerous scenes in which a person's eyes told the story better than any dialog could . The tension in this drama was almost unbearable in many instances . Except for " Once Upon A Time In The West , " I can't recall a film with so many tense scenes with long pauses depicting shots of people's eyes relaying their either their fears or suspicions . Pitt , as " Jesse James , " does a fantastic job in this department . He made us go inside his James ' brain , assuming we were knowing what he's thinking about Robert Ford , and wondering what he would say or do next . James is shown in this film to be a twisted and ( justifiably ) paranoid criminal who doesn't trust anyone . For example , he's constantly moving his family . On the other side of the coin , you have the Ford brothers and other members of James ' gang who are constantly terrified of their boss , knowing he could snap and shoot them any minute . The terrified looks in their eyes were , to me , frightening to watch . This movie is filled with scenes depicting jittery people . Affleck , as " Robert Ford , " the man with the nervous smile , and stuttering-like speech , was one of the strangest characters I've seen on film . Sam Rockwell , as Ford's brother , " Charley , " has a big role in this movie , too , and doesn't really get the billing he should . I thought he was right up there with Pitt and Affleck . I might be in the minority with this opinion , but I found the best part of the film to be the last 20 minutes , depicting how America reacted to the killing of Jesse James and what happened to the Ford brothers . All that was fascinating to me . Overall , once I realized this wasn't a " shoot-em-up " western , and just sat back and appreciated the storytelling , wonderful visuals , low-key narration , fabulous sets , scenery and acting . . . . I ended up being very impressed . So , a key is to know what to expect before you see this film .
A Unique TV Show - Would Love To See It Again	Here's a television program I haven't watched since it went off the air over 15 years ago , and I'd give anything to see it again on a DVD package . Gary Cole , as " Jack Killion , " was THE coolest guy on TV at that time , and I mean the kind of " cool " associated with Craig Stevens of TV's " Peter Gunn , " or Steve McQueen in the 1950s and ' 60s movies . Cole a . k . a . " The Nighthawk " in here was just cool . . . . what else can you say ? Jack was a combination late-night radio talk show host and an ex-cop . If I recall , he was off the force after a tragedy cost the life of his partner and the event was still haunting him . He would hear a bunch of troubled people on the radio , some needing assistance quickly or they would be a crime victim . Jack would help them out . The atmosphere was very moody , the music was good and the whole thing was just different , very different from most " crime shows . " Until I looked at the title page I couldn't remember anyone else on the show but I've never forgotten this program . I can only hope I see it again some time .
Not Far Behind The First Film	This isn't quite as powerful as the first Godfather , done two years earlier , but it isn't far behind . It's another magnificently filmed effort , wonderfully acted and a hard film to stop once you've put it in your tape or DVD player . What makes this a notch below the first Godfather is the absence of Marlon Brando and a little too much disjointedness with flashbacks . Also missing from this film was the volatile James Caan . He was shown in a flashback scene near the end , and that was it . One thing was just as good if not better than the first film , and that was the cinematography . The browns , blacks , greens and yellows are just great treats for the eyes . I especially love the Italian houses and scenery . Why this was not even nominated for an Academy Award in cinematography is mind-boggling . The story centers around the brutal vengeance of youngest brother Michael ( Al Pacino ) . It also gives a good demonstration of how the gangster lifestyle may look attractive on the outside but really is an unhappy one despite the wealth . There are some excellent supporting performances in this film , too . I especially would cite the roles played by Michael Gazzo and Lee Strassburg .
The Real Deal	This is one of the most interesting biographies I've ever seen on film . Until I acquired the DVD , I never fully realized how beautiful this film looked , either . I was stunned to see how spectacular the colors were and how much it helped capture the flavor of the dance hall and the cobblestone streets of France 100 years ago . . . . . and , of course , Tolouse-Lautrec''s great artwork . This movie is a feast for the eyes . The DVD also offers an opportunity to do something I suggest other fans of this movie try : use the English subtitles . This way , you don't have to strain to understand the French accents , notably Colette Marchand's , and it makes this intriguing story even better . Story-wise , it's a bit of a soap opera but one I still found fascinating , thanks mainly to Lautrec's dialog . He had some really interesting things to say , mostly in a cynical way . That cynicism , unfortunately , caught up with him in the end . Jose Ferrer captured this tortured soul about as well as any actor could expect to do . I'm sorry he didn't win an Academy Award for this performance . Younger viewers who only saw the more recent " Moulin Rouge ! " missed the real story . That movie was a farce ; this is the real thing .
Memorable Story Which Stays With You	Every once in a while - but less and less these days - a movie comes around that has some impact , in that you find it hard to get it out your mind for awhile . That's what " Harry and Tonto " did to me , recently . It wasn't the world's greatest film but it was great storytelling , sometimes a lost art among filmmakers in recent decades . " Harry " is a retiree and " Tonto " is his cat . The movie follows the two around as the pair travel from the East Coast to the West . It all begins when Harry's building is demolished as part of " urban renewal . " He quickly finds out he doesn't want to live with his quirky son and his even-stranger kids , so he hits the road to Chicago to seek out other relatives . It goes from there . The movie is filled with little vignettes . For instance , how the cat adapts for doesn't adapt to some modes of travel and the interesting and very diverse people Harry meets on the way ( which winds up going all the way to Los Angeles ) . Art Carney as " Harry Coombes " got the Academy Award for best actor . My vote might have gone to the cat . If you've ever owned a cat , you can appreciate how unbelievably-trained this feline was in the film . Tonto was amazing ! Almost everyone in this film is a good person who tries to befriend Harry and Tonto , so you get a good feel throughout this almost-two-hour movie . It's one memorable short story after another - some funny , some sad . I hate to use this cliché , but it's the kind of slow-moving , human-interest story movie you don't see anymore . That's a shame , because these kinds of films you don't forget .
A Greedy Landowner & A Scorned Wife	This was an unusual episode in that there was none of the usual agendas : no city or town - bashing , church-bashing or rich people-bashing . It was just simply the story of a crime that took place 20 years ago just outside Chattanooga , Tenn . It even made the area pretty darned attractive . Chattanooga comes out looking pretty good in this story . It's a beautiful-looking area and appears to be a nice small city . " It has all the spoils of a big city but with the small - town charm , " it's stated here on this episode . This is the home town of tow-trucks , miniature golf , Glenn Miller and moon pies ! One of the nicest areas was just north of the city in a place called Signal Mountain . Up there , there was a favorite , clear-blue swimming pond called The Blue Hole . For over 100 years , people would go up there , swing on a big rope and splash themselves in the chilly water to cool off on a steamy summer day . However , one day someone else bought the land where The Blue Hole was located , and he didn't want people cluttering up his nice swimming hole with ATVs and beer cans . He got downright adamant about it . He'd hear someone approaching and would race up to the entrance and take down their name , address and license plate . He also carried a shotgun and would yell sometimes . He was a bit scary . That man - Fred Casteel - to condense the rest of the story , was accused of killing three " tresspassers " in the summer of 1988 and burying their bodies 12 miles away . A lack of evidence against Mr . Casteel made the prosecutor's case drag on and on and on . . . . . until the murder case finally went to trail in 1996 . A key piece of new " evidence " was the testimony of a very dangerous person : a scorned woman - Casteel's ex-wife .
Real Pros , And Not A Bad Song In The Bunch	This is outstanding concert featuring most of the famous singing duo's best songs , of which there were many . There is a good mix of fast and slow songs and so-so stereo . Too bad they couldn't have re-mixed this in 5 . 1surround for the DVD . Simon and Garfunkel are such pros . The two harmonize so well it's amazing and even though they were live , playing in front of a mammoth crowd , most of their songs sound like perfect studio takes . Yes , a couple might not sound as good as those original studio recordings but some - thanks to the great backup band here - sound even better than the originals ! Most are equal . . . . and ALL of them are winners . There are no " clunkers " in this group . The boys looked a bit smug , but when you can draw literally hundreds of thousands of fans to a concert , I guess it's hard to be humble . They were real superstars of their music era .
Painfully Funny	Elmer Fudd is laughing while lounging in his easy chair and reading his comic book , his dog comfortably nearby sleeping in front of the fireplace . All is peaceful until a flea comes bouncing by . ( The flea is dressed in a farmer's-type outfit with a big sombrero and is carrying a satchel with the name " A . Flea " on it . ) He gets out his telescope and spots the dog . ( We see a big shot of the dog's butt and the flea whistles in excitement , screaming " T - Bone ! " He then sings , " There's food around the corner ; there's food around the corner ! " ) That sets up the storyline of this cute-but-obnoxious flea tormenting the poor dog . The mutt is hilarious as he reacts to the flea . The drawings of his huge teeth chomping right next to the fleeing flea are clever and the dog's dialog made me laugh out loud a few times . This might be the funniest canine I have ever seen in a cartoon ! The poor pooch , under a threat of having to take a bath , as to NOT react when the stupid flea causes him pain . It's almost painful to watch as the flea uses pickaxes , jackhammers and the like on the dog . He puts firecrackers in the dog's behind . It's brutal !
Unique & Fun , Start-To-Finnish	I've watched this twice now , and throughly enjoyed both viewings , finding this film to really be a unique one . It's a Finnish film , which is unusual to start with , at least here in the U . S . because we don't see too many films from Finland . It's a black comedy , meaning deadpan looks with subtle comedic lines . In English , it's titled " The Man Without A Past . " The main actor , Markuu Peltola , is perfect for this movie with one of the most deadpan faces you'll ever see . He is amazing to watch and Kati Outinen , as his love interest , is similarly strange and fascinating . Part of their charm are their unusual looks . This is not a romance between people who look like your normal handsome film stars . Simply , this is just something very different from anything you've seen , a combination of drama , comedy and romance with some of the strangest dialog I've ever heard on film . If you appreciate dry humor and a bizarre but touching story , you should see this .
EntertainingTrial Movie That Still Holds Up	This is one of the best " trial movies " ever made . It's an outstanding film that is just as good today as it was almost 50 years ago when it was released in the theaters . The shocking ending caused quite a stir back then , too . The only part of the movie I thought looked dated and unrealistic was Tyrone Power's character being able to interrupt the trial with outbursts and not be reprimanded for it . There is no way that would be tolerated , at least today . Otherwise , it's a pretty solid film with a good cast that includes two fascinating characters played by actors who know how to entertain : Charles Laughton and Marlene Dietrich . Laughton , who plays Power's defense attorney , grabs the spotlight in the story but Dietrich almost steals the movie in her role as Power's wife . Laughton's dialog is terrific throughout , bringing a number of laughs to this serious film . He's just a joy to watch . Dietrich is even more riveting but just doesn't have anywhere near the same amount of screen time as Laughton . Not to be overlooked is Elsa Lanchester , playing Laughton's nurse . She , too , demonstrates her comedic talent and significantly adds to the fun of watching this film . If you like some fine drama , storyline twists , a little humor thrown in and great acting and dialog , this is a classic film to check out .
Extremely Informative	I totally agree with the first statement made in by narrator Patrick Macnee in this behind-the - scenes feature " that is part of the special-edition " Goldfinger " DVD . Macnee stated , " For many Bond fans and film historians , Goldfinger is the 007 movie that had it all - a high - octane cocktail of action , lust , greed and one of the world's greatest villains . " We get some history about how writer Ian Fleming got the idea for his seventh Bond book in 1959 . Goldfinger was the third James Bond movie and had a budget of $3 million , which wouldn't get you even started today , of course . Other memorable comments , of many , in this feature : It was noted this was the first of the Bond films in which the pre-opening credits action sequence had nothing to do with the story . That turned out to be something they continued to do , just making outrageous opening scenes that were not connected in any way with the actual story . . . . . but sure were attention-grabbers ! Regarding that opening scene , they had hired a guy who was a cat burglar to play someone who was going to try to kill Bond . However , the guy got arrested the day before the shoot and they had to quickly hire someone else ! The man they got , stuntman Alf Joint , got second-degree leg burns on the shot where Bond electrocutes him after the villain gets thrown in the bathtub . One of the best moves they filmmakers made was choosing the Aston-Martin as Bond's famous car , which became almost a legend thanks to this movie . All of the gadgets on the car seen in the movie were not implemented . The car wouldn't have been able to hold them all , plus special-effects back in the early ' 60s wasn't advanced enough to show what they could do today . Thus , many of the action scenes with the Aston-Martin were big challenges to pull off and make look realistic . A good five minutes in this " documentary " is devoted to this car and it's all interesting . They show a screen test by Theodore Bickel for the role of Auric Goldfinger . As fine and actor as he was , Bickel doesn't come across anywhere near as effective as German Gert Frobe did and , of course , the latter got the part . One problem , though : Frobe couldn't speak English ! He still got the part . They just dubbed in his voice . A man named Michael Collins voiced Frobe's words for the movie . Amazing . Honor Blackman , who played the famous " Pussy Galore , " got the job because she was " hot property at the time and I knew judo , which the part required . " She mentions that Connery " was the sexiest , most virile man I've ever met . " Everyone remembers Goldfinger's bodyguard , " Oddjob , " too . Well , Harold Sakata , who played him , was a pro wrestler from Hawaii and a silver medalist in the Olympics . Connery said a karate chop Sakata gave him still hurts him once in awhile today ! Sakata , too , was injured in this film , burned on his final scene with he was electrocuted on metal jail-like bars in Fort Knox . Another memorable person , although only in the film for less than five minutes , was Shirley Eaton as " Jill Masterson " who wound up being painted gold all over her body . To avoid suffocation , a doctor was on the set and they shot the scene as quickly as possible . There are all kinds of interesting comments about this film , such as the difficulties they had with the " laser shot " in Goldfinger''s " Rumpus Room " where Bond was about to be laser-ed in half ; Desmond Llewelyn who played " Q , " talks about some of the gadgets , etc . Connery and Eaton's comments , by the way , came from archival footage . They weren't done recently as the others were , but they fit in seamlessly here . This was the film that made James Bond movies famous . Sadly , Fleming died a month before this movie was released and never saw how famous his character became . This is one of the more interesting behind-the-scenes features I've watched so far .
One Greedy Husband = 2 Dead Wives And 3 Orphaned Kids	This is another interesting glimpse at a city in the United States . In this case , it's the " Iron City , " a mixture of the oldest population in the U . S . with a revitalized downtown that has gone from steel to high-tech . Like it's sports teams , Pittsburgh sure has run the gamut between good and bad times . Steel production made this place a Boom Town by the end of World War II but three decades later , things looked bleak . . . . and it wasn't just the pollution from the steel mills . Hey , where I live we can relate - a lot of big steel mills went belly-up leaving the Steel City feeling like the last-place team the Steelers were for so long until the likes of Terry Bradshaw , Mean Joe Green , Jack Lambert , Lynn Swann and the like helped produce four Super Bowl winners . Meanwhile , the crime story involves a Pittsburgh born-and-raised kid named Tim Buczkowski , a guy who wanted money and did what he had to , to get it , in a nutshell . Unfortunately , that meant drowning two wives in a bathtub or hot tub and cashing in on their life insurance policies . ( No , he didn't get away with the second one , but he did the first and benefited from that for a long time . ) In the end , the saddest part of this story are the three kids who lost moms and horribly discovered their father was a killer . Imagine what that does to you . Buczkowski had moved to North Carolina to seek being a ice-cream king but that didn't work out . After killing his wife , he moved back to Pittsburgh , married another nice woman and raised the kids from his first marriage , only to have the same thing happen . He looked and acted so guilty on the second murder , doing it so amateurishly , that it was obvious from the start and the guy got what was coming to him . Unfortunately , two nice women were violently murdered and three kids will suffer forever with these memories .
Real Life Almost Always Stranger Than Fiction	I love these strange documentaries , where real-life people are interviewed , followed around and we get to witness yet another example of how life is often " stranger than fiction . " In this case , it's video game geeks . And , man , I mean " geeks . " That's the main story here , more specifically , is the quest between two of these " players " to become the top " Donkey Kong " video game champion in the world . I'll get this out front first : yes , these are real people doing their thing but a lot of this is very contrived and set up for dramatic purposes . The " good guy " is made to look even better than what he probably is , and the " villain " is made to look like the bad guy so much so it's laughable . I mean , come on , man ! It's just tooooo hokey . Steve Weibe looked like the only normal human being in this film , but if you read the ending graphics , you have to ask how many " nomral family men " would be traveling all over the U . S . to set a video game record ? The black-hat-and-clothes villain Billy Mitchell was a little too bad to have credibility . Yeah , he's arrogant , and I do believe he his one of those guys who lives on past glory and is deathly afraid of losing in front of a crowd . But , they ( with his cooperation , of course ) made him into a cartoon character in this film . It was ludicrous . . The more believable parts still made me shake my head in wonder how some people are just plain nuts . . . . . . and don't know it ! " Nerds " is good word to describe almost all of the old arcade video-game zealots . I think the oddest one might have been the " referee , " Walter Day , the bearded transcendental meditation guy . He's is the third leading " character " in this documentary . Actually , he didn't appear too wacked until the second half of the film when we saw and heard him trying to sing , among other things . And by the way , if you've ever read about guys who set multiple records in the Guiness Book Of World Records , they are , indeed , a strange lot . Notice the intense , Charles Manson-type eyes on a lot of these people ; it's scary ! Like other documentaries about unusual people or controversies ( i . e . " My Kid Could Paint That , " " Crazy Love " ) this will keep your interest throughout and having you rooting for the good guy , big-time , even if it is contrived . In the end , manipulated or not , we care about what happens in this story , so director Seth Gordon did his job well .
A Solid Crime Movie , Thanks To Three Leads	This was good ; a solid crime story . It's the " Tom Ripley " of " The Talented Mr . Ripley , " but now older and being played by John Malkovich instead of Matt Damon . He's also , at least to me , a totally different character so this story stands on its own . There's no tie-in to that previous filmMalkovich plays his normal role , playing the kind of character he's good at playing : the smart , sarcastic and sadistic villain with the interesting vocabulary . In this story , he blends in with the locals as somewhat of a nondescript guy but inside he's a man with no conscience who is a killer . Late in the film , he admits and brags about having no conscience . The plot in this movie revolves around Ripley having someone else do some of the latest killings for him , an " average Joe " that no one would suspect . That role is played by Dougray Scott , a young Englishman with a wife and young son , but a man who is dying of leukemia and could use a little extra money for his family when he's gone . That seems to be the lure when the evil Ripley and his partner give him the murder sales pitch . It takes some convincing , but " Jonathan Trevanny " eventually gives in to some persuasion , shall we say . Scott's reaction after the killing is very interesting . . . and he gets another assignment . Ripley's partner " Reeves " also is an intriguing guy , played by Ray Winstone who also often portrays this time of character : a vicious , profane thug . If you saw " Sexy Beast , " you'll know the type of guy Winstone plays hereAnyway , without giving the story away , suffice to say this wound up a pleasant surprise : great dialog , good photography and acting , some dark humor along with good suspense and just the right amount of action and lulls . It is heavy on the profanity , so beware of that . This is a film one doesn't hear much about and is recommended for those who enjoy modern-day , tough crime films .
Ship Of Fools And Other Undesirables	Everyone's worst nightmare in the ocean : being attacked by sharks . That's what happens to some guy who is heard yelling for help , treading water next to a big cruise ship . He gets the attention of sunbathers , including his wife , and the captain . The latter fires three shots in the water , trying to scare away the sharks but it's not enough . The sharks eat him . Since the death occurred within three miles of Miami shoreline , the local police - " Det . Frank Tripp ( Rex Linn ) and CSI's " Lt . Horatio Caine " ( David Caruso ) investigate on-board ship . They quickly see a little blood on the side of the boat where the man fell in and what what looks like scuffle marks from shoes . This is not an accident : someone pushed him over the railing . It also turns out he was drugged prior to his " accident " and was robbed of $70 , 000 , too . Suspects range from the wife-of-three days , to her step-daughter , to some of the ship's personnel from the captain on down . There are kinds of little stories in this episode , and everyone on this ship from crew to passengers is devoid of morals . ( This is a true " Ship Of Fools . " ) We also have a possible bird flu epidemic and , in three sidebars ( 1 ) someone is out to destroy the CSI lab , spying on them looking to shut them down ; ( 2 ) the continuing soap opera of CSI worker Natalia and her relationship to former boyfriend Eric Delko and now Ryan Wolfe , and ( 3 ) in a real shocker , Horatio tells Marisol that , yes indeed , he would be willing to marry her ! Lots of dramatics , obviously , in this episode .
An Over-The-Top But Very Dramatic Episode	There's a wild start to this as Horatio is seen in an ambulance , attending to his brand-new bride , Marisol . Apparently she's been shot ( it doesn't show that ) . Then , someone stops the ambulance , Horatio gets out . . . . and . . . . . they flashback to what led up to this , namely : A leader of the Mala Noche gang , featured in a couple of episodes earlier in the year , is on trial . At the trial , the witnesses on the stand , some spectators and the janitor all conspire to help another get a gun , fire away and all hell breaks loose with the leader and one of the conspirators escaping from the courtroom . The CSI team begins tracking down all this could have happened when the courtroom was swept for all weapons and ammunition right before the trial . More big dramatics occur when Eric and his sister are shot , with Marisol in serious condition . One of the suspects is an ex-girlfriend of Delko's , a nutcase stalker . Obviously , this is a very intense - and a bit over-the-top , especially with the ex-girlfriend - episode . In leaves with a sad note . It already mentions " tragedy " on the IMDb homepage , so you can guess what it is : Marisol dies . Horato and Eric find the killer in the final seconds and want to know who ordered the " hit . " I assume they are going to get the last remnants of this vicious gang so they can be totally eliminated from the Miami crime scene .
' Spice ' Is The Act ; ' Sugar ' Is The Real Ann-Margret	Ann-Margret may have a " sex kitten " image but the TV episode shows she's really a wonderful , devoted , almost old-fashioned type lady . I mean , how many Hollywood couples are married once and are the same sweethearts they were when they first met ? Ann-Margret and Roger Smith are . . . . and friends will tell you it's no accident . Both of them are great people . All the actors interviewed in here - and there were some famous ones like Lemmon - all say she is a sweetheart off screen . After watching this episode , I also had some respect for Ann-Margret's determination to succeed . Her road to fame started off with a bang , being " discovered " by comedian George Burns and signing a seven-year contract with 20th Century Fox at the tender age of 19 . However , her career soon started leveling off and then rapidly declining with a bunch of " B " movies . Nobody really took her as a serious actress until 1971 with her role in " Carnal Knowledge . " Suddenly , it was " Wow , I didn't know Ann-Margret could act . " Yet , she still played the " siren " role throughout most of her film career and became but became just as well-known as a singer and Las Vegas entertainer , and a great contributor to the USO doing shows for the troops in Vietnam with Bob Hope . Speaking of Vegas , one of Ann-Margret's most memorable moments came when she fell over 20 feet during a performance and was seriously injured . This TV programs tells what happened , how her husband reacted and then her amazing comeback afterward . Ann-Margret seems to be a woman of comebacks , even today . . . . and if you've seen her you'll be shocked that a woman her age can look that good ! This Biography episode shows Ann-Margret to be a very impressive woman , not just one with a beautiful face . This was an interesting show and recommended .
Hard To Explain , Better To Just See It	There is no story in this animated short : just wild and crazy contortions drawn on a face who is singing a song about " your face . " As he sings , almost every conceivable oddity occurs , such as facial parts changing position , head being twisted , cut , pulled inside-out , being chopped into pieces and reforming and so many things you can't describe . This really is a three-minute piece showing the imagination of the artist . It kept me riveted to my seat , wondering what crazy thing will I see in the next few seconds . Basic , but fascinating material . It was up for an Academy Award . You can see it on the DVD called " Plympton : The Complete Early Works Of Bill Plympton . "
Not-That-Sugary Look At A Good-Hearted Man	There are a lot of sugary clichés I use - in a nice way - to describe this story about a doctor with a good heart who truly believes in the healing power of laughter . Based on a real-life person ( who looks a lot wackier than Robin Williams , who plays him in this movie ) , the story has its usual rebel fights-the - straight-laced-establishment cliché but is a warm , sentimental film that can't help but make you feel really good when it's all over . It's hardly all sugar , either , as there are not only frustrations but an immensely-shocking tragedy in here . For a nice " family " movie , the profanity and sexual innuendos are a little much , so I don't think is one for the kids . ( They wouldn't like it anyway . ) Adults shouldn't mind . The language isn't that bad , anyway . " Patch's " remedy for not only sickness but to get-the-girl is humor . It takes him awhile but he softens the hard-shell woman he's after ( Monica Potter ) and even the super stiff-ass roommate ( Philip Seymour Hoffman ) in the end . This film is tailor-made for Williams and his great sense of humor and ability to ad-lib . He has a lot of funny lines in here . There is one little kid in here who's smile is one of the best I've ever seen on a human being , and I wish the boy had more scenes . The touches of sentimentality he brings , along with the laughter , is wonderful to see and heart - warming , to say the least . This is an inspiring story with comedy and romance and drama . That's what makes it so effective : a good combination of genres . One minute you're laughing , a few minutes later you have tears in your eyes . A wonderful story , nicely acted and nicely told .
Lots Of Good Stuff In This Harold Lloyd Silent Short	This Harold Lloyd silent film is fun because it has fast-moving story , plenty of chase scenes and sight gags , good camera-work and some great expressions on the actors ' faces . It also has a couple of endearing people such as a poor little girl and her lame dog , and a good-hearted woman . Of course , being a " silent , " I expect exaggerated facial expressions , but some in here are ones that made me laugh out loud . You see all kinds , from shady winks to eyebrow raising to evil-looking smiles . Hey , it's a story about a crooked lawyer and a bunch of thugs ( almost the same ) . One of the lawyers is named " Leech . " The little girl , called " The Waif , " is played by cute Peggy Courtwright . " Waif " is a common term in these silent films , which Charlie Chaplin and others featured a lot : homeless , extremely poor creatures , male , female , children and dogs . " The Girl " as she is called , is played by Mildred Davis . It was her first appearance in a Lloyd film . Four years later , she and Harold were married . Another interesting feature in this film was the sudden switch to a blue tint in the second half . It would be shown for a couple of short scenes . The ending , of course , was the best . You will have a smile on your face at the very last scene in the diner . These wild endings are the norm for silent comedies and are great fun to watch . . I loved how Harold rounded up the cops .
They Really Did Save The Best ' Til Last	I was never one of the millions of Star Wars groupies . I enjoyed the films , except for Attack Of The Clones , but wasn't a huge fan . Having seen the first five , I eventually got around to checking out this last one , if for no other reason than curiosity . Wow , it changed my whole outlook . I cannot believe how impressed I was with this film , how well the writers wrapped up the whole saga and put all the pieces together . This was an excellent film , the best of the entire series . It inspired me to buy the latest DVD set which had the first three movies released and then reacquire the Clones film to complete my DVD collection of it . I'm writing this review months after seeing " Sith . " so it's just a few general thoughts . I remember thinking , after watching the wild opening , that this was going to be another one of the modern-day action films with too much action . . . . but it settled down and wasn't vastly overdone in that area , although it could have toned it down a bit . Better than the action or special effects was simply the way the writers tied everything up , how Anakin Skywalker became Darth Vader , and his son wound up being the hero " Luke " that we saw in those early episodes of the 1970s and 1980s . The special effects were , of course , top-notch . When you go back and see those early films you really see how far Hollywood has advanced in this area . I cannot imagine how many hours of work it took the put these storyboards and computer artwork in this film , there is so much detail . It's mind-boggling . I know a lot of fans of this series feared the writers would mess up the final but their fears were not realized : this was a super ending to a memorable saga that endured for almost 30 years amazing .
Classic Remedy For Instant Satisfaction	I guess by now you could call this movie a " classic . " It would meet most definitions . It was so popular that it spawned a number of sequels , but they just got dumb and dumber . This is one of the most famous " revenge " movies ever made and still stands up today . This was a very , very simple story and it panders to our base instincts which is probably why it was so successful . Most people want justice , and they want it now . . . . which is what this movie preaches . At the time , the movie was shocking . If it came out today , it wouldn't have nearly the impact . However , the early scene of the mother and daughter raped and killed is still horrifying . That will never change . The story then slows down as we see the transformation of the husband , from conscientious objector to vigilante . When Charles Bronson hits the streets , the film picks up big-time . The movie also ends on a very satisfying note .
Well , I Liked It	I don't know why this movie doesn't get more positive recognition ; I thought it was terrific , and I've seen most the feature-length animated films of the past several years . This holds it own against most of them . For an animated film , it has exactly what you want : fantastic colors and colorful characters - most of them very funny and entertaining to view and hear - and a good story with some interesting twists to it . The artwork in this film is just amazing , especially on Blu-Ray . ( I've discovered that's how to watch these new animated movies - in high-def , because most of them look awesome . This film certainly is no exception . ) There were many times I just wanted the freeze-frame the picture and take in all the wild artwork . I might do that on a second viewing . Also no surprise is Steve Buscemi , who always gets humorous roles in these animated films and makes everyone laugh . He usually plays a rat , too . I mentioned that to a friend and he said , " That's because he looks like one in real life . " I wouldn't go that far , but I understand where he's coming from . Actually , all the leading voices - Buscemi , John Cusack , Molly Shannon , Sean Hayes , John Cleese , Jay Leno and more were all great . I'll give a special nod to the voice that cracked me up more than all the others , the one of " Hedi , " done by Jennifer Coolidge . She was hilarious ! If you enjoy the famous Frankstein monster story , or wild characters in a monster-lab-type setting , you should enjoy this parody . It's an underrated film and looks super on DVD .
Good Story , Spectacular Visuals	A frantic woman is seen desperately racing down a street as some unseen motorist is terrorizing her , crashing into her . She loses control of the car , crashes and dies . Well , at least it looks like that until later it's determined another blow to the head - not from the collision - is what really killed her . In the trunk of her car is a dead man , but early on we discover who and why he there . That means one killer is in custody , but who killed the driver ? The usual twists and turns occur and two instances of abuse - one a surprise because it involves a CSI worker - are uncovered . The story is interesting but the colors in here are even better . The visuals in this episode are exceptional , even a notch above the very-high standards of this series .
Artwork Really Captures Christmas	This is another winner from the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume Two , with fantastic artwork that captures the colorful Christmas setting magnificently . We open with a beautiful depiction of an old house under a snowfall . It's " the night before Christmas and all through the night . . . . " Sylvester interrupts the calm narrative voice and spits out " oh , goody , Santy Clause has been here and I've been a good pussycat " as he admires all the gifts under the tree . He opens one of them and discovers a rubber mouse , which doesn't exactly thrill him . In seconds , he hears a bird singing " Jingle Bells . " It's Tweety in his cage , gift-wrapped " to Granny . " Sylvester switches tags and puts " to kitty " on the birdcage instead . Suffice to say , without spoiling anything , Sylvester is not in Christmas spirit , only wanting to eat Tweety , and when a big bulldog jumps out of another present and eats Sylvester , Granny has to keep on top of things or there will be nothing left of either Tweety or Sylvester . Granny sums it up best : " Land sakes alive : what a house ! "
Boxing Was Big Back In The ' 30s	It's Bluto , " the champ , " verses Popeye , " the sailor man , " in the " fight of the century . " I think this theme - a big boxing match between these two guys - was used in a couple of other Popeye cartoons down the road , but I enjoyed this one the best . Boxing was a subject used in a lot of feature films in the 1930s and ' 40s . In the ' 30s , three sports ruled in the United States : baseball , horse racing and boxing . Anyway , this cartoon has the insane sight gags of the ' 30s I enjoy where inanimate objects are anything but that , such as microphones turning into mouths and correcting each other's grammar ! How about Bluto working out on a 1 , 000-pound iron punching bag , which he pulverizes and turns into an automobile ? ( Popeye did a lot of these things in these early cartoons such a punch a big fish and having it turn into hundreds of sardines . Things like that . ) The big fight , held at " Yank-Um Stadium , " another pun used many times in cartoons of the ' 30s and ' 40s , This might have been the first cartoon in which Popeye uttered a popular phrase describing himself : " I am what I am and that's all that I am ! " He says that after Olive comes into his pre-fight dressing room and says if he boxes , she's going to leave him . The boxing match , of course , was funny with some unique aspects that drew some laughs from me . Just one example : Bluto's trainer cooling him off waving a towel at his chest and the tattoo of a sailboat sailing off with the breeze . It that's kind of cartoon lunacy that makes this genre entertaining .
One Of The Wildest , Action-Packed Tom and Jerry Cartoons	Whether this was a rip-off of the Tweety-and-Sylvester ' toon called " Kitty Foiled " or not was immaterial to me once I watched this because this was outstanding . ( So was " Kitty Foiled . " ) The sight-gags , pratfalls , slapstick nonsense , etc . , were almost all very clever in this short as Tom tries one thing after another to either get the canary or Jerry . It's mayhem , with one catastrophe after another happening the hapless cat . Is imitation of a flying bat is pretty wild . Actually , it's almost too much action . After awhile , you want to say : " stop ! slow down for a second ! " Overall , however , it entertains nicely and provides a lot of laughs , which is the idea . The artwork in here is pretty good , too .
Love Those ' Asides " & The Music	I almost always laugh when a cartoon character turns to us , the audience , and makes a remark . Early in this animated short , Sylvester , turns and whispers to us , " How naive can you get ? " That's after Tweety is asking him what he wants as the cat reaches into the cage , trying to steal him from the front window at " Stacy's " Department Store . Also funny , and usually taken for granted by us viewers , is the music . I liked the violin strings being plucked each time Sylvester would tiptoe around that department store front window and then in the main store as he stalked Tweety ( who had flown away just before being eaten as a sandwich ) . There are the normal amount of great sight gags in here , such as Sylvester making a ladder out of mannequins and then becoming part of the mannequin , or the goofy cat trying on women's hats or the chase through the doll house . This is very entertaining all the way with great gags and great music .
A Drama With Realism , Heart & Dignity	This is a movie with a lot of " dignity . " It has such realistic people , it kept me fascinated because it seemed so different from most films I've watched . There aren't a lot of dramatic things that happen in the story yet , as a whole , it's a wonderful tale that stays with you . It's a lot more than just seeing an Oscar-winning performance by Robert Duvall as Texan and former C & W singer and writer , " Mac Sledge . " It's simply good storytellingI can't say I am a fan of Duvall's country singing , but that is the only thing I didn't like . Well , maybe " Dixie " ( Betty Buckley ) , who played a bitter ex-wife of Duvall's in here . She was not pleasant , but others were really nice , likable people . Yet , this is not some sappy movie just because most of the people are good folks . As in film noirs in which the viewer has a sense of dread , knowing something bad is around the corner , I felt the same thing in this film , even though it didn't necessarily happen . I mean with the main characters : Mac , Rosa Lee and Sonny . There was underlying tension , probably because of Sledge's alcoholic and violent past , that made me fear that any minute he was going to ruin the nice setup he had with a good woman and nice stepson . Duvall , as usual , makes his role a fascinating and unpredictable one . With many of the people he has played over the years , you never am sure what his characters are going to do next . Tess Harper , as Mac's new wife , and Alan Hubbard , as her son , are two of the most realistic characters I've ever seen on film . It helped they were from the area so their accents were real . This is a just straight drama , with a solid screenplay by Horton Foote and direction by Bruce Beresford ( " Driving Miss Daisy " ) . In addition , actors Buckley ( who can sing , too ) , Wilford Brimley and Ellen Barkin all give memorable supporting performances . It was an interesting tale of something I have rarely seen on film in the past 50 years : a good Christian woman lifting up a man to her level . She never had to do it verbally , never nagged or preached to the man , just set example of how to act and be a loving , supportive spouse . There is a lesson for people here with how well " Rosa Lee " handled situations . Nice . . . . . very nice .
Lots Of Good Sight Gags	" Mascot Tom " has been hired aboard a cruise ship . He has the assignment to make sure there are no mice on board . " If I find one , you'll be fired , " says the ship's captain . Minutes later , here comes Jerry on his way on-board , complete with straw hair and playing his banjo . He's going to Hawaii aboard the U . S . S . Aloha . As he gets to the top , however , Tom is there to greet him and boot him back onto the dock . Now Jerry has to find a way to get on the ship , past Tom . He tries several clever ways , climbing a rope , pole vaulting , etc . , and finally succeeds when he hitches a ride on the anchor , which is being hoisted out of the water . The rest of the cartoon is Tom discovering Jerry and trying to get rid of him before the captain spots the mouse . En route , there are lots of good sight gags making this an entertaining short . A clever scene had the two cats winding up in a room where they were showing a Tom and Jerry cartoon !
A Fun Movie For Film Buffs	Since " The Fugitive " is one of my all-time favorites , this takeoff on it was fun and enjoyable for me to watch . Hey , sometimes it's best to laugh at ourselves and the things we like . For much of it , this movie was laugh-out-loud funny . It helped not only to know " The Fugitive " story well but also " North By Northwest , " " Casablanca " " Titantic , " and many , many other films , both classic and modern-day . The more familiar you are with movies , the more of these " inside " jokes are going to make you laugh . Being a movie buff , a lot of these gags connected and made me really have a good time watching this Leslie Nielsen farce . Be warned , parents : this is not a family comedy . There are tons of sexual innuendos , so typical of today's comedies .
Gives You Your Money's Worth Of Entertainment	I suppose a film like this will fall into one of two categories for fans of this series : either this was the best of the three or the worst . My vote goes to it being the " best " although I prefer Superman and Batman over Spidey in the superhero category , anyway . However , I did find this movie extremely entertaining . Silly ? Yes , but it's a Marvel Comics cartoon-come-to-life , so anything goes . A little too long ? Probably . . . . . yet I was never bored watching this , and I - and I assume most people - certainly got their money's worth for action , special effects , cool villains , romance , sentiment , good vs . evil , revenge vs . forgiveness , etc . Even two main characters : Spider-Man and his pal Harry - both had two different personalities in this story . There is so much material packed into this movie , it almost too much for one sitting . The film can wear you out ! . Myself , I thought " The Sandman " was the coolest part of this movie . I've read a few of the comic books and thought he was the most interesting of the villains so I was curious to see how he'd be presented in here . I was not disappointed . His scenes were awesome ! This is a rare film : a ton of action and , at the end , a sincere message of forgiveness , not revenge , being the answer . Wow , is that refreshing to hear . Yes , the revenge is more fun . . . . . . but never as satisfying . For a little over two hours of totally escapist entertainment , this fills the bill .
Age Hasn't Slowed These Guys , Either	This was much better than I had expected , not that I didn't expect a decent performance from these guys . I just didn't know exactly what to expect since they were long past their " prime . " However , like a number of other ' 60s groups that are still playing , these guys are still very good . Age doesn't seem to hurt their ability to sing , play instruments and entertain in concert . Most of the songs were the classics of the group , the ones that made them famous . These gray-haired " old-timers " were very animated and really into the concert , and did a great job with their old songs . The concert had some electricity to it . The crowd appreciated their efforts and made this a fun DVD to watch and hear . Overall , this is solid music by a classy group , who may look old but can still rock and sing with the best of ' em .
Funny & Touching - A Good Combination	This was a funny and - near the end - a touching movie . That's a nice combination to have . My only complaint is that it certainly isn't " family fare " for a nice story and should have been rated " R , " not PG-13 . There's simply too much sexual material ( and and f-word ) for PG-13 . With some editing , this could have been a great story for everyone . However , for us adults who like to laugh , there is plenty in here to do that . The jokes come pretty fast , right from the get-go . The premise would good : with a ( television-like ) remote control , you could control your life . You could fast-forward through all the unpleasant scenes in your life , or freeze frame something that is happening now , or you could go back into time with your life . It all sounds good , but as our main character " Michael Newman " ( Adam Sandler ) found out , it's not so cool . That's a key message here , too , that avoiding the bad things is not necessarily what's best for us . The major message , however , was that spending time with your family is more important than putting your job ahead of them , as far as priorities go . That theme leads to some touching scenes in the final 30 minutes of this comedy . As funny as this film is , you would be hard-pressed not to have some tears in your eyes at some point near the end of this film . Sandler plays a typical role for him , and utters some great lines and uses sight gags as well for plenty of his laughs . Kate Bekinsale , who plays his wife " Donna , " looks absolutely beautiful , the prettiest I've seen her since " Pearl Harbor . " She plays a nice lady in here , too . Their little kids - especially the girl ( Tatum McCann ) - are cute and funny at times . I won't mention the dog . I can't without being crude . Christopher Walken is here , and that usually means good news as he tends to play fun-and-interesting characters . Unfortunately - just a warning - this comedy , as so many modern-day ones are , has its share of crude moments , some language and the above-mentioned sexual material . Overall , it was extremely , entertaining , however .
5 Reasons Why I Like This Sequel Better	This sequel to a popular first film was a pleasant surprise to me . In fact , I think I like this better than the original , much better . Why ? Well . . . . . 1 - It is extremely entertaining and just an hour-and-half long ; 2 - It has a much softer edge to it with more humor than the original ; 3 - the special effects with the variety of little aliens are excellent ; 4 - it's easier on the profanity than the first film , making this more kid-friendly ; 5 - at 90 minutes the length of the movie is just right . Yes , the story can be stupid at times , but so was the first one , and the good qualities listed above far outweigh that negative . Tommy Lee Jones is fun to watch again and Will Smith isn't as arrogant as he was in the first movie . This is a no-brainer played strictly for laughs and it succeeds beautifully in that regard .
High Praise For This ' Kids ' Film	You've often heard the sales pitch , " adults will love it , too ! " almost always referring to a kids ' movie and in particularly , an animated movie for children . Well , in this case I agree . Even as a middle-aged adult , I enjoyed this . The dialog is adult-friendly but at the same time not coarse or crude with no sexual innuendos , no profanity or even a hint of it . Yet , it's hip with some very clever lines . The story is interesting and offers a few unique twists . David Spade does a fabulous job narrating , has a very pleasing voice , one that's fun to hear . I actually do think adults would like this more than children .
Another Inventive Effort By Bill Plympton	At first , this is deceiving . It appears to be a lesson about how to draw , but " the magic line _ - the narrator - quickly gets sidetracked and this turns out to be a very funny story and a cartoon that was fascinating to watch , especially if you like the creative process of art . I can't draw worth a lick so I've always enjoyed seeing some of these speed-ed-up images of someone drawing something . That's what happens here as our Chris Hoffman , our narrator , tells of his sad relationship with " Vera . " This is one of these strange Bill Plympton early animated efforts where you almost have to see it to explain it . Words don't come easy trying to describe the crazy images Plympton comes up with in some of his material , such as this one . He just draws out his story - quickly - and adds in the color as he goes from sentence to sentence , becoming emotional ( which is humorous to hear ) as he tells his sad tale of woe . The story of " the line " and how he tries to pick up other women after losing Vera is really entertaining . This , and some of Pympton's other cartoons , are offered in a unique DVD titled , " Plymptoons : The Early Works of Bill Plympton . " You can see the picture of it at the upper left of this title page .
Slow But Wow , Is This A Visual Treat !	I can't imagine a lot of people , especially anyone under 40 , sitting through this extremely slow film . . . . but I thought it was excellent . However , I am biased because I love great cinematography and stories about famous painters . Sometimes the cameras stay on subject longer than normal , affording the viewer time to really soak it up . If you can stay awake , this film offers some of the prettiest images I've ever seen on film . Scene after scene looks like a classic painting come to life . Scarlet Johannson says very little but is fascinating to watch . For the first-time viewer , there a tension that builds throughout the film leaving wondering what bad thing is about to happen . The story is not an upbeat one , yet not depressing either . One time , I watched this film very early in the morning , something I rarely do , and with the subtitles on . It wasn't a bad way to watch it - a quiet film in the quiet of the pre-dawn hours . The film offers another demonstration of why doesn't have to shed all their clothes to be erotic . This inspired me to read the book , and I enjoyed that , too .
Pleasant Voice , Pleasant Concert	The stage-opera-pop star gives a concert in Fort Lauderdale , Fla . , as part of her " La Luna Tour . " I am guessing the year was 2000 ( it doesn't say ) . Of the several DVDs I have watched of Brightman's I think this one has the best collection of songs . In all there 26 songs giving up an hour-and-a-half of her singing . The visuals are okay , but I've seen better ( her Las Vegas disc , for example ) . I thought the production was excellent , although there is a lot blue in here . That's the dominant color . However , I bought this for her voice , not worrying about the visuals . I am not a fan of female opera singers , but I enjoy her voice and she does enough pop numbers to offset any preponderance of the latter . Her repertoire goes back and forth . This concert offered a few songs I hadn't heard her do before , and ones I really liked such as " He Doesn't See Me " and her version of the Simon & Garfunkel tune , " Scarborough Fair . " It was good to see another great singer , Josh Groban , join her for a number , too . In all , a pleasant concert that you can either watch or be content to use as surround-sound CD while you do something else .
Driving A Poor Custodian Crazy	It's the Pink Panther torment a night-time department store custodian . I guess our hero is a kind of homeless type of guy who hangs out wherever he can find a warm , indoor spot . In this case , he's lying comfortably in the rug section . Problems ( and some very good sight gags ) start when the Panther goes inside a tiger-skin and the janitor gets lazy , trying to sweep the dust and stuff inside the tiger's mouth . The PP shoves the dust right back at him . From that point , the Panther , undetected by the employee , drives the poor man crazy , appearing and re-appearing in different departments of the store , including the escalators . In the meanwhile , the PP takes a bath in a washing machine , and tries out a few other things in the store such as the " Miracle chair . " Most of them are have pretty funny results . Overall , this was very entertaining .
The Strangest Snow White You'l Ever See	This is another of those Betty Boop cartoons that feature two things : music and an insane storyline with wild visuals where crazy things happen one after the other . Back in the late ' 60s , we would have thought the cartoonists who made this had to be stoned . I say that because this is not any Snow White story you've ever seen . It's so strange , and it's almost hard to describe . In one fairly long scene , we hear the voice of the great Cab Calloway while some ghostly spirit-like figure dances through some Dante's Infero / hello underground . It's really bizarre ! Earlier , we get the ugly queen talking several times to her " looking glass " ( mirror ) with dialog such as , " Am I the fairest in the place ? " The mirror answers , " If I was you , I'd hide my face ! " I'm telling you ; these guys MUST have been on acid who wrote and drew some of these early Betty Boop cartoons ! They are so wild , it's unbelievable .
Some Very Funny Scenes In Here	While in the paddock area with a horse called " Bell Boy , " Bilko is making sarcastic comments to Henshaw and Rocco about that horse . They had received a tip from a new recruit , fresh off the farm in Kentucky - a kid who knows all about horses who told Bilko to bet this horse . " Hey , " explains the recruit " Pvt . Carter , " " he has good breeding . He's from the family of Native Dancer . " " Yeah , " replies Bilko , " that explains the slow mambo he was just doing . How am I going to face my platoon when I've lost half their money on this horse ? " After Bilko finds out the horse is for sale for $100 and the kid discovers second later that the horse has a leg problem he could fix . " When he's cured , the horse could make thousands winning stakes races , " says the new recruit . His greedy Bilko is hooked and buys the horse . The problem is " how do we hide the horse from Colonel Hall ? " Later , it also becomes , " How do we feed the horse , get blankets , medical supplies , etc ? " To make matters worse , there is going to be a surprise inspection by old " spit and polish , " which has Col . Hall very concerned . This was a fun episode with a couple of memorable scenes , such as the four guys in the platoon having to eat oats for four days and the Colonel being woken up each night at 4 a . m . hearing a horse race by his window .
Young Boys Witness Brutal Slaying Of Their Mom	This was an interesting look at the big city of Atltana , " which is about as southern as a can of Boston baked beans , " according to narrator Paul Winfield . His point was , as most people know , Atltanta has a lot of northern people living it in . Northern money rebuilt the city after Gen . Sherman burned it down in 1864 during the Civil War . . . . and Atlanta hasn't stopped growing since . We get some astonishing skyscraper views in this " City Confidential " episode , along with a few shots of the major road systems and horrendous traffic that residents have to endure daily . You really get the feel of a big northern city . We learn about the businesses , leading off with Coca-Cola , who built up the area and provided tons of jobs for those Yankees who invaded the area . We also learn about where the Atlanta folks moved who wanted to raise families in the safest areas : they moved north of the city . One such couple were the Tokars who were single people from the Buffalo , New York , area who moved to Atlanta . Sara Ambrusko was a beautiful girl , the daughter of a prominent physician in a Buffalo suburb . One day on Atlanta TV , she spotted an old high school friend , Fredric Tokars , on the screen and called him up . She was homesick and wanted to talk to someone from her home town . Three months later , they were married . How many times have you wound up seeing that being a mistake : dating for that short a period and getting married ? In this case , it turned out to be a fatal mistake . Fredric Tokars didn't wind up being the handsome , dashing lawyer he looked like on TV . Oh , he was successful ; first as an assistant district attorney and then as his own boss as a criminal defense attorney . The problem was he began to be in cahoots with some of his shady clients . It turns out Sara was very happy being a stay-at-home mom and loved raising her two little boys in a high-class neighborhood in Marietta . He was a immoral kind of husband who frequented prostitutes , got mixed up in the drug business and , well . . . . . was just a bad guy . When he wouldn't grant her a divorce , she wound up getting the goods on him and rather than her spilling what she knew about his illegal activities , he hired one of the thugs he had gotten involved with , to kill her . . This took place in December of 1992 . The worst part about this story is hearing that the two little boys witnessed the murder , all three sitting in the front of their car when the hired murderer kidnapped them when they arrived home from a trip . They never even got out of their car . About a mile down the road in the ultra-quiet neighborhood , Sara screamed and the killer blasted half her head off with a sawed-off shotgun . The boys were covered in blood and ran for help . ( Try living the rest of your life with those memories . ) This episode , as almost all City Confidental episodes are , is very biased . All the people interviewed are on her the woman's side ( mostly Sara's sisters ) and nobody is pictured saying anything good about the husband . Of course , in this situation , how can you ? You can't . The only question was : " Will Tokars get the death penalty ? " Tokars did not get the death penalty , which did not please the family and friends of Sara's . .
' Son Of Sam ' Is Now ' Son Of Hope '	I felt this was one of the more interesting Biographiy episodes because of all that preceded the main story and was tacked on at the end , about a man who terrorized New York City in the mid 1970s . David Berkowitz , a . k . a . Son Of Sam and a . k . a . The . 44 Calibre Killer , certainly doesn't look and talk like the same man he was in the 1970s . He is one of the few murderers who sounds legit when he talks about his conversion to Christianity . I rarely believe those guys , but Berkowitz convinced me . Does mean he should be released ? No , of course not , and he admits it , too . The point is , it was interesting to see and hear him today , some 30 years after he made national headlines with his killing spree . Berkowitz's childhood , and one reason why he turned out as he did , centered around the fact that he was adopted . Years ago , that was a big deal and often a sore spot among kids . Other kids would taunt you about it . It's hard to believe , but it's true . Horrified by this , David wound up a mama's boy , a loner , a child who poisoned the family parakeet so he could get more attention . At 10 , he saw a child psychologist , but it didn't help . He was a " closed book , " very private . Biography goes on to explain his life in the military , and how Berkowitz's insecurity got worse all the time , how he thought he was worthless . The program then details his quest to find out who his real parents were and how that didn't turn out well , either . He finally met his birth mother and was very disappointed . He turned to Satanic cults . Mentally , things go worse and by 1976 , he had come to the conclusion he needed to kill a woman to make up for the suffering his real mom and other women had given him . So in July of 1976 , the killings began . Oddly , the TV program notes that Berkovitz - while cruising the city nightly for good places to kill people - also carried with his first aid equipment because he wanted to be a hero ! ( I told you his story here was fascinating . ) Anyway , after the fifth killing , a new American citizen female from Bulgaria , police knew they had a crazed killer on their hands and dubbed him " the . 44 caliber killer . " By the sixth murder , Berkowitz leaves police a note and refers to himself as " Son of Sam . " It goes on until a parking ticket , of all things , leads to his arrest . It was almost anti-climactic . The cops didn't even know who they had when they arrested him . Berkowitz told them , " Well , you finally got me . " " Who do we have ? " " You have ' the Son of Sam . ' " He didn't go easily after the trial , claiming he only killed three people that the Satanic cult did the rest . He seems to have peace with himself now , though . In 2005 , David Berkowitz wrote a book called " Son Of Hope . " Amazon reviewers give it five stars .
A Different Kind Of ' Western '	Wow , what a brutal " western . " I put " western " in quotes because most people think of the western half of the United States as being the locale for western movies . This movie was made and set in Australia but the time frame is similar : around 1880 . What's " brutal " about the story is the violence , bloodshed and language - but only in spots . The language is odd in that the vocabulary of most of the people is above-average , but be warned there are a number of f-words . I question whether that word was around in the 19th century , but it's prevalent in this film . Actually , the violent scenes will be more offensive to viewers than the profanity . Like the profanity , however , the violence only comes in spurts . Most of the film has much calmer moments , surprisingly low-key . One thing that is there throughout the 104 minutes is the excellent cinematography . This is a pretty film , nicely shot with some beautiful scenery and colors , stylish at times , too . To me , this was the best part of the movie . It's indeed a visual treat . Benoit Delholmme deservedly won several international awards for his camera-work in here . The story is uniquely presented , different enough that it kept me very involved wondering what was coming next . For those expecting a brainless revenge story or shoot ' em up western , they will be disappointed . There is a lot of thought to this film , and it varies scene - to-scene from classy to crude . Guy Pearce , Ray Winstone and Emily Watson are three actors I am familiar with , and I enjoyed all three of their performances . This is not a well-known movie here in the States , but if you like tough westerns and something a bit different , check it out .
Bluto As Fred Astaire - Yup !	Dance contests were pretty big back in the old days , especially during the Depression . People , desperate for money , would do about anything to get a cash prize The worst , of course , were the grueling " marathon dances , " but many times the contests just involved regular dances and judging what couple looked best . Fred Astaire featured some of these type of contests in his movies . The chief judge here , Wimpy , has a unique way of eliminating couples . He pulls a switch and the floor gives way in that section , making the people disappear with an " ohhh , " a thud and a bang ! This guy was a brutal judge . Anyway , Popeye is no Astaire , but Bluto is pretty slick ( with his hair , too . ) He grabs Olive and waltz's her pretty good around the floor . He's actually impressive as a hoofer . A dejected Popeye claims , " I guess I have no sex appeal . " He forlornly walks back to his table and eats a bowl of spinach . Well , that spinach goes right to his feet - and , look out ! This was different in that I wouldn't picture these two macho guys competing as dancers , but it made for another entertaining cartoon and I'm sure audiences who were familiar with all dances back then , loved it . Both the guys - and Olive , who was almost like Ginger Rogers with her moves - were steppin ' out ! Good fun all-around .
Last ' ' Dirty Harry ' ' And A Good One	This was the fifth and last " Dirty Harry " movie with Clint Eastwood playing the hero again , Inspector Harry Callahan , cleaning up the streets of San Francisco from all the scumbag criminals . I've always found " The Dead Pool " to be one of his best in this series . It's entertaining with pretty taut suspense and always fun to go back and see a young Jim Carrey . It's always cool , too , to watch those little remote-control cars with bombs attached go speeding through the streets underneath automobiles . At an hour-and-a-half , there are no dry spots in this film , either . The female lead , Patricia Clarkson , is not one of my favorites . Eastwood seems to like those skinny blonds . Evan Kim , playing " Harry's " new partner , " Al Quan , " was a likable guy . Even Harry's slightly more low-key in this movie , his language more tame and he gets in a few comedic zingers as well . Carrey plays a totally-despicable drugged-out rock star but he doesn't last long in the film . Carry and Liam Neeson play low-life people and combine to put some sleaze into the story . Despite the usual less-than-credible action scenes at the end ( where the villains miss from point-blank range , etc . ) , this is still a very entertaining movie and one of my favorites among the " Dirty Harry " films . Clint went out in style with this film .
Sleepwalking Slapstick Has To Be Seen To Be Believed !	Sometimes a theme song , so to speak , accompanies these early Popeye cartoons , and that's the case here as we listen to " Have You Ever Seen A Dream Walking ? " Well , Popeye does here with Olive Oyl . So does Bluto . These two spot Olive outside walking on a flagpole and on the roof of their high-rise building and both vow " to save her . " In this episode , both guys have rooms on the second-to-the-top floors and Olive lives on the top floor . Both guys have Olive's picture above their bed and Olive has both guys ' photos above hers ! Yes , this is the first of instance of many years of fickleness by Olive . Prior to this , the first 14 cartoons had Olive strictly interested in Popeye only . As the years went on , she played the two guys against each other all the time . Tons of sight gags make this an excellent Popeye cartoon . Olive taking giant strides from rooftop to rooftop to a construction sight are very good ; the shots the two guys trying to save her are clever . . . . very clever with all three of them sleepwalking on the high beams at one point . You really have to see this as a description doesn't quite do it justice . The ending , though , isn't justice for poor Popeye . This was a hoot to watch and looked fantastic on that restored DVD package of cartoons featuring Popeye from 1933 to 1938 . They did great job from the master prints of these theatrical releases .
Artwork And Dream-Like Visuals Elevate Story	It's pouring out and traveler Porky is looking for some refuge in the storm . He wonders if the people in " that quaint old castle " on top of the nearby hill will put him up for the night . En route , he sees a sign that says , " Beware of the Leprechauns . " What nonsense , Porky thinks . Upon entering the castle , he meets " Seamus O'Toole , " caretaker of the " Clarey Castle . " " Seamus " is really two leprechauns standing on top of the other . They are " O'Pat " and " O'Mike " and they think Porky has come to steal their pot of gold . What happens after that , with the magical green shoes , is bizarre with dream-like sequences . There are some very cool visuals . The artwork in here is just beautiful , start-to-finish . Most of these cartoons in the " Looney Tunes Golden Collection " are restored to bold , bright colors and give the excellent artists who drew these animated short subjects their due .
Well , It Certainly Is Original And , Despite The Ending , I Found It Fascinating	Wow , this is really a bizarre story with an ending that probably will turn off 98 percent of viewers who stick with this two hours , 147-minute film . I'm not sure what to make of it , other than totally understanding if people are left unsatisfied after watching this movie . As I said , I'm not sure how to interpret it as I just finished it minutes ago . It leaves you almost stunned . Rather than judging that finale and having to use spoilers , let me just comment on the first two hours of the film , which I found utterly fascinating . If I wasn't such an admirer of photography , art and special-effects , I doubt I would have found the movie so appealing because the story is " not for everyone . " However , thanks to stunning French city and countryside scenery , 18th century period and beautiful women it enhanced the story to me . Yet , regardless of the visual treats , the story was so unusual it still would have held my attention . There are enough reviews here so that to go into the story in detail isn't needed except to say this is an " original . " I'm not familiar with any other story about a man who has such an extraordinary sense of smell that he can perform olfactory miracles and then , because of it , uses it to turn into a mass murderer . This is weird , really weird , but captivating to say the least . Ben Wishaw , who plays the lead character " Jean-Baptist Grenouille , has a face that is perfect for this role . His emaciated body , which survived a brutal childhood existence from the moment he was born also makes his character all the more credible . The looks of shock and awe on this man's face throughout the picture also add to his believability . He was mesmerizing with his haunting expressions . Dustin Hoffman and Alan Rickman provide " name " actors the film but it's Wishaw's movie , all the way . I can only recommend this movie to those who share similar interests in cinematography and who like a " different " story but there are so many things in here - especially the ending - that could offend so many people , I would be hesitant to recommend this to the general viewer . I'm going to go look for the book at our local library . I'm curious how that version compared to the screenplay .
My Favorite Of The Harry Potter Films	I thought this was excellent . . . . better than the first two Harry Potter movies combined and better than what has followed . . That's my feeling , and I'm still sticking to it . This was just great fun , right from the opening . In fact , the early bus scene is the best in the film . Overall , the movie didn't have as mean an edge to it as the others , although it has a number of scary moments ( which might have warranted a PG-13 rating ) . That was fine with me . I got tired of the dark , nasty and / or annoying characters of the first two films , and especially the irritating blonde wise-guy kid . I give this major points for cutting his role down . Even Alan Rickman's character softens . In other words , there is no despicable villain to hate throughout the film , which I thought was refreshing . Instead , we just go through one adventure after another until the final surprise ending . Along the way are a lot of fun special effects and scenery , some humor ( Emma Thompson is a hoot as an eccentric tea-leaf reader ) and some fantastic 5 . 1 surround sound . I wish all the Harry Potter films were like this one .
Good To See Gail Davis ( Annie Oakley ) Again !	My first look at this show in 50 years was fun right off the bat . The opening of this show every week was one of the best and dramatic of all the westerns . Gail Davis as " Annie Oakley " was just terrific , too , an extremely likable , pretty woman who embodied the " good " in the good-vs . bad days of ' 50s TV westerns . If the first few lines of this episode were indicative of others ( I can't remember ) then this wasn't some sweet , little kids western . The obvious bad guy , noticing the marshal still trailing behind asked by his partner if he intends to do something about it , replies : " I never did see a tin star yet that would stop a rifle bullet . " Well , that guy and the marshal get into a gunfight and both are shot . The marshal is only wounded . The other bad guy gets away . Accordiing to " wanted posters , " he looks almost like Deputy Sheriff " Lofty Craig " ( Brad Johnson ) . With a mustache , Lofty could pass for him . So , with the idea of catching the other guy who is part of a counterfeit ring , Lofty , Annie and her brother " Tagg , " go up to the Sonoma County Fair . They believe that by posing as the shot criminal , Lofty can draw the others out . Annie , of course , will be needed for her marksmanship . Tagg ( Jimmy Hawkins ) provides humor for the show by trying to duplicate a professional magician . I don't know if this episode is typical of the others , but if it is , this is a show that is still good and I'd like to see more . This was a fast-moving 26 minutes . Annie ain't ' bad on the eyes , either ! This episode was part of the " TV Guide Presents Classic Westerns Vol . 4 " DVD .
Great Songs , And A Nice Tribute To Jim Croce	Jim Croce , a singer from the early 1970s , had a bunch of hit songs ( eight ) in a short span ( two years ) and then died tragically in an accident . He was only 30 years old . In this television-for-BBC concert , released on DVD about five years ago , Jim performs many of his great songs . In addition to footage of this made-for-TV concert , we also see him performing in other televised appearances , mostly , I think , from the U . S . A . Wherever the setting , this disc gives you a very nice , intimate look at this talented man . It's hard to believe these were done over 30 years ago , and that he's been gone that long . What you get is mainly a pleasant , small atmosphere with the artist and another guitarist singing a bunch of Croce's songs and Jim casually discussing some things about his career . He has a pleasing way of telling stories and had a very popular way of singing very interesting and sometimes very humorous songs . Those songs sound just as good today as they did 35 years ago . For a sincere , loving tribute to a wonderful artist and just plain nice guy , this is highly recommended .
The Original ' ' Chucky ' ' Still The Best	This is a truly interesting horror flick that was so popular that sequels have been coming out ever since , none of course matching this one : the original . The film builds up suspense in the beginning and then takes off once " Chucky " comes to life . It almost takes half the movie for that to happen . It stays intense from that point and certainly keeps your attention . The only change I would have made was to the end the movie five minutes earlier , but they tacked on something that wasn't needed . The doll's owner " Andy , " ( Alex Vincent ) is a cute little kid and Alex does a decent job of acting while Catherine Hicks is fine as his mom . A familiar face in the ' 80s , Chris Sarandon , adds his talents as a detective . Instead of all the stupid sequels , I would have preferred to see a remake done , now that special-effects have made such great advances . For instance , at least with the VHS I have , Chuckie's lips aren't even in sync with the dialog ! He walks a little too wooden-like but the other special-effects were just fine . Nothing is to be taken seriously , anyway . It's just a silly voodoo-type story ( you should hear the explanation of who " Chuckie " is ) and just played for a scary horror film . On that level , it works because it IS scary .
Now Here's A Strange And Fascinating Story	This is a different story and definitely interesting . The movie is listed as a comedy but it's more of a drama . Yes , the comedy is there but it's dark humor and there is violence and tragedy here . Nicole Kidman is very good as the beautiful and ruthless blonde who has big television ambitions . I don't know if I ever saw Kidman look this pretty , which is saying a lot . Matt Dillon co-stars and is excellent , too , as are the two young no - name actors , Joaquin Phoenix and Allison Foland . Ironically , Phoenix , has become a big star , most recently playing the legendary Johnny Cash in " Walk The Line . " When this movie came out , few people knew him . Illena Douglas gives an underrated performance and I always enjoy the odd Dan Hedaya . Anyway , if you want to see something different in the way of a story , this movie falls in that category .
Trying To Keep It Clean	Is there anything more pleasing for Jerry to hear than Spike threatening Tom with sentences that start , " If you do this ( or that ) I will tear you limb from limb ! ? " At that point , Jerry knows he will see his nemesis get torn to shreds by the big bulldog . He'll make sure whatever " that " is , will happen . I always said Jerry had a sadistic streak in him . In this story , the threat is not to keep Spike's little boy " Chip " clean . Spike had already given his beloved little dog a bath and Tom inadvertently had gotten him dirty again . If it happens again Spike promises to pulverize the cat . Jerry , of course , overhears this and gets to work . He gets help from lady luck and some dumb moves by Tom . Tom's ventriloquist act was the highlight the cartoon : absolutely fabulous comedy bit , one of the best I've seen in this famous series .
Partners - For About A Minute !	Popeye and Bluto actually are on the same team ? Well , it doesn't last long - about a minute ! These two adversaries , deep-sea divers in this story , are pouring over a treasure map and trying to figure out what's the best way to sail to find it . Their main concern seems to be sharks and barracudas in the waters surrounding where they think the treasure lies . Bluto pronounces the fish " bara-cooties . " Popeye shakes hands and says , " We have a deal : 50-50 . " Bluto agrees but within seconds pictures having 100 percent of it and starts trying kill our guy ! ! Holy smokes , is this guy is greedy AND brutal ! Bluto beats him up , takes the map and leaves on his boat , waving the map and laughing , " Fifty-fifty . Toodle - dee-doo ! " You know Popeye is going to go right after him and he does , rowing his own tugboat because the tugboat isn't going fast enough ! Man , people forget Popeye was incredibly strong even without the spinach . Of course , Bluto was even stronger because he almost always pulverized Popeye until our guy could eat his greens . Anyway , what happens here on the sea and underneath it with the treasure all is funny - good stuff . Olive is helping Popeye and Wimpy ( that traitor ! ) is helping Bluto . Not only do the two boys battle it out but they have to fight off the sea creatures below . This is a lot of fun to watch , to say the least . Once again , we get some excellent artwork . The details show a lot of work went into there early black-and-white episodes , far more than in latter day ( i . e . 1960s ) Popeye cartoons . This really looks good on the restored new Popeye : The Early Years DVD package . Obviously , the people who worked on these cartoons for the DVD put a good effort into this , too . The shipwreck underwater scenes look fantastic ! This cartoon and the others have never good better and are highly recommended .
Outstanding Batman ' Prequel '	This latest Batman film disappointed a lot of people . . . . but not me . I appreciated it because they didn't overdo the violence , didn''t have a stupid romance angle to muddy up the real story , and fount it an interesting history of how Batman became Batman . The first hour of this " prequel " dealt with his origins . If you're a fan of the comic book stories and the other Batman films , this part in the film should not bore you . It was like a documentary to me , about a topic I was interested in . In fact , on the second viewing I enjoyed this even more . Christian Bale did a fine job as the latest Batman . It's too bad there have been so many actors playing this role , ruining the continuity of this latest series . I hope Bale continues with a few more efforts with this character . It was nice to see Michael Caine in the role of " Alfred . " He was excellent and the stabilizing force of the story . Katie Holmes did not have anywhere near as big a role , or romantic one , as I expected , and that was fine with me . I just enjoyed looking at her face , leaving it go at that . Gary Oldman was also interesting as a low-key young detective Gordon who would go on to become Commissioner Gordon in all the other episodes ( but , once again , played by another actor . ) The film ends with what would be the beginning of the first Batman , featuring " The Joker . " After having seen all the Batman films several times , I now think is the best of them all . . . . perhaps an unpopular choice , but that's my opinion . Don't let the naysayers keep you from watching this movie . You might be missing the best of the Batmans !
This Is Rock ' N Roll Heaven !	Wow ! When i first watched this is the spring of 1999 , I had tears in my eyes for much of the concert . On the second viewing , five days later , I still had moist eyes . This was almost too good to be true ! I couldn't believe what I was seeing and hearing . Now that I've watched this numerous times , I don't get emotional but I still love it . This is old-time rock ' n roll ( " rockabilly , " to be exact ) at it's best with rocking short songs that if they don't make you tap your feet and get just about everything else moving on you , then you check yourself for a pulse . Only a couple of the 17 songs are slow , and they are decent , but the last few songs really cook and that's basically what this is - an hour of feel - good rock . Carl Perkins , one of rock's early but lesser-known pioneers , still can sing here ( he died a few years later ) and play his guitar well . He also comes across as a genuinely nice guy . Perhaps that is what drew George Harrison out for his first concert appearance in 15 years . Perkins had tons of respect and love among rock musicians . Ringo Starr is here to sing and play some drums ; Dave Edmunds , a good friend of Harrison's and a decent performer in his own right , is here . So , too , is bass player Lee Rocker , who is animated and fun to watch . . . . and then there is Eric Clapton , who is simply outstanding and even has Perkins shaking his head almost in disbelief at his guitar playing . The finale was Perkins ' famous " Blue Suede Shoes , " and was really nostalgic with the host and then several of the other performers taking turns singing it . You could just feel the warmth between Perkins and all his guests . They loved the man . This is just rock ' n roll heaven !
A Super Thriller	This is an outstanding thriller , a movie I have always enjoyed watching since it came out . Apparently a number of people also did since a few sequels followed featuring the main character ex-CIA analyst " Jack Ryan , " played by Harrison Ford . Sean Bean was excellent as the revenge-obsessed villain , a member of a " splinter group , " as its labeled not really an IRA extremist , but one too out-of - control for any group . Ford is the man best able to stop him and the film is very interesting start-to-finish and smart enough not to overdo the violence . Suspenseful is probably the best word to describe the movie as Bean goes after Ford's family . Anne Archer , as Ford's wife , along with the rest of the cast , actors such as Patrick Bergen , James Earl Jones , James Fox , Richard Harris and a young Thora Birch make this a well - acted movie . This is simply one of the best thrillers I've ever seen and almost every scene is interesting .
Animal House	We're at the " Spinsters Arms " hotel which also has a " no pets allowed " sign outside , and we see Granny trying to enter without the house detective noticing she has a covered birdcage with her . " Don't worry , Tweety , I'll get you in somehow , " she tells her bird . Soon , another old lady is telling her pet , Sylvester , the same thing ! ( I guess I forgot about Sylvester's owner , whom you rarely see . ) Both old ladies are successful . Tweety is singing away in room 1001 and Sylvester , staying next door in 1002 , hears him and thinks " meal . " You know that the rest of the way is going to be the usual : how does the cat get the bird and , as usual , Sylvester comes up with some amazing ploys that are fun to watch beginning with an anonymous admirer's note . The action really accelerates in this one as the old bulldog we see a lot is also at the hotel and a few other surprises , all making the house detective about lose his mind . Really funny stuff with chase scenes reminiscent of the old silent film comedies .
A Real Shock - It's Good !	I laughed when a friend suggested this movie . " Yeah , right , " I answered , eyes rolled up . " Well , " he finally said a few weeks later , " Here , just look at it . Take my copy and bring it back . " " Okay , " I answered , " what do I have to lose ? " Obviously , I was shocked . This has to be one of the all-time surprises I've ever encountered in movie-watching . Who would have thought this film was this good ? Talk about " original ! " This is about as original and entertaining as they come , and , as I have stated in several other reviews , entertainment is the name of the game . . . . so I have to rank this film right up there with my favorites . I refuse to detail the story because the more you explain what it's about , the stupider is sounds and the less likely you will give it a shot . I will say Bruce Campbell does a fabulous job of imitating Elvis Presley . In fact , he is the best I have ever heard , speaking-voice-wise . Ossie Davis is also a hoot as the old black man who thinks he's President John F . Kennedy . See ? I can't say more , because it gets worse , story-wise , the more you explain . Just trust me that if you appreciate dark humor with some horror thrown in , you'll love it . It's a bit sleazy and the language is very rough , so be ready for that . I guess you could say this " is not for all tastes . " You have to be a little warped to enjoy this , but most of us are to some degree . Be also be ready for one of the oddest films you've ever seen .
Amazing Time Travel Cartoon Which Should Have Won The Oscar	I love time-travel stories and this was wildest I've ever seen . The only problem was that it was only a seven-minute cartoon . Man , this was so good and so much fun , I'd love to see a feature-length film done by the guys who make this fabulous " Scrat " cartoons . These additions to the " Ice Age " feature movies are just terrific . Here , Scrat the squirrel discovers a time machine buried in the ice near where he lives . He discovers that by hitting the machine in one spot , he instantly ( and his favorite acorn ) travels to a new time and era . The story accelerates as it goes on , with Scrat getting into one disastrous situation after another quickly hitting the machine to get away . It's amazing how many places he travels in such a short cartoon but all of them are not only funny but beautifully drawn . As with Ice Age , the animation is absolutely spectacular . I think there are just two " Scrat " cartoons , one accompanying the DVD of each Ice Age film , but I could watch hundreds of these . They are so well done , it's hard to describe . I agree with those who say this should have won an Oscar . I saw the winning one and this is superior , entertainment-wise .
Deserved All The Honors	Wow , what can you say about a film that won 11 Academy Awards back in the days where the best films actually were honored , not the garbage they salute today . In other words , this film lives up to its reputation and has to be ranked as one of the most memorable movies of all time . Nobody who ever saw this film ever forgot the chariot race , for instance , perhaps the greatest action scene filmed without special effects . This can be a very sad film as well . I doubt if I've ever watched this without a few tears in my eyes at certain points . The scenes with hero's mother and sister suffering with leprosy are still some of the most heart-wrenching scenes I've ever witnessed on film . They can just tear you apart . The combination of drama , action and romance , along with very involving storyline is aided by an incredible soundtrack , once again one of the best ever put on film . The more one hears this music , the more was is moved by it . To fully appreciate the cinematography in this film I recommend you purchase the recently-released 4-disc DVD special edition which also includes the first rendition of this story , the silent movie " Ben-Hur : A Tale Of The Christ . " That was name of the book , by the way , the second part of the title being left off the 1959 movie as Hollywood slowly began deemphasizing Christianity in films . However , there is a reverence for Jesus Christ in this film , which should be there since it's a key element of the storyline , even though most folks forget that . In summary , this is about as good an example as ever found of what is labeled an " epic " movie . It's an incredible story transferred memorably on screen .
' Seabiscuit ' In Human Form	Wow , this was an involving story and the best boxing movie I think I've ever seen , and I've seen most of them . It's an old-fashioned underdog rags-to-riches sports story about a very likable hero , heavyweight boxer James J . Braddock , played fantastically by Russell Crowe . This is another " Seabiscuit , " meaning a true-life tale of longshot going up against extraordinary odds . More than the boxing , however , this is a great family story of a devoted husband and father and a loving , supporting wife and mother . That's the crux of this biography , more than the boxing angle . Nothing but the highest of morals and ethics are espoused by our hero here , who would starve himself rather see his children miss a meal , while teaching his kids honesty and unselfishness and doing whatever it took to take care of his family . Renee Zellweger also shines as Braddock's wife . After a string of some sleazy roles , it's nice to see Zellweger play this type of character . The two make an inspiring couple which is refreshing to see in this age of cynical film-making . This is another reason why I label this an old-fashioned story . The primary subject's strengths , not flaws , are emphasized . Is it exaggerated ? Probably , but I have no complaints seeing a good guy look better instead of worse . One gets tired of the modern-day age of the " anti-hero . " It's nice once again to see a good man propped up instead of shot down . The third major character in the film is " Joe Gould " ( Paul Giamatti ) , Braddock's trainer and loyal friend . Unfortunately , he spits out the Lord's name in vain so many times I lost count , the only objectionable aspect of this film . But Gould was the kind of friend every guy would want . Craig Bierko gets fourth billing as Max Baer , the reigning heavyweight champ whom Braddock has to beat to get the title . Now here is where I would not be surprised if his movie character was nothing like real life because Hollywood has to have a " bad guy " to counteract the " good guy " so here it is Baer , the last obstacle in the way of Braddock's quest to be heavyweight champion . Whatever the real Baer was like I don''t know but I know Bierko does a great job in this role . The boxing scenes , supervised by real-life Hall Of Fame trainer Angelo Dundee , are lifelike and well-done . Crowe did a wonderful job of imitating Braddock's ring style . The story isn't the only thing that is entertaining . Visually , this is a wonderful treat for your eyes . It's simply beautiful and director Ron Howard really excelled in capturing the 1930s Depression era with some beautifully muted colors . The sets are fantastic and the clothing , cars , buildings , etc put you smack in the middle of the 1930s . There are great production values in this film and the DVD does it all justice with a fabulous transfer on widescreen DVD .
The Wildest Wedding Ever	This is a wild story that begins with an obnoxious cameraman assigned to photograph a wedding threatening someone on the phone . Minutes later , he is clubbed over the head with a rock and dumped into a mud bath . It's the same wedding that Natalie has to go to the next day as it is her brother being married . It seems Natalie comes from very rich parents , ones who have alienated her and ones whom she doesn't associated much with . Nevertheless , she's there and with Randy as her date because he's the only guy she can get after her real date canceled out at the last minute with an appendicitis . Anyway , not long after they are there , Randy gets run over by a car . The act was deliberate . Then , the corpse pops up after a woman goes in for mud-bath . Wow - what next ? Obviously , this was a very entertaining episode full of interesting scenes . Ashley Williams was fascinating as Teresa , the woman marrying Natalie's brother .
Fabulous International Cast Just One Of Many Good Things	Here's another of my favorite films , movies that get better and better with each viewing . One thing I've always enjoyed here from the first time I saw this movie is it features the best ( and longest ! ) car chase scene I've ever seen on film . But the movie is far more than just spectacular car chases ( there are two incredible ones , not just the one noted above . ) . It offers an interesting story that remains interesting with each viewing . That's because it's a bit confusing , a la " Mission Impossible , " so each time you see it , you figure more and more out . There also are tons of twists to this crime story . It also features a wonderful international cast " American Robert De Niro , Frenchman Jean Reno , Britain's Sean Bean and Natascha McElhone ( both of whom are better playing Irishmen , as they do here ) and Swede Stellan Skargsgard . All of them are top-flight actors , as you know . As a bonus , I get to see Olympic skating champion Katarina Witt , from Germany . eAlso , it's directed by John Frankenheimer , a man who makes some of the most entertaining films I've ever watched . Speaking of watching , De Niro and Reno are my two favorite guys to watch in this thriller . The French scenery - rural and urban - is also terrific . The action is not overdone and the only scene in the film I didn't care for was the gruesome one in which a bullet is taken out of De Niro . It's just too detailed and unpleasant to view but , with a DVD , can be skipped rapidly . The soundtrack also is outstanding . The Chinese instrument that plays here and there is fantastic . I've heard it before in a couple of Yanni concerts . This is a high quality crime movie and is very highly recommended . This was the first DVD I ever bought ( in 2000 ) and I couldn't have gotten by DVD collection off to a better start !
The Forerunner Of ' Unplugged ' Concerts	I remember seeing this when it was televised on MTV - the only time I ever watched a complete show on that network . It was a pleasure to get it on DVD later in the ' 90s and watching it on tape for several years . It's always enjoyable to watch and listen to , even though I've viewed it many times almost over 15 years . The more you watch this , the better it gets . With some good speakers , you can hear all the instruments which is a big advantage to the DVD format . The sound made some low-key songs really come alive . This is a nice mellow-sounding concert and most of the songs grow on you . It's presented in such a classy form that it provides something different : blues / rock ' n roll in a quieter format . This was so successful that other performers copied it with their " unplugged " concerts . There are many familiar faces with Clapton here and I particularly enjoyed Chuck Leavell on keyboard . On " Old Love , " he gives one of the better piano solos I've ever heard . Leavell is best-known as the keyboard man for the Rolling Stones . Meanwhile , percussionist Ray Cooper is the most fun guy to watch . It's doubtful a drummer ever had as much fun as he does in concerts , especially when he's showing off with the tambourine . All the band members from Clapton on down look like nice guys who are thoroughly enjoying themselves in this concert . . . . . and it shows in the music . One of Clapton's best !
I Wish More People Could See This	This is one of the great " unknowns " in the movie world : a great film seen by very few people . I'm still waiting for the DVD but not holding my breath . Thankfully , my VHS is still good . But like anything good , we'd like to share this with others and most people have never heard of this movie . For those sensitive souls who enjoy a fascinating portrait of an unusual person or persons that is both sad and uplifting , this is your ticket . It has both , in spades . . . . . a haunting film you can't forget . It's a tragic tale yet has a happy ending of sorts and leaves you feeling satisfied . What it is , and I can't remember if it is based on real-life situation , is the story of a woman who has a dwarf for a son and what happens to the two of them , beginning in France , moving to Ireland , over to the United States and then back to Ireland . Along the way , the mother , played so sadly by French actress Anne Parillaud ( the original La Femme Nikita ) , gets involved with two men : Gabriel Byrne and Matt Dillon . All three of these adults are really interesting , likable people , but nothing like the dwarf , who is played magnificently by two actors . Alan Pentony plays " Frankie " has a child and a more lovable kid would be hard to find . Corbin Walker does a great job of playing the adult " Frankie . " Trust me : you will not forget either of them . Walker narrates the film , telling it mostly in flashback style , from his best-selling book . In addition to his mom and the two father-figures in his life , is a short story of Frankie's love affair with astronomy and the stars , hence " Frankie Starlight . " The only profane character in the movie is the book publisher who has two short scenes . That , and two quick sex scenes , give it the " R " rating . Otherwise , this is wonderful old-fashioned storytelling , the kind that makes you really care about the characters .
The Ultimate Sports Fantasy Movie	This is THE classic sports-Walter Mitty-fantasy movie , with an ending that may seem corny to cynical critics or those who prefer the book , but was perfect for me and a lot of other people . Granted , I am a little biased in my review since the movie was made in the area in which grew up . Having made many trips to the ballpark in which the movie was filmed , and to the old-fashioned soda shoppe where Robert Redford and Glenn Close re-unite , this movie was special to all of us in Western New York . It always a kick , too , ( and a bit odd ) to watch the final scene since the opposing pitcher is a personal friend . I think I would have loved this movie regardless of the " home-field advantage . " It's an interesting , involving story that has you really rooting for Redford's character . To have actors like Close , Robert Duvall , Richard Farnsworth , Kim Basinger , Wilfred Brimley , Darren McGavin , Barabara Hershey , Robert Prosky , Joe Don Baker and others in the " lineup " doesn't hurt , either ! The cinematography is beautiful , too . That was something I never really appreciated until after several viewings . There are some wonderfully subdued brown and golden hues in here . This is very pretty motion picture . All the characters - the good and the bad , and there are plenty of both - are fascinating . It's also nice to see an actor in a baseball film that actually knows how to throw , hit and field a baseball . This is a great , old-fashioned storytelling .
' It Ain't Over ' Til The Bearded Fat Lady Sings '	It's lines like the one I used in the subject head that help make this program so consistently entertaining . It isn't just a true-life crime story ; it's humor , sarcasm , cynicism and overt bias you either love or hate that all make these " Confidentials " fun to watch . Sometimes they are maddening and frustrating but they are almost always entertaining . The reason the writers added " bearded " to the expression " It's not over until the fat lady sings " was that this was a story about carnival workers and a crime that took place in their community in Gibsonton , " a small , sweaty town between Sarasota and Tampa . " This is the place the " carnies " stay when their traveling season is over , a place to call home . This is a place , as narrator Paul Winfield states , " where ' normal ' is not a word heard often around town . " Here , you might have an elephant in the back yard of your neighbor , or a tiger , or a giant or a dwarf . . . . . or a man who has lobster claws for hands and feet . More specifically , you might have Grady Stiles , " Lobster Boy , " at one time , residing with his kids . That was fine for everyone in town ; they loved Stiles . He was a great guy , they all said . That is , all but his family . No , they painted him as a horrible wife and child abuser , a mean drunk who got violent after he began drinking . That's the story , in a nutshell : his wife and son plot to have Grady killed one night because they simply can't take his beatings anymore . The son has two of his friends help with one doing the actual killing . The mom , Mary Teresa , hires a high-profile lawyer and it looks like the jury might sympathize with her plight . What happens at the trial is really bizarre , at least the key part which was a home movie of the " Lobsterman " in action . Even though I attached the " spoilers " warning , I won't say for fear of ruining this for anyone who hasn't this strange episode , one of the odd ones of this TV crime series . With a cast of characters as odd as the old freak shows at the circus , this episode is different from " normal . "
First Knight Is First Class	A very pleasing all-around movie is how I found this Knights Of The Roundtable-type story and a good one for DVD , even one that's been on disc for quite some time . For an early DVD , this was a real treat for the ears with some great rear - speaker sound . The story , however , not the sound , was the main appeal of this film for me . The three main stars in this movie were very appealing : Richard Gere as the cocky-but-good guy Sir Lancelot ; Julia Ormond as Guinevere and Sean Connery , aptly cast as King Arthur . He certainly looks and acts the part , as does Ben Cross as the villain , Prince Malagant . This is a straight adventure story , too , with none of the hocus-pocus sorcery baloney who often see in these King Arthur stories . This is beautifully filmed with a city of Camelot that is awesome to view . Nice values in here , too , with - gasp - the importance of prayer mentioned . No wonder so many reviewers out there hated this message . This is simply a classy , great adventure and highly recommend to literally everyone who values a nice story that has values .
Three Excellent Stories	This was an excellent episode with some memorable finishes . The Unit is in Jerusalem where they are being quizzed on how to combat a suicide bombing attack on Washington . The clue to figuring out " the answer " is to study ancient history . Bob , the college grad , leads the study by examining an old Roman military situation . It actually gets a little complicated but is somewhat interesting . The suspenseful part involves " Mr . White , " who is really Unit member " Charles Grey " ( Michael Irby ) who was off on a sexual escapade with a gorgeous Israeli agent out in some ancient ruins . Unfortunately for those two , they wind up being interrupted by terrorist bombers who are going to blow up a school bus full of kids the following morning . How do they stay undetected and then stop these guys ? That's the main part of this episode . In a third story , back at the base , Tiffy and her daughter accidentally wind up in possession of a very rare coin worth thousands and thousands of dollars . They have a bit of moral dilemma as to whom the coin really belongs to , and that turns out to be a very interesting story with a big twist at the end .
It's Really Coney Island And It's One Wild Ride !	" Bluto The Great " does it all - at least at the Mardi Gras , where signs are all over proclaiming that Bluto will walk a high wire while swallowing 20 knives . Then , he's dive 100 feet in a " thimbleful " of water while shaving at the same time ! Wow , that's what I call a great act . Before that , he even entertains the big crowd around him by singing , " I Am King Of the Mardi Gras . " Popeye is nearby singing " I Am Popeye The Sailor Man " but he has no crowd listening to him , except for Wimby eating a hamburger . Both songs are the same melody ; just different lyrics . One of the lyrics Bluto sings mentions " I am the king here at Coney , " meaning Coney Island , off New York City . There is a big amusement park with a roller-coaster in the background . So . . . . is the New York or is it New Orleans ? Did Coney Island host a " Mardi Gras Day " or was this a mistake ? I suspect the former , just a day at Coney celebrating Mardi Gras . At any rate , the cartoon offers a little of everything : songs , humor and a ton of sight gags , from tattoos that come to life to some incredibly wild magic tricks to an amazing three-minute chase scene on the big coaster . All in all , as you can , tell was an extremely entertaining Popeye episode .
Extremely Funny ' Inspector ' ' Effort - Maybe The Best	This was an outstanding episode , maybe the best of The Inspector that I have seen so far ( out of about a dozen ) . There is a purse snatcher on the loose and the Commissioner wants him captured because the crook had the audacity to steal his wife's purse ! Deux-Deux has the idea of the Inspector dressing up as a woman to then nabbing the thief when he tries to grab " his " purse . The Inspector gets all dressed but then thinks twice about looking like a woman and tells Deux-Deux he will have to do it . Before he gets his female clothes off , however , things begin to happen and the fun starts . Without spoiling anything , I'll just say this turned out to be a great slapstick-like story with The Inspector , the Commissioner and the Commissioner's wife all getting involved with some very , very good sight gags . This one always is beautifully drawn . It's on the DVD " The Pink Panther Classic Cartoon Collection , Vol . 6 - Inspector Cartoons . " Don't miss this one !
Nothing Tops This Is , If You Like SRV	I read someone say once that if you really want a composite of what Stevie Ray Vaughan was all about , musically , all you need is this DVD . I totally agree . I have a half dozen SRV discs or tapes but nothing tops this . You get two concerts , one on each disc . The first is the " controversial " 1982 concert at Montreux ( in Switzerland ) and the other is the 1985 return trip to Montreux . The first was " controverial " in the reception Vaughan and his band received during and immediately after the performing : booing ! It is shocking to hear . I've never heard an artist booed on a disc put out for public release , but it's in here . ( There were a lot of cheers , too . ) Of course , the booing and catcalls were totally unwarranted . The band was excellent and Stevie was tremendous , but the crowd was expecting what they had heard all day : quiet , acoustic blues guitar . When SRV turned up the amps and did his thing , some of them didn't like it . Nonetheless , I liked it and chances are you will , too , if you are a fan of his , or simply blues / rock . What I liked best were a couple of his long , slow numbers , such as " Dirty Pool . " On that disc is a documentary , with band members Chris Layton and Tommy Shannon , discussing that ' 82 concert and what happened afterward . Jackson Browne also gives his take on his participation in helping out SRV and the band . It's pretty interesting . By 1985 , the crowd knew all about SRV and gave him a great reception and he put on the best show , perhaps , I have ever seen him ( and the band ) do - just electrifying . In fact , there are four straight numbers - Tiny Pan Alley ( a . k . a . Roughest Place In Town , Look At Little Sister , Voodoo Chile and Texas Flood - that are done so well that I had tears in my eyes . That is THE best version Vaughan has ever done on the Jimi Hendrix number ( Voodoo Chile ) and you have to just see and hear this to believe it . SRV pulls out all the stops , doing things with a guitar I've never seen before . Trust me on this one : this is the Stevie Ray Vaughan and Double Trouble DVD to get , above all others .
An Outstanding Episode Which Takes Us Around The World	This was an excellent " Inspector " cartoon , maybe the best one I've seen so far out of a dozen . It featured fantastic artwork and a fun story as our two guys - Inspector Clouseau and Deux-Deux - literally traverse the globe in search of a secret agent . That " secret agent " has an important message to tell the Inspector , which could save his life . Each time the latter and his pal go to a city , something happens and they have to rendezvous somewhere else . Finally , they meet in a hut in the jungles of Naiorobi , only to find out the " agent " is a different kind of agent ( who is a takeoff on British actor Terry Thomas , an actor who became well-known in the 1960s . ) It's on the DVD " The Pink Panther Classic Cartoon Collection , Vol . 6 - Inspector Cartoons . " Note : June Foray did some quick voice-work in here as a Marlene Dietrich-type spy . Unfortunately , she only had one quick scene .
Fantastically Funny and Good Artwork , Too	The graphics set this one up . We see decked-out cowboy Daffy Duck riding on a beautiful horse and the screen reads : " Western-type hero . " Following him is Porky Pig riding a donkey . It says , " Comic Relief . " Then , after some Monument Valley-type scenery , we see " Lawless Small Town . " The sign says , " Snake-Bite Center : population 350 , which quickly changes to 349 followed by another sign that comes out saying , " sheriff wanted . " The next thing we see is the cemetery where the sign reads , " Population : 23 , 472 , 987 sheriffs . " You get the picture . This is a rough town where the small ice-cream booth is called " Custard's Last Stand " and horses are even shooting each other ! Daffy is going to clean up this " one-horse town . " Well , he does . . . . . . sort of . This is one of the funniest cartoons I have ever seen - just fabulous . Great artwork , too !
Scout's Honor , This Is Another Very Good Droopy Cartoon	You have to laugh just looking at Spike here in the opening scenes of this Droopy cartoon . In this story , he's apparently a hobo and he's been kicked off a train . He has a little derby on and is smoking a half-cigar . After getting the boot , he winds up next to some Boy Scout and overhears that the winner of a contest between these two finalists will get to meet the President of the United States . Oh , boy - that's for him ! One of the finalists , of course , is Droopy . The other one is , well , it doesn't matter because Spike quickly grabs him , puts on his little uniform ( Spike looks like he's wearing what young girls wear today - half an outfit ) and is ready to battle Droopy for the big award . ( Odd that nobody notices the change in scouts ! ) Spike does the usual , trying to sabotage Droopy at every turn . We get funny scenes involving lightning , wild life photography , Spike imitating a " damsel in distress " in one scene and later , an old lady crossing a street and a baby on the top of the " Umpire State Building " as the action switches from rural to urban . One funny line ( there isn't much dialog in Droopy cartoons ) after Spike is burned to a crisp : " Hey , Blackie . Any more babes in there ? "
He Should Have Just Left Things Alone !	This also is known as " Scrat's Missing Adventure . " Scrat's obsession with his having his nuts organized just right turns out to be his undoing in this crazy animated short , included in the " Ice Age DVD . " This little squirrel became a big hit in the feature film and was awarded with a much bigger role in the sequel . He's now part of the Ice Age gang , if you will . This bonus short shows that he had built up quite a collection of acorns in a hollow tree . But , for some strange reason - call it " perfectionism , " that last acorn won't stay put where it is supposed to be . It keeps popping out . Instead of just leaving it as it is , which wouldn't have changed anything , Scrat goes out of his way to make it all look good . . . . . and disaster is the result . What happens when his little nest of acorns is disrupted is too wild to describe here . It has to be seen to be believed . Of course , it's outrageous but it's a cartoon , and it is fun to watch . P . S . I viewed it a second time after writing the above review . . . . and enjoyed it even more . This time I really appreciated all the funny noises Chris Wedge made , as Scat the squirrel .
The Is Classic Stooges - Tons Of Gags	" Get the tools ? " What tools ? " The tools we've been using for the last 10 years ! " " Oh , those tools . " Sound familiar ? Well , that's just one of my lines used in the popular Three Stooges film . The first four minutes of this are full of " carpenter " gags with the classic scene in which Curley almost saws Moe head with a buzz saw . Moe takes a real beating , plummeting at one point through the floor to the next one . When he gets upset , Larry says , " Aw , you only fell 14 feet . Whaddya getting sore for ? ? " While beating each other up , a man enters th room and tells them the police have accepted their applications to be detectives , so they report to the station . At the same time , the local paper's headline reads , " Mysterious Burgarlies Panic City - Police Shakeup As Ape Man Strikes Again . " The boys begin their search at night for the ape man-crook at the " Gysom Good " antiques store . In the dark and spooky store , Curly gives us some of his classic routines , such as the cat and the rocking chair , and the hat on his foot with Curly thinking it's a person ( much better seen than briefly explained ) . The chase scene with the gorilla , the real crooks and our three boys is hilarious . There are a lot of puns used in this story , and Moe uses a lot of funny insulting names to his two partners . Curly calls the ape " a real chininy-panzee ! " This is another of the better Three Stooges Classics . Of the DVDs I have of them , each with six episodes , this one - " Cops and Robbers " - is one of the best .
One Of The Greatest Adventure Films Ever	This was one of those movies I didn't expect that much when I first saw it so I was pleasantly surprised . Since then , it has skyrocketed to nearly the top on my list of all-time favorite films . I can't think of too many other adventure films that are better . Just a great , great movie . It boasts an interesting story filled with intense characters , beautiful scenery , a fantastic score , good action and a nice romance . So . . . . there is a lot to like about this Michael Mann-directed film . The action scenes are quite realistic , and border on being almost too prevalent , to be fair . However , even if it may be a little too intense or frequent , the action is always interesting and varied , from all-out assaults to individual battles . The story takes place in Eastern New York State but , in reality , was filmed in beautiful Smokey Mountain areas in Asheville , N . C . This movie looks spectacular and with an epic , sweeping soundtrack is quite a feast for the eyes and ears . The eye candy includes a handsome leading couple : Daniel Day-Lewis and Madeline Stowe . Wes Studi is mesmerizing as the " bad guy . " If you liked him in " Geronimo : An American Legend , " you'll like his work here . If you are fairly young and only know Michael Mann through his crime movies like " Heat " or " Collateral , " please check this earlier film out . It could be Mann's best , which is saying a lot .
The Endearing Little Hound Off To A Great Start !	I love the opening to this cartoon ; an introduction , if you will , to the great character named " Droopy . " Here he was called " The Happy Hound " but that changed quickly into the name we Droopy fans are all familiar with . Anyway , we see a bunch of dogs racing out of " Swing Swing Prison , " chasing an escaped convict . Trailing the pack is a very slow hound , who turns to us with his very downcast voice , asks , " Hello , are you happy people ? You know what ? I'm the hero . " Then , he just slowly saunters away . That's his introduction to us . Bill Thompson does a fantastic job with our hero's depressing-sounding voice . One of the most endearing aspect of these cartoons is Droopy giving asides to us , the audience . They're almost always hilarious . An early example in here : he and another dog bark at each other and the other dog walks away . Droopy turns to us and explains , " Just dog talk " and moves on . The gag in this story is the escaped convict being dogged by Droopy everywhere he tries to hide from the cops . The dog appears out of nowhere , even hundreds of miles away - in a flash . ( You really have to see it to appreciate the humor . ) This isn't just a cartoon which provides sight gags . It has that , plus a lot of puns , funny " asides " to the the viewers , comments on people and society , a sexy woman who gives us a good song . . . . just a ton of entertainment from start to finish . Even when the jokes are corny , they admit it on screen to us !
Just Great Film-making . . . . . . Period	Not always , but usually a Michael Mann-directed film means good things for movie buffs , and this is no exception . Tremendous acting highlights this movie about a behind-the-scenes look at a " 60 Minutes " story of a man who blows the whistle on a tobacco company . Al Pacino , as the TV show producer " Lowell Bergman , " Russell Crowe as the whistle-blower and tobacco scientist " Dr . Jeffrey Wiegand , " and Christopher Plummer as " Mike Wallace " all are riveting in their performances . They are intense characters , as are many of the supporting characters in this involving film . There is little action in here but a ton of tension in the first hour of this long ( 158 min . ) film . The story held my interest even when the tension left , thanks to the acting , the great cinematography , involving music score . . . . well , just about everything . It's simply a well-done movie , similar to Mann's " Heat , " except without the violence . The only negative was the obvious Liberal bias , but that's not surprising being it's about " 60 Minutes . " I wasn't surprised when Ken Starr got a cheap shot , for example . This film bias could have been a lot more blatant so I'm not complaining . Obviously , they went a overboard in their stand against the tobacco industry , repeating the same damaging scenes over and over . However , I appreciated they didn't shrink from pointing out how the network was covering its own behind even though it was hurting its most successful program . Photographer Dante Spinelli did an incredible job making this look fantastic despite the fact that there was no great scenery or exotic sets . As mentioned , this is just great film-making . What else can you say ?
What We've Come To Expect From ' Sid ' - Laughs	" Sid the Sloth , " a hilarious co-star in the Ice Age animated feature films , stars in this short . . . . . and doesn't disappoint . This is one funny sloth , and one humorous and clever cartoon . We get a " cameo " from " Scat , " too , which is always a good thing . Also , the artwork is spectacular , at least on Blu-Ray . This really looks fantastic . Sid's a camp counselor here and - you guessed it - a pretty inept one . The kids are wise-guys but Sid has a few zingers , too , giving one kid " a merit badge for whining . " John Leguizamo does his normal superb job of voicing " Sid . " He has a couple of his children doing voice-work in here , too , according to the ending credits . In the end , we find out how Sid was instrumental in forming the Grand Canyon . I kid you not . I saw this as a bonus feature on the " Horton Hears A Who " Blu-Ray DVD . If you have the DVD , don't miss this feature ; you'll really laugh .
The Best-Looking and Sounding Concert On DV	Two words describe this concert and DVD : " THE BEST ! " On tape here is the final night of the Roxy band's reunion concert in October of 2001 in London . This , like lead singer Bryan Ferry's 1989 Newton concert tape , is fabulous , featuring nothing but great songs , great musicians and great visuals . This concert is even better - in fact , the best concert DVD ( or tape ) I have ever watched , and I've seen maybe 50-75 . I watched this 10 times in the first month I owned it . I've watched in now for several years and still think it's great . In a nutshell , I have such a high opinion of this DVD because it combines great music with tremendous visuals . If there is a better job of filming an indoor concert , I'd like to see it . The editing , sharp picture , dazzling colors and fun performers / musicians and dancers are a real treat . The concert features the Roxy Music band's regular performers for many years , meaning Ferry , guitarist Phil Manzanera saxophonist Andy MacKay , pianist Colin Good and drummer Paul Thompson . ( Although the documentary said it had been almost 20 years since those guys were all together ) . Added to the mix are guitarist Chris Spedding , and two great - looking and extremely talented female musicians , Julia Thornton ( percusssion and keyboards ) and Lucy Wilkins ( violin and keyboards ) . Thornton is stunning to look at it - a real knockout - and Wilkins is fun to watch with her dancing when she isn't playing an instrument . Also , a third female addition , Sarah Brown , is great on vocals and I'm sorry she didn't do her solo on " Jealous Guy , " as she did on the CD . Zev Katz provides solid bass play but is a low-key guy who stays in the background . In addition to his singing , Ferry shows talent on keyboards , harmonica and whistling ! Each musician is outstanding and given opportunities to show his or her talent . Manzanera has the most guitar work and solos but I loved Spedding's one featured solo on the best of all in the concert . The steady beat , thanks in large part to Thompson's strength on drums , and mellow-ish music all make for a unique sound unlike any other I've ever heard . I don't think these guys were as good when they were young but they've honed talents and now excel in the instruments they play . They ( the regulars ) are all probably in their mid 50s . Combine that with the great camera-work and you have a concert on DVD that is hard to beat . If only they all were filmed this well !
The Tongue , The Mafia & The Sandman Make For A Shocking Story	" The Golden Tongue ? " " The Chicago Horse Mafia ? " " The Sandman ? " Yup , there all in this odd true-life crime story that took 20 years to solve and still hasn't had total closure as the murder victim still hasn't been found . She - Helen Brach - was also the richest lady ever to just vanish off the planet ( or at least , the USA ) . Since this is a story of the love of money - greed - let's start with " The Golden Tongue . " That would be Richard Bailey , named so for his talented ability to sweet-talk rich older ladies out their money . Bailey made a career of it . Once asked how he could be intimate with all of these older , unattractive-but-rich women , Bailey answered : " I just shut my eyes and think of money . " Bailey , a con man from way back , looked like he hit the jackpot when he met Mrs . Brach , who inherited 20 million dollars when her husband - the founder of Brach's Candies - died in 1970 . Bailey met Brach in ' 73 , got her into his confidence and then fleeced her out of hundreds of thousands of dollars in the horse business . These are equestrian horses and the area is Barrington Hills , just north of Chicago and known as " horse country . " You'd think you were in Kentucky since the scenery looks the same despite being a half-hour drive from the hustle-and-bustle of Chicago . Unfortunately for the area , the " Chicago Horse Mafia " had been running things for quite awhile which mean a lot of scams . The two main ones were selling poor horses to naive millionaires ( Bailey's specialty ) and killing poor-performing horses to get the insurance money . Events were rigged and horse people from the East and West generally avoided this area because of the reputation it had . " The Sandman " was part of this mafia . He was the guy that killed a lot of horses , electrocuting many of them in ways you don't want to know about . It's pretty disgusting . Anyway , in the long run - condensing this fascinating story - Tommy Burns , a . k . a . The Sandman - got caught with his criminal activity elsewhere years later and wound up spilling his guts to law enforcement . When the dust had settled , 23 people , including a number of well-to-do citizens in Barrington Hills , were found guilty of various crimes . The trial took place in the mid 1990s - about 20 years after Mrs . Brach disappeared . What exactly happened to Helen Brach ? Well , when she finally got wind of Bailey's crookedness and how she had been taken for so much money , she confronted him and was going to spill the beans to anyone who would listen . . . . . and people would listen to a lady like Mrs . Brach . The only problem is that one February morning in 1976 she disappeared . All traces of her , to this day , have never been found . Who would believe that equestrian horse events - not horse racing - could be this rife with corruption , and in such a magnificent area as Barrington ? This was a shocker .
One Of The Best Crime Films Ever	I really believe this is one the great crime movies of all time . It has some drawbacks that wouldn't make me recommend this for family viewing - tons of f - words by Al Pacino and a few bloody scenes , but as far as a fascinating crime story : wow ! This movie made modern-day history because it was the first time two of the great actors of this generation - Pacino and Robert De Niro - finally acted together in the same film . Those two didn't disappoint , either . They were great to watch and one of the huge highlights of the film , to me , was when they faced each other in a simple conversation over a cup of coffee . That conversation has always fascinated me , no matter how many times I've heard it . It was such a " landmark " scene that It's even the subject of a short documentary on the special-edition DVD . As with the conversation scene , the shootout segment in the streets of Los Angeles still astounds me no matter how many times I see it . The other action scenes are intense and memorable , too , and the cast in here is deep . This isn't just Pacino and De Niro . It's Val Kilmer , Ashley Judd , Jon Voight , Diana Venora , Natlie Portman , Tom Sizemore , Amy Brenamann , Wes Studi , Ted Levine , Mykelti Williamson , on and on . Put that fabulous cast under Michael Mann , one of the best directors in business , add a great soundtrack and interesting camera-work and you have a great film . At three hours long , it never bores one and at same time , doesn't overdo the action , either . I read one critic criticize this film because of the time taken to examine the personal lives of the main characters , but you can't have three hours of nothing but action . The only scene I felt went on a bit too long was the ending chase at the airport , but that's nitpicking considering the film as a whole . This is just one of those movies where a great cast and director live up to their billing .
Very Humorous Dialog Makes This One Of The Better Series Episodes	Very clever dialog is the highlight of this " Inspector " cartoon . The conversations between The Inspector and his partner Deux-Deux are very good - with the running gag of " si " versus " oui " - but the conversations between the two main villains are even better . In this one , we have a big clam and his lobster partner . If that sounds ridiculous , it looks even more so but in a good way . To see a clam , " Captain Clamity , " with arms and legs ( one a peg-leg ) and smoking a big cigar and wearing a sailor's cap is pretty funny . When he gets nervous , he breaks out in " pearls " and spits them up . Yes , this cartoon is very weird . His partner , " Crab Louie , " is really a big lobster with big red claws . Those two characters are good with puns . The clam and the lobster are smugglers aboard a big ship . The Inspector and Deux-Deux are in a little rowboat , going out to meet the boat and grab the thieves . The rowboat is the main focus of the sight gags in this cartoon . This was only my second look at these Pink Panther-spin off cartoons and I can only hope the rest of them in this DVD collection are as entertaining as this one . ( Note : now that I've completed watching them , I found out most weren't as good as this one , but there are some excellent ones . ) You can see them all on the disc called " the Pink Panther Classic Cartoon Collection , Vol . 6 - Inspector Cartoons .
Ya Gotta Love This Dog !	The is an excellent Pink Panther cartoon , definitely in the top echelon . Even though it was frustrating at times , as this poor innocent dog kept getting blamed for things the Pink Panther did , justice prevailed in the end . Along the route , it's simply a story of the Panther exacting revenge for the Little White Guy interrupting his sleep out in the park . The PP is way up in the branches trying to sleep with the man and his dog set up camp below . Soon , the man is in his hammock snoring away . The snoring interrupts the Panther's sleep and the cartoon from that point is a series of events in which he gets back at the guy for his snoring . How the dog gets involved is the funny part of each skit in this cartoon . He's the star of the animated short . You'll just love this dog !
Lived Up To Good Reputation - Funny , Colorful	Here's another recently-made animated film that has two outstanding characteristics which make it a winner : 1 - consistently funny humor that adults can enjoy , and 2 - beautiful , bold colors . When a movie is both fun to hear and to watch , I have very few complaints . This movie provides a lot of enjoyment with more jokes perhaps that adults would laugh at than the kids . I can't say that for sure , since I watched it by myself . . . . but I sure got my share of laughs This is a tale of four zoo animals that wind up in the wilds . To be more precise , they go from the big zoo in New York City to the wilds of Madagascar , an island near Africa . Wherever these " guys " are - the lion , zebra , hippo and giraffe - they are entertaining . Ben Stiller and Chris Rock , voicing the lion ( " Alex " ) and zebra ( " Marty " ) , respectively , are the two main characters . Jada Pinkett Smith's hippo ( " Gloria " ) and and David Schwimmer's hypochondriac giraffe ( " Melman " ) provide solid support . The main thing is that all the characters , including supporting ones , are likable and funny in their own way . Every character is quite different . The story movies exceptionally fast so the hour-and-a-half is easy to watch . Maybe the best thing I can say is that I heard a lot of good things about this before watching it , and it lived up to its hype . That's not easy to do .
Cagney's Favorite . . . . And It Shows !	James Cagney recalls in his autobiography that this movie was his favorite , largely due to his love of dancing . He was one of the great " tough guys " of all time on film , but dancing was his passion , he noted . It shows here . This was " a labor of love , " to use a cliché , and it's obvious how much fun he was having in this film . His hoofing talent also was obvious . He was good , very good . In fact , for the audience , most of this movie is pure " feel good . " Almost all the characters are nice people , the story is inspirational and nicely patriotic and the songs are fantastic . If you pick up the two-disc special-edition DVD that came out several years ago , then you'll see this film in all it's glory . The transfer is magnificent and really brings out the great cinematography . I never realized how beautifully filmed this was until I saw this on DVD . The story is simply the biography of George M . Cohan , the writer and Broadway star of many , many hit plays and hit songs . Unlike today's biographies , this is a very positive story about a man who brought patriotism alive during World War I with such inspirational songs as " It's A Grand Old Flag " and " Over There . " For some of us , listening to these songs can bring a tear or two . Cagney is his normal riveting self and Joan Leslie certainly makes an appealing female lead as Cohan's wife . The great Walter Huston plays Cohan's father . I've always found Huston to be an actor of great presence . In this movie is a very , very touching deathbed scene with he and Cagney . So you have a little bit of everything here from drama to romance to comedy to music and Cagney is the glue to fits it all together beautifully . One of the great classic films of all time .
Good Stuff - A Must For Fans Of This Film	How do you get grown men to cry ? Have them watch " Field Of Dreams . " How true are host Peter Gallagher's opening statements about this emotional fantasy / baseball film that is more about fathers-and-sons than the sport . What I liked about this TV episode / DVD bonus feature , covering this sentimental hit movie , was the information given on the author of the book upon which the movie is based . I also appreciated hearing about all the struggles Phil Alden Robinson went through to have this book put on film . It was amazing the amount of work he put into transforming this book into a successful movie . W . P . Kinsella wrote " Shoeless Joe , " and this movie is based on that book . An unknown author at the time , this program tells us all about Kinsella and has the author , now a gray-bearded older gentleman , discuss his work , too . It's all good stuff . I read the book 25 years ago , discovering it way back shortly after it had been published , so when the film came out I was already familiar with Kinsella's work ( plus another baseball book he had written . ) What I didn't know , of course , was how difficult it was to get this film made . I think Robinson did an incredible job , taking a very good book and making it into an even-better screenplay . This is one of those rare cases , in my opinion , where the movie is better than the book . Weather conditions - the worst drought in 62 years in Iowa - didn't help , either , nor did finding a studio that would back this story . Kudos to everyone connected to this film . I know they have all been rewarded many times over for their efforts . It was noted near the end of this feature how many people have had their lives actually affected by this film , specifically fathers and sons being reunited . For fans of this movie , this feature is a " must . " Please check it out if you own the DVD .
Only SRV Could Do Hendrix Justice	Included on this DVD is footage from two concerts , two appearances on television's " Austin City Limits . " I thought this was easily the best of the three Stevie Ray concert tapes ( DVDs ) I've seen . All of them are good , however . Most of this is from the 1989 concert but I enjoyed the three songs from the ' 83 concert the most . They seemed to be the most intense and the most impressive . The latter adjective mainly describes his work on " Voodoo Chile . " To my knowledge , Vaughan is the only guitarist to successfully imitate the late-and-great Jimi Hendrix . ( Although SRV's vocals aren't as good . ) After 40-some minutes of rocking blues and rock , there is a change-of-pace and beautifully done jazz instrumental called " Riviera Paradise . " Featured on that piece is keyboard player , " Reese Wynans , " who does an outstanding job . This is a feel-good , great music and most of it would make for a good aerobic-workout music , too .
Grampy Is A Hoot !	Betty gets a telegram from Grampy to come over to his house " for a little party " and " come right over and bring the gang , " he adds . " Ohh , " she shrieks , and puts on her hat and heads right over . As she is singing about " Gramy's house " while strutting down the street , she is joined by people who overhear her lyrics and tag along . They literally drop everything ( i . e . piano ) and follow her . The rest of the cartoon shows the amazing inventions in Grampy's house and , believe me , they are a hoot to see and hear ( such as the clever way he produces music for the party . ) This is great stuff - a " feel-good " cartoon , if I ever saw one .
Maybe The Best Ever For Just Pure Entertainment	Among the thousands of films I have viewed , this movie would rank near the top for sheer entertainment . That's not saying it's the best-made or most intelligent or scariest or funniest or features the best effects , etc . etc . But combine all those and you have a film that's tough to beat when you're looking for 100 minutes of escapist fun . The film features some wild computer-enhanced special effects that were new to its day , but now about 10 years later , it's no big deal . In fact , some of it , such as the lion , look pretty hokey compared to the stuff that's out there now . To me , it was story that was the lure , anyway , not the special effects . Because it's so much fun , this is one of the fastest-moving films I've ever viewed . The time flies by . It's not to be analyzed or given much thought , because it's so ludicrous . You just go along for the wild ride in this fantasy-adventure and get a bunch of laughs and thrills along the way . That's one of the big attractions of this of film : the excellent combination of adventure and comedy . Are there annoying things in this movie ? Sure . To me , it was Bonnie Hunt's occult beliefs and too many OMGs and the overdone character of the hunter ( Jonathan Hyde ) . Other than that , I loved the film the first I saw it and every time afterward . I've probably viewed this movie as much as any , simply because it was so entertaining . Robin Williams , David Alan Grier and the two kids , Kristen Dunst and Bradley Pierce , were all great people to watch and share this adventure with . Now THIS is entertainment !
Possibly The Best ' Animal Film ' Ever	Almost 20 years later , this remains the best of " animal " movies I've ever seen - where there is little dialog and animals dominate the screen . The amazing photography with the bears , the stunning cinematography overall and the great landscape ( British Columbia ) all make this a visual treat . Even better , it's an interesting story and has remained that with each of the viewings I've had of this film since discovering it in the mid ' 90s . It's a solid adventure story , and the little bear in here is lovable . The " bad guys " ( the hunters ) aren't really all that bad , either . The bears ' performances are fascinating , simply amazing . It must have taken incredible patience to film this movie . Outside of a couple of " damns , " there is no profanity and , I would think , is a great film for any age person to see . Highly recommended .
When London Was The Center Of Rock ' n Roll	" The Beatles were a gift from God , " says Tom Petty . This episode , fittingly , begins in Liverpool , England , the " home " of the Beatles , the most famous rock group of all time . In the very early 60s , there was a band called " The Quarrymen " which had , among others , John Lennon . To make a long story short , outsider Paul McCartney met him , began writing songs with Lennon , joined the group . . . . the rest is rock n ' roll history along with George Harrison and later Ringo Starr all became ultra-famous as the re-named Beatles . By the way , we are shown a commentary next to the building where the Quarrymen played . In that plot is a tombstone with the name " Eleanor Rigby . " We witness a 1963 concert of the Beatles doing " Twist and Shout " and the girls going berserk . Tell me something : why to 10-15-year-old girls scream at concerts ? Do they still do that ? You can barely hear the bands in this episode with these young females screaming their lungs off during the song , weeping and even fainting . It's absurd ! Whatever , more Beatles history ensues , such as The Cavern Club and Brian Epstein . " Beatlemania " was the thing , though around 1963 , especially when they first arrived in New York City . Nobody had ever seen crowds like that at the airport ! By the mid ' 60s , London was the capital of rock ' n roll , not just with music but with wild clothing stores on Carnaby Street and all the music clubs . Anyway , some other nostalgic songs enjoyed on this segment included The Beach Boys ' " I Get Around ; " The Temptations ' " You Make My Life So Sweet ; " Herman's Hermits ' " Something Tells Me I'm Into Something Good ; " Peter and Gordon's " " A World Without Love ( a song written by Lennon and McCartney ) ; " The Kinks ' " You Really Got Me ; " and a 17-year-old Marianne Faithful doing " As Tears Go By . " It good to see Marianne today discuss performing at that young age . By that time - the mid ' 60s - the Americans started countering with their own popular groups . We see The Supremes performing " You Can't Hurry Love ; " The Lovin ' Spooful doing " Do You Believe In Magic ? ; ' " The Young Rascals with " Good Lovin ; The Byrds with " Turn ! Turn ! Turn ! ; " The Mamas And The Papas ' " Creeque Alley ; " and that back to more British groups with The Who's " Can't Explain ; " The Hollies ' " Carrie-Ann " ( which really was Marianne , dedicated to Marianne Faithful ) and The Spencer Davis Group ( with Steve Winwood ) with " Keep on Runnin . ' More British groups broke out after the Beatles success . We watch a few examples , such as Gerry And the Pacemakers doing " Don't Let The Sun Catch You Crying ; " Eric Burdon and The Animals with their haunting " The House Of The Rising Sun ; " The Searchers , " Needles and Pins . " ( The Searchers tell us here on this disc that they were named after the John Ford / John Wayne film of the same name . ) The Rolling Stones , " Around and Around " arrived in the US a month after the Beatles and the teen screaming and mania continued , even if " they are so ugly they are beautiful , " as one girl puts it . We see the Stones perform " Around and Around " and " I Can't Get No Satisfaction . " Boy , Mick Jagger looks young . Paul Kantner of Jefferson Airplane fame , had an interesting point about how all the English bands seemed to be so much better . " That's because we only saw the best of the British bands - the ones good enough to make it over here . Meanwhile , in America we saw all the good and the bad bands . " Later , the British begin to get edgy with The Who and lead guitarist Peter Townsend smashing his guitar at the end of each concert . . . but that's for a later episode . Meanwhile , the " Motown Sound " in Detroit takes off , and that's the next episode in this series .
Extremely Clever And A Lot Of Fun	The songs and the " history " of the " California Raisins " are shown in this half-hour video . . . . and it is very funny and entertaining . The California Raisins are claymation characters that it made it big with commercials on television . This " documentary " is the " story " of the animated group - some fake history of these likable raisin characters . The " history " shows how the group was formed and played ' 60s and ' 70s R & B songs , then becoming famous , as mentioned with a few television commercials in the 1980s . What's great about this are two things : the music and the humor . It takes a number of viewings to catch most of the funny visuals and hear all the puns in this short tape . It's presented more as a regular TV program would be , with commercials interrupting it , news bulletins , promotions , etc . It's very clever material . I remember all these old rock ' n roll classics , and they sound even better with these " guys " doing it ! This is good stuff , and I wish they could put it out , with all the other TV commercials , too , on DVD .
Texas Tom Is One Smooth Dude !	Tom is lying around on the porch at the Dude Ranch when he uncovers Jerry under a flowerpot . While Jerry races away , Tom lassos him , the rope even going around the corner of the building ! Suddenly , a station wagon roars up and out comes a beautiful cowgirl , er catgirl . . . . . whatever . . . . Tom is smitten , big-time ! Tom runs back in the house and gets his best cowboy duds on and starts strutting in front of the girl , trying to impress her . He pulls out his tobacco and papers , has Jerry lick the paper , pulls out his gun and shoots it to light the cigarette . He then blows a smoke ring that says , " Howdy . " Wow , is this dude s-m-o-o-t-h ! ! Tom then serenades her ( with the cows singing the chorus ! ) . Man , he's pouring it on . Jerry , however , is ready to puke watching this spectacle . He decides to put an end to it . . . . and how ! Poor Tom takes a beating , especially from an irate steer . All in all , there are numerous laugh-out-loud scenes in this animated short - really good stuff . Great music , too , with amusing lyrics in some of the songs .
Memorable and Haunting . . . . . A Hidden Gem	Did you ever feel you " discovered " something or somebody : a real gem that none of your friends knew about ? Well , that's the way I feel about this film , a real sleeper than few people have ever heard about . When they see it - at least the friends I've shown it to - they enjoy it , too . This is an excellent romance story that's quite different , quite touching and quite haunting . This is one of the few movies that actually cost me some sleep after I first saw it one evening . The two main characters are " half-breeds , " Avik ( or " Holy Boy " ) is an Eskimo - white man and " Albertine , " an Indian-French female . Both are well-played as kids and as adults . The filmmakers did an amazing job finding two kids who really look like the two adults probably would have looked like when they were young and with the same voice inflections and accents . As adults Jason Scott Lee and Anne Parillaud are memorable . So is the cinematography , particularly the Dresden bombing scene which is simply jaw - dropping . Warning : the movie is heart-wrenching at times with not a happy ending , but I think that helps make this film so memorable , so haunting . Even the music is haunting . This is a strange , mystical movie . Either it's going to mean very little to you or it's going to be something special you'll want to see a number of times .
Soundstage : Chris Isaak ( 2003 ) - Excellent Singer & Comedian	I'm very familiar with Chris Issak's voice , having owned a half dozen or so of his CDs , but I had never seen him perform until " Soundstage " DVD . It exceeded my expectations in that I never knew Issak was such a comedian . The guy is hilarious ! Most importantly , he sang well and did some of this best songs . The only bad part of this DVD is that it is so short : the program is only 46 minutes long , enough for about 11 numbers . This guy is such a good singer and so entertaining between songs that I wish this concert was longer . I've read that people who attended this remarked it was longer but cut for this disc . When I told a good friend about this DVD , he remarked he has seen Isaak twice in concert and said they were two of the best concerts he's ever attended . They were a lot wilder and risqué than the material shown on this made-for-TV disc ( which he had also seen . ) Anyway , the songs we hear are : American Boy , Wicked Game , Go Walking Down There , Baby Did A Bad Bad Thing , Courthouse , Somebody's Crying , One Day , San Francisco Days , Forever Blue and Super Magic 2000 . The most fun was " Baby Did A Bad , Bad Thing " because Isaak did a great job with the song and added some great humor to it .
The Long Wait Was Worth It - A Fabulous Concert !	Well , I certainly waited a long time for this ! I expected this DVD out around 2000 since the first concert tape was out n 1994 and the second in 1997 . Then , after attending his concert live n 2003 in Buffalo , k I thought that a DVD would be our for sure later that year or 23004 at the very latest . Anyway , when it finally came out late in 2006 , I wasn't disappointed . Most of the songs , thankfully , are new material . How much other new stuff I heard in the three-hour Buffalo concert that wasn't on this DVD , I don't know but I'm not complaining . There are a couple of surprises in here , such as two solo violinists , a dulcimer player , and a flashy harpist-singer . The other new people I knew sin ' 97 I had seen in that Buffalo concert . A shock was not seeing violinist Karen Briggs on this DVD . She had always been a staple in Yanni's tour concerts in the past 10 years and - next to the Yanni himself - the key performer and most recognizable one in past DVDs . I don't know what happened to her . However , Sayaka Katsuki , from Japan , who replaced her , is just fine . Katsuki and Armenian violinist Samvel Yervinyan make a dynamite duo , with the Russian being the best of th two , I think . He is fantastic . Both of them do a number of solos , in one song trading off each other . I really enjoyed the sound of Dan Landrum on hammer dulcimer . That was a nice addition to the orchestra . Still the most versatile and best musician in the entire band is Pedro Eustache , who was with Yanni in his 1997 concert in China and India . He's gained some weight and some hair since then but is still animated , talented and fun to watch . You can tell he's Yanni's right-hand man . Not far behind is keyboard player Ming Freeman , another holdover from the China concert . Trumpet player Ramon Flores was a nice surprise . I'm not a big fan of that sound , but his playing is tremendous . All the soloists are excellent . I like them all , and could go on and on . The two female singers , Alfreda Gerald , who has always been with Yanni , and newcomer Michelle Amato , both excel . Longtime drummer Charlie Adams - who played with Yanni in the first Acropolis concert DVD but not on the second , was back , but , for the first time , did not have a solo or at least one that was included on the DVD . Of the new songs , th driving-beat , fast selections seem to be the best and generate the most enthusiasm among the crowd ( and me , too . ) Songs such as " Rainmaker , " " On Sacred Ground , " " Playtime , " " For All Seasons " and " World Dance " will all have you tapping your feet , moving your hands , etc . They are great feel-good songs and perhaps the trademark of these Yanni Orchestra presentation . Of the older songs , the re-make of " Nostalgia " was tremendous , thanks to the added dramatic violin work of Yervinyan . This is just a fabulous concert , filmed in Las ? egas sometime , I think , in 2005 . I watched this 7-8 times the first two months I owned it and loved it more and more each time . I just hope the next Yanni DVD doesn't take another 9-plus years to be released .
Great Message Uniquely Presented	This is about as a nice a message as I have ever seen presented in a cartoon , and it's presented in a beautiful manner . This is just plain fun to watch but even better to hear . The message is sung and the rhyming in the lyrics is just tremendous , really enjoyable . In less than a handful minutes , we are shown and given a wonderful mini-sermon , if you will , on how to handle bad situations and life in general . There also is a plug for skin color making no difference in your attitude , either . This might be the only cartoon I ever watched , and then replayed it a few minutes later . It was so good , I wanted to hear / see it again . There are some profound words of wisdom in this , sung in a catchy ditty . The animated short is offered as one of the features in the DVD of " The Incredibles . "
Rock's Wild , Crazy & Most Memorable Period	Fortunately , I don't think most of the rock stars of this psychedelic era ( or the present ) had that snobbish attitude we hear in the opening minutes of this great episode . I'm referring to Bono's elitist opening lines : " I think that was the difference with the ' 60s is that people didn't care to explain themselves , " says Bono . " If people didn't get it by then , they weren't invited . " As one who went through this " hippie era , " this Episode Six sure brings back memories . This was a time like no other time in history . And nowhere , as it is pointed out in this episode , was it more demonstrated than in San Francisco ( with London a solid second ) . San Francisco has maintained its Far Left attitude , too , to this day . Paul Kantner of The Jefferson Airplane sums up a lot of the atmosphere and culture of the times here , with some interesting observations . He got the most air time among the interviewees , so the producers of this series apparently felt he had the best things to say about his era . Everyone interviewed here was " anti-establishment . " When seen interviewed in the late ' 60s , they were all actively promoting the use of drugs . " The more people who turn on , the better , " says the Grateful Dead's Phil Lesh . He's almost straight-looking compared to " Wavy Gravy , " one of the Merry Pranksters , who was still around for the later interviews for this Time-Life series . He still looks nuts . ( Read Tom Wolfe's " The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test " to find out who the Pranksters were . ) Sadly , a number of these rock stars overdid the drugs and died . The losers were us , the rock fans . Imagine what unique sounds Jim Hendrix could have given us the last 35 years ? In fact , this topic is discussed in the last five minutes of this show . David Crosby admits the messages of the ' 60s - although a lot of them good - did go wrong regarding drugs . All of them - and us - miss the music talents of people like Hendrix , Jim Morrison , Janis Joplin , Keith Moon and others who all overdosed and paid the ultimate price . Jerry Garcia has a number of interviews here , and he's always interesting , too . His guitar sound also is very much missed . The way people looked and dressed was a shock back then , and still looks a bit outrageous , when you see them as shown here on this DVD . It was a chaotic period , as Kantner notes , but it sure produced some great rock ' n roll music and an extremely colorful era . I thought I knew most of what went on with all the festivals , beginning with Woodstock , of course , but I admit I did not know of all the hostility at the huge Isle Of Wight concert . That was pretty shocking . Fans booed , hissed , ranted , raved and were mad protesting that the performers , promoters and such were " capitalist pigs " for charging money for the concert . Apparently the mindset among this new culture was that everything was free - free love , free drugs , free concerts , etc . It was odd to see a tearful Joni Mitchell and a few others on stage trying to deal with the hostile crowds . Overall , it was fascinating to see a lot of these rock icons of the ' 60s and early ' 70s reflecting about the era now in these 1994 interviews . What I hated to see was that every one of these singers had a cigarette in his or her hands . Warning to those people wanting to show their kids this episode : there is quite a bit of nudity and Peter Townsend of the Who gives us a lot of f-bombs . Snippets of the following songs and performers were seen on this disc : " Somebody to Love " by The Jefferson Airplane ; " Tell Mama " by Janis Joplin ; " China Cat Sunflowers " by The Grateful Dead ; " Foxy Lady " - Jimi Hendrix ; " When the Music's Over " - the Doors ; " Up on Cripple Creek " - The Band ; " Street Fighting Man " - Rolling Stones ; " I Feel Free " - Cream ; " Baba O'Riley " - The Who . From the famous Woodstock concert , we see footage of " Handsome Johnny " by Richie Havens ; " Fixin ' to Die Rag " by Country Joe and the Fish ; " Soul Sacrifice " - Santana and " Suite : Judy Blue Eyes " - Crosby , Stills & Nash ; " Down By the River " - Crosby , Stills , Nash & Young ; " Big Yellow Taxi " - Joni Mitchell ; " Voodoo Chile " - Jimi Hendrix and " Touch of Grey " - The Grateful Dead . Overall , this is a very intense part of this 10-disc series and probably the most entertaining of the lot .
Great Music That Will Endure	This concert was so successful that it led to another one several years later . What the long delay in the third video is , I have no idea but Yanni fans are getting impatient . This and the following " Tribute " tapes / discs are SO good it's been tough waiting for the third . There is a big different between Yanni's work with his small group and when he performs with a big orchestra , and this was the first evidence of that . I've watched this video / DVD now for over a decade and it's still some of the best music I've ever heard - and seen . The colors from the purples , reds , yellows , etc that change all the time on the historic Acropolis site are beautiful , almost as beautiful as the music emanating from the musicians . You can always tell Yanni's personal musicians from the rest of the orchestra : they are dressed a bit different and all have the long hair ! The most visible and electric of them all is violinist Karen Briggs , who just astounds with her playing . I never get tired of seeing her play . Here is a woman with great talent and style . She hams it up a bit , but who cares ? Speaking of hams , no one seems to mug in the spotlight more than drummer Charlie Adams , but he's so likable no one minds . He draws a big laugh in the middle of his long , impressive solo . Enjoyable , too , are the solos by bassist Rick Federrici and pianist Julie Homi , whose cat-like looks mesmerize me . There is not a bad song in the bunch in this incredible concert . I hate to sound cliché-like , but this music is so good , so classy , it will endure for a long , long time . Music like this never goes out of style .
Another Example Of A Comedian Who Can Be Effectively Serious	Robin Williams once again proves how good comedians can be at serious drama roles . Williams is especially good at playing creepy characters , as he has done several times in the last decade . Here , he plays " Sy , the photo guy , " a lonely employee in the photo department of a suburban Target / Walt-Mart / / K-Mart-whatever who lives vicariously through a nice family , whose family pictures he has developed and printed for years . So , when Sy discovers the husband of that family is cheating , he takes it personally . . . . and gets involved . This was a fascinating portrait of a deranged man and a wonderfully photographed movie . The colors in here are astounding at times and the camera-work innovative with some neat angles . The suspense of the story builds and builds one gets that old film-noir feeling of impending doom . This has a different ending , though , than most old film noirs , not exactly what the viewer might think will happen . This is a film that , as far I know , never got much publicity , but it's a gem . Williams is outstanding in his role and the hour-and-a-half you invest in this movie flies by .
You Can't Beat These ' Little Red Riding Hood ' Spoofs !	I have to say : almost every cartoon I have seen which was a takeoff on the famous " Little Red Riding Hood " tale has been very clever and funny . . . . . and this one is no exception . Instead of the usual cast of characters , we have " Teeny , " the little mouse playing " Red " and Sylvester The Cat playing the big , bad wolf . The action takes place inside house , not in a forest , but the artists make the interior almost look like a forest . So , not only is the story humorous and pretty smart , but so is the artwork which really looks gorgeous with this Golden Collection Volume 5 " restored " version . As good as this looks , though , it's still the jokes that make this such a winner . A lot of kids wouldn't get some of wise-guy humor , which is definitely geared toward making adults laugh , and some of it is topical , too , for anyone familiar with the early ' 50s . " Red " was a wise-guy little rodent and Sylvester , was . . . well , Sylvester , who usually is pretty entertaining . I think Looney Tunes hit its peak in this period ( 1948-1954 ) with incredibly good material , and this cartoon is a prime example of good they were at this time .
Tons Of Sight Gags Make This ' Flip ' Cartoon A Lot Of Fun	There are more sight gags in here than you could ever hopefully expect in a seven-minute cartoon . It's just great stuff ; some of the best from UB Iwerks and his early Flip The Frog cartoons . I looked at some of the Volume One DVD of " Cartoons That Time Forget : The UB Iwerks Collection " and thought many were just " fair , " but this " Volume Two , " so far , is fantastic . This is the third Flip cartoon I've seen on this DVD and all three are wild and fantastic . The first two minutes of this one could easily be called , Flip the Paper Boy as we see all kinds of disasters that befall him as he tries to see newspapers on the street . Soon , an old maid comes by and offers him a nice big coin if he'll watch a baby in the carriage while she goes inside and shops . ( It was a MUCH more trusting world 75 years ago ! ) . What happens with Flip and the baby has to be seen to be believed ! You get chases , an assortment of wild animals , Turkish baths , tonics that make you turn into a superman , on and on . . . . . just insane things that happen one-after-the-other . Writing about this can't do it justice . If you enjoy insane cartoons where it is non-stop lunacy , you'll love this .
An Intense , Emotional Story	Mac is sitting in his office when he gets a call . The caller states he committed a murder awhile ago and stashed the body in the north end zone at Giants Stadium . He can't get that memory of the victim's screams out of his head and needed to confess . He hangs up and puts a gun to his head and kills himself . Wow , what an attention-getter to start this episode . Mac goes to East Rutherford , N . J . , and with cooperation from the police and CSI there , finds , indeed a skeleton buried deep in the end zone . The big story here is that Danny Messer of the CSI team is implicated in this murder and Mac must find a way to clear his name . This is a very intense story with an emotional ending . A second story as Danny and Stella checking out a murder of a bank CEO , found dead in a hotel room , apparently stabbed to death . There is a message on the bathroom mirror making this look like " a crime of passion . " This is a very seedy story and took away from the first one , which should have been the focus of the entire episode .
Very Impressive , Realistic & Involving Western	I can only hope they someone keeps making Westerns because the few that have been made the last few years have been outstanding . This one , a TV miniseries , is just great . I can't enough good things about it . I saw it recently on DVD . It was a three-hour film . I thought I read somewhere that it was four hours , so I don't know if this version has been down . I only know what I saw , and I liked about everything I saw . Looking at the IMDb reviews here before making a rental helped me out a lot . It prepared me for a slower film . In other words , I knew what to expect . . . . . and that helped . I didn't expect a rough film with a ton of violence and nasty characters , language , etc . What surprised me was just how interesting a film this was for being three hours long and not having a lot of action . I attribute this to the dialog , the acting , characters you care about and the wonderful cinematography . It's hard to beat the scenery in a nicely-filmed western . The words coming out of the two stars of the picture , Robert Duvall and Thomas Haden Church were extremely believable material . These guys were tough , but not abrasively - macho , compassionate but not sappy . As " Prentice Ritter " and " Tom Harte , " respectively , they fascinating to watch . I liked what they said throughout the movie and they were extremely believable characters . They looked and talked the part . This story is different because it's mainly about helping five young Chinese women , who are destined for prostitution , slavery and who knows what else . Ritter and Harte didn't volunteer for the job ; it accidentally came upon them as they were escorting horses North for a nice payday . The two men showed wonderful compassion for these girls , despite the fact they slowed their mission down and had a problem with communication . There has to be some villains in a western and we have them here with " Big Rump Kate " and others but they are not overblown and we don't see so much of them they they get annoying . For a Walter Hill film , this was astonishing in how low-key it was told . We also get a bit of a romance , just a glimpse between Duvall's character and one played by Greta Scacchi ( " Nola Johns " ) . It has a different kind of ending to it , one I didn't expect and one that will emotionally affect you . It simple terms : this is a nice movie , a good story about good guys doing a good deed for the right reasons . Watching them do it , under adverse conditions , was almost a privilege . A big thank you to all involved with this movie and giving us fans of this genre hope that it isn't completely dead .
They Did This Sports Movie Right	I love it when they actually do a sports story well . So many in the past have been so hokey it was embarrassing to watch . Not this one . It's just a genuinely nice movie , an old-fashioned type of story - and based on a real-life guy to did exactly what Dennis Quaid did in this film . He plays a high school coach who is talked into trying out , late in life athletically-speaking , to become a pitcher in professional baseball . Eventually , he reaches his goal of making it to the Major Leagues , even if it was a very brief stint . All the characters in here are nice people , the kind you root for , from Quaid to the players on his high school team , to his little boy ( Angus T . Jones , now somewhat of a star on television . ) Quaid is believable in playing Jim Morris because , unlike actors in the past in sports films , he knows how to throw a baseball . He looks like a pitcher , a guy who could fire it 90-plus miles per hour . And , most of this film is true , as testified by the real-life pitcher in one the documentaries on the DVD . So , if you're looking for a nice , inspirational true life sports film , you can't wrong with this one .
One Of The Classiest Films You'll See All Year	First of all , let me say this was a beautifully-filmed movie , just gorgeous from first to last frame . That gets big points with me . Just as impressive was the story , a fantasy-mystery - romance-drama combination set in Vienna , Austria , around the turn of the 20th century . It is a story that should keep most viewers intrigued all the way and perhaps surprised quite a bit at the end . Edward Norton does his normal job of making you fascinated with whatever character he's playing , this time a magician with almost supernatural powers : " Herr Eisenheim . " The character he plays , and the tone of the movie in general , is pretty low-key with next to nothing in ( on screen ) violence or profanity . It's simply a classy film and a modern-day one that older folks would very much enjoy as well as younger adults . Paul Giamatti also is very interesting as the police inspector , torn between his allegiance to the villain crown prince and to the truth and what is the right thing to do . The movie , however , belongs to Norton . In a nutshell : good stuff , classy film . I haven't talked to anybody yet who watched this and didn't like it .
Outstanding Twist On A Familiar Theme	Even if the the story is a familiar one - a cat told to get rid of the mice in the home or he's history - this was an outstanding Looney Tunes cartoon with a different main character . Here , we have " Dodsworth , " a fat and very lazy cartoon , whose philosophy on life is summed up near the beginning . After being lectured , he says to himself , " What a revoltin ' development . I don't mind an honest day's work as long . . . . . as somebody else does it . " He comes up with the idea of tutoring someone else to catch the mice for him since , as he says , nobody in the Dodsworth cat family has ever had to stoop to catching mice for a living . His first pupil is this cute little kitten . How Dodsworth uses the kitten and what kind of kitten it turns out to be is hilarious . There is some very inventive material here . Both the kitten and all the mice were very entertaining . A familiar actor from the ' 50s and ' 60s did the voice of Dodsworth : Sheldon Leonard and Bea Bernaderet , also a familiar name , voiced Dodsworth's lady boss of the house . Many times the endings to these type of stories are abrupt or a little bit lame . . . . but not here . The ending is terrific , making this one of the better cartoons I have seen on this Spotlight Volume 4 two-disc DVD .
Great , Great Piece Of Americana	This is a unique drama , one of those unusual dramas where there are no villains , no evil people . Yet , it's not a sweet-and-sugary movie , either . It's simply a " slice of life , " as they say , or " Americana . " In the case , about life in a small California town during the middle of World War II . It is very true to the book written by William Saroyan . The story features genuinely nice people who trust one another , respect one another , have manners , read the Bible and say their prayers , do what they are told and apologize if they are nasty . . . . not exactly what you've seen in films in the past half century . Although the film is a bunch of vignettes featuring a number of characters , Mickey Rooney is the central figure and I wonder if he ever was better . He is outstanding in here . I never realized what a good actor he was until I saw this movie . Frank Morgan also was memorable in here , and I usually didn't care for the roles he played many times . But here , he's very serious and honest and real . The " slices of life " include Rooney and his family , school friends , his job as a telegram delivery boy ; Morgan and his drinking problem ; James Craig and his romance ; Van Johnson and his army buddies and Jackie " Butch " Jenkins and his little friends . Also of note are three young military men making an appearance , actors who became well known by the end of the decade : Robert Mitchum , Barry Nelson and Don DeFore . Donna Reed , Fay Bainter and Marsha Hunt add the female touch and a big dose of wholesome beauty . This has a deep cast , as you can see . There are other recognizable actors in here , too , such as " Alfalfa " ( Carl Switzer ) of " Our Gang " fame . This picture of " Americana " is so innocent compared to today , it is almost shocking . A kiss was a big deal ; nobody locked their doors at night ; the girls went out on blind dates with the soldiers and all treated each other with respect . It's a very sentimental film , which is another reason I like it . It's a sad comment about film critics who think that " sentimental " is a dirty word , but even those cynics still had praise for this film . It's so well done that it's hard not to praise it . See for yourself .
Duck ! Duck ! - One Of The Best T & J Cartoons	This is one of the best Tom and Jerry cartoons I've seen , definitely rated in the top echelon . It has a very funny character in this little duck , who keeps getting shot and injured by Tom and repaired by Jerry and it has outstanding artwork . I rarely comment on the drawings in T & J cartoons , but you can't help appreciating the beautiful art in here , right from the opening scene . The tale of the little duck , and Jerry's efforts to save it , are both hilarious and touching . Many times I wind up rooting for poor Tom in these Tom & Jerry cartoon since Tom many times takes undeserved abuse . . . . but not this time . In particular , the comic bit with Tom and the anvil is outstanding . Nobody could root against this poor little , green-headed duck who - I guarantee - you will just love .
Very Clever , Very Funny	This is a story I have seen elsewhere but I can't remember in which cartoon . The premise is the same : the little hero saves a dog from pain and the dog promises to be his guardian . In here , all Jerry has to do is ring a little bell and the dog will immediately come to his rescue and pulverize anything that's bothering him . You know who that will be - Tom ! However , a new leash law on dogs may have given Tom a new leash on life ( ouch . . . . . sorry ) . A few memorable sights include : Tom's head turning into a gum-ball machine ; Tom testing the length of the leash on " Butch , " to see if he's safe a certain distance away . ( After the dog is tormented - with great sight gags - the dog gets clever and erases the " boundary " line and makes it closer , unbeknown to the cat . ) Very clever gags in here make this 1952 Tom and Jerry entry a real winner .
Very Worthy Sequel To A Great Film	This is an outstanding sequel to an outstanding movie The Fugitive ( 1993 ) . In this film , the focus is on the team that was searching for Dr . Richard Kimble in the first movie . That team was led by Tommy Lee Jones , who won an Oscar for his performance , which probably helped spur this sequel . It worked , as Jones and company ( Joe Pantoliano and others ) are just as much fun to watch as they were in The Fugitive . There are many similarities to the latter , especially in the first third of the film , featuring some tremendous action scenes . Instead of a train crash , we have a plane crash . Instead of Harrison Ford on the run , we have Wesley Snipes . In both films , you have such an involving story that the two hours fly by . U . S Marshals , being the newer film of the two , has better sound and even better special effects for the action scenes . As spectacular as was the train crash in The Fugitive , the plane disaster in here is even better . The same goes for a few other scenes . There is more action in this film . Normally , I don't need that but it's so well-done here , it's fine . . . . fun to watch . The Fugitive is still one of my all-time favorite movies . If you were entertained by it as well but are wary of sequels , you needn't be here : this is excellent .
Just As Intriguing The Second Time , Too !	I've seen this film twice now - about a year ago and then yesterday - and thoroughly enjoyed it both times , even the second time when I remembered some of those fantastic twists in the last half hour . Sometimes it's even more fun to view a film like this when you know a few things , because earlier scenes take on new meaning . It's not an easy film to totally digest , even with two viewings , because that ending has some mind-boggling revelations . Without having to resort to spoilers , let me just say the story is extremely interesting , the acting very good , the period pieces fun to view and it's a pretty clean movie so grandma can also enjoy it , too , without language or sex concerns . Basically , it's a story about obsession between two magicians in the last decade of the 19th century . They continually try to top one another and things get nasty along the way . Hugh Jackman and Christian Bale are both fun to watch in those roles , as are Michael Caine and Scarlett Johansson in supporting roles . This is one movie guaranteed to have you thinking about it when it's over !
Justifiably At The Top Of Most Film Noir Lists	This is one of the best-liked classic films of all time and I am among that large group of fans as well . I am still waiting for a DVD to come out that will give this film the treatment it deserves . Few movies have ever had dialog this entertaining . . . . . at least the conversations between Barbara Stanwyck and Fred MacMurray . I think it's a big appeal to this movie , except to younger folks who look at it as " cheesy . " I read the book , Double Indemnity written by James Cain , and was surprised that the film's snappy dialog was not in it . This is one of the rare times when the movie was far better than the book . That's not a shock after you find out that literary giant Raymond Chandler and Hall Of Fame director Billy Wilder combined to write the screenplay , For a murder / suspense story , there is very little action , almost none , yet there are no boring lulls . The three main actors - Stanwyck , MacMurray and Edward G . Robinson , are what make this so good . MacMurray's narration is fun to hear as he tells the story in flashback , from the beginning by dictating into an old Dictaphone to his co-worker Robinson . The latter is almost mesmerizing in his performance , the way he delivers his lines . He can even make a speech about something as boring as insurance and still keep you riveted to the screen . Stanwyck was no sex symbol ( at least to me ) but she looked great here in the most seductive of 1940s clothing and , like Robinson , has a distinctive voice and accent that keeps your attention . This film was the inspiration for the 1980 movie , " Body Heat , " starring William Hurt and Kathleen Turner . That , too , was a very , very good movie . . . . but not many films are in the class of this one .
" Oh , The Help These Days . . . . . It's Deplorable ! "	Don't you just love it when the Stooges totally trash a high-society party ? That's just one of the many crazy scenes in this one . This particular Three Stooges film might have more gags per minute than any of the many they made . It's unbelievable ; non-stop lunacy , led by Curly's antics , for 17-and-a-half minutes . It may have been near the end of the great Curly's career but he was never more energetic and full of all his physical slapstick and silliness as he was here . He did about physical bit he was famous for , from the snapping fingers on his face , to slapping his head , to all the step dances . I was exhausted after watching this guy . He was fantastic . Symona Boniface was perfect as the rich socialite Mrs . Van Bustle . If you can't recall what this woman looks like , try to think of Margaret Dumont , the Marx Brothers foil . That's her quote at the top of this review . Another actor who always was playing either a butler ( as in here ) or a crook in the Stooges films was Bud Jamison . He was hilarious in many Three Stooges efforts . All the boys - including the now-very baggy-eyed Moe - seemed to be at the top of their game in this feature . All of them do what they do best , and many times over here in this story in which the boys pretend to be newsmen out to get a scoop . I have no idea how many gags were in here , there were so many . This is simply great stuff : one of the Three Stooges ' best films . The underrated Larry also made me laugh a number of times , with just the look on his face . I don't want to leave him out . P . S . I never seem to get tired of the bird-in-the-bird sight gags , which the Stooges used many times . They always make me laugh out loud . Here , a parrot winds up inside a turkey .
Gtranny Goes To The Dogs , And Sylvester Pays The Price	Tweety and a little mouse are in cages at a pet shop , right in the front window . Sylvester is just outside the window and is licking his chops . Obviously , he has to figure out how to get these " meals . " Right from the first gag , in which the cat throws a brick at the window , is spotted by a cop and races to stop the brick before it hits the glass , this has a lot of the usual hilarious scenes . Tweety is " sold " and delivered to Granny's house where the real fun now occurs , as Sylvester follows the truck and is in for the shock of his life . In this Tweety episode , instead of Granny owning one big bulldog , she has an entire backyard full of them ! What a shock when Sylvester discovers this ! There are some fantastic scenes involving Sylvester and all those dogs as he has to get by all of them to get to Tweety . The bit with Sylvester on stilts was extremely clever .
Clapton & Co . ' s Best Work	I have a lot of Eric Clapton DVDs , VHS concert tapes and , of course , CDs and this " 24 Nights " holds a special place among all of them . It might be the pinnacle of Clapton's fantastic career . This is so good I have the DVD and the two-disc CD . There are four segments to this concert , filmed over several days and I am partial to the second and third parts : the blues songs and then the nine-piece band numbers . Together , they are 51 . 5 minutes of some of the best music I have ever heard . The bluesy " Running On Faith , " the opening song of the disc in segment one , is a great start , a song that gets better and better over the years . On part two : the blues numbers , I particularly liked Clapton's guitar work on " Have You Ever Loved A Woman ? " Not bad having Buddy Guy and Robert Cray as your backup guitarists , either ! I found the 9-piece segment to be my favorite with one song alone - " Pretending " - having two of the greatest solos ever by Clapton . If that song doesn't get your blood moving , nothing will . " Old Love " has some nice solo work by pianist Johnny Johnston , bassist Nathan East and of course , two more by guitarist Clapton . I've always enjoyed Eric's two female backup singers Katie Kisson and Tessa Niles and Kisson is really great with her solo at the end of " Wonderful Tonight . " The final segment , featuring a complete orchestra , has two great opening numbers and finishes with the only number I didn't care but , by then , I have more than my fill of great blues and rock ' n roll . However , it's still fun to see everyone dressed in black tie and evening gowns , anyway . This concert never fails to amaze every time I watch it and hear it .
A Different Kind Of WWII Movie , And One Of The Best	This is one of my all-time favorite war movies , always rated in the top three since I first saw it years ago . I rate it so high because of four main things : 1 - Wonderful black-and-white photography ; 2 - an interesting cast led by two great actors , Burt Lancaster and Paul Scofield ; 3 - An intelligent , different kind of war story revolving around stolen works of great art ; 4 - Just the right amount of action . Not only the blacks-and-whites look good but the grays , too . The nighttime train shots with the white steam coming out is just spectacular . You can feel the grease and grime on these railroad men as the work on the train . The person best exemplifying that is the Frenchman Michel Simon who plays " Papa Boule , " the engineer who begins the train trip and then is shot after being discovered sabotaging it . What a great face this man had ! He , Lancaster and other grimy railroad men with soot all over their faces give this a real authentic feel . Most of the cast is either French or German but if you have a hard time understanding a few lines , you can put on the English subtitles if you are playing the DVD . This is a pretty long film but it doesn't have many lulls , especially the train starts to roll . I have viewed this a number of times and have never been disappointed with it . Director John Frankenheimer gives some interesting commentary on this , too , so you might to check that out on the disc .
The Wolf May Not Have Stolen The Sheep , But He StoleThe Show	This was very , very good , and only a weak ending in the last minute prevented this from being one of the best Droopy cartoons I've ever seen . It still ranks pretty high , thanks to " the wolf , " who is flat-out hilarious in here . The wolf is after the sheep , guarded by Droopy , the fearless Sheepherder . The wolf , that southern gentleman with the strong accent and humorous dialog , reminded me of the poor coyote in the Road Runner cartoons . Both of them tried every trick in the world to get their prey , only to have all the schemes backfire . The sight gags in here are terrific and the wolf makes a number of funny cracks as well , even in defeat .
This Gives You A Great Feel For Memphis And It's Blues Artists Over The Years	I liked this episode because you get a real taste of what it was ( and is ) like for a musician on tour , traveling thousands of miles on a bus . You get a feel for Memphis , a nice history of Beale Street , and a great feel for what it's like to be a blues artist back in " the old days " and " now " in that city . We get extensive looks at a relatively-unknown Bobby Rush and what he goes through and the little places he plays and then we get the contrasting " king of blues : " B . B . King , and his experiences . King is treated like royalty wherever he goes . It's quite a contrast , although B . B . certainly paid his dues over the years . It's just has Bobby has not stopped paying them . Some make it to stardom ; some don't , but once , as Rush says , the blues are in your blood you're not going to stop singing and playing . He's pretty lively for a 60-plus-year-old guy ! The scene with Rush and the woman in his act who shakes her booty has to be seen to be believed ! We also see quite a bit of another man who is well-known in Memphis but not so much outside of that city : Roscoe Gordon . He came across as a wonderful guy and I felt bad when they mentioned he died shortly after one of the last scenes in the documentary .
Great Episode For Those Of Us Who Love British Bluesmen	I've seen this twice , and I could watch this episode in this 7-part documentary many more times , too . Of course , the fact that British ( and a couple of Irish ) guitarists and blues artists are mostly my favorites , explains why I loved watching and hearing this on TV and on now on DVD . I mean , for starters , what guitar fan doesn't revel in seeing Jeff Beck perform ? He's amazing . Beck and all the other British musicians , as it's pointed out a few times here - and verified by the great B . B . King - brought blues to the attention of the North American white kids . If it weren't for guys like John Mayall , a lot of guys like B . B . and Albert King , Albert Collins , John Lee Hooker , etc . , etc . , probably wouldn't have become famous . The British have done the same with early rock ' n roll , or " rockabilly " as it is labeled , and kept that alive , too . They must really appreciate music in the U . K . Well , I do , too . In this episode are some of the greats of the those British bluesmen , like Mayall , and Eric Clapton , Tom Jones , Lonnie Donegan , Georgie Fame , Stevie Winwood , Peter Green , Mick Fleetwood , Van Morrison and a whole lot more . He doesn't do " blues , " was I was glad Abert Lee was included in this episode , too . Few people can " pick " as well as Albert . Most of these people are interviewed but aren't performing in here . However , some do and they are really good - Beck , Jones , the " Abbey Road musicians , and " Lulu . " Wow , there's a name ( Lulu ) I haven't heard in 40 years but this woman is some blues singer . She was a shock . It was also great to see footage of many of these performers idols , such as Muddy Waters , Big Big Broonzy , Sister Rosetta Tharp and many more , some of them performing with ' 60s stars like Mick Jagger of the Stones . All of it is great stuff !
Extremely Good ; Well - - Deserved Academy Award Winner	This is a Tom & Jerry " war " cartoon with Jerry in the war mode pulverizing hapless Tom . Right from the beginning when he's tossing " hen-grenades " ( eggs ) to the end , he's using all kinds of objects as warfare . There are bunch of clever references to war slogans but modified , such as " That Friendly Rat May Tell The Cat " as one of the old warnings to use to give folks about being careful who you talk to , etc . Jerry , complete a bottle-cap for a helmet , also dive-bombs the poor cat , riding paper airplanes with firecrackers , until he's finally shot down but he parachutes with a bra and lands safely . He even uses smoke screens by dragging a bag of flour along the ground . - whatever he can think up to win the " war . " It's all clever and very funny . This is non-stop action with a patriotic ending . I have no argument about this winning an Academy Award for best animated short .
LT Writers Spoof Themselves	We see something unusual right off the bat in this cartoon : a quick picture of something that isn't animated . In this case , it's a giant hamburger . That's what one of two starving guys on a raft out in the ocean sees , instead of his partner . The other guy soon is hallucinating , too , seeing food where human body parts are ! Thankfully , they are spared from these gruesome things as they spot an island and race there in their suddenly-speedy raft . Bugs Bunny , probably the only living thing on the small island , spots this ravenous duo and quickly sets his brain in motion . How he does NOT become dinner is the focus of this story . Along the way are some funny bits with graphics regarding language translations . It's also interesting that the two LT writers are the guys characterized in the cartoon ! Good for them ! It's always good to be able to laugh at yourself , so kudos to Michael Maltese and Tedd Pierce . I agree with the reviewers here : this is a classic cartoon , full of inventive sights that are guaranteed to make you laugh . No sense describing all of them . Suffice to say all three main characters are good in here . The ending's a little sappy , but it's hard to get everything perfect .
Review Of The Blu-Ray Disc	" Wow " is the first word that comes to mind in trying to describe this concert footage of Jeff Beck at this London jazz club , " Ronnie Scott's . " I have seen Jeff Beck play guitar a few times here and there over the years , but never more than a couple songs at one venue . Now , I pretty much have an idea of all his guitar-playing talents . . . . . . and it's even more awesome than I had guessed they would be . This review , thus , is for people not all that familiar with Beck's talents . If you already are , you've already bought this DVD . In this concert , you see Beck play everything from jazz to blues to rock to ballads to " space music . " The camera-work is very good in that you really get a good luck at Jeff's ability on the guitar . You see how he produces some of his amazing sounds . You'll also see what a great band he has put together . Vinnie Colaiuta on drums , Jason Rebello on keyboards and Tal Wilkenfeld on bass are all exceptional musicians and fun to watch . All four members of this group can be seen constantly smiling and really enjoying themselves . A great addition to the Blu-Ray disc , and a reason to buy it , is the bonus material beginning with the seven-song rockabilly set with Beck and The Big Town Playboys . These guys do a great job of sounding like the late ' 50s rockers like Gene Vincent and Carl Perkins . It ends with a great sax solo on the old Bill Doggett number , " Honky Tonk . " In addition , there are interviews with everyone all they're all interesting . . . . . really . This Blu-Ray disc is worth the extra money and highly-recommended .
The Most Incredible And Funny Fly I've Ever Seen , And The Best Sound	The beginning of this Pink Panther cartoon certainly was different . Inserted in the animation were real-life , black-and-white pictures of various action scenes on an animated television set . We see a sleepy-eyed Panther with his remote control changing channels . ( I don't even remember having remote-controls back in the mid ' 60s ! ) . On the floor is a bunch of junk food ( with potato chips misspelled as " potatoe . " ) Anyway , the idea is the Panther is exhausted and wants some sleep . He goes to bed , begins to sleep but his loud snoring wakes himself up . Then , the big gag of the cartoon , after going back asleep again , a buzzing fly wakes him up and torments him . This fly is awesome ! After being booted out of house , he knocks on the door and gets back in ! Later , he finds another clever way to get back inside and dive bomb our trying-to-sleep hero . Still , later he finds an even-more totally outrageous way to get back in the house . Each time it gets funnier . For the first time ever , I appreciated the sound in here more than anything . The fly , the Panthers laughs , the fly's laugh , the noises made by fly as he did various things . . . . . all of them are extremely funny . This is a terrific PP cartoon ; one of the best .
The First Totally Wild & Crazy Popeye Cartoon	" Can you Take It " is one of the wildest Popeye cartoons I've ever seen and easily the most frenetic of the early ones . In fact , I think it's safe to say this is one most entertaining and different " adventures " Popeye ever had . The cartoon following this also was insane , so it looks like Popeye's outrageous humor began with this effort . After dropping off Olive at her place of work , a hospital , Popeye notices on a sign on the place next door : " Bruiser Boy's Club - Can You Take It ? - We DARE You To Join " Well , macho Popeye isn't going to turn down that challenge . Great sight gags when Popeye meets Bluto , president of the club as they exchange brutal hand shakes and blowing smoke in each other's face . ( better seen than explained ) . Bluto then says , " OK , boys , put him tru da woiks ! " Wow , it's unbelievable after that . Popeye goes through his medieval-like torture place that has to be seen to be believed . This is pretty sadistic and brutal , but the bad guys wind up taking their deserved lumps . I won't say more than that , except this is extremely entertaining with an edge to it .
Bond As Indiana Jones	Was there ever a James Bond like this one ? Oh , there were better Bond stories , no doubt , but I do doubt there were any more entertaining than this one . In " Octopussy , " we get more of an Indiana Jones-type adventure story than the usual spy farce . In fact , there is so much adventure in here it gets tiring , to be frank . It's almost too much . . . . but it is a lot of fun along the way . The best part of the film isn't the wild adventure , either : it's the humor . This has more laughs in it - stupid and clever - than any Bond film I can recall . Roger Moore , Maud Adams , Louis Jordan , Kristina Wayborn , Steven Berkoff and Kabir Bedi must have had a lot of fun - and been worn out - making this film . By the way , itt's always interesting to see the intriguing Adams . This and " Goldfinger " are my two favorites of the Bond series , and I'm glad to see so many others here share that opinion .
Possibly The Best Cartoon I've Ever Seen	I have seen a lot of funny cartoons , but very few which brought a big smile to my face the entire duration of the film . I just could not believe how good this was , from the hilarious animation - mainly " Mr . Johnson , " to the clever jokes that are in here one after the other after the other . Kudos to Cordell Barker for his story , direction and animation . It's an unbelievably entertaining . story of guy who finds a little yellow cat on his welcome mat outside one day , and how this cat literally destroys the house and the owner . It also shows the many attempts the man makes to get rid of the cat but , as the title say , he keeps coming back . I can see why this was nominated for an Oscar . What I don't understand is why it didn't win . I don't know how you can make a cartoon any betterThere is a DVD out , named " Leonard Maltin's Animation Favorites From The National Film Board Of Canada . If for no other reason than this cartoon , purchasing that DVD would be worthwhile because this animated short is one of the best ever made
