It just ain't getting ' it done !	There is nothing wrong with redneck humor ; but Larry the Cable Guy's crude and politically incorrect humor can only go so far . Larry has a real comfortable job as a city health inspector . His upbeat and quirky investigations are not always sitting well with his boss ( Thomas Wilson ) . Larry's inspections of greasy spoon diners , low-rent ethnic eating places and even the fanciest of fancy high-brow restaurants are definitely unorthodox . To try and keep within limits of the city not being sued , Larry is given a partner ( Iris Bahr ) , who he thinks is a young boy instead of a young woman . Potty humor runs rampant and the many fart jokes get real old in a hurry . Also in the cast : Joanna Cassidy , Brooke Dillman , Michael Papajohn and Eric Esteban .
Resurrect dragons revive a Korean legend .	Convoluted , confusing and hard as hell to follow . Albeit , some real good special effects . This movie is about resurrect dragons from a Korean legend smashing and bashing around California . Two creatures of legend , a Good Imoogi and a Dark Imoogi , both want to become heavenly dragons . Director Hyung-rae Shim has these giant creatures morphing from serpents to dragons and back again with massive armies of very formidable monstrosities . A young woman turning twenty years old , bearing a red dragon tattoo on her shoulder is the key to consummating a legend spawned a half-millennium ago . I can't believe I wasted my time watching this mess and still have no idea what I watched . At least it was cool watching the dragons and their minions battle . Starring are : Jason Behr , Amanda Brooks , Robert Forster , Craig Robinson and Aimee Garcia .
Bad , bad B-Movie .	Robert Hutton directs and stars as a Los Angeles sports reporter Tom Gregory . After his plane lands through a midair disturbance , he finds the airport completely deserted . The city is surrounded by a mysterious fog , as slimy subterranean humanoid creatures have risen from the center of the earth caused by nuclear testing . The Slime people have the population in panic , those who have not be killed . It seems these monsters are impervious to conventional weapons . A young Marine Cal Johnson ( William Boyce ) joins Gregory and a Professor Galbraith ( Robert Burton ) in trying to hold off the Slime people while a method of destroying them is discovered . Bad acting , bad dialog , cheap effects with good reason to stop watching after the first ten minutes . Other players : Les Tremayne , Susan Hart , John Close and Judee Morton .
Is he one of a kind ?	It has been a long time since I have been this disappointed in a movie . There is so much to offer in a good depiction of the gruesome true life story of the cannibalistic serial killer Jeffrey Dahmer . There is torture , murder , cannibalism and homosexuality to deal with and this movie poorly addresses anything that just might be interesting . This drag ass movie is as thrilling as a zombie relay . Jeremy Renner portrays Dahmer as if in a high school play . Veteran actor Bruce Davison even comes across lame . Surely another director , writer and producer could make the Dahmer story with the thrills and horror of reality this movie lacks .
Dreadfully lame sci-fi .	A Swiss mountain top is menaced by a cosmic mist that harbors a threat to the world ; a giant , crawling eyeball . Totally bad and a waste of time . Grade school children might enjoy . Forrest Tucker is the only known star .
Bob Dylan the genius in disguise .	I'm a moderate fan of Dylan's music ; seeing him in concert only once . Personally I know very little about Dylan , the man . I will agree with millions about his lyrics touching many degrees of genius . I'M NOT THERE , okay pieces of Bob are represented here in six different characters including Christian Bale , Heath Ledger , Richard Gere , Ben Whishaw , a young black lad named Marcus Carl Franklin and the most atrocious Cate Blanchett . I can't consider this a biopic let alone an honest chronological look at his life . Hardly a hint of his most remembered mainstream music is here either . Forgive me for missing the point all-together . Its like drinking a $300 bottle of wine out of a Dixie-cup . I'm sure the Dylan devotees will make sense of director / writer Todd Hayes ' efforts . Also in the movie narrated by Kris Kristofferson are Julianne Moore , David Cross , Michelle Williams , Bruce Greenwood and Richie Havens .
Just horrible . Waste of any effort .	Absolutely a piece of crap with all the appeal of a three-legged yellow dog's maggot pile . A " mockumentary " about an out of work filmmaker / director taking on an " interesting " assignment that if done right will answer the rumor of the century . He is hired to travel the country and interview people , most odd and very strange , who claim to have seen Elvis Presley . . . ALIVE . . . years after his death in 1977 . A real hoot is the interview with Elvis ' skydiving instructor ( G . Larry Butler ) , who trained him to hide among the Flying Elvi skydivers out of Las Vegas . And how he met him in Muskogee , Oklahoma in about 1988 at a skydiving championship . Each person interviewed swear they actually saw Elvis ; one even having framed what is left of a Ding Dong The King chomped on in front of a Piggly Wiggly store . The cast is made up of characters with very little camera time ( you really can't blame them ) : Fred Willard , Rip Taylor , Vicki Lawrence , Richard Selzer , Gina Bernstein , Jay Ross and Dr . Joyce Brothers .
An old man spins tales to save his life .	After witnessing a murder , an old homeless man ( Wayne Dehart ) bargains for his life by telling the killers three stories of horror where the spirits of the wronged seeks revenge . In one tale , a young girl is drowned by cruel friends ; in another yarn , a young woman intends a clinical abortion until enduring horrid dreams of giving birth ; and the third story is of a small midterm party in a girls dorm that ends in rape and murder . This very low budget item would go better with room temperature Thunderbird in a bag and a platter of hot wings . Its hard to call them actors , but credited as cast members : Staci Harris , Timothy Eric , Tenia Yarbrough and Aziza Anderson .
A man has got to eat .	Captain John Boyd ( Guy Pearce ) is decorated a hero of the American-Mexican War by way of cowardice . He is promoted / demoted to a rundown California outpost . A lone man appears seeking safety and tells a gruesome story of murder and cannibalism . This dark comedy is not for everyone . Some attractive winter scenery and then there is the contrasting bloody gore and vivid violence . Outstanding performance from Robert Carlyle , the most demented cannibal in the old West . David Arquette stays wasted on ' waky weed ' . Also notable work by Jeffrey Jones as Colonel Hart . Could be a stomach turner , so consider yourself warned . ' You are what you eat ' takes on new meaning .
Tempting . . . but stay away .	The subject matter might spark interest in some ; but this film delivers nothing you don't already know . The acting is terrible and plot just plows along into boredom . The focus is the family of serial killer Jeffrey Dahmer's parent's and their struggle to comprehend their son's arrest and what turned him into the monster he became . As heartbreaking as the search was to find any reason behind Jeffrey's actions , efforts proved futile . Trying to humanize a cannibal is not an easy project . It was not accomplished here for sure . The cast includes : Scott Cordes , Cathy Barnett , Granvile O'Neal , veteran actor Bo Svenson and Rusty Sneary as Jeffrey Dahmer .
No peace until this giant ' gator ' is caught .	This is NOT a sequel to ALLIGATOR ( 1980 ) , but the premise is still the same . A community is terrorized by a giant toxic alligator that crawls out of the sewer . A decent ensemble cast can not save this ' dud ' . The ' gator ' is just not scary enough and the pace of the story is equal to a bad accident . The diverse cast members are good , but equally bland : Steve Railsback , Joseph Bologna , Dee Wallace Stone , Brock Peters and Bill Daily . Stone is the biggest disappointment . This movie just doesn't get going faster than a slow crawl .
One hell of a virus .	This movie does have its moments , but you have to be quick to catch them . Gruesome in some spots and then others the horrible deeds are off camera . Disgruntled students want to get back at their Headmaster . A teen thinks it good pay back to download a virus on her school's state of the art computer system . Little did she know that Mangler v2 . 0 would unleash a murderous entity . A glimpse of " jiggle and wiggle " , but nothing redeeming . Just about a waste of time . The players are : Chelse Swain , Dexter Bell , Daniella Evangelista , Miles Meadows and Lance Henriksen .
Marabunta ! Killer ants !	Side stepping an ant hill is always wise . While you're at it , side step this TV offering . So predictable . So boring . A dormant volcano stirs ravenous soldier ants to attack a small Alaska town . Also known as MARABUNTA . No matter the title , they both equal lame . Julia Campbell is a small source of interest , but she can't carry a movie . Also taking part are Mitch Pileggi , Eric Lutes , Bill Osborn and Patrick Fugit . Even the killer ants can't save this one .
Titalating naked romp .	Welcome to Camp Sunshine where the nudist come to play and enjoy what they can get out of the sun . Bouncing boobs and bouncing buns . . . leap frog , wrestling and other friendly games that you can play naked . Nubile nudes all shapes and sizes soaking up the sun . An accidental toxic spill infiltrates Camp Sunshine ( filmed in New York City ) where an intelligence challenged gardener drinks it and becomes a m-m-monster that causes concern for lightly clad , fully nude and clothed a-like . Evocative of mid-sixties American Drive-In Theater exploitation flicks . Showing their wares : Deborah Spray . Sally Parfait , Natalie Drest , Ron Cheney , James Gatsby and Angela Evans .
Let me die ! Let me die !	Following a car accident , a mad scientist ( Jason Evers ) keeps the head of his fiancee ( Virgina Leith ) alive . He then goes on the prowl looking for the perfect body to make her whole again . Pretty lame all the way around , nothing redeeming here . Also in the cast are : Leslie Daniels , Bonnie Sharie and Bruce Brighton . Someone should have helped put this one out of its misery . Let it die .
Fear comes in different sizes and strength .	Twenty foot , nine foot ; size is not that important when it involves these freaks of nature effected by insecticides and angered by underwater earthquakes . The giant ocean creatures bring fear to a tiny Polynesian island and a marine biologist ( Adam Baldwin ) and his young son ( Emile Hirsch ) try to protect them from being killed . Julie Carmen and Peter Adams also participate in this more or less waste of time .
Some kids are just too mean !	Just as some kids can be so mean ; some movies can just suck like this one does . Don't judge the whole franchise by this installment . Its time for summer camp again and Ronnie ( Paul DeAngelo ) returns as the junior partner of camp owner Frank ( Vincent Pastore ) . Ronnie wants to keep everyone in line and it isn't easy . Alan ( Michael Gibney ) is a chubby pain in the ass and a major disturbance at Camp Manabe . He always leaves confrontations with nasty threats , but is he to be feared ? When campers and staff members mysteriously become victims of frying , burning and skinning Ronnie can't help but think of the grisly murders two decades earlier at Camp Arawak . At times pretty gross , but not as bad as the horrible acting . No sympathy to be had for Gibney , his character Alan possesses nothing to care about . This part could have been given to Rosie O'Donnell . . . and that really isn't much of an improvement . Music icon Issac Hayes plays Charlie the Chef , his last full role in a movie . Others in the cast : Jackie Thon , Jonathan Tiersten , Brye Cooper and the buxom Erin Broderick . There are as many tormented and unhappy campers as there are reasons this went straight to video .
You don't want to know . . . you don't want to go to Room 6 .	More money was spent on the DVD case . Obviously low budget ; ridiculous story ; no acting ; terrible make-up . . . need more ? Following a traffic accident , a young woman ( Christine Taylor ) tries to get her fiancé ( Shane Brolly ) out of a demonic hospital that is located somewhere between reality and who knows where . The staff is made up of devil worshipers and vampire-like nurses . Looking for credibility I assume , Jerry O'Connell is cast as another person searching for a lost soul in this dark and too repetitive contrivance . The last fifteen minutes is filled with ghoulish patients staggering through the hospital halls . . . more of a headache than frightening . Also appearing are : Katie Lohmann , Ellie Cornell , Stacy Fuson and Marshall Bell .
Some things are better not revisited .	Based on characters created by Stephen King is as good as it gets . Sorry , but this story is too similar to THE THING starring Kurt Russell to get very excited over . I did like the setting of the snow bound radio shack and the sounds of the harsh weather . Missing people return as the undead and the lurking evil is traced back to the half brother of one of the Marine rescue squad landing in the cold arctic . Faith Ford is adequate in this non-comedic role and is the most talented of the cast that also features Max Perlich , Clayton Rohner , Jennifer O'Dell and Daminan Chapa . If the weather has you trapped in you might appreciate more . Not a total waste of time , but close .
One big happy family . . . easier said than done .	Admiral Frank Beardsley ( Dennis Quaid ) is a widower with 8 children and his family is ' ship shape ' running like a Swiss watch . Helen North ( Rene Russo ) is a widowed handbag designer with 10 kids and believes in individual self expression . Frank and Helen end up going to their class reunion and discover the love they once had is still there . Thus sparked the proposal of marriage before notifying their separate broods . The thought of one big happy family is not a number one hit with the chaotic 18 ' siblings ' . . . sabatoging the union of their ' high school sweethearts ' parents becomes a collective mission . This comedy is not really funny ; albeit some of the sight gags are humorous . Juvienile situations and the smiling Quaid and Russo seemed wasted on me . Also in the cast are : Linda Hunt , Jerry O'Connell , David Koechner and Rip Torn .
No kidding ! A secret agent ?	Adrenaline-charged combustion . Full throttled maximum volume action . A government agency recruits an extreme-sports enthusiast ( Vin Diesel ) to covertly thwart a maniacal terrorist . Also in the cast are : Samuel L . Jackson , Michael Roof , Asia Argento and Marton Csokas . Reality : absent . Escape : obvious with gusto .
Not even a B movie .	Lame may be the best word to describe this attempt at horror . Primitive special effects . An attractive young woman ( Anne Kimbell ) is vacationing in Mexico and hears tales of missing persons and pets . She herself witnesses a giant octopus and a huge one-eyed amoeba like creature that may be the answer to the disappearances . Authorities won't believe her story ; not even deep-sea diving oceanographer ( Stuart Wade ) . Love interest convinces a soft investigation . Acting is atrocious . This is the debut of Roger Corman as a producer . He also has a bit part . Director Wyott Ordung too plays a role . Other players : Dick Pinner , Inez Palange and David Garcia .
The Earth is under attack .	Very interesting product from South Korea , a . k . a . REPTILIAN is equally good as it is bad . Far out story line with unimaginative dialogue . Very good F / X holds your interest . Hostile invading aliens reanimate a dormant giant lizard-like creature named Yonggary to eradicate humanity and take control of Earth . Super cool alien spacecraft and a prehistoric monster should be more than enough to keep Sci-Fi fans happy . Overview of notable cast members : Harrison Young , Donna Philipson , Karl Calhoun , Dan Cashman and Richard B . Livingston . The monster is handsomely detailed and fun to watch .
Grab life by the ball !	Misfits and half-wits play with their balls . Dodgeball is silly and parallels stupidity . Silly does not necessarily correlate with funny . Peter LaFluer ( Vince Vaughn ) runs a worn out gym called Average Joe's . Faltering and antiquated equipment and with mostly non-paying clients the gym is forced to undergo foreclosure by a sharp looking accountant , Kate ( Christine Taylor ) . The gym's biggest competition comes from GloboGym owned by White Goodman ( Ben Stiller ) . The need for big bucks fast . . . Average Joe's enters a Las Vegas dodgeball tournament , where predictably they meet opposition from the perfectly coiffed Goodman and his team . There is just something about the sound of a hard thrown dodgeball meeting flesh . I kept waiting to hear some trademark profanity from Vaughn . . . no go . Stiller in no matter what role annoys me . . . more so this time . Announcer Jason Bateman and coach Rip Torn were almost show stealers . Also in the cast : Justin Long , Jamal Duff , Missi Pyle and Hank Azaria . This dodgeball nowhere resembles the sport you played in Junior High School .
Chaotic mayhem .	This British dark thriller concerns St . Caninus Hospital , an understaffed , underfunded , run-down private institution that is reeling from the possibility its wealthy owners will follow through with more budget cuts . The head of research has been murdered in this filth hole of a hospital and more grisly murders add up to pure bedlam . There seems to be a power struggle between Penny Second ( Peta Lily ) , head of the women's ward and Dr . Rogers ( Julian Bleach ) , who happens to be as sleazy as they come . Detective Stiltskin ( Philip Pellew ) is brought in to investigate the series of bloody murders and is distracted by the winsome Dr . Second . There is some comedy and suspense involved and taking credit for direction are Robert Golden , David Glass and Steve Lincoln .
It is all in the bloodline .	Roger Corman directs ; Vincent Price acts ; and the beautiful Debra Paget is on the screen for the last time . This is part of Corman / Price's Edgar Allen Poe multiple ventures . This is close to being the worst , but there is plenty of chills and suspense to keep you watching . Price plays a 17th century warlock burned at the stake and a descendent that returns to the small village homestead a hundred and ten years later . There is very little to associate with Poe , although the story line is chilling and creepy . Price and Paget are ably supported by Lon Chaney Jr , Elisha Cook and Frank Maxwell . This movie seems to have its own attitude and is a must for Price fans . Of course , Corman's followers will also have something to debate about . Was there enough money to make this better or is it beyond help ? You be the judge and jury . Enjoy !
Fear what you don't believe in .	Some things may need to stay in the dark . Christian Slater plays a private investigator specializing in the unexplainable supernatural . Tara Reid is a museum curator ( yeah , sure ) . Slater must prove and then try to destroy creatures from a bound ancient world trying to escape the dark . This movie is so convoluted it hurts ; although what you see of the creatures is interesting . Slater must have been hard up for the money . The enticing Reid managed to read her lines , but without sincerity . This film is flat ; it wouldn't take much for the video game to be better . Also in the cast : Stephen Dorff , Matthew Walker and Frank C . Turner . A must / mess to avoid .
The Old West mixes with horror .	The title is misleading . Technically it is Dr . Frankenstein's granddaughter ( Nadia Onyx ) that the infamous outlaw Jesse James ( John Luton ) meets . This way out and wacky western has the fast shooting outlaw traveling with a hulk of a friend Hank Tracy ( Cal Bolder ) instead of his brother Frank . The two are running from Marshal MacPhee ( Jim Davis ) and his posse . Dr . Maria Frankenstein ( Onyx ) and her brother ( Steven Geray ) have more or less ran everyone out of a small town where they decide to continue conducting experiments from the original Dr . Frankenstein's journals . After Jesse's partner is shot , the two outlaws are aided by a young Mexican woman ( Estelita Rodriguez ) who takes them to the Frankenstein descendants for medical attention . This is a weird combination of western and horror . It is quite obvious the two should not have met . No doubt this could be a hoot if you happen to be " two sheets to the wind " . Also in the cast are : Roger Creed and Rayford Barnes . Note : Lupton is probably most remembered as Indian Agent Tom Jeffords on the classic TV western series Broken Arrow in the mid / late 50s .
The beginning of the end of the world .	Jim Sonzero directs a screenplay by Wes Craven and Ray Wright . Too much technical babble and a story line that I found just not very interesting . A computer hacker accidentally downloads a strange wireless signal that threatens to consume the world . It is a vicious signal that allows the dead to enter the world by use of electrical appliances , cell phones and computers . The gateway is wide open and the hacker , before committing suicide , tries to warn his college friends of what has been unleashed . Will this evil cause world wide suicide ? The special effects are very good and some terrifying scenes are very disturbing . The cast includes : Kristen Bell , Christina Milian , Ian Somerhalder , Johathan Tucker , Octavia Spenser and Joseph Gatt .
My gosh . . . where is the bug repellent ?	The Sci-Fi Channel claims this film holds the honor of having the highest rating of any Sci-Fi Pictures original to air in the network's 12 year history . Campy , flimsy and more than a bit lame ; this movie appears to have been written as a Bruce Campbell vehicle . The world is beating on the door of destruction by giant ass termite-like bugs . The bugs have taken control of the human race and force them to work in lumber camps . After forty some odd years in space , a group of astronauts led by Dr . Ivan Hood ( Campbell ) land back on Earth to find the world not like the one they called home . Dr . Hood rounds up a search party for President Demsky ( Peter Jason ) , thinking he is ready to lead a revolt against the aliens . It is silly how easy it is to kill the bugs . Other cast members : Renee O'Connor , Remington Franklin and Jonas Talkington . No doubt about it ; Campbell is the champ of camp .
A demented doctor messes with nature .	Heading a search for oil , a geologist ( John Agar ) finds adventure in the form of a mad doctor ( Jeff Alexander ) who seeks to create a reptile man . Also in the cast are Francine York , Bill Thurman and Shirley McLine . Talk about low budget . . . some kid gave up his lunch money to make this one . And when you finally get to see a " creature " , you bust a gut laughing . Why did they waste color film on this ? To be exact , being shot in black & white would've been an asset . This is a must to avoid . Sorry .
Some secrets are widely known .	Martin Scorsese directs this highly acclaimed bore fest . Elaborate costumes and sets , but a story line that offers very little . A high society lawyer ( Daniel Day-Lewis ) in mid 1800s New York City falls in love with his intended's ( Wynona Ryder ) cousin ( Michelle Pfieffer ) . A long time to wait for nothing to happen . Sorry Mr . Scorsese , just not enough to keep us awake .
Another giant mutation . This time it is a huge fuzzy spider .	The title is a bit ambitious . A small town , not the whole world is being terrorized by a giant spider . No real explanation for this creature is given . But it is big and scary and it kills people . . . so destroy it . Easier said than done . Creepy music makes for a tense atmosphere . Nice flick for a slumber party , that way you have something to do while the movie runs . This film seems to have been done cheap and quick . The intent , no doubt , was to cash in on the popularity of the other giant mutant movies . Quite below average , but not a total bust . Cast members include Ed Kemmer , June Kenny , Eugene Persson and Skip Young .
Terrifying visitors from the past .	Jon Porter ( Michael Gross ) returns to his old hometown for his mother's funeral and is haunted by evil teenagers that were responsible for his sister's death 30 years earlier . He must get rid of the ghostly demons to protect his teenage daughter Michelle ( Hilary Swank ) . Based on the conjuring of Stephen King and directed by Adam Grossman . My favorite scene is when Jon must cut off his own thumb in ritual to bringing a halt to the haunting . F / X are better than average in this hackneyed story . I found Alexis Arquette totally annoying . Also in the cast : Jennifer Aspen , Glen Beaudin and Jennifer Elise Cox . You may find this better than expected ; although not out of the ordinary .
Another bird down . . . a chick is down .	Not like BLACK HAWK DOWN ( 2001 ) being the paradigm , this movie is very predictable and just lacking in the ability to sustain interest . Blame director Brian Clyde ? Or executive and famed / infamous producer Roger Corman ? General Frank Lewis ( Rutger Hauer ) commands a controversial tactical unit in the Philippines to capture rebel terrorist . Lt . Matt Daniels ( Mark Dacascos ) leads this special team and is called upon to rescue Captain Amy Jennings ( Theresa Randle ) after her helicopter is shot down by the enemy . While deep in unfriendly territory , Daniels stumbles upon a secret anthrax lab . The rescue is no picnic . But what hurts this movie is what seems to be over use of stock footage . Maybe I'm wrong , but at times this flick looks just plain shabby .
Freaks of nature attack .	Somebody took the money and ran . C . Thomas Howell , Stella Stevens , Martin Kove and Andrew Pine put forth a minute portion of their abilities and compete with what looks like blow-up plastic ants the size of a house cat . Of course , an experiment goes wrong and giant genetically-engineered ants become out of control in search of human flesh . A small group of folks happen to be in a skyscraper on a Saturday afternoon and become the prey of these overgrown blood-thirsty insects . Howell tries to play so laid-back its pathetic . And Miss Stevens , the once sexy knockout . . . becomes stuffy and guilty of bad over-acting . Here is another case of the DVD package being more interesting than the movie .
That dreaded fear of Communism .	A low-budget scare movie full of propaganda with tons of repeated stock footage . Having drinks in a Manhattan cocktail lounge are cattle baron ( Erik Blythe ) , tractor factory owner ( Robert Bice ) , TV reporter ( Gerald Mohr ) , a fetching " hottie " ( Peggie Castle ) and a mysterious stranger ( Dan O'Herlihy ) that convinces all that the H-bomb has been released on America , when TV reports that Alaska and the state of Washington have already been attacked by Communist invaders . Actual bombings and air battles intersperse the overacting . Other players include : Phyllis Coates , Tom Kennedy , Wade Crosby and Clarence A . Shoop .
Avoid THE PLAGUE !	Horror master Clive Barker presents THE PLAGUE . Time to bring out that proverbial 10-foot pole . Total disappointment . Where is the horror ? Due to an eerie plague , the children of the world fall into a coma . Ten years later , at the same moment in time . . . they rise . With the oldest about 19 years old , there is an alarming agenda to carry out . These zombie-like young people are viciously killing off the world's adults ; including their own parents . Those that survive , begin living in fear trying to figure out the origin of the plague and how long will they be among the living . Could this be the worst for Clive Barker ? The makeup appears to be B-movie quality . It is even possible to fall asleep in this one . What a shame . Credited cast includes : James Van Der Beek , Ivana Milicevic , Dee Wallace , Joshua Close and Hilary Carrol .
A small town with a big secret .	This slasher flick directed , written and produced by Marc Selz starts out interesting , but by the finale the twists and turns are so convoluted it becomes a mess . Two teenage couples are found in rural , small-town America and are feared the victims of an escaped lunatic . Sounds too damn familiar . Two detectives ( Nicole Buehrer and Joe Morowitz ) and the local sheriff ( Joe Estevez ) try to unravel the mystery . Some answers have already been answered though . How this got an " R " rating , I'll never know . It seemed to have very little objectionable content . . . except for the bad acting . Others in the cast : Amy Brown , Linnea Quigley , Circus-Szalewski and Robert Z'Dar .
Sometimes tradition puts limits on dreams .	Humor and pathos are mixed in this study of the cultural and social clashes between a Chinese-Canadian daughter and her traditional parents . Sometimes give and take are not the solution . Not the easiest movie to watch . Sandra Oh shows much promise . Also in the cast are : Daniel Fong , Greg Chen , Alannah Ong and Claudette Carracedo .
Gruesome twosome masters of gore .	A couple of wild rednecks from Texas , Billy Buck ( John Smihula ) and Jacob ( Adam Berke ) , relocate to Long Island to start a grass-cutting business . These two hillbillies easily get fed up with the newfangled attitudes and ways of the Northern city slickers . They do groom some lawns , but also murder and mutilate unfortunate and unsuspecting Northern Yuppies . Billy and Jacob express their anger ruthlessly and seem to actually have fun pulling the guts out of their victims . The acting is horrible , emotionless and monotone . The special effects are mostly shot close up ; which really shows how lame the gore is . I can't believe how horrible this film was made and being from the mid 80's . Could it have something to do with Nathan Schiff writing , directing and producing ; as well as having his hand in the cinematography , editing , special effects and original music . Others in the cast : Mary Spadaro , Lynn Campagna , Matt Zagon , Leanna Mangiarano and Edward Schiff . A throw back to the old drive-in movies .
A pitiful prequel .	This is one of those movies that cries for your full attention ; but this prequel to 2002's THE SCORPION KING is pitiful and the more you watch you realize this thing is just not going to get any better . The young warrior Mathayus ( Michael Copon ) witnesses his father's death at the hands of the evil and powerful King Sargon ( Ultimate Fighting champ Randy Couture ) . Mathayus trains six years to become one of the King's elite body guards the Black Scorpions and all the while plots to avenge his father's death . Some real nice special effects , but the dialog is so ridiculous anything redeemable is buried in the sand . The exciting fight scenes are just not enough to carry a movie that seems to lumber on aimlessly . The cast includes : Simon Quarterman , Karen David , Tom Wu , Jeremy Crutchley and Natalie Becker .
Be afraid of what you think you see . Spooky assignment .	Imagine if you will : four teen students have an assignment to spend the night in a haunted house in St . Francisville , Louisiana to check for the existence of the paranormal . If you watch this in the dark and late at night ; you possibly will have the hair on the back of your neck rise a couple of times . Otherwise this mock documentary is a very lazy rip off of BLAIR WITCH PROJECT . What is to be dialogue is very lame and the actors are pleasant looking enough , but seem to lack genuine personality . It seems to take forever before something real spooky even happens . This movie is excellent for ' sleep overs ' , when you have both eyes barely open and everyone is yakin ' and snackin ' .
Invitation to a romp in the snow .	It doesn't take a ski accident to come up lame with this one . It is questionable SKI PARTY even has one leg to lean on . A cheap WHERE THE BOYS ARE ( 1960 ) . Boys wanting to meet girls ; snow bunnies looking for the " right " guy . If you can party on the beach ; why not a ski slope ? Terrible script overshadowed by the assembly of " over acting " . Frankie Avalon isn't even able to make this movie credible . Also in the cast are : Deborah Walley , Dwayne Hickman and Yvonne Craig . But there is something redeeming . . . singing appearances by Lesley Gore and James Brown .
A man's obsession with a black leopard .	Check that lame-o-meter . Donald Pleasence is Axel MacGregor , a world renowned writer , test pilot , big game hunter and writer . MacGregor has a lop-sided sense of machismo and his ego has been threatened by a black leopard who attacked him on safari . He has the animal captured alive with the intent to let the beast loose on his private Southeast-Asian island paradise in order to track it down and claim superiority with a high powered rifle . Meanwhile his daughter and granddaughter make an unannounced visit . MacGregor will have more than enough to deal with . . . right down to his last bullet . The supporting cast includes : Nancy Kwan , Lesly Fine , Ross Hagen and Jennifer Rhodes .
Looking for life on a strange planet .	Directed and written by Leonard Katzman , this space probe is slow and lacks excitement . The special effects seem as if this TV project was produced ten years earlier . A team of scientists , including the attractive Francine York , set out in the year 2000 to find a livable planet in space . The craft is forced to land on a strange planet , where they are attacked by crusty humanoid sea creatures and giant crabs . The voyage turns out successful after all and they name the planet after a comrade they lost in their discovery . . . Andros 1 . Besides Miss York , this bad piece of Sci-fi features Russ Bender , Baynes Barron and James B . Brown . Take the journey , but don't expect much .
Kill the Queen .	A Sci-Fi Network original . Not the best . Not far from being the worst . An electrician ( Richard Grieco ) stumbles onto a " key " that can open a gateway to a parallel Earth that has been taken over by mutant spiders . The mutations have been controlled by a super-sized alien Queen for the past thirty years . She has already eaten up the population of this parallel world that resembles Chicago minus inhabitants . Guess what ? Now she must find another world to feed on . The electrician leads a four man team that reluctantly finds themselves with the task of saving the world . The finale confrontation is probably the best part of the whole movie . The cast also features : Richard Yearwood , Colin Fox , Kate Greenhouse , Jason Jones and David Newman . One would have thought that the Sci-Fi Network could have spent more money on special effects .
Can a skull really scream ?	Welcome to a bad ghost story and someone's nightmare . This horror tale finds a newly married husband ( John Hudson ) and wife ( Peggy Weber ) haunted by the memory of his previous wife and screaming skulls found throughout their empty mansion and lily pond . Is the husband really trying to drive his already anxious bride insane ? Or is it the learning challenged gardener Mickey ( Alex Nicol ) who has taken care of the mansion's grounds since the death of the original mistress of the house ? This low budget horror flick has a story line that keeps you involved all the way the finale . Special effects are pretty bad even at 1958 standards . I swear at times the screaming skull sounds much like it should be in a Godzilla movie . Also in the cast as Reverend Snow is character actor Russ Conway . By the way . . . the lurking gardener ( Nicol ) is the film's director . You can catch this as part of AMC's Monsterfest .
An old estate hides a secret .	Eerie , bizarre and somewhat confusing . Boris Karloff is a reclusive scientist that experiments with radioactive material and gains some very strange powers . Story line is hard to follow and just does not pack a punch . The ailing Karloff does what he can , but by far no means an example of his greatness . Nick Adams , Freda Jackson , Suzan Farmer and Patrick Magee go through the motions of rounding out the cast . You deserve a pat on the back for sitting through this one .
Things aren't always as they appear .	A child psychologist ( Bruce Willis ) comes to the aid of a young mother ( Toni Collette ) , that is deeply concerned about her son ( Haley Joel Osment ) . The young boy not only sees dead people , but seems to be able to communicate with them as well . This is a complex thriller . It is well written and gives your imagination a work out . Young Osment steals the show from Willis . Also in this psychological brain teaser is Donnie Wahlberg , Mischa Barton and Lisa Summerour . Catch it a second time to see what you thought you saw the first time .
Beauty lies in the eye of the beholder .	Bobby and Peter Farrelly are at it again . Funny , but still a bit awkward . Jack Black is a superficial skirt chaser who is only interested in the " babes " . A self-help guru hypnotizes him to see the inner beauty and he falls in love with a 300 plus pound woman ( Gwyneth Paltrow ) . I could see where the story's whole concept would be offensive to some ; but to me the intended humor just fell short . Also in the cast are : Jason Alexander , Joe Vitrelli and Susan Ward . Miss Ward in my opinion is the real " hottie " in this movie . Decent soundtrack featuring Sheryl Crow and Ivy . Wade into the shallow end and don't expect much .
Tornadoes terrorize Tennessee .	A TBS Production for TV that kind of falls short . A series of powerful tornadoes threaten to destroy a nuclear power plant in Tennessee . Some of the F / X are interesting , more interesting than the story itself . Sharon Lawrence is the unrealistic hero ; but she looks oh so good running around in a white tank top trying to save the plant . Also impressive is the eager Mark-Paul Gosselaar as the whipping boy of the police unit . Also in the cast are Corbin Bernsen and Fraser McGregor . My favorite scene is where McGregor , who plays Lawrence's son , tricks his buxom baby sitter into playing a game of Twister so he can look down her blouse . Scenes at the power plant are made to look so technical they lose realism . Hardly enough to get your blood to pumping .
Just like in the movies !	Interesting Sci-Fi / horror flick . A fading veteran of B-movies ( M . Emmet Walsh ) is signed out of the looney ward by his grandson ( Tobias Mehler ) who just arrived in town . Grandpa insists that the small town will feel the wrath of a monster's resurgence . . . just like in the movies . Plenty of gore , but the special effects are lacking . The monster is menacing and strikes fear just with its size . . . just like in the movies . Also in the cast are : Angela Keep , Bianca Nacson and James Russell . Not a total waste . Season the popcorn with Tabasco and enjoy .
Fun on the ski slopes .	Most of the male population at a college with ski slopes needs the help of a surf bum to defrost the Dean's secretary . The secretary has the female students keenly aware that most boys want only one thing from them . If the secretary can be made to appear to be ' easy ' , maybe ; just maybe , the girls will follow . Music provided by The Beau Brummels , The Astronauts , Dick & DeeDee and Jay & The Americans . These musical interludes may be the only redeeming scenes in the movie . The cast includes : Gary Clarke , Chris Noel , Steve Franken and Les Brown , Jr .
And life goes on .	This is a ' round robin ' of several different stories and groups of characters that intersect each other . This makes for a tough time to follow and get into . The abundant strong language makes for reality , but may offend some viewers . Strong point is very good writing . Stick with this one . There is a diverse gathering of talent featuring : Luke Perry , Tom Sizemore , Virginia Madsen , Chris Penn , Mary Stuart Masterson , Michael Madsen , Burt Young , Hal Holbrook and James Beulushi . On a lazy weekend , a good companion movie would be DINER .
Does the cycle really get broken ? A twist on serial killing .	Mediocre thriller about a serial killer killer . That's right . An astute FBI agent ( Patrick Muldoon ) is assigned to the Red Team that deals with unsolved serial killings . He stumbles into the case of his life when he is on the trail of a murderer whose victims are suspects themselves in serial killing . He thinks his supervisor Tim Thomerson has crossed the line and is involved with the new string of killings . He goes to a wheelchair bound veteran cop ( Fred Ward ) for advice . He needs the aid of his former partner ( Cathy Moriarty ) to unscramble the good guys from the bad . The cast also features : C . Thomas Howell , David Millbern and Deb Patterson .
The proverbial td in a punchbowl .	This comedy ( questionable ) ranks right down there with the worst pieces of crap I've ever seen . Sorry , Billy Bob , you couldn't even pull this one out . Roger ( Jon Heder ) is a dork , with high anxiety and low self-esteem , working as a New York City meter maid . He enrolls in a top-secret confidence building class taught by Dr . P . ( Billy Bob Thornton ) and soon enters a competition to woo Amanda ( Jacinda Barrett ) , who recently befriended the beleaguered Roger . The rivalry spins completely out of control and the pranks that ensue are assumed to be the comical hight-lights of the film . I thought I didn't like the movie , because I just don't like Heder . No , I just wasn't impressed much period . Also appearing are : Michael Clarke Duncan , Horatio Sanz and Matt Walsh .
Some secrets are not really secret .	An ex-fighter pilot ( Dale Midkiff ) uncovers a military conspiracy after he is asked by the U . S . Government to steal a supersonic plane carrying a very deadly secret weapon . Little real action . No thrills . Mediocre special effects . Far fetched Sci-Fi . Most characters are over acted . A bad imitation of a good movie . The cast also includes : Cliff Robertson , William Shatner , Judd Nelson and Jennifer Rubin . Question : Does Midkiff actually report to the IRS that he is an actor ?
Ned Kelly was a bad man . Ned Kelly was a legend .	This one kind of clops along like an average B movie is expected to . This may be a cult classic in Australia , but I just don't dig it . Exploitation of Mick Jagger ? Your guess is good as mine . Jagger plays Ned Kelley Australia's most notorious outlaw . Director Tony Richardson dramatizes the life of this bad man and his family of horse thieves . The meat of the movie is the big man hunt that results in a lot of gun fire and death and the eventual capture and execution of the legendary 19th-century outlaw . Jagger is as sluggish as the movie itself and his attempt to sound Australian comes out sounding more Irish . Good to watch if you are a follower of the Rock ' n ' Roll bad boy . Also in the cast are Geoff Gilmour , Allen Bickford and Clarissa Kaye-Mason .
Regrettable . A human puzzle .	Unfortunately , director Leo Scherman's NEVER FORGET is all but memorable . Lou Diamond Phillips plays Steven , who awakens alone in the middle of the woods and he is bloody , beaten and hanging by his foot from a tree . Before the rope snaps and down comes Steven a blood covered knife falls from his pocket . He has no idea where he is or what has happened . He is approached by Andy ( Kristen Holden-Reid ) , who accuses him of murder . Murdering who ? The two ramble and stumble their way through the woods all-the-while Steven is trying to recover his memory and put together the human puzzle he is part of . To be exact , who is Andy ? Maybe he is the murderer , he does have a gun . But Steven is the one bloody . Steven's amnesia is fading in and out as the two men arrive at a home in the woods . . . can Steven trust what he thinks he remembers ? Anxiety builds with an amount of boredom and the confusing last quarter of the movie I assume was done on purpose . Probably one of the worse movies Phillips has been in . . . and he has had his share .
A rising star can only rise so far before falling .	This movie is impudent enough to bedazzle you . A funny satirical mockumentary about the rise and fall of a dimwitted bus driver that becomes a country & western one-hit-wonder . Billy Burke plays Dill Scallion the unlikely star with his hit " When You Shared You " . His gimmick is having his foot stomped on before going on stage ; and his crippled dance becomes a dance hall sensation . Lauren Graham plays Scallion's girlfriend that is caught up in the fame game . David Koechner plays Bubba Pearl , the right hand man of the new star and wanting to reclaim some of his own past glory . Henry Winkler plays a talent promoter and a bearded Jason Priestly plays the role of county icon Joe Joe Hicks . Making cameo appearances are LeAnn Rimes , Travis Tritt and Willie Nelson playing themselves and Robert Wagner cameos as Mr . Llama the boot baron . You really start thinking this is too damn dumb to watch , but you hang in there waiting to see how silly this thing can get . I will definitely watch this again . Laugh at it and with it .
Chunk of crap .	Try to build a movie around Tara Reid and what do you get ? A menacing horror flick turns into a nagging headache and nerve wrecker . Failed transportation and bad weather force a group of friends led by Jay ( Reid ) searching for refuge and finding an abandoned recycling plant . They discover two men brutally murdered and find they are trapped inside with a coma patient hooked up to life support in a shatter proof observation room . They soon deduce the ' Sleeper ' is a mass murderer that was suppose to have been executed . Why is he here ? And why is it that when the group are trying to find a way to escape , the ' Sleeper ' ( Mihai Stanescu ) proves not to be so harmless ? Also in the cast : Akemnji Ndifernyan , Monica Dean , Alice O'Connell and Chris Brassington .
Man the lifeboats .	This may be a must to avoid . The bizarre reappearance of a luxury liner lost in the Bermuda Triangle twenty five years ago has curious visitors determined to solve its mysteries . Judd Nelson somehow finds his way into sinkers , I mean stinkers like this one . Pretty much a waste . Also in the cast are : Janet Gunn , Lance Henriksen and Scarlett Chorvat .
When it really needs to get there . . . call The Foreigner .	Can they possibly get any worse than this ? Probably . But after all Steven Seagal gets to do what he does . Well kind of ; this time instead of mortally wounding the bad guys he just wounds them . By reputation of being a bad ass agent Seagal is hired to deliver a special package from France to America . But it is not an easy task with so many people trying to intercept and foul up the mission . The fights just don't have enough bite and the big bangs are just big and that's all . Anna-Louis Plowman seems to be the only cast member not to appear wooden . Also in the cast are : Jeffery Pierce , Max Ryan and Harry Van Gorkum . Don't put all the blame on Seagal for this clunker .
Not every racetrack is oval like every driver is not the same .	The trailer lures you in and bam it hits you . . . . did I pay to watch this ? Loud music , fast cars and even faster women in between some very good racing scenes does not equal a good movie this time around . Great F / X crash visuals is the best thing you'll see here . A young hot shot racer ( Kip Pardue ) is nearing the end of his rookie race season and one racer ( Til Schweiger ) stands in the way of a championship trophy . But the rookie's season is falling apart as quick as his personal life . Race team owner ( Burt Reynolds ) calls a former skilled driver ( Sylvester Stallone ) out of retirement to help get the young turk back with the program . Gina Gershon is excellent as the unabashed sex pot ; a roll she knows so well . Also in support are : Estella Warren , Stacy Edwards and Cristian de la Fuente . The tangled relationships equals the mess on the track . . . scorecard anyone ?
Control is out of control .	David Norton ( Timothy Hutton ) is a best-selling author that of course controls the heroes , villains and subject matter of his 25 novels . Without explanation the real world starts imitating his fictional world . . . to be exact just like his very first book . While speaking at a conference on a Mediterranean island , he is approached by a strange fan Frank Kovak ( David Kelly ) ; and his fiancée receives a mysterious phone call and jumps to her death from their hotel balcony . Soon others around him begin committing suicide . Is this a scientific experiment carried out by the government . . . similar to circumstances in his first novel ? And how does Kovak figure in all this ? Suspense with disturbing content . Also in the cast : Lucia Jimenez , Georgia Mackenzie , Gary Piquer and Annette Badland .
Little wooden puppets take care of the bad guys .	Dr . Magrew ( George Peck ) strives to give human attributes to expertly crafted wooden puppets . Emily Harrison who plays Jane Magrew is the bright spot of the movie . But the puppets themselves are the real stars . The killer puppets do away with the bad guys . The action scenes are good , but there are too few to get excited about . Even with the finale slamming the door on you ; this mild horror movie is still fun to watch . Peck is less animated than the puppets . Also starring are Michael Guerin , Josh Green and Jason Dean Booher .
A creepy drive-in favorite .	You like movies that are so bad , they're good ? You know who you are . Borderline ridiculous even better . MOUNTAINTOP MOTEL MASSACRE features amateur acting , terribly cheap special effects and top notch creepy atmosphere . Evelyn ( Anna Chappell ) , after a three year stay at the Arkansas Mental Hospital , runs the Mountaintop Motel just off the highway and deep in the woods . She oversees a series of run-down cabins renting for $7 a night . Evelyn's head is full of evil voices that push her to killing her own daughter and then on a rampage of cabin-to-cabin slaughter . She employs snakes , rats and cockroaches as tension elevators before she sneaks in and uses her deadly blade . I absolutely loved the rainstorm atmosphere . This motel has a hell-of-a check out time . . . its bloody murder . Jim McCullough Jr . writes and directs . The cast also features : Bill Thurman , Will Mitchel , Virginia Loridans and Gregg Brazzel .
If you only knew who prepared your favorite dish .	From the makers of THE INCREDIBLES and CARS a comedy with a little of this and a touch of that and enough for seconds . Its a view of Paris that begins . . . under the city . Remy ( Patton Oswalt ) is a determined rat with big ambitions of becoming a great French chef . Fate places Remy and his family in the Parisian sewer system right beneath a restaurant made famous by Remy's hero , Auguste Gusteau ( Brad Garrett ) . Torn between his own dreams and his family's wishes , Remy and a hapless human pal named Linguini ( Lou Romano ) set in motion events that will have the elite of Paris diners clamoring for just a taste of new culinary concoctions . Other recognizable voices bringing life to these new characters are : Peter O'Toole , Janeane Garofalo , John Ratzenberger and Brian Dennehy .
Chris Kringle , Jr is a jail-bird .	Made-for-TV for the Hallmark Channel . Tame and lame , but is something the whole family can enjoy together . Chris Kringle , Jr . ( Nick Stabile ) is a hapless slacker that is a source of embarrassment for his famous jolly-old-elf father . Chris wants to change how people see him ; he figures he could actually change opinions if he shuffled down a few chimneys right before Christmas Eve . He manages to get arrested for a string of burglaries . While being interviewed by his public defender ( Lauren Holly ) , she starts to believe his story and seriously wants to help save Christmas . Also in this comedy are Judd Nelson , George Wallace , Rodger Bumpass and Ed Gale .
Living up to your word isn't always easy .	This made-for-TV movie has its moments . As for action . . . hurry up and wait . Based on actual events this drama chronicles the mostly nonviolent rescue of a tribe of pro-American people , the Montagnards , who are trapped in Indochina in the wake of the Viet Nam War . Cast features Michael Gross , Gerald McRaney , Cliff Gorman , Season Hubley and Jason Scott Lee . Filmed in Bangkok , Thailand .
Creepy persistent serial killer is hard to stop .	Not the greatest by any means ; but decent for a low end budget horror flick . Sheriff Berger ( Robert Englund ) watches a vicious serial killer named Chambers ( James Brinkley ) die in the electric chair . . . twice . At a going out of business hospital morgue , Chambers arises and does his thing . . . rip the heart out of the doctor doing the autopsy . Two young patients , Sara ( Merideth Henderson ) and Walter ( Nathan Stephenson ) struggle to stay alive as the hospital soon fills with blood . The ruthless killer makes it proof positive that he relies on souls of others to survive . Henderson out acts Englund in this creep thriller . Also in the cast : Laura DeCarteret , Michael Cram and Lori Hallier . HEARTSTOPPER does have some special effects that neither makes or breaks this bad scary movie .
A cure is maybe just a sting away .	Convoluted and ridiculously lame . A scatter-brained story line is easy to cause confusion . An entomologist ( Shane Brolly ) is searching out a rain forest to trap thousands of killer wasps in hopes their venom may hold the cure for his seriously ill wife . Of course , as expected , the wasps get loose and must be stopped for they have killed before and expected to rack up a huge body count . Lethal swarm of wasps . . huh . Special effects are low budget and really not fearsome at all . At times you have no idea if the flying pests are wasps or bees . Also in the cast : Kaarina Aufranc , Roger Nevares and Hugo Esquinca . You can blame the Sci-Fi Channel and the USA Network for letting this one out .
If he only had a brain .	Written by , directed by and starring the champ of camp Bruce Campbell . Easy on its easy to tell this is a budget on a shoestring affair ; filmed independently in Bulgaria . All I can really say for sure is that silly is not always funny . Campbell plays an affluent American business man with a cheating wife ( Antoinette Byron ) and trying to close a business transaction before he is murdered . He hires a cabbie to drive him around a strange little town ; not knowing that his wife is ' carrying on ' with the taxi driver . Within moments of Campbell being bludgeoned ; the cabbie is killed in the same location . A mad scientist ( Stacy Keach ) proceeds with an experiment putting the cabbie's brain inside the American's head . With massive stitches on his forehead , Campbell breaks free and roams the streets looking for his wife ; all the while he is arguing with a strange voice inside his over-sized head . Campbell contorts his rubbery face making silly expressions as he argues with himself . Thus , Bruce is doing what he does best and no doubt his many fans will be pleased . I get the impression this must have been written as a straight comedy . Rounding out the cast are Ted Raimi , Tamara Gorski , and Vladmir Kolev . Watch for this on the Sci-Fi Channel .
Screwing to the center of the earth .	Based on a Edgar Rice Burroughs novel , AT THE EARTH'S CORE provides little more than means to escape and give your brain a rest . A Victorian scientist Dr . Abner Perry ( Peter Cushing ) invents a giant burrowing machine , which he and his American partner ( Doug McClure ) use to corkscrew their way deep into the earth to explore what mysteries it may hold . They soon discover a lost world of subhuman creatures having conflict with prehistoric monsters . Cushing comes across as an absent minded professor to the point of being annoying . Instead of being a bold adventurer , he comes across effeminate . On the other hand McClure overacted enough to make himself also laughable . Caroline Munro plays the pretty Princess Dia that refuses to leave her world near the center of the earth . Also in the cast are : Godfrey James , Cy Grant and Michael Crane .
Emotional and terrifying struggle f or survival .	Overambitious and shoddy ; and at times too darkly lit . DARK REALITY'S scenario is not even close to being original . Dark and dank basement . Kidnapped prisoners . Fearful survival . Carey ( Alisha Seton ) tells her family and friends she will be backpacking across Europe . She doesn't make it out of town . She is grabbed from a rainy sidewalk , drugged , and awakes chained in a dungeon . She eventually realizes she is not alone and upon meeting a few of her fellow captives there is different thoughts on survival . Her cell mates start dying off one by one . Can she garner enough strength and courage to see daylight again ? Others in the cast : Laila Dagher , Rachel Oliva , Eva Derreck , Arthur Bullock and Jen Parker .
He is his father's son .	Ho-hum . An inventor's ( Horst Buchholz ) deadly biological weapon is in danger of falling into the wrong hands . Unknowingly his son ( Luke Perry ) has been working on the antedote all along . Enter CIA agent Olivia d'Abo and the cat-and-mouse car chases and gunfire begins . Also in the cast are : Tom Conti , Hendrick Haese and an aging Roger Moore . Moore seems to haggardly move through this mess definitely not one of his better efforts . Perry fans will be accepting . d'Abo is wrong for the role , but nice to look at .
Together even after death .	John ( Jonathan Flanigan ) and Jennifer ( Beverly Hynds ) are a couple badly in the need of a weekend getaway . A short cut ends up being ill fated . A tire blows out on a country road in the middle of the woods . . . and its in the wee hours of the night , of course . They believe they have discovered a dead body along side the road . Well , that was wrong . By morning the two are infected with a disease that has the skin falling off of their bodies . They're rotting to the core and death is inevitable . This is very low budget and the acting shows very little talent . My favorite scene is where both John and Jennifer kick and pound the body they think is already dead .
He feels that he is a woman .	Such a serious subject to turn out so campy and ludicrous . George Jorgenson Jr ( John Hansen ) realizes at an early age that he is a female trapped in a male's body . This tends to be a bizarre biography of the famed 50s phenomenon first sex change . . . George becomes Christine . Not exactly and in-depth study and it is strange that George looks more masculine as a female . Go figure . It would tend to be logical that liberties were taken with actuality just to get this oddity on the screen . It does make you want to search out the autobiographical novel by Jorgenson to get the real skinny . Trent Lehman plays George at 7 . Also in the cast are : Joan Tompkins , Pamelyn Ferdin , John Himes and Oscar Beregi Jr . as Dr . Dahlman , the sex change doctor . Curiosity is the driving force to tend with . It is a shame this comes across a laughing matter .
Voyage to the moon no accident .	Dirk Green ( Michael Whalen ) wants to keep the spaceship he built to himself without any interference from the government . When he finds a couple of escaped convicts hiding in the craft , he forces Lon ( Gary Clarke ) and Gene ( Tommy Cook ) to become his crew and it is all systems go . The missile is launched and found aboard are Dirk's science technician and partner Steve ( Richard Travis ) and his fiancée June ( Cathy Down ) . Before the ship even lands on the moon , Dirk is accidentally killed and nobody else knows that he is actually a previous inhabitant of the moon trying to get back . The adventurers land on the moon and find a dying civilization of beautiful women under the rule of The Lido ( K . T . Stevens ) . There are also some " rock monsters " that look like man-size stone Gumbies . Thus this low budget affair has very primitive special effects and is no showcase for recognizable acting abilities .
Portrait of an extraordinary entertainer .	Among a plethora of Elvis documentaries , ELVIS : THE COMPLETE STORY does not ride to the top nor sink far from the bottom . Ted Newsom writes and directs this two hour look at the life and career of Elvis Presley . An examination of the man and the entertainer through the use of still photos , vintage footage , movie trailers and a few words from people who worked with him like Mary Ann Mobley , Julie Parrish and Sue Ane Langdon . Michelle Bauer narrates the proceedings with no signs of true enthusiasm . And not very impressive is the backdrop of tunes sung by Marshall Davis . But for me , the most irritating is the dialog by John Christopher Hyke , who comes across sounding more like Glen Campbell than Elvis . All-in-all , this is a poor man's THIS IS ELVIS ( 1981 ) .
The story of a gruesome serial killer .	Michael Feifer writes and directs this fictitious story based on the arrest of Edward Gein in Plainfield , Wisconsin . Gein was responsible for a rash of gruesome murders that sent a shock wave of terror through his rural hometown in the late 1950's . His evil mind and twisted world is suspected to be caused by his domineering zealous Lutheran mother . Ed was given the nickname " The Butcher of Plainfield " . He would rob corpses from fresh graves of women who resembled his mother and he would have sex with them before ' dressing them like a deer ' in his garage . Severed heads with bodies hanging upside down being his personal trademark . After his arrest there would be many articles made from human skin found in his home . In this movie , a young deputy Bobby Mason ( Shawn Hoffman ) makes the search for Gein ( Kane Hodder ) a personal one , when his storekeeper mother ( Priscilla Barnes ) goes missing . The acting is a whole lot better than the ridiculously liberal telling of the documented events concerning Gein . Also in the cast : Adrienne Frantz , Timothy Oman , John Burke , Michael Berryman and Amy Lyndon .
Not one without the other .	More of an exploitation movie using the Siamese twins Violet and Daisy Hilton . The sisters have a vaudeville act that needs some more promotion by their ' no shame ' manager Ted Hinkley ( Allen Jenkins ) . He has a shame marriage arranged between one of the sisters and a playboy magician ( Mario Laval ) . The two timing husband is shot and his sister-in-law is tried for murder . It was hard enough to get a marriage license due to regulatory laws and now it is a moral dilemma to punish one sister for the other's crime . Supposedly based loosely on the actual career of the Hilton sisters , who were born joined at the hip . Others in this melodrama : Patricia Wright , Alan Keys , Edna Holland and Norval Mitchell .
Two modernized Poe stories .	Two adaptations of Edgar Allen Poe's dark tales . Two famed directors and recognizable stars . I was real eager to view TWO EVIL EYES , but it didn't take all that long and I was bored to death . Not enough action ; not enough gore . George Romero directs THE FACTS IN THE CASE OF M . VALDEMAR , where a deceitful cheating wife ( Adrienne Barbeau ) plans on killing her husband ( E . G . Marshall ) ; and while he is in a vegetated state , she cashes in some of his major assets . Even a fully clothed Barbeau is gorgeous . THE BLACK CAT is directed by Derio Argento and tells the tale of a crime photographer ( Harvey Keitel ) , who is haunted by cats after himself being involved with a murder . Keitel , who is known for playing some quirky roles , does not disappoint . Other stars involved in these twin tales : Sally Kirland , John Amos , Kim Hunter , Martin Balsam and Ramy Zada .
He feels pretty . . . analyze what ?	Harold Ramis directs his sequel to ANALYZE THIS . This get together is really not much better than the first . Situational comedy that gets a little stale . Neurotic mobster Robert De Niro is released from prison and into the custody of his psychiatrist Billy Crystal . My favorite scene is when Crystal has run out of folding money and is putting change in a stripper's panties . The story line is lacking ; but De Niro is a hoot and the reason for watching . Also in the cast are : Joe Viterelli , Cathy Moriarty and Lisa Kudow .
You can't always have what you want .	Small-budget and lame . Quentin Kemmer ( Devon Gummersall ) plays a wimpy comic book fanatic who works as a security guard at a biotech lab doing research with giving humans the natural traits of spiders . At home Quentin would dream of being like his comic book hero The Arachnid Avenger and concern himself with wanting to ask out Stephanie ( Amelia Heinle ) his neighbor living in the apartment next door . After the lab is broken into , Quentin decides to inject himself with experimental spider serum . That way he may take on newfound powers and impress Stephanie enough to notice him . He finds himself foiling a store robbery and even fighting off Stephanie's muggers . And even solving a crime for an impotent cop ( Dan Aykroyd ) . But all is not going that good . . . the once mild mannered nerd is becoming more and more spider-like and less human . Also in the cast are : Theresa Russell , Christopher Cousins and John Cho .
Betty Page . . . the pin-up icon .	This documentary is a reenactment of the last few years of Betty Page's ( Paige Richards ) career . The Tennessee tease was the most recognizable pin-up queen in history . Her most memorable work came in the 1950's and was fetish photos , bondage and cat-fight " girly flicks " . Irving Klaw ( Dukey Flyswatter ) at his Movie Star News instructed Betty on what to do in front of the camera . There was no nudity in the famous photos or " stag films " , but nonetheless , Klaw was charged with distributing obscene materials and was ordered to destroy them to avoid prosecution . It is no surprise that Betty had a cult following at the height of her career . The girl-next-door with jet black hair , blue eyes and an hour glass figure dressed in fetish gear or not would mesmerize for decades . After all , it has been said that she was photographed more than Marilyn Monroe and second only to the most photographed image in the world , Elvis Presley . Betty Page would disappear and devote her last years to religion . This movie actually could have been a lot better ; but good enough to hold interest . Miss Richards is stunning in her own right . Bra , panties , garter belt and hose do not hurt her image in the least . Also in the cast : Jaimie Henkin , Jana Strain , Emily Marilyn and Julie Simone . Be advised this movie can change your heart rate .
A Polish western . A bit strange .	This is said to be the first Polish western and is written and directed by Piotr Uklanski . Known in the U . S . as DEAD MAN'S BOUNTY , this film uses some strange visuals to tell a story that is short on dialog . Val Kilmer plays a corpse and some scenes are through his dead eyes . Some awkward visual situations are actually comical in a sick way . My favorite is a young man building a gallows chops off one of his own fingers and actually hangs himself testing the strength of the rope . A cowboy known only as ' the stranger ' ( Karel Roden ) finds a dead man ( Kilmer ) that he thinks is a wanted man . He takes him to the nearest town to collect the bounty . He ends up losing the corpse and the potential bounty in a gambling game with the town's drunken sheriff ( Boguslaw Linda ) and has the few townsmen turned against him when he has a dalliance with the barmaid ( Katarzyna Figura ) . He manages to escape sure death and leads the small posse on a dangerous ' wild goose chase ' . One scene has the stranger tending to a scalp wound by cauterizing with gunpowder and a match . The corpse rots chained to a hitching post as the sheriff finds out that there is no bounty to be had . This movie also known as SUMMER LOVE has a haunting theme song sung by John Davidson . Nevertheless this western is like watching a train wreck . There is just something that tells you not to look . . . but you do .
The living dead rise from the lake .	This films suffers lack of budget and talent . Still GHOST LAKE is worth watching . . . especially on a rainy night . After the death of her parents , Rebecca ( Tatum Adair ) tries to escape her misery by taking off to the hopeful solace of their old lake house . Instead , she stumbles upon a curse that puts her own sanity to the test . Over a hundred years ago the local residents were drowned when a dam was built to create Rushford Lake . It seems that about every thirteen years a tragic accident occurs on or near the lake and the victims are never found . It seems now that those lost souls are restless and rise from the lake to bring more company to the bottom of " Ghost Lake " . Written and directed by Jay Woelfel , GHOST LAKE is mildly eerie . . . especially when fog covers the lake . There is brief nudity that will get your attention . Also in the cast are : Timothy Prindle , Gregory Lee Kenyon and Azure Skye Decker .
Skeletons in the closet and a strange bloodline .	Daniel Haller directs this adaption of a H . P . Lovecraft story . A young warlock ( Dean Stockwell ) steals a one-of-a-kind book of spells and is determined to conjure up a way to bring back a society of witches and warlocks to earth . A strange and sometimes boring story to follow . The background score by Les Baxter is haunting and keeps the movie drudging along . Also in the cast are Sandra Dee , Sam Jaffe and Ed Begley . I expected more .
Campus of the dead .	So lame it isn't even funny . A zombie infection overtakes a small college campus and a government squad of secret operatives back up a couple of scientists sent to find the origin of the outbreak . Collecting zombie DNA damn sure is not easy . Once bitten you're one of " them " . The entire university has been completely infected by the run amok undead . This sequel does not even redeem the awful original HOUSE OF THE DEAD ( 2003 ) . Senseless entertainment is accomplished though . A few glimpses of female nakedness added to a gaggle of gore and exploding heads should keep any zombie freak happy . Credited cast members : Emmanuelle Vaugier , Victoria Pratt , Ed Quinn , Sid Haig and Nadine Velazquez . The " F " word holds together an unimaginative script .
Sex . . . enjoyed , sold and borrowed .	YO PUTA aka WHORE is fusion of fact and fiction in a semi-documentary style as a young woman ( Daryl Hannah ) schedules interviews in completing her book exploring the secrets of the oldest profession in the world . . . sex . European ' escorts ' , pimps and johns discuss the pros and cons of prostitution ; some with pride and others with frank regret . The sex trade can stupefy and titillate with a thin line separating pleasure from pain . It is a means of gaining independence , but at the same time put a high price on the cost of human self worth . Denise Richards is cast as student working on an anthropology PH . D . and considering prostitution as a way to pay the bills ; being a virgin proves to get in the way . Strong sexual content and some nudity equal an R rating ; but a large percent of the film is subtitled and may sustain flaccidity .
Stupidity rides the river . I	Its more like up a s^t creek without a paddle . Dumb , dumb , dumb . After the funeral of a friend , three " city boys " decide to honor a childhood promise and take a trip on river in Oregon . This little camping expedition will enable them to search for the lost D . B . Cooper loot . The will some how survive outrageous encounters with animals and wild , woodsy mountain men . The three will end up close to naked when befriended by a woodsy hermit played by Burt Reynolds . Plenty of sexual reference and crude humor . The scenery is more impressive than the cast that includes : Matthew Lillard , Seth Green , Dax Shepard , Nadine Bernecker and Bonnie Somerville .
Even a law abiding family can spawn a criminal .	The subject of much folk lore and legend in the beginnings of Oklahoma statehood . Al Jennings brings shame and disappointment to his family by becoming an angry bank robber . After serving his sentence , he tries to walk the straight and narrow ; and by studying the law , gains respect and becomes a footnote in the history of Oklahoma . Sporadic action and distorted story inspired by truth . Cast includes : Dan Duryea , Dick Foran , James Millican , Gale Storm and Raymond Greenleaf .
It's like watching the same train wreck again .	At times you forget this is a low-budget film ; the acting is forgettable and story line is monotonous . A young heart-throb Ian Stone ( Mike Vogel ) finds himself encountering an unearthly creature that forces him into the path of a speeding train . Thoughts of certain death is obvious ; Ian finds himself reborn into a new and different life . After his second death , he realizes that he is being stalked by a very evil presence that forces him to die every day until he can solve the mystery of his own life . His life isn't exactly repeated ; his existence seems to be in perpetual stutter . Wake up and be murdered again and again . Also in the cast : the fetching Jaime Murray , Christina Cole , Anthony Warren and Michael Feast . Could easily be rated W for why did I watch this to the end .
Pretense is not acceptable .	If for only one reason to watch ; Francis Ford Coppola writes and directs under the watchful eye of producer Roger Corman . Louis Haloran ( Luana Anders ) watches her husband's fatal heart attack and begins to cover up his death in hopes of getting his share of an inheritance . This leads to a gathering of a very strange family in an Irish castle where an ax murderer runs amok . It is strange that the Irish family members do not speak with an Irish accent . And when Anders strips down to bra and panties and jumps into the lake . . . instead of her panties turning transparent , they turn to a dark color . ( This could have been the most exciting part of the film ) . Most if not all the violence is implied . The film has a rough and grainy feel complete with hokey music . Also in the cast are : William Campbell , Patrick Magee and Mary Mitchel . It is interesting though to see the beginnings of a career like that of Francis Ford Coppola .
A creepy find on the beach .	A spacecraft explodes and the doomed astronaut's dismembered hand and forearm are discovered on the beach by an ambitious science student . The body part is put in a food closet by the fruit jars ; it does not stay there for long . The ' crawling hand ' instigates randem stranglings . Cheesy Sci-Fi , but fun . Over acting cast includes : Peter Breck , Rod Lauren , Alan Hale Jr . and Sirry Steffen .
Bullets blaze and sirens howl .	Ed Wood Jr . tries Film-Noir with this little crime drama . Lyle Talbot plays Inspector Johns and Steve Reeves as Lt . Bob Lawrence close in on a young man ( Clancy Malone ) , the son of a prominent plastic surgeon ( Herbert Rawlinson ) , who after hanging with a small time criminal ( Timothy Farrell ) is wanted for murder . His sister ( Dolores Fuller ) has been his best support for so long and now there is nothing she can do . His father wants to protect him and does have the last say-so in the finale . Wood's lack of talent shows all over JAIL BAIT . By the way , the title is not about a young girl . . . but a gun . Talbot does the best with what is offered him . And yes , Reeves is the future Hercules . Fuller would would later have small parts in movies , but her biggest claim to any fame is for writing a handful of songs for Elvis Presley .
A big lizard in a tiny town .	This is one of my childhood favorites watched in tandem with THE KILLER SHREWS ( 1959 ) both being products of the Ray Kellogg / Ken Curtis team . A tiny Texas town is terrorized by a giant mutant Gila Monster . After a couple of teens disappear from lover's lane along with reports of farm animals missing , the local sheriff ( Fred Graham ) enlists the aid of teen hot-rodders to search for the missing . The leader ( Don Sullivan ) of the hotrod club attempts to sing a couple of songs before solving the problem with the giant slithering lizard . Also in the cast : Ken Knox , Lisa Simone and Shug Fisher as the funny town drunk . The music is pretty lame proving Sullivan is no rock ' n ' roller . Special effects are quite primitive , but this is still a hoot to watch after all these years .
Low budget sci-fi , but still interesting .	Rivalry between brothers leads to main story line . Navy Commander Chuck Prescott ( Marshall Thompson ) has developed the Y12 aircraft to test how far man can go up in the atmosphere . His brother , Lt . Dan Prescott ( Bill Edwards ) , seems to be the best test pilot around and is chosen to go up in the Y12 . Dan of course has a problem with taking orders and is also an over confident dare devil . On Dan's second flight , he hits over the 300 miles up comfort zone and his craft passes through a meteor dust storm . Returning to earth , Dan becomes a monster that resembles 200 pounds of bad asphalt . He also has a demanding craving for blood , whether it be from farm animals or fellow human beings . Short runtime of an hour and seventeen minutes ; black & white with near stoic acting . . . typical of low budget sci-fi . Rounding out the cast is Marla Landi , Robert Ayers and Carl Jaffe . Noteworthy trivia : about two months after this film was released ; the Russians put the real first man in space .
Is the perfect family just a dream ?	Don't expect much from this depressing look a teenage girl ( Hilary Swank ) that terrorizes and tears apart her disjunctive family by inflicting physical and emotional injury . Directed and written by Gregory Goodell , this made-for-TV drama is hard to hold interest in . Joanna Kerns plays the alcoholic mother and Dan Luria is the indifferent father with incestuous issues . Young son Adam Hendershott also turns to alcohol with plans to runaway like his big sister . The court has Swank temporarily live with her aunt ( Kathleen Wilhoite ) , who also has painful issues to deal with from childhood . Quite a mess and somewhat a drag . Not much fun to say the least .
From the darkest depths . . . danger !	A team of researchers led by Captain Jack Griffin ( Billy Warlock ) and Professor Anna Davis ( Catherine Lough Haggquist ) answer a distress call from a top-secret oil rig in the Gulf of Mexico . The team is perplexed to find the remote drilling platform is much like a ghost ship . Searching for answers , crew members begin to disappear one-by-one . It comes apparent a mysterious creature bred beneath the ocean floor is hell-bent on survival . Danger is unimaginable and escape is dreadfully doubtful . Film quality is inconsistent and the CGI is interesting , but totally too noticeable for any fear factor . The old western fast draw gunfight is ridiculous . The lurking creature trying to strike terror actually seems impotent . The cast also features : Kurt Max Runte , Peter Graham Gaudreau , Kiara Hunter and Warren Christie .
Terrified backpackers in Australia .	" One of the great horror film heavies of the last 25 years . " says Quentin Tarantino . Hey , Quentin , sir . . . what in the hell would make you say that ? WOLF CREEK does have its moments , but doesn't have what it takes to be great . Three Australian friends take off on a drive to go hiking in the remote Wolf Creek National Park . After their car breaks down , help comes in the form of big and loud bushman mechanic Mick ( John Jarratt ) . The three have trouble really trusting Mick ; and it will prove to be one of the last things they ever do . Gruesome violence and piercing terror . The backpackers are played by Nathan Phillips , Cassandra Magrath and Kestie Morassi .
Be alert ! They not only hurt . . . they kill . Killer bees !	An Irwin Allen disaster yarn about African killer bees swarming into Texas with a bee-line on Houston . Over acting , bad acting and wasted acting . Fear factor is mild . Ensemble cast includes : Michael Caine , Katherine Ross , Fred MacMurray , Lee Grant , Richard Widmark , Henry Fonda and Olivia de Haviland . Pretty much a waste of time .
Scottsville has a little secret .	Here we go again . Pretty predictable and no matter how cheesy this movie gets . . . something keeps you hanging in there for the finale . Is it the blood thirsty bats ? An unlikely detective ( Tracy Nelson ) teams with an animal control officer ( Whip Hubley ) to uncover the mystery behind a small town being terrorized by genetically-created bats . Nelson is so wrong for the role it is pathetic . Corbin Bersen and Nicole Clendenen are more than a tad over-the-top . Redeeming is the cute Katie Stuart . There is an interesting solution to jamming the bat's radar . If you expect horror . . . prepare for a headache from the negative shake of your head .
Better tomatoes for a new invasion .	A slightly larger budget allows for tomatoes to be turned into people . Professor Gangreen ( John Astin ) has finally developed the formula to make the once feared red vegetable to look human . And once again it is San Diego that will see the beginnings of a second invasion . A young pizza maker falls in love with a gorgeous girl working with Gangreen . Is she really a tomato ? Music will serve as a catalyst instead of a destroyer with this newer developed tomato . Citizens are reluctant to believe the ancient attack of the tomatoes will be repeated . This sequel is really easier to watch than the original ; thanks to a young George Clooney and a beautiful Karen Misal . Also in the cast : Steve Lundquist , Teri Weigel , Anthony Starke , Rock Peace and Charlie Jones .
How deep into the future will mankind go ?	Are you ready for this ? This is one of a string of little or no budget remakes by filmmaker Larry Buchanan for AIP . IN THE YEAR 2889 is a remake of Roger Corman's THE END OF THE WORLD ( 1956 ) . A stick in the mud retired Navy Captain John Ramsey ( Neil Fletcher ) and his daughter Joanna ( Charla Doherty ) survive a nuclear disaster in their built specially for the occasion home in the bottom of a canyon . With very little food to thrive on an array of uninvited guests drop in for shelter . A chain smoking young man Steve ( Paul Peterson ) and his brother Granger ( Max Anderson ) arrive first . Granger has already become a radioactive mutant . Soon arrives a stripper ( Quinn O'Hara ) and her sleazy manager Mickey ( Hugh Feagin ) . Oddly enough the next to appear is an alcoholic farmer Tim ( Bill Thurman ) . This strange collection of folks are not only in fear of radioactive fallout ; but also the raw meat eating mutants like Granger that keeps coming closer and closer to the house . Lust , drunkenness and murder are interrupted when fresh rain falls and saves Joanna from a telepathic mutant that has carried her off to the woods . Will this rainfall be mankind's salvation ? The mutant ( in an awkward rubber mask ) is played by Byron Lord .
Nazi zombies ! Beware ! Bad !	A war movie of a strange ilk . As if war itself isn't enough to fear . With Hitler in desperation , and an obsession with science and the paranormal . . . a secret weapon is needed . The maniacal leader orders a lab to create impervious super-soldiers to fight the Allied troops . The prototype zombie-like Nazi warrior attacks like a deprived animal . The American army reassigns soldiers to find and destroy the lab that created the wild eyed crazed creature . The actual war scenes fall short of looking real . With a bigger budget this movie could have been something worth remembering . The cast includes : Jon Osbeck , Joe Lorenzo , David Carroll , C . Alec Rossel and Jason Morris .
Small town America . . . victim of experimentation .	This Tyler Tharpe Sci-Fi flick flat-lines rapidly in accordance with the story not making much sense and dragging on and on . RETURN IN RED is a little-known military test classification for serious and fatal experiment results . Gloom and doom hangs over a small rural town that has no stop lights , shopping mall , cable TV . . . let alone Internet service . The residents unknowingly are guinea pigs in an experiment where electromagnetic frequencies play havoc on the human brain . This is a strange mesh of Sci-Fi and horror . One question . . . what in the hell was the purpose of the ' factory ' ? It appeared to just be a garage producing or processing nothing . Besides having an irritating whistle it was the site of a bloody gore-fest . Starring : J . J . Huckin , Amy Paliganoff , Michael Ray Reed and Becky Niccum .
Little creatures want their world back .	Once upon a time the world was divided by humans and trolls . This bizarre fantasy faire has an evil troll , Torok ( Phil Fondacaro ) , selecting a San Francisco apartment house to become the center of a new troll order . Two youngsters , Harry ( Noah Hathaway ) and Wendy ( Jenny Beck ) Potter , are used as pawns by Torok to try and change residents , apartment by apartment , into mysterious trolls and demons . Most of the creatures seem claymation-like . And the troll king resembles the lead creature in LEPRECHAUN ( 1993 ) . You may ask yourself why you watched from beginning to end . This one gets old quick and the PG-13 rating must be strictly enticement . Most , if not all , violence seems to be implied . A pretty good list of stars partake : Michael Moriarty , Shelley Hack , June Lockhart , Gary Sandy , Julia Louis-Dreyfus and Sonny Bono .
If she did it . . . why did she do it ?	Alfred Hitchcock presents a suspenseful courtroom tale about a lawyer ( Gregory Peck ) defending an alluring woman ( Alida Valli ) accused of poisoning her blind husband . Predictably the attorney falls in love with his client . A little less talk and a little more action would be nice . This is below par compared to Hitchcock's own standards . The star-studded cast includes : Ethel Barrymore , Charles Coburn , Ann Todd , Louis Jordan and Leo G . Carroll .
Not the war epic I was expecting .	The names Stanley Kramer and Anthony Quinn sucked me into this one . This is more or less a story about a small hillside village and when its buffoon Italo Bombolini ( Quinn ) hears about the death of Mussolini and his hanging on a meat-hook for all to view , he goes to the town's water tower to paint over a pro-Mussolini slogan . Bobolini's wife Rosa ( Anna Magani ) kicks his drunk butt out of the house and her wine shop for celebrating with his friends and giving away too much wine . Well , the village idiot is proclaimed Mayor of Santa Vittoria and upon hearing that retreating German forces were on the way through town , he convinces hundreds of villagers to help hide the town's only asset . . . tens of thousands of bottles of wine . Kudos to Kramer . The cinematography is fine , what there is of it . A few passionate scenes , but mostly a light dramatic atmosphere with comedic overtones . It is definitely Quinn's movie , but also in the cast are : the beautiful Virna Lisi , Sergio Franchi , Hardy Kruger , Giancarlo Giannini and Wolfgang Jansen .
A serious ax to grind .	Written and directed by Al Randall , DARK FIELDS is a predictable slasher flick . At times irritating , but does have its elements of suspense and fright . Five teens were on their way to a killer concert ; but run out of gas . Zach ( Brian Austin ) and jock Josh ( Eric Phillion ) are irritating as hell with their degrading jokes . Taylor ( Jenny Scott ) is the leggy hottie with the extra tight low rider jeans . Justine is the off and on again sexpot . . . off and on IS the best description . Drew ( Ryan Hulshof ) is the dullard that ran out of gas in the middle of nowhere of course . Seeking gas and a place to warm up from the cold , the teens knock on the wrong door of a deserted looking farm house that does have one sole occupant that has a big ass ax to grind . A missed killer concert , but a date with a psycho killer and a night of terror is more than expect . Randall appears as Farmer Brown .
A news team flirts with death .	Inspired by a true story of a 25-foot man-eating crocodile . A news team travels deep within the heart of African jungle land with the assignment to not just do a story , but capture the voracious crocodile the natives call Gustave . The hungry croc also is on the hunt . . . for human flesh . The team is made up of reporter Tim Manfrey ( Dominic Purcell ) , his cameraman Steven ( Orlando Jones ) and attractive reporter Aviva Masters ( Brooke Langton ) . Heart-stopping fear is thick when Gustave gets up close and personal . What's left of the crew leaves with at least a story ; while the large killer crocodile Gustave continues his terror in the river and wetlands . Also in the cast : Jurgen Prochnow , Gideon Emery , Gabriel Malema and Dumisani Mbebe . Don't expect to be overwhelmed with special effects .
A life fragile as glass .	THE BROKEN is part of the After Dark Horrorfest III . Not a slasher or filled with gore . Plenty of broken glass and mirrors in this edgy thriller from France and writer / director Sean Ellis . A successful radiologist Gina McVay ( Lena Headly ) inters a strange world as her life seems to spiral out of control . While attending her father's ( Richard Jenkins ) birthday party , the guests are stunned when a mirror crashes to the floor for no obvious reason . Things get really strange when she witnesses a woman that is the spitting image of herself driving down a London street in a car identical to her own . Gina sneaks to her doppelganger's apartment and finds a photo of herself with her father . She drives away and is involved in a head on collision . Then mysteriously her boyfriend is not the same ; to be exact family and friends are not easy for her to trust . Is Gina beside herself ? Is she in a parallel world ? Her nightmares become more horrific . . . is she broken ? Kudos if you can figure this one out . . . it won't be easy . Editing couldn't be any tighter . Lighting is questionable . Other players : Melvil Poupard , William Armstrong , Michelle Duncan and Ulrich Thomsen .
Wisconsin urban legend .	How many times have you heard " based on true events " ? Clichéd , a few scares , attractive young women , blood and a bit of gore . . . and yes a creature on a killing spree . In a wooded area in Wisconsin people are missing , getting ripped in half and some having their guts devoured . A local sheriff finds himself looking for a creature leaving DNA of both man and wolf . What you get to see of the beast is not all that bad and like a lot of cheesy horror fare . . . the finale is the best sequence of the movie . Among the cast members : Jeff Denton , Sarah Lieving , Tom Nagel , Tom Downey , Christina Rosenberg , Marija Polsley and with Joel Hebner playing the beast of Bray Road .
A love to transgress time .	ADULT MOVIE . A disgraced ancient Egyptian sorceress ( Ava Niche ) is brought back to life in modern day Los Angeles to reclaim an old love in the spirit of a college student ( Sasha Peralto ) . Naked lovin ' , touchin ' and squeezin ' . Flimsy , hackneyed story line ; but at least one is attempted . Also in the cast are : George Thomas , Aysia Lee and Richard Lynch . Listed as a horror movie ; but actually just a skin flick . ( I am not complaining ) .
Let the corpse speak for herself .	This is a strange , lukewarm chiller that arguably for the first time in the movies has a corpse telling the story of her mysterious death by way of flashbacks from a lab in cold storage . This is also the only movie that Bela Lugosi played in that was released in color . The mysterious green mask that keeps appearing in the window does fit into the weird story line . Albeit this 65 minute mystery / drama is more odd than horror . Beside Lugosi , very familiar faces show up in the cast : George Zucco , Roland Varno and Nat Pendleton are aided by Molly Lamont and Gladys Blake .
Little boy vs Santa .	This film isn't even worth the flimsiest of wrapping paper . Young Justin Carver ( Cole & Dylan Sprouse ) happens to see his beautiful mother ( Connie Sellecca ) kissing Santa Claus ; not knowing it is really his father . Justin has heard so many stories about divorce from his friends , that he fears his mother is having an affair that might lead to divorce . Justin wanting to keep his family intact . . . declares war against Santa . This movie becomes a poor man's HOME ALONE , with Justin putting jolly old St . Nick through hell and high water ; determined to keep him away from his mother . This flick is just not funny at all . To be exact , is pretty lame even for a made-for-TV project . Also in the list of players : Corbin Bersen , Sonny Carl Floyd , Jeff Olson , Eric Jacobs and Tony Larimer .
Just try to stop the hands of time .	Questionable talent . Questionable effort . More than enough explosions ; but that does not make a movie . A vengeful vice cop ( Tom Sizemore ) and a bomb-squad leader ( Steven Seagal ) search for a mad bomber ( Dennis Hopper ) that is setting time bombs all over San Francisco . The script is horrid . The cast also includes : Kevin Gage , Joe Spano and Jaime Pressly . Ms . Pressly gives very little effort and is not impressive at all . To be exact Seagal seems more stoic than usual . It is almost like everyone showed up to make a movie only to see the payroll go up in smoke !
As far as the eye can see .	An ex-cavalry officer ( Rex Allen ) tries to persuade defiant ranchers to allow the Army to run tank maneuvers on their land . Just like Saturday afternoon at the movies . This cowboy drama also features : Slim Pickens , John Crawford , Roy Barcroft and the debut of Elaine Edwards . Wholesome entertainment with typical western violence .
Crime doesn't stand a chance .	This comedy / western features Judy Canova as a spunky and a bit ditzy storekeeper who wants to rid the crime element from Kirk County . She tries to sing her way into the heart of the new Sheriff Dan Fraser ( John Russell ) who chases the bad guys in his new Ford sedan . Bull McCready ( Grant Withers ) runs the gambling hall ; but Curt Walker ( Roy Bancroft ) is the bad guy that needs to be put behind bars . Judy is jokingly promised a Deputy's badge if she captures Walker . This may also get Sheriff Fraser's affections . Judy rigs the front door of her store with a bucket of water , sledge hammer and a shotgun ; but Walker enters through a window and is finally subdued by the spunky cowgirl with the half-cocked hat . Walker escapes jail , but is captured again as Judy leads the town's womenfolk in making a wreck of the gambling hall . Also in the cast are : Emmett Lynn , Fuzzy Knight , Houseley Stevenson and Frank Ferguson . Canova's off key singing is tolerable with her best tune being " Have You Ever Been Lonely ? " . I'm still trying to figure out the film's title OKLAHOMA ANNIE .
Relaxing vacation . . . are you kidding ?	They're back . The Baker family , headed by Tom ( Steve Martin ) and Kate ( Bonnie Hunt ) , decides to gather a multi interest family together for a vacation . . . a memorable vacation . The Baker's decide to revisit Lake Winnetka Resort and find it is practically all owned by Tom's long-time rival , Jimmy Murtaugh ( Eugene Levy ) . These competitive childhood friends drag their families into a summer not to be forgotten . Situational and slapstick comedy dominates . This movie is very predictable . Crude humor and just plain silly . Was the first one worth a sequel ? Also in the cast : Hilary Duff , Jaime King , Tom Welling and Alyson Stoner .
Sex more than pays .	ADULT . Softcore . A beautiful woman ( Nikki Fritz ) spends a week with her old corrupt boyfriend " working off " her husband's gambling debt . No need to get involved with a real story line when there is a ton of simulated sex scenes scorching the screen . It is hard not to notice Fritz . . . she appears to be naked even with her clothes on . Most of the acting is lame and the sex is overacted . Also in this direct to video eye popper is Angela Davies , Alex Ferro , Daniel Anderson and Wendy Rice .
Retirement allows you to get crazier .	This is a grim and somewhat dark comedy about a recently retired widower ( Jack Nicholson ) who travels across country from Nebraska to Colorado in an RV to try and stop his only daughter's ( Hope Davis ) wedding . Kathy Bates has a brief nude scene . . . heaven forbid . Not one of Jack's better movies , but definitely the only reason to watch ABOUT SCHMIDT .
Love and war in Korea .	This wartime drama falls a little flat in spite of a very talented cast . The rugged Robert Mitchum is in charge of evacuating American civilians in Korea , but ends up bombing refugees . War action is paced with heavy romance between Mitchum and Ann Blyth . This couple all but ignites the screen . Pretty hot for the early 50s . Also in the cast are Richard Egan , William Talman , Eduard Franz and Margaret Sheridan . Note : This movie is directed by Tay Garnett , whose work is better shown in THE CROSS OF LORRAINE ( 1943 ) .
The big finish is in sight .	Probably one of the better Spenser Tracy / Katherine Hepburn movies . Hepburn is an all around female athlete and Tracy is determined to be her agent . Tennis and golf are the highlighted sports . Hepburn has trouble making the big finish because she " chokes " when her boyfriend is around . Casual and funny banter ; evocative of the classic romantic comedy . Also in the cast are : Sammy White , William Ching , Aldo Ray and smaller roles for Jim Backus ; the debut of Chuck Connors and yes that thug is Charles Bronson , then known as Charles Buchinski . Directed by George Cukor this story is no great whoop , but the selling point is the Tracy / Hepburn team .
A Frankenstein is a Frankenstein .	Low budget , but still creepy enough to hold your interest in another take off on the familiar Frankenstein story . This movie is also known as LADY FRANKENSTEIN . The alluring Tania Frankenstein ( Sara Bay ) fresh from medical school arrives at her father's estate to find that he is still up to his old tricks . Baron Frankenstein ( Joseph Cotten ) is murdered by his own creation and now his daughter decides to carry on the family tradition by creating herself a lover . This is closer to being an eerie melodrama than horror flick . Supporting cast features Mickey Hargitay , Paul Whiteman , Paul Muller and Herbert Fux . A rainy night could amplify the atmosphere . Still a fun watch .
At large and in charge . . . NOT !	After her mass notoriety working undercover as a contestant in MISS CONGENIALITY , Special Agent Gracie Hart ( Sandra Bullock ) becomes the new celebrity face of the new FBI . When Miss United States ( Heather Burns ) and pageant emcee Stan Fields ( William Shatner ) are kidnapped in Las Vegas ; Gracie and her new and reluctant partner Sam Fuller ( Regina King ) go against top brass and spring into action . The powers-that-be think that Hart may be too pampered to go undercover again . Miss Priss and her anger management failure partner put their animosity aside to successfully accomplish their assignment and make the FBI look good . This contrived comedy slides to the edges of boredom . The cast is completed by : Treat Williams , Ernie Hudson and Enrigue Murciano . Shatner's silliness is worth pity . An obligatory sequel is not always the best idea .
Predictable " haunting " movie .	Pretty miserable , but watchable . . . just don't expect a lot . Predictable " haunting " flick . Brutal violence and unnerving inner fears with nail biting anxiety . Molly Hartley ( Haley Bennett ) is looking forward to a fresh start with her mother locked away in a mental ward . Trying to forget a violent past ; maybe a new school , a new boyfriend and becoming popular would make her life worth living . But still there is that fear of inheriting her mother's psychosis . Molly visits a secret more harrowing than anything anyone could ever imagine . . . a destiny to avoid . Also starring are : Shanna Collins , Chance Crawford , Jake Weber and Annalynne McCord .
Keep the machine fed .	It's not oil that keeps a laundry folding machine running . . . its blood . Director Tobe Hooper adapts a Stephen King short story in this mediocre tale of horror at the Blue Ribbon Laundry . Accidents keep happening at the laundry plant and detective John Hunton ( Ted Levine ) investigates . It seems the folding machine has acquired the taste of humans and the laundry owner Bill Gartley ( Robert Englund ) does his best to keep the mechanical demon fed . Some pretty messy scenes and interesting are the braces holding the laundry owner's mangled body together . Blood and gut chunks spew and even the folding machine becomes animated in its need to feed . Also starring are : Vanessa Pike , Daniel Matmor and Jeremy Crutchley .
Gigantic Komodo dragons must find nourishment .	Once again genetic experimentation has gone awry . A group of casino robbers crash land on a tropical island where scientists are already living in fear . The Army has been experimenting for years developing new weaponry . . . things have gotten a bit out of hand . Genetic tampering has transformed Komodo dragons into giant , human-hunting monsters intent with wrecking the jungle as they forage for nourishment . The casino bandits don't have to think twice when it comes to helping the scientists keep the creatures from escaping and making the rest of mankind high priority on the food chain . The story is pretty lame and the cast is pretty shallow too . Melissa Braselle and Glori-Anne Gilbert are an eye full in different degrees . Also in the cast are : Tim Abell , William Langlois , Paul Logan and Gail Harris . A much better Komodo movie to check out is KOMODO ( 1999 ) .
Col . Mustard with the candlestick in the library .	Is this Robert Altman at his best or worst ? GOSFORD PARK is a slow moving all-star murder mystery . A beastly owner of a 1930's British estate is killed during a weekend shooting party and upper crust get together . The movie is very wordy and mostly with bad accents . The murder event is not as important as the attitudes and suspicions between the high class guests and their servants . The cast members dialogue make the movie . You either find this entertaining or pretty lame . Wardrobes and sets are outstanding . Notable among this large cast are : Kristin Scott Thomas , Eileen Atkins , Michael Gambon , Jeremy Northam , Kelly Macdonald , Maggie Smith , Emily Watson and Ryan Phillippe . A hot buttered rum sounds good about now . Brandy if its handy .
Beware of the guards of the sunken treasure .	Not your typical zombie flick . This time the walking dead can also swim . A group of treasure hunters are searching for a sunken ship that went down off the coast of Africa . The sunken cargo of diamonds have lured many seekers ; but all have been turned back by a crew of zombies . This little movie is better than you think . This is another of those that are better viewed late at night . Can't say this flick is not worthwhile , because there is plenty a lot worse . This story is by George Plympton and stars Gregg Palmer , Allison Hayes , Morris Ankrum and Autumn Russell .
Every move you make . . . every breath you take !	Ron Howard directs this quirky comedy about a San Francisco video-store clerk ( Matthew McConaughey ) allowing a desperate TV station televise his daily life around-the-clock . It causes problems for those around him , especially his brother ( Woody Harrelson ) and a new relationship with his brother's former girlfriend ( Jenna Elfman ) . This is so off beat . . . I like it . After a while you realize you've been watching it for two hours . A real diverse cast keeps the movie alive . Featured players : Ellen DeGeneres , Rob Reiner , Martin Landau , Sally Kirkland , Dennis Hopper and Elizabeth Hurley who is hotter than hot . Give this romantic comedy a chance to play your heart strings .
Weird ! Creepy family values .	Veteran make-up pro Gabriel Bartolas writes , produces and directs this horrid freak show . You really have to be in the right mood and or three sheets to the wind at 3 a . m . to survive this one . The curiously sick side of me enjoyed this brutal horror flick . The Rockwell family is on vacation when a flat tire leaves them in the middle of nowhere . Don't you hate that when it happens ? They find refuge in a run down diner ran by Granny ( Liz Little ) , who is actually a rather insane individual and matriarch of a weird family of mutants . The most imposing member of the family is the metal-faced Surgeon General ( Aaron Sims / Kurt Carley ) who carries out his own Texas chainsaw massacre . The Rockwell family is butchered except for teen screamer Tina ( Karoline Brandt ) taken captive and chosen by " Brain " ( Jay Dugre ) to be his future bride . . . think not ! The scenery is worse than a train wreck . The violence is strong , gory and very graphic . Also in this cast of unknowns are : Eric Bennett , Warwick Davis and the obnoxious Linda Weinrib . Have Blockbuster to save you a copy .
Double trouble on the bayou .	From the writer / director of THE BLAIR WITCH PROJECT Daniel Myrick , who spins a tale influenced by a Scandinavian thriller MIDSUMMER . SOLSTICE is a haunting yarn about a group of high school friends getting together for one last blow out before heading to college . Less than a year after losing her twin sister to suicide , Megan ( Elisabeth Harnois ) joins her friends on a trip to the family summer home on the Louisiana bayou . Things get real bizarre when Megan thinks she is being contacted by her sister from beyond the grave . A local hunk ( Tyler Hoechlin ) comes to dinner and teaches the group a Creole spell of the summer solstice . They actually try and raise Megan's sister from the dead . . . not without casualties . Flashbacks tend to disjoint the whole story and gets tiresome quickly . Also in the cast : Shawn Ashmore , Hilarie Burton , R . Lee Ermey and Matt O'Leary .
When you find her . . . don't let her get away .	Jennifer Chambers Lynch directs this darkly absurd love story . Dr . Nick Cavanaugh ( Julian Sands ) is a surgeon who becomes dangerously obsessed with a tramp of a vamp Helena ( Sherilyn Fenn ) that has ended a brief affair and desires to move on . The " love sick " doc lures Helena back to his home for one last chance to woo her . His romantic overture causes the winsome Helena to race from the house and into the street where she is run down by a truck . Not wanting to lose his love goddess to a hospital , Dr . Nick scoops up Helena and takes her back to his home lab where he amputates her arms and legs in order to keep her captive and under his control . . . his own trophy in a wheelchair . The beautiful Fenn was not the first choice to play Helena . Kim Basinger would be found guilty and financially punished for backing out of a verbal agreement to play the part in this weird love story . Director Jennifer Lynch did not shy away from borrowing her father's ( David Lynch ) bizarre and unconventional style .
Nerves of steel and a score to settle .	An ex-hitman ( Eric Roberts ) has a few felons , software thieves and hired killers to blow away and at the same time juggle his emotions . Very predictable storyline . Gunfire galore . Bullets do fly and not even one scratches our bad guy turned good . The budget was spent on the ammunition ; don't expect much in dialogue . Also appearing are Farrah Forke , C . Thomas Howell and Esteban Powell .
Dysfunctional is the norm with this family .	Wes Anderson directs this quirky comedy about an estranged patriarch ( Gene Hackman ) of a slightly neurotic family trying to finagle his way back into their lives by announcing he is suffering a terminal illness . This family of eccentrics prove to be a motley brood . Whimsical , incestuous and drug induced antics evoke just part of the substance of this intellectual comedy . An assortment of talent make up this ensemble cast featuring : Luke Wilson , Gwyneth Paltrow , Danny Glover , Anjelica Huston , Owen Wilson and Ben Stiller . And yes , the narrator is Alec Baldwin . I have yet to determine if this is bone head or funny bone comedy .
Who's conning who ?	George Armitage directs this version of THE BIG BOUNCE that meanders to the point of distraction . This movie seems to not have any motivation and an obvious convoluted storyline . Owen Wilson plays Jack Ryan , who if he has any luck . . . its bad luck . Wanting to stay out of jail he takes a construction job working for a shady developer Ray ( Gary Sinise ) and his assistant Bob ( Charlie Sheen ) . Upon being fired , he becomes a handyman for a Judge ( Morgan Freeman ) , who owns vacation bungalows . Jack falls in love with Nancy Hayes ( Sara Foster ) , who is Ray's house-sitter and girlfriend . Nancy becomes tired of Ray spending so much time with his wife ( Bebe Neuwirth ) and all but seduces Jack to help her scam Ray out of $200 , 000 . Sexual innuendos and beautiful Hawaiian scenery tries to keep the viewer's interest , but before this one is over ; you have no real idea of who is conning who . Also in the cast : Willie Nelson , Tony Dorsett and Anahit Minasyan .
Trying to live after an H-bomb .	A group of seven people fear they are the only survivors of a near world ending H-bomb blast . Not only do they fear the radiation , but also mutants in the surrounding hillside . One of the group is already contaminated , but strangely poses no real threat to the others . Just surviving the friction of assorted personalities at close range is the sub-plot . Richard Denning plays the hero . Mike Connors is close to the edge playing a tough guy . Lori Nelson is the girl destined to start populating a brave new world . Not one of director Roger Corman's best . This is predictable black and white sci-fi .
The truth can be adjusted .	Billed as a different style of thriller . I must have been brain dead through this one . I just thought this film dragged on and on and on . I was wanting to be thrilled and maybe excited . . . neither happened for me . Sorry George , sometimes a movie just goes flat . George Clooney stars as a mega attorney known as the " Fixer " . He works for one of the nation's most powerful law firms . Anytime one of their clients has a problem , preferably big , Clayton is called on to put a spin on the circumstances and get trouble solved with little or no publicity . One of the firm's premiere attorneys ( Tom Wilkinson ) goes a little nuts and strips in the middle of a deposition . Clayton is sent to find out what caused such a display . He decides it was just a matter of the attorney getting off of his medications . Things seem to spiral out of control and so does the interest in this movie . Its like the characters going through the motions and actually getting nothing done . Also in the film are : Tilda Swinton , Sydney Pollack and Michael O'Keefe .
Beware : SCARY MOVIE returns .	This SCARY MOVIE sequel is a take or leave it offering . No horror and not too much more to laugh at . Outrageous , yes . The strong sexual humor and graphic language brings a questionable amount of viewers back for more . Spoofing movies like STIGMATA and THE EXORCIST , a conniving college professor ( Tim Curry ) , lures special students to a haunted house for various decadent reasons . . . mainly to get laid . My favorite scene is the sequence of Tori Spelling with the " ghostly " lover . This comedy is directed by Keenen Ivory Wayans . The cast with various degrees of stardom features : Marlon and Shawn Wayans , Anna Faris , Regina Hall , James Woods , Chris Elliott , Kathleen Robertson and Veronica Cartwright . Woods is a hoot . I was most impressed with Robertson . . . damn , that girl is nice . No doubt about having a following ; enough to continue on .
One last heist ! Bring back the gun called " The Mexican " .	Stars with exceptional credentials can sometimes be wasted in an over ambitious project . This is a prime example . An inept criminal ( Brad Pitt ) promises his girlfriend ( Julia Roberts ) that he will change his ways after one last job . While he goes to Mexico to retrieve an ancient pistol , " The Mexican " , his demanding sweetheart is kidnapped . Gene Hackman and James Gandolfini support the toothsome twins Pitt and Roberts . The attempts at comedy are not all that humorous . The story line is not the easiest to follow . The finale is different and pretty neat . Just look for the smoke . Beware of the lack of entertainment .
Darkness awaits to rule the world .	Set in the late 1930s , Lee Falk's comic-strip superhero The Phantom ( Billy Zane ) musters his mortal efforts to stop a madman ( Treat Williams ) who wants to rule the world . Sets and photography are very interesting ; but of course the story is too predictable even for a fantasy world . Also in the cast are Kristy Swanson and the always beautiful Catherine Zeta-Jones . Zane is not too shabby as a superhero defending honor and slamming evil . Of course the Phantom's outfit is more comical than impressive . Put your brain in neutral and enjoy the fantasy .
Unfortunate events follow three orphaned children .	A SERIES OF UNFORTUNATE EVENTS is based on a series of popular books by Lemony Snicket , Daniel Handler . Unfortunately I feel this film sucks . The visuals are impressive , but in to to not being pubescent I found this to be a mess . After their parents were killed in a fire the three Baudelaire orphans , Violet ( Emily Browning ) , Klaus ( Liam Aiken ) and cute Sunny ( Kara & Shelby Hoffman ) are shuffled to " near " relatives in hopes of finding a new home . They soon find out that Count Olaf ( Jim Carey ) , an actor and master of disguise , is their most villainous of relatives and has his mind set on killing them and claiming their vast fortune . Uncle Monty Montgomery ( Billy Connolly ) and also Aunt Josephine ( Meryl Streep ) appear to only be pawns in the scheme of things improvised by the evil Count Olaf . Telling this tale is Lemony Snicket voiced by Jude Law .
Sci-Fi drama . Unfullfilling .	Disjointed . Suspense that proves to be wasted . Maybe with a bigger budget . . . but then again probably not . The citizens of Santa Monica , California are fearful of the dark of night . A series of decapitation murders has Detective Dave Mooney ( Richard Jaeckel ) baffled and under watchful eyes . Roy Warner ( William Devane ) , a writer of bloody crime novels , is the father of one of the first victims . He also has history with Mooney ; it was the detective that sent him to prison . Warner wants answers ; so does TV reporter Zoe Owens ( Cathy Lee Crosby ) . A police pathologist ( Casey Kasem ) finds " The Mangler " to be gray and of supernatural origin . The finale is weak and leaves you wondering why you sat that long for almost nothing . Also in the cast : Keenan Wynn , Jacquelyn Hyde and John Bloom .
Sometimes you just can't control a woman .	Sam Pillsbury directs this drama about three escaped convicts that seek shelter in the home of a lonely southern woman ( Kelly McGillis ) . She will give in to an extent , but she keeps her values and seems unconcerned about the unwanted guests on her farm . Billy Zane is very impressive . The other two convicts are played by Henry Rollins and Johnny Galecki . This movie offers nothing memorable , but is fine for a lazy day . My only qualm was realizing this is not the glamorous and sexy McGillis we fell in love with thirteen years earlier in TOP GUN . Even without makeup , she is a flawless actress .
Harbinger of a deep dark past .	Sheldon Wilson's stark supernatural low budget horror film is too contrived , hard to follow and before it is over it becomes a head-scratcher . . . why does anyone watch this all the way through . Some pretty gory scenes , but that is about it . Out of the woods stumbles a naked teenage boy covered in blood , carrying the very same hunting knife that was used in a brutal murder twelve months earlier . Small town sheriff Jack Sheppard ( Timothy V . Murphy ) obligates himself to deal with his own demons and dark past and the slaying he failed to stop . Supernatural , horror and bunk ; the story line is just not very smart . The cast includes : Stan Kirsch , Patty McCormack , Natallie Avital and Rocky Marquette .
Honestly Doc . . . no two look alike ?	This sounds like a pretty interesting movie , but it is a little too busy and manic . The budget on scenery went to good looking women . A very popular Dallas gynecologist ( Richard Gere ) is coming unwound trying to balance the demands of his family , patients and employees . His wife ( Farrah Fawcett ) has mental problems and no longer cares for sex . His daughter Dee Dee ( Kate Hudson ) is planning a big wedding even though she is gay . Her affections are toward Marilyn played by Liv Tyler . Laura Dern is the doc's alcoholic sister-in-law that has recently moved into his home . The busy doc tries to relax with a little golf and a little lovin ' from golf pro Helen Hunt . Among all this , his office secretary ( Shelley Long ) makes her own play for the doc with all the right moves . Her's is a little out of step . The finale is like no other . Also in the cast are Tara Reid , Janine Turner , Lee Grant and Robert Hays .
No longer contented down on the farm .	The humanity of it all . . . I jest . Ranks among the worst ever . The shoestring budget is the real horror . I have always thought that bad horror is fun to watch . The jury is still out on this yarn of an alien space ship landing in the desert causing nearby farm animals to run amok . The cast features : Paul Birch , Lorna Thayer and Dick Sargent .
The pretty gals just arrived on the stage .	Typical Saturday afternoon at the movies western . Mediocre at best in spite of being directed by Charles Marquis Warren . This B movie is obvious low budget . Four fancy saloon gals ( Colleen Gray , Angie Dickinson , Adele Mara and Dorothy Schuyler ) are put on a stage and ran out of town . Destination , who knows where , is not reached due the stage breaking down at a way station . As the wheel of the stage is being repaired , a gang of outlaws arrive and demand the women ; they want the bad men's money , but nothing else . The girls stand about looking nice , while the villains want to raise a ruckus . . . and a whip is taken to a gun fight . Oh , well . The rest of the cast features : Hugh Marlowe , Richard Gilden , Paul Richards , Sheb Wooley and Strother Martin . It seems a long 77 minutes .
Beware of that ultimate collectible .	By far not a Hammer film , but it does have that dynamic duo of Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee . The skull of the one and only Marquis de Sade is robbed from the grave and a shady dealer ( Patrick Wymark ) offers it to a collector of the occult Christopher Maitland ( Cushing ) . Maitland is proud of his new possession and later discovers that it was stolen from his friend Matthew Philips ( Lee ) . Philips is not exactly unhappy with the loss and he passes on some sound advice about the skull's deadly powers . Death seems to follow possession of the purloined headpiece . Portions of the film have no dialog and the visuals carry the story along . Some pretty cool and interesting camera shots are through the eye sockets of the skull . Its not hard to see the strings moving the skull about . Also in the cast are : Michael Gough , Patrick Magee , Nigel Green and Jill Bennett .
Animated with not enough fun .	If you like Jerry Seinfeld you'll like BEE MOVIE ; if you don't . . . you won't . I'm in the latter camp , but watched to see what the hype was about . Barry B . Benson ( Seinfeld ) is a new graduate and must decide his future . Instead of being a worker bee with the same job everyday forever is not that appealing . He would rather be a pollen jock and go out into the world and collect nectar , but he knows that job is but a lofty dream for a young bee . Barry soars out into the world on his own and breaks one of the most important rules of beedom . . . he speaks to a human . He is saved from a bad situation by Vanessa Bloome ( Renee Zellweger ) a florist ; and through that relationship Barry decides to sue the human race for manufacturing honey . Some pretty big named stars lend their voices : Chris Rock , Matthew Broderick , John Goodman , Kathy Bates , Rip Torn and Michael Richards .
A city couple moves to the country .	Chevy Chase plays Andy Farmer , a frustrated writer , who moves with his wife , Elizabeth , to a farm in Vermont . Nothing seems to go the way the couple expected . The Farmer's bribe the township into creating a Norman Rockwell persona in order to sell the farm and return to New York . This movie is more stupid than funny . Pathetic jokes that keep falling flat and missing their mark . Jay Cronley's novel was done a disservice . Madolyn Smith-Osborne holds her own with what she has to work with . This is no where near the caliber of Chase's " vacation " movies .
Will the real Boston Strangler stand up .	Michael Feifer writes and directs this " untold " story revolving around the terrifying serial killings of thirteen women in Boston in the early sixties . Police thought they had once and for all captured the infamous Boston Strangler in Albert DeSalvo ( David Faustino ) . The women were sexually assaulted and left displayed with no shame and most strangled with their own nylon stockings . DeSalvo , psychotic and proud of the notoriety was convicted and later found stabbed to death in prison . The police were never fully convinced the killings were committed by just one man . This movie wants you to think you know who really did the killings other than DeSalvo . This movie does not carry the intensity or even the interest possessed by the 1968 BOSTON STRANGLER starring Tony Curtis . And Faustino is damn sure not a Tony Curtis . His casting as DeSalvo seems so ludicrous ; and at times comes off as a cocky buffoon instead of a " psycho " killer . I kept waiting for this movie to get better and it never did . Also in the cast : Andrew Divoff , Kostas Sommer , Joe Torry and Corin Nemec .
Hungry giant spiders attack a ski resort .	OK , another giant spiders flick ; but wait . . . this one is not totally bad . The CGI is really pretty smooth and the spiders do look cool . A young ski team is training for the Olympics and arrive at a nice ski resort in Logan County Utah run by Stephen J . Cannell . The young squad is thrilled to meet a ski instructor ( Patrick Muldoon ) that is a retired Olympic star . Things no longer focus on training when a scientist ( Vanessa Williams ) working at a government lab arrives with the horrifying news that a project has gone wrong . Giant spiders with accelerated growth are loose in the Lost Mountains and killing anyone they can pounce upon . Also in the cast : David Millbern , Matt Whittaker , Carleigh King and Thomas Calabro .
Are you sure he is heaven sent ?	A cynical reporter , greedy tabloid owner and a fake paranormal expert check out the wild tip that an archangel is living with a little old lady , that might be as unstable as her story sounds . It turns out that an angel really is visiting earth . John Travolta plays archangel Michael ; although charming , he is also untidy , a little over weight , seedy and womanizing . Heaven sent ? Intended to be a light comedy ; I found it short of being a good snooze . The name Travolta did very little magic for this project . This movie has a lot of stars , but giving below par performances : William Hurt , Bob Hoskins and Jean Stapleton . Andie MacDowell seemed clueless . Robert Pastorelli did very well with the part he was given . Teri Garr sparkled in her few moments on the screen . The trailers looked so promising , but the end result seems more like a waste of talent . Mildly funny , with more ho-hums than chuckles .
A mammoth stinker !	A meteor slams into a museum in a small town in Louisiana and unleashes a partially frozen , 40 , 000 year-old woolly mammoth . Paleontologist Dr . Frank Abernathy ( Vincent Ventresca ) , who has made this mammoth on display his life's work , is called on to help Special Government Agents Powers ( Leila Arcieri ) and Whitaker ( Marcus Lyle Brown ) track down the rampaging creature . It seems the mammoth is alien fueled and the clock is ticking away toward the community's doom . Part of the rescue team is Abernathy's father ( Tom Skerritt ) , who is a B-movie and UFO fanatic . Special effects are a joke ; to be exact the movie comes off as a comedy more than horror flick . Ventresca becomes very obnoxious early and sustains the irritating role . I feel embarrassed for Skerritt , just how much does a real actor get paid to participate in crap like this ? Also in the cast are : Summer Glau , Charles Carroll and Cole Williams . I'm surprised the mammoth didn't take a big CGI dump .
Give it enough thought and it will get done , by your monkey !	From George A . Romero , the man who gave us NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD ( 1969 ) , comes a dose of gruesome revenge . Jason Beghe plays a bitter man left quadriplegic from an accident . He has no kind thoughts of mankind . Things begin to change when he is presented with a specially trained monkey ( Ella ) that takes care of the paralyzed man's every whim . Soon the monkey starts anticipating Beghe's every thought . Nasty , dirty and deadly things begin happening when the monkey dishes out havoc on his master's girlfriend ( Janine Turner ) ; overbearing mother ( Joyce Van Patten ) ; and any and all others Beghe holds a grudge against . The paralyzed man soon has a shuddering thought . . . he must stop the carnage before the clever Ella takes control of his disturbed mind . Scary , sick and demented . . . just enough to wreck your nerves and jump start a good nightmare . Riveting , intense and strangely enjoyable . Also in the cast are Kate McNeil and John Pankow . Remember it is not nice to mess with Mother Nature .
Not quite up to snuff . . . but its Gene Autry .	Gene Autry , on the side of good and the law , is always eager to come to the aid of his fellow man . A bad guy on his last leg asks Gene for one last favor ; to be guardian of his three boys . Little did Gene know these orphans are actually Chicago street toughs that want little to do with their inheritance of a ranch in the wild west . Gene and his sidekick , Frog Millhouse ( Smiley Burnette ) , try to make the young guys comfortable ; only to find that the three trouble makers have become a small part of a cattle rustling scheme . All , of course , will turn out well . . . but not until Gene croons " The Girl in the Middle of My Heart " to his love interest played by Shirley Deane . Credited players include : Tommy Ryan , David Gorcey , Walter Tetley , Stanley Andrews , Jack Rockwell and Ray Bennett .
Mysterious planet is home to gruesome monsters .	This sci-fi adventure is not the best and by no means the worst . I agree with the statement that bad sci-fi is comical . Bizarre pink tinting and unusual special effects make this a favorite for the late , late , late show viewers . Space explorers on the planet Mars fight off strange giant amoeba-like monsters and other strange creatures . Pretty cool . The cast includes Les Tremayne , Naura Hayden , Gerald Mohr and Jack Kruschen . Get comfy and enjoy . Don't feel bad if you nod off for a moment . I agree with adding this to the list of cult classics to not miss .
Not just big . . . a mega sized menace in the Amazon .	A weak story . Even weaker script . Dialogue disjointed . With all big expectations put aside . . . an interesting cast jumps , dodges , slides , climbs and swims through a believe it or not fun to watch thriller . The special effects are impressive enough to have you flinching . A film crew featuring Jennifer Lopez , Ice Cube and Owen Wilson is deep in the jungle riding the Amazon River searching to film / document a legendary tribe . Not only do they have to contend with snakes of every size imaginable they are commandeered by an obsessed snake hunter ( Jon Voight ) . Voight is forcing the crew to hunt for a 40-foot anaconda that likes to swallow humans whole and for some reason vomits them back out . It is worth waiting for the final fight pitting Lopez and Ice Cube against the ferocious slithering hisser . I found it enjoyable watching Voight's demise . Rounding out the cast are Eric Stoltz and Jonathan Hyde . And yes , even in this mess Lopez is eye candy . Veteran Voight of course seems to be the only real talent .
Two brothers race for the finish line .	Not much to rave about unless you happen to be a Brad Pitt fan or a follower of Rick Schroder . The two play high school brothers that find some success on the track field . Pitt is trying to walk the straight and narrow ; while Schroder is a reform school refugee . Otherwise this movie does good to hold interest against an after school TV movie . Carrie Snodgress plays the passive mother still grieving her husbands death . Thomas Mikal Ford is the " meaning well " track coach . Unrealistic casting hurts .
A ghoulish tale . Evil just has trouble staying dead .	This is a sequel that has no connection to Stephen King . The only thing carried over from the original is the same location . Parts of this film are gory while violence over shadows the horror . This movie has been struck with a mean streak . A young widower ( Anthony Edwards ) moves with his young son ( Edward Furlong ) to an old town in Maine . After hearing the legend of the pet cemetery where sometimes the dead are revived ; he wants to take his mother from her grave and place her in the special burial ground in hopes of her rejoining the family . The boy's best friend's stepfather is proof that the legend is true . Some of the strangest scenes are funnier than they are scary . But don't rest easy for there are times you will flinch . Also in the cast are : Clancy Brown , Jason McGuire and Lisa Waltz .
Staying awake is staying alive . Cabbies beware of your fare .	This is a somewhat cold and dark look at the trials and tribulations of NYC streets after dark . Cab drivers keep working despite the fact a serial killer is on the loose and is targeting cabbies . Story line and script a bit rough , but it gives you the feel of reality . This movie gradually grabs your interest and holds on tight . Danny Glover plays a former pro basketball player turned cab driver . A very good performance as usual . Playing his love interest is Pam Grier , a waitress in a diner . Flawless job turned in by Ms . Grier ; and she is still a looker . Supporting cast includes Michelle Rodriguez , Paul Calderon , Sergej Trifunovic and Fisher Stevens . Cameos by Spike Lee and Walt Frazier .
Inside the cold-war .	I'm sorry that I missed the thrills that others have proclaimed about this movie . I found it interesting ; but easy to confuse the whole agenda ; lacking action and a half an hour too long . Just my opinion . A highly ranked Soviet official , who claims knowledge of Russian missiles in Cuba , defects to shelter in America . And a French agent with Cuban connections is asked to help the U . S . expose a spy ring . The acting is calm and wooden . Passion is obviously missing in this tense drama . The cast includes Frederick Stafford , John Forsythe , Karin Dor and Dany Robin . Directed by Alfred Hitchcock , this by no means compares with his better known movies .
The shagadelic man is on the move again .	This is the third of the Austin Powers installments . The shagadelic superspy must do some time traveling to rescue his father ( Michael Caine ) who has been kidnapped by minions of Dr . Evil . Powers enlists the help of Foxy Cleopatra ( Beyonce ) to back up to the swingin ' seventies to find his father . I don't think I laughed out loud , but admit there was an overload of " potty mouth " humor and sexual innuendos . The talented Mike Myers of course gives life to three other characters than Powers : Dr . Evil , Fat Bastard and Goldmember . Also in the cast are Robert Wagner , Seth Green and Michael York . Not recommended for the small fry of the family . Try and count the number of genital gags / jokes . Behave yourself , Baby !
Not from human seed .	A young doctor and his wife are suddenly expecting a child . Both are disturbed about a two hour memory lapse on the night of conception . Interesting twist on an hackneyed story . Very good F / X and interesting editing . Jillian McWhirter is outstanding in a cast that features Arnold Vosloo , Wilford Brimley and Brad Dourif . Brimley brings normalcy to the outlandish . Kudos to director Brian Yuzna .
A fall from grace .	This is a tidy crime drama about a " retired " attorney ( Spenser Tracy ) dealing with his own unethical behavior . Well written and photographed . An apt group of players support the flawless Tracy : Pat O'Brien , John Hodiak , Regis Toomey , Diana Lynn and James Arness . Worth your attention .
Mummy on the move .	A resurrected wrapped monster goes on a murdering binge . A lunatic is seeking revenge against living members of a previous expedition . Universal seems to be running out of wrapping as well as new ideas . Most of the budget was probably spent on Lon Chaney Jr . to star as Kharis , the Mummy . Other players are George Zucco , Wallace Ford , Turhan Bey , Dick Foran and Elyse Knox . How much longer can this madness continue ?
The Captain is a . . . lady ?	Director Renny Harlin always seems to give you something to talk about . CUTTHROAT ISLAND is loud and dumb , and in spite of ridiculous dialogue there is almost non-stop action for over two hours . Morgan Adams ( Geena Davis ) is the pronounced captain of a pirate ship sailing the Caribbean in the mid 1660s . Adams and her motley crew are hunting for the treasure of millions of pounds of gold buried on Cutthroat Island . The problem is that she has only a third of the treasure map . Another third of the map is held by her Uncle Dawg Brown ( Frank Langella ) who would rather fight or even kill his niece for sole possession of the riches . William Shaw ( Matthew Modine ) is an odd sort of swashbuckler that reinforces the winsome female pirate in her search for the other third of the map as well as the fog swallowed Cutthroat Island . It is evident Davis worked hard in this stunt filled flick . However there seems to be no chemistry between the pairing of Davis with Modine . Modine was given the job when Michael Douglas bowed out due to Davis ' beefier role . Langella seems at times trying for a laugh than be the menacing villain he is expected to be . Davis at most times is 99 % eye candy . There is good support acting from : Stan Shaw , Rex Linn and Angus Wright . The movie offers some breathtaking visuals ; the best being the explosion of Dawg Brown's ship . I also liked the brief scene of a crew member getting his foot tangled in the anchor chain and going overboard . The London Symphony Orchestra provides a rousing score ; but all of the energetic action could not save this movie . . . it bankrupted Carolco Pictures .
You make your own destiny .	Get your mind off the real world and delve into action packed fantasy . Dwayne ( The Rock ) Johnson is a warrior chosen assassin exhausting his efforts to trounce an evil conqueror ( Steven Brand ) . The intense action takes your mind off of the hackneyed plot . Choose up sides and let the slaughter begin . Also in the cast are Kelly Hu , Michael Clarke Duncan and Grant Helsov .
Country music showcase .	For fans of " old " country and western music this will assimilate a long journey to Mecca . An assembly line of the then-current and up and coming stars of the genre . A bumbling agent , Colonel Beeddebaum ( Doodles Weaver ) goes to Nashville to sign up acts for a movie about country and western music . The cast features a who's who list of named performers from the 50's and 60's like : Marty Robbins , Connie Smith , Webb Pierce , Waylon Jennings , Bill Anderson , Johnny Cash , Kitty Wells , Porter Waggoner , Dottie West , Lefty Frizzell , The Stoneman Family , The Osborne Brothers and Hank Snow . Just a few of the musical highlights : " Count Me Out " by Marty Robbins , " Nobody But a Fool " by Connie Smith , " Po Folks " by Bill Anderson , " I've Been Everywhere " by Hank Snow , " I'll Be Alright Tomorrow " by The Osborne Brothers , " You Ain't No Better Than Me " by Webb Pierce , " Skid Row Joe " by Porter Waggoner , " For Just a Moment " by Margie Singleton and " Dreams " by Faron Young . Also appearing is Ralph Emery .
Pumpkinhead is called on for revenge .	Its been twenty years since Pumpkinhead has seen the light of day or dark of night . When a small town discovers that the bodies of their friends and loved ones have been dumped into the local swamp , citizens are outraged . When they find out that their body parts were sold by the mortician . . . there is hell to pay . With the help of the local witch Haggis ( Lynne Verrall ) , Pumpkinhead is summoned through the mummified remains of Ed Harley ( Lance Henriksen ) himself ; the hideous monster goes on a rampage of revenge at will . The cast also features : Doug Bradley , lisa McAllister , Doug Roberts , Tess Panzer , Philip Bowen and Emanuel Parvu . Violence and gore galore .
A friendly grizzly just wants to find home .	An interesting and funny animated comedy that really doesn't measure up to a slew of the most recent movies of this same type . A 900-pound domesticated grizzly named Boog ( Martin Lawrence ) ( voice ) is taken and let go high in the woods by his caretaker Beth ( Debra Messing ) ( voice ) . It happens to be three days before the opening day of hunting season ; and one hunter , Shaw ( Gary Sinise ) ( voice ) , in particular wants to make a trophy of Boog . The emotional grizzly has a new partner , Elliot ( Ashton Kutcher ) ( voice ) , who is hard to shake . The two have to survive open season in order to get back to Boog's garage home . Typical prepubescent potty humor ; the small amount of adult humor slips by most kids . Other stars lending their voices are : Jane Krakowski , Billy Connolly , Gordon Tootoosis and Georgia Engel .
Giant sea creature attacks London .	Lacking a budget makes for a sub-par 50s creature feature . Radiation again is the blame for A giant creature attacking mankind . Massive amounts of dead fish wash ashore and a man dies of burns from the radioactive beams projected from what will be called The Behemoth , from the Book of Job . The creature is a giant brachiosaurus that attacks ships and submarines before converging on the city of London . Destroying the monster presents the problem of releasing devasting levels of radiation contaminating the entire country . Filmed entirely in England and is actually a remake of 1953's THE BEAST FROM 20 , 000 FATHOMS . The players include : Gene Evans , Leigh Madison , Jack MacGowran and John Turner .
Coil . Lunge . And show those fangs . Horror . . . No . Stupid . . . yes !	This movie is more Sci-Fi than horror . And then it is more silly than Sci-Fi . The enjoyment comes from making fun of this one . The story line sounds like it could really be good ; but then you realize the project goes limp . Some of the special effects are decent , but not enough to carry a movie . Strother Martin plays a doctor working with grant money . His project on the side is turning his assistants into snakes . One ends up with a traveling circus as the " snake-man " . The doctor's daughter ( Heather Menzies ) falls in love with her father's current assistant ( Dirk Benedict ) and fails to stop the body change process . Familiar actors Tim O'Connor and Jack Ging also appear . Rent this one with a couple of others and enjoy some refreshments . Feel free to chat back and forth without fear of missing anything . Pre-puberty viewers will rate this one pretty high .
A European doctor is more than he seems .	Professor Paul Kriston ( Ralph Morgan ) is a well liked and respected doctor in his tiny village . The beautiful Marguerite ( Maxine Doyle ) is willing to be his bride in spite of being in love with another man , David ( Russell Gleason ) . The doctor has a hunchbacked servant ( Mischa Auer ) ; this is the clue that this is a horror flick . Kriston has suffered a vampire curse his whole life and is not even aware that he has a blood-sucking habit at night . Miss Marguerite discovers her fiancée's secret , only after she realizes she's actually in love with her other man . Things have already turned sinister . This 30's chiller is directed by Frank Strayer . Other players include : Pedro de Cardoba , Lucy Beaumont and Carl Stockdale .
Beware of what dwells in the cellar .	A chilling and gory tale of a couple inheriting a 150 room Italian castle while still grieving the loss of their young son . The couples marriage seems to be on the rocks due to the car accident that took the life of their son and left their daughter blind . Upon taking inventory of the castle for a future sale a hideous , tortured and misshapen creature breaks lose from the bowels of the 12th century castle . Pretty gory with great horror atmosphere and some sexual overtones . Starring Jeffrey Combs , Barbara Crampton , Jessica Dollarhide and Elisabeth Kaza .
What a woman wants . . . a woman gets .	Typical modest budget black and white film from director Edgar G . Ulmer . A tedious but interesting tale of a beautiful woman ( Hedy Lamar ) stalking man after man in the lumber country of Bangor , Maine circa 1820 . Love ' em and leave ' em . The ravishing Lamar dominates her scenes . She is drop dead gorgeous and her lips are sweeter than wine . She is also alluring and fickle as hell . George Sanders is solid as they come . Gene Lockhart and Louis Hayward are hammy ; while Morini Olsen is powerful as the brimstone preaching Reverend Thatcher . If you like costume dramas , you will enjoy this tale of love and lust .
What the Hell ?	This supernatural action-adventure is based on a dark creature in Mike Mignola's acclaimed comic book series Hellboy . Hellboy ( Ron Perlman ) is a red colored demon in the form of a man with a giant armored gloved hand and two circles ( where ram-like horns are shaved down ) on his head . Complete with a tail , superpowers and an appetite for Baby Ruth candy bars . As an infant Hellboy is rescued from the Nazis and raised as a force of good by Allied Force agent ' Broom ' Bruttenholm ( John Hurt ) . As an adult Hellboy is an investigator of the paranormal and while on an assignment comes face to face with George Rasputin ( Karel Roden ) who uses monsters and powers-that-be to convince Hellboy he is better off with the dark side . Aiding our demon hero is the telepathic ' Mer-Man ' ( Doug Jones ) and a pyro-kinetic looker named Liz ( Selma Blair ) . Undercurrents of deadpan humor add texture to the full blown battle between the demonic superhero and slimy monsters from the bowels of who knows where . Also in the cast are : Rupert Evans , Jeffrey Tambor , Bridget Hodson and Kevin Trainor . Kudos to director Guillermo del Toro for his distinctive all-be-it loose adaptation of the comic book hero .
Provocative . Innovative . Warped sense of power .	Director and writer Orson Welles brings raw , but calculated realism to the screen with great photographic technique's that brings back memories of the classic CITIZEN KANE . What lacks in dialog in this somewhat confusing story is made up in the superb acting throughout the versatile cast . Background music is very important in setting the mood and even at times is a distraction . Still this movie is entitled to rub shoulders with the classics . A car explodes on the Mexican border and leads to investigating murder , kidnapping and manipulation in carrying out the law . Unforgettable are the close up scenes of Orson Welles as Cpt . Hank Quinlan , a corrupt Texas police chief that is infamous for his inventing evidence to convict certain intended law breakers . This drunken , slobbish run down policeman is hard to forget and easy to dislike . Ramon ' Mike ' Vargas ( Charlton Heston ) is a Mexican narcotics agent that interrupts his wedding day to get involved in this tangled story of corruption . In spite of a very bad make up job , Heston is straight forward and at his best in this role . The newlywed bride is Janet Leigh . Keep her in a skin tight sweater / blouse and her actions come secondary . The lovely Leigh is often too under rated . She just doesn't seem to have a whole lot to do in this movie but to be frightened . And that she does well . Of course the supportive cast is very important in this jumbled bit of storytelling . Dennis Weaver is almost obnoxious as the moronic Motel Night Manager . Ray Collins is a flawless , near stoic DA . Akim Tamiroff and Valentin de Vargas are essential to the evil element . Marlene Dietrich is effortless in her small earthy role . Also of note are contributions from easy to look at Joanna Moore and Joi Lansing . Also look for cameos from Joseph Cotton , Zsa Zsa Gabor and Mercedes McCambridge . Kudos to Henry Mancini for the music . This movie appears rough and raw while running with the best . Viewing is an experience .
A Colorful family movie .	A real wholesome movie , especially from the perspective of the American-Indian . If not mistaken , back when this was released it was meant to be a Sal Mineo vehicle . Mineo plays White Bull , a young boy coming to grips with becoming a man . Others of note in this scenic drama are Joy Page , Rafael Campos , Slim Pickens and John War Eagle . Doubtful you would watch this more than once .
A hidden menace becomes a lethal threat .	A stressed out doctor ( Thomas Calabro ) changes scenery by buying a house on a small island off the coast of Maine . Upon arrival he becomes embroiled in an entomalogical epidemic of over sized cockroaches infesting the area . Pretty creepy . Not scary . . . just creepy . Especially watching roaches enter the human body to nest . Also in the cast are Dean Stockwell , John Savage and Kristen Dalton . This is more interesting than some may think . Not for the real squeamish .
Motel of horror .	VACANCY 2 is not exactly a continuance , but a prequel to the original slasher shocker . When the shoddy and dingy remote Meadow View Inn was finally closed down ; 200 videotaped murders were discovered . This story is of the first victims of sadistic proprietor Mr . Smith ( Scott G . Anderson ) . A newlywed Asian couple were intoxicated just enough to escape after their taping . Things are different when Caleb ( Trevor Wright ) , his sexy new fiancée Jessica ( Agnes Buckner ) and mutual friend Tanner ( Arjay Smith ) check in for a little rest . They stumble on the fact their assumptions are true , not only are they being watched . . . but taped . Mr . Smith and his partner accomplices trap guests and keep the tapes rolling to capture brutal torture and murders on film ; because the underground sale of porn is slowly changing to the harder snuff variety . This movie is pretty violent , but yet predictable and ho-hum . Nothing new . . . no great shakes . Also in the cast : Beau Billingslea , Brian Klugman and David Shackelford .
Smiling faces sometimes change .	Written by Stephen King , but this treatment is not as solid as most of his stories on film . A mother and son move into a small Indiana town with a secret . They are Sleepwalkers , feline type creatures that feed on young virgins . This little story has its share of gore and special effects ; plus hints of incest . Alice Krige is outstanding as the mother . Others appearing are Madchen Amick , Brian Krause and Cindy Pickett . Look for very small roles for John Landis and Clive Barker . Stephen King cameos as the caretaker of the cemetery .
The singing cowboy makes the ranchers happy .	Gene Autry stars in this 1938 vintage musical western . Things get shady when crooked real estate developers ' hoodwink ' poor honest cattle ranchers . Worthless mining stock is sold for the asking in a desert mining town . Gene and his sidekick Frog Millhouse ( Smiley Burnette ) put the kibosh on the white-wash , when word circulates that gold has been found . The guitar slinging cowpoke sings several tunes including " Love Burning Love " and " I'm Beginning To Care " . Even Frog strains his vocal chords with " She Works Third Tub At The Laundry " . Other cast members include : Carol Hughes , Ed Cassidy , Polly Jenkins , Ivan Miller and Sally Payne . All in all . . . the Autry movies are pretty much formulated .
Trust in fate . . . it will take you where it wants to .	Not exactly a new story line , but this romantic comedy makes the concept work . A young man ( John Cusack ) and a drop dead gorgeous woman ( Kate Beckinsale ) keep meeting by chance and wonder if they are meant for each other . Although both are promised to others . . . oddly enough they still feel that their soul mate is out there somewhere . A little sappy in some places , but viva la love . Being a romantic I am almost obligated to be riveted . My favorite scene is where Cusack is on the ground and snow starts falling . The finale is almost too sweet , but most deserving . This is not one of Cusack's deeper roles , but who in the hell could not be smitten by Beckinsale . Notable support is provided by Jeremy Piven and Molly Shannon . John Corbett plays the worst role I've ever seen him in . On the other hand Eugene Levy is quirky and funny . Watch this with your soul mate .
Think . . . deep freeze !	If not mistaken I think this is a Sci-Fi Network original . A story kind of silly , but provoking . Reality is doubtful . The earth becomes a deep freeze in a modern Ice Age after the sun develops numerous sunspots . Sunny California within two days looks more like the South Pole with frigid temps well below zero . LAPD officer Grant Show with the aid of a petty criminal ( Flex Alexander ) he recently put in jail leads a small group of people that includes his girlfriend , son , ex-wife and her recent husband to possible safety . Joined by the scientist ( Udo Kier ) , who discovered this catastrophe , the small group are hopeful to find safety near the Equator region which seems to be as far south as the frigid temps reach . Snow of course is the main scenery and tempts you to grab a blanket . For some reason my favorite scene is when The President ( Art Hindle ) is prompted to leave D . C . , but only after respecting a painting of George Washington crossing the Delaware . Also appearing are : Eva LaRue , Audie England and Diego Fuentes . Although the story line being quite contrived , ICE none the less is able to hold your interest . Grant Show is still as bland an actor as he was on TV's Melrose Place .
Guess who's back ? Not invited , but somehow expected .	It has been ten years since the bloody killings in Haddonfield . Michael Myers ( George P . Wilbur ) awakens from a coma and escapes the institution with intent of a small family reunion . Well , his main task is to kill his seven-year-old niece Jamie ( Danielle Harris ) . Donald Pleasence returns as Dr . Loomis . The charming Ellie Cornell plays Rachel . Beau Starr has the role of Sheriff Meeker and Kathleen Kinmont is quite fetching as Kelly Meeker . Harris is dutiful in her debut . Nerve wrecking . . . more creepy than scary .
The river crossing does not come cheap .	A motley crew of bandits led by Jake Remy ( Warren Oates ) have finished plundering a defenseless town and their get away and escape from capture hits a snag . The gathering of thugs need to cross a river and the only way across is by a barge controlled by the Barquero ( Lee Van Cleef ) . The struggle over the access of the barge becomes a standoff . The Barquero is determined to not let the plunderers cross . Van Cleef is methodically cool while in control . Oates comes across as a bull headed bad ass . . . ruthless and calculating and even demonic as he fires his gun into the river as if to leave a message . Forrest Tucker aptly plays Mountain Phil who takes sides with the Barquero . Also in the cast are : Mariette Hartley , Armando Silvestre and John Davis Chandler excellent as a cocky member of the cutthroat gang . Kudos to director Gordon Douglas and how about that beautiful Colorado scenery .
The Earth on the verge of being destroyed .	MELTDOWN is pretty interesting SCI-FI . No major budget , very few special effects ; but decent acting and a storyline of global doom is enough to sustain viewing . An asteroid grazes the atmosphere and thrust the Earth into an orbit closer to the sun . Global warming rapidly becomes unbearable . A determined LAPD cop ( Casper Van Dien ) goes all out to save the world from certain annihilation as the rising temps are devastating . The pressure is on to save mankind from this solar catastrophe ; as well as protect his daughter , nurse ex-wife and TV reporter girlfriend . The cast includes : Stefanie Von Pfetten , Venus Terzo , Amanda Crew and Vincent Gale .
A giant city crumbles .	This disaster drama created for TV is based on a novel by a popular New York TV anchorman-turned-author Chuck Scarborough . A massive earthquake shakes ' The Big Apple ' and the city is all but held hostage by the devastation . New York City Mayor Bruce Lincoln ( Charles S . Dutton ) and his political foe Fire Chief Thomas Ahearn ( Tom Skerritt ) come to grips putting their differences aside to work together digging the city out of the ruble . There seems to be more than enough sub plots stretching this Hallmark presentation to near three hours . There are some good special effects , but nothing we haven't seen before . This earthquake flick is really no great shakes . And not unlike other disaster movies there is vast and varied talent featured in the cast : Sharon Lawrence , Jennifer Garner , Fred Weller , Lisa Nicole Carson , Rachel Ticotin and Cicely Tyson .
Survival in the wilderness .	Low budget jungle adventure . A brief 62 minute escape and quite predictable . Leif Erickson and his transport co-pilot buddy Frank Jenks crash land in the jungle in hopes of surveying a diamond mine . While working for the mine owner Douglass Dumbrille , the two fliers encounter a savage jungle tribe . To their astonishment a blonde white woman ( Gale Sherwood ) rules as a goddess being raised since infancy by the tribe . It turns out that the " blonde savage " is the daughter of the mine owner's murdered partner . So it is destination stateside to see if justice prevails ; or will someone get away with murder . Other players : John Dehner , James Logan , Ernest Whitman and the alluring Veda Ann Borg .
And the beat goes on .	A nice cast to look at and some good tunes spin ; but don't expect more . Anthony LaPaglia is the manager of Empire Records an independent music store that is about to be taken over by a bigger music chain . He and his odd squad of employees must come up with the money to buy their collective personal haven . Teetering cult status with nothing but rampant chaotic bursts of action to show for it . The winsome part of the cast is Liv Tyler , Renee Zellweger and Robin Tunney . Also in the cast are Rory Cochrane , Debi Mazer and Maxwell Caulfield as the despised pop star . Toss back a couple of cool ones and relax .
Mad scientist misuses the Atom .	Just possibly the best from Ed Wood Jr . Wood directs and co-writes with Alex Gordon ; BRIDE OF THE MONSTER is really fun to watch and is the last starring role for horror icon Bela Lugosi . Dr . Eric Varnoff ( Lugosi ) is a Russian scientist , who has the help of his man-beast servant Lobo ( Tor Johnson ) , experimenting with radiation in attempts to create atomic " supermen " . When the dose of flesh-burning radiation fails the victim is fed to Varnoff's octopus . Loretta King plays an over-eager newspaper reporter searching for the source of a string of killings . And Tony McCoy is the detective trying to find the missing reporter . Put no restraints on your imagination and be forgiving of the over acting . Others in the cast : Paul Marco , Harvey B . Dunn , Don Nagel and Delores Fuller , who would later write songs for Elvis Presley movies .
What we do for love .	Total curiosity will have you watching . After 25 years of marriage a rural Illinois man ( Tom Wilkinson ) shocks his family , friends and coworkers by announcing he wants a sex change . His loving wife ( Jessica Lange ) with mixed emotions accepts his decision and allows him to remain living with her . Also in the cast are : Clancy Brown and Randall Arney . Definitely a conversation starter .
She's got the moves .	She be kickin ' it ! After her mother's death , a white suburban ballet student ( Julia Stiles ) moves to Chicago , where she becomes immersed in the hip-hop culture at her inner-city high school . I really like Stiles , but this romantic drama needs more than the manic scenes at the dance club . Drive-by shootings are shown as a matter of fact and nothing out of the ordinary . Sean Patrick Thomas is interesting . Kerry Washington and Bianca Lawson are very easy on the eye . If you are not into hip-hop , you will not enjoy this film much . I'm all for romance , but this budding relationship lacked combustion .
Five Americans make a flight to Mars .	Early 1950s Sci-Fi directed by Lesley Selander . Special effects of course are very primitive , but pretty good in comparison to what else was out there then . Drive-in Movie double feature fare ; still interesting enough to watch . Two leading men , Arthur Franz the brilliant young scientist Dr . Jim Barker and straight talking and earthy newspaper reporter Steve Abbot ( Cameron Mitchell ) are joined on a manned flight to Mars by Carol Stafford ( Virgina Huston ) another scientist and two other space experts ( Richard Gaines and John Litel ) . Upon landing on the Red Planet , the space travelers encounter inhabitants that appear friendly and mentally advanced . In actuality , the Martians are led by Ikron ( Morris Ankrum ) , who has the idea of conquering Earth to vitalize their civilization . There is a beautiful Martian ( Maruerite Chapman ) that Dr . Barker intends to take back on the return trip . She is the movie's redeemable element .
A weird mortician tries to improve business .	Campy . Macabre humor and very low-budget . An enterprising undertaker ( Ray Dannis ) teams with the owners of a greasy spoon diner to carry out a plan to improve his business and expand the menu at the eatery . One of the deceased was named Susie Lamb . . . so the next day the special of the day was leg of lamb . The violence is actually pretty watered down due to the lack of budget . The humor is mostly sick . The acting is non-existent ; but there is some fetching and well shaped female flesh . Typical drive-in fun of the mid 60's . Players include : Robert Lowery , Warrene Ott , Sally Frei , Rick Cooper , Tiffany Sharon O'Hara and James Westmoreland .
Double trouble . Garfield is living high .	Definitely better than the original . . . funnier anyway . Garfield ( Bill Murray's voice ) follows his owner Jon ( Breckin Meyer ) to England , where Jon's girlfriend Liz ( Jennifer Love Hewitt ) is there on business . Jon wishes to propose marriage ; but there is a major problem . Garfield is mistaken for a look-alike cat Prince ( voiced by Tim Curry ) who has just inherited a castle . Garfield really likes being the king of the castle ; Prince learns to like lasagna . Lord Dargis ( Billy Connolly ) is hell-bent on getting rid of Garfield posed as Prince in order to turn the castle into a resort . A few fart jokes and situational comedy keeps you entertained . Ian Abercrombie and Roger Rees provide support . And you will probably recognize the voices of Bob Hoskins , Jane Leeves and Sharon Osbourne .
Rumors persist of the ' haunted house ' .	Directorial debut for Victor Garcia . Some real good special effects for a dismal movie . Sarah Wolf ( Stilyana Mitkova ) dies under suspicious circumstances after an excursion to the House on Haunted Hill . Her sister Ariel ( Amanda Righetti ) plans to return to the foreboding mansion to solve the mystery knowing suicide wasn't the real answer . The house is said to be occupied by the angry spirits of patients killed by the fire they set to rid themselves of their doctor . The refurbished mansion is of interest to an archaeologist Richard Hammer ( Steven Pacey ) , who believes a very valuable idol is hidden there . But he is not the only one looking for the idol , so is a former student ( Erik Palladino ) , leading a small gang of mercenaries ready to take control of the mansion . Acting is nothing to rave about . The story line is so predictable . But director Garcia is a former make-up / special effects artist and his F / X are the best thing about the movie . Others in the cast : Cerina Vincent , Andrew Lee Potts , Chucky Venice , Tom Riley and Calita Rainford .
Elvis documentary that makes you end up asking . . . why ?	This 1994 documentary is one of those jump on the bandwagon projects . Dealing with why Elvis Presley became one the biggest musical icons in the world . Not only a legacy of music , but his movies and then there are the multitudes of books written about him . Why ? What was it that made people of all races , creeds and nationalities strike a bond or even worship this beloved entertainer ? The Elvis phenomenon still vibrates even after death . His records have sold more now than when he was alive . The looks , style , charisma and talent combined like no other . Supposedly some painstaking interviews were involved with the research for this documentary ; but those that you see from anyone of any real importance in Elvis ' life are few . My question why . Why is it projects like this one starts out fairly interesting and then invariably out come the lunatic fringe that takes all the importance away from anything and everything Elvis accomplished and make him and themselves look like idiots ? Why ?
The plantation is in danger . Will love finally rule ?	It takes time for love to rule . A cold hearted plantation owner ( Charlton Heston ) in South America buys a mail order bride ( Eleanore Parker ) . Love does not bloom rapidly . The ego manic plantation owner is not happy with his new wife's past . The uncomfortable couple grow closer when the plantation is in danger of being destroyed by the march of army ants . The ants are marching in mass , 20 miles long and 2 miles wide . If a dam is dismantled , salvation is at hand . Heston is every bit the stubborn master with a huge ego . Miss Parker is very elegant and patient in waiting for acceptance . William Conrad has a smaller , less animated role . Interesting scenery . Typical old fashioned movie .
How easily the web is woven . Twisted and murderous .	This crime tale is weird , suspenseful and filtered with off beat humor . Situational drama does little to help this well acted , but trying story line . The hardest part of watching is seeing Ann-Margret as an enabling granny that tells one lie on top of another . Marg Helgenberger is the movies brightest spot . Nicholas Campbell is on the edge and totally believable . Henry Thomas seems to have phoned his part in from a phone booth , sorry . A quirky little murder mystery that features brutal truth . Give it a shot .
Not a lonely Christmas this year .	Drew Latham ( Ben Affleck ) is determined not to be lonely this Christmas . Not only is Drew a millionaire ; but also obnoxious and guilty of being very grandiose . Drew goes back to the home he grew up in and offers the family living there , the Valco's , $250 , 000 to be his " family " through the Christmas season . Tom Valco ( James Gandolfini ) is reluctant , but is greedy enough to take Drew's offer . Christine Valco ( Catherine O'Hara ) has little to say in the matter , but learns to like having Drew around . . . not exactly the same sentiment with daughter Alicia ( Christina Applegate ) , but that too has room for change . Drew's girlfriend Missy ( Jennifer Morrison ) tracks down Drew and wants her folks to meet his family . Genuine fun is in store as a happy Noel becomes a hilarious dysfunctional nightmare . Other members of the cast : Josh Zuckerman , Bill Macy , David Selby and Stephanie Faracy . Affleck is comedic , albeit strange .
It's not what a man says ; it is what he does .	An average war action film about Navy pilots on a U . S . aircraft carrier during the Korean War . A very good cast that barely gains full throttle . The players include : Van Johnson , Walter Pidgeon , Frank Lovejoy , Keenan Wynn , Robert Horton , and Louis Calhern . And a cameo by six year old Jerry Mathers . A couple of tense scenes during this 79 minute film ; but nothing real outstanding .
Skin-crawling chiller .	Sci-Fi not at its best . Ted Gage ( Daniel Cosgrove ) is a disgraced serviceman who returns home and teams up with a spunky female detective Gina O'Bannon ( Tamara Davies ) to find out who killed his computer geek brother . The computer whiz was earning his way through college by " cooking " and dealing drugs . And his project on the side was helping create super smart cockroaches for the Government . Adding to the human drama is a rash of killings that may be related to a human sacrificing cult led by Tiny Frakes ( Mickey Rourke ) . Meanwhile the engineered cockroaches continue to due damage . Also in the cast are : Dennis Boutsikaris , Brandon Karrer , Tone Loc and Scott Rinker .
Light-weight comedy .	The lovely Eva Longoria Parker plays Kate , who dies after an ice angel crushes her before the " I do's " with fiancé Henry ( Paul Rudd ) . After two years Henry has yet to move on and his sister Chloe ( Lindsay Sloane ) is very concerned . Chloe arranges for Henry to talk with an attractive psychic Ashley ( Lake Bell ) . Ashley is to contact Kate's spirit hoping to help Henry get on with his life . When the psychic starts getting attracted to Henry , Kate's ghost appears to nip the romance in the bud . There are some funny situations ; but if you've seen the trailers you have seen the substance of the film . Also in the cast : Stephen Root , Jason Biggs , William Morgan Sheppard and Wendi McLendon-Covey . I personally thought that Bell stole the show from Parker . And Biggs as usual a pain in the butt . Still this movie was over-hyped .
Help me ! Help me ! Not again .	This does not compare with the original . Appears to be a hurry up production . A scientist conducts the same transmission of matter experiments that did not bode well for his father fifteen years earlier . Science gone hay wire . More interesting the first time around . Vincent Price does nothing above or beyond ; but his name sells tickets . Also in the cast are Brett Halsey , John Sutton and Dan Seymour .
Bloody murder with no mercy .	Based on real life events , but liberal in skirting the facts . Richard F . Speck was born in Illinois , but moved to Texas around the age of six . Growing up in more trouble than not . The acne-pocked high-school dropout was a lifelong criminal and was pleased with himself for living his life the way he wanted . In July 1966 , Speck ( Corin Nemec ) shocked a nation with the brutalized rapes and murders of 9 Chicago student nurses . Methodically beating , raping , stabbing , choking and shooting them to death in one of the horrific atrocities committed in American history . With his death sentence overturned ; was set to be in prison for over 400 years , when he died of an enlarged heart in 1991 . Five years later , a video tape surfaced that showed Speck in his cell with female breast , the results of smuggled female hormones ; doing hard drugs and having sex with his cell-mate . He also spoke explicitly of the murders he committed . . . with bravado and no remorse . Also in the cast : Andrew Divoff , Joanne Chew , John Eric Bentley , Debby Rochon and Tony Todd .
One by one , they won't be a bother again .	This fanciful horror flick has Vincent Price playing a mad magician that realizes his vocational talents have been sold to another . He devise ways of avenging all those that have wronged him . His master scheme seems to back fire on him . Price is a little below par compared to his masterpieces , but is still the only reason to watch this thriller . Supporting cast includes Patrick O'Neal , Mary Murphy , Eva Gabor and Jay Novello .
A crucial choice . . . dead or dirty !	Rough-edged drama set in a violent crime ravaged city , where a former gang-banger , Armando Sancho ( Clifton Collins Jr ) , brings his street smarts to an anti-gang unit . His partner is veteran Salim Adel ( Cuba Gooding Jr ) , who himself is drugging and dealing while working undercover for the LAPD . Sancho and Adel have their own personal demons and begin to have trouble trusting each other . The two officers have to deal with the criminal element the only way they know how . . . on-the-fly and brutal . A gangster with a badge and a gun ; with the attitude of being judge , jury and executioner . These partners are pitted against each other ; where does the trust begin or end ? If Gooding ever played a character you can't like . . . this is it . Foul language is strong and prevalent . Violence is strong . Others in the cast : Wyclef Jean , Aimee Garcia , Keith David and Cole Hauser . DIRTY is rated a strong R .
Never ending song love .	This is the final movie directed by the renowned Robert Altman , released just five months before his death . A PRAIRIE HOME COMPANION is based on Garrison Keillor's radio program broadcast on public radio stations . This comedy is a fictional take on Keillor's radio variety show coming to an end after 32 years on the air at WLT in St . Paul , Minnesota . GK ( Keillor ) , the host , and the ensemble cast and crew have no idea that they're doing the very last show ; because a big time Texas conglomerate feels the down home country based show has played out the ratings . A diverse cast fills the roles that please the faithful listeners with their talent . Meryl Streep and Lily Tomlin portray the last two sisters of a Wisconsin family country music act . Lindsay Lohan plays Streep's daughter , who writes lyrics about suicide . Woody Harrelson and John C . Reilly are the singing cowboys Dusty and Lefty that like to tell ' nasty ' jokes during their act . Virginia Madsen is known as The Dangerous Woman , who may or may not be the Angel of Death . Also part of the ensemble are : L . Q . Jones , Tim Russell , Tommy Lee Jones , Sue Scott and Kevin Kline .
Terror is unleashed aboard a cruise ship .	If you have no idea what a Chupacabra is . . . don't feel bad . In Latin American mythology , it is a winged creature that likes to eat cows , goats and even people in the dead of night . This low budget Sci-Fi TV presentation has Dr . Pena ( Giancarlo Esposito ) trapping one these creatures on a remote Caribbean Island in hopes of making a name for himself in the scientific circles . He smuggles it aboard the Regent Queen , a cruise ship commanded by Captain Randolph ( John Rhys-Davies ) . A Federal Marshall Lance Thompson ( Dylan Neal ) is summoned aboard to solve a mysterious robbery . Meanwhile the Chupacabra escapes the cargo room and begins to make meals of warm blooded crew members and passengers . The Captain's daughter Jenny ( Chelan Simmons ) has interest in the Marshall even after finding out he is not an insurance salesman like her father told her . The body count gets out of hand enough to call in Navy Seals who evacuate the ship and try to kill the monster with armor piercing bullets . Yes , there is blood , guts and gore . The camera is only fixed on the creature for a few seconds at a time . . . but time enough to realize there is a man ( Mark Viniello ) in the rubber monster suit . Not too bad ; but not very good either .
Can the UN actually be blamed for dirty doings ?	Get ready for a meandering story and a lot of martial arts . The latter is what makes this movie interesting and even exciting . The wisdom of mastermind Sun Tsu's " Art of War " is manipulated into enhancing politics and business . Wesley Snipes is an operative for the United Nations and is excellent in doing covert tasks for his employer . At the moment of Y2K an important Chinese diplomat is shot dead through the forehead and Snipes gives chase of the shooter only to find himself being framed for the killing . After escaping capture , he seeks help in clearing his name . . . but a lot of the help he gets is all part of a double-cross . A very good supporting cast in a story that leaves you wondering what and why . Notable cast members include : Marie Matiko , Anne Archer , Michael Biehn , Donald Sutherland and Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa . Snipes did most of his own stunts and proves that he is one of the most hardest working men on the silver screen . If you watch for the martial arts alone . . . you should be very pleased . Great F / X .
Emotions are a human condition .	Another of those " Eight Films to Die For " from After Dark . Not bad at all . Flashbacks cause the story line to go semi-limp . Six childhood friends are brought together at the funeral of one of their friends . The estate needs to be settled and an almost forgotten time capsule is discovered . At the request of their recently cold in the grave friend , they set out to follow a map that will lead them on a trip down memory lane . Not a pleasant trip for they will reawaken repressed traumas . The group will reluctantly face a dark secret they share . At least we get to enjoy Dina Meyer and the once-porn Queen Traci Lords . Also in the cast : Gabrielle Anwar , Stephen Szibler , George Newbern and Frank Whaley . Not exactly to die for , but certainly creepy .
Window undressing .	This is no RISKY BUSINESS , but worth a watch . Matthew Kidman ( Emile Hirsch ) is an eighteen-year-old sheltered , straight edged , book smart young man about to turn his life upside down and inside out . Everyone's perfect and model student happens to look out his window and view his new next door neighbor . Lord have mercy , hang on to your socks . . . what an eyeful . The new " girl next door " , Danielle ( Elisha Cuthbert ) , isn't just a girl after all . She is a one-time porn star and she is now determined to take her new admirer and crack him from his shell and make him the envy of all his friends . What a way to discover life . The strong sexual situations aren't harmful , but do render R rated fun . Is Cuthbert the only reason to watch this flick . . . well , yes ! Others in the cast : Timothy Olyphant , Chris Marquette , Paul Dano , Timothy Bottoms and Donna Bullock .
Mass confusion laced with terror .	I'm not so sure this is not all smoke and mirrors . Anyway we have a hackneyed story similar to the already overworked " House on Haunted Hill " concept . An egomaniacal rich collector has been collecting the unusual . Upon his accidental death he wills his fortune and new glass home to his nephew and his family . After arriving at the unbelievable abode , they soon realize they must deal with the warp-minded man's collection of ghosts . And they are not very happy . Tony Shaloub is the nephew , and in my opinion is miscast as the lead . Also in the cast are : F . Murray Abrams , Matthew Lillard and Rah Digga . Scary . . . yes . Thrills with spills . . . yes . Darvocet headache terror . . . yes . Great movie . . . well , let's try interesting .
A costume musical aboard a riverboat .	Elvis plays Johnny , a riverboat entertainer that has a big gambling problem . Donna Douglas , better known as Elly Mae Clampett , is Johnny's girl , Frankie . A fortune teller tells Johnny how he can change his luck . Enter a new lady luck played by Nancy Kovack and the cat fight begins . Costumes range from classy to gaudy . A dozen songs make up the soundtrack featuring " Hard Luck " and " Please Don't Stop Loving Me " . This film was directed by Fred de Cordova , director of Johnny Carson's " Tonight Show " . Also in the cast are Sue Ane Langdon , Harry Morgan and Anthony Eisley . A fun movie to watch .
There's always someone to hire a young boy .	This movie implies some grisly violence following homosexual activities . And to many a dismay , there is no scenes of rape or even an execution finale . Nevertheless , GACY is worth a gander . The telling of one of America's most prolific serial killers , John Wayne Gacy . The monster kept his secret by being a model citizens in his suburban Chicago neighborhood . He was know to perform as a clown at hospitals and any place he was asked . He also provided work for desperate boys and young men . That was a giveaway leading to his downfall . Who knew of the horrors transpiring in his modest home , where bodies rotted in the crawlspace . Thirty brutal murders were traced back to Gacy with most of the bodies found beneath his house and some in the Des Plains River . It is estimated that Gacy picked up over 2000 men and boys . The cast includes : Charlie Weber , Tom Waldman , Kenneth Swartz , Jeremy Lelliot , Edith Jefferson , Joleen Lutz and Joe Roncetti .
Tragedy and guilt .	Sadness and guilt dominate this film based on John Burnham Schwartz's novel . RESERVATION ROAD is the drama of two Connecticut families following a tragic hit and run accident . Ethan Lerner ( Joaquin Phoenix ) and his wife ( Jennifer Connelly ) are on the way home from their son's cello recital . Stopping for gas , the young boy is struck by an SUV driven by lawyer Dwight Arno ( Mark Ruffalo ) , who himself is speeding on Reservation Road trying to get his own son back to his mother . Ethan is the only witness , but he was limited in what he saw . Arno is racked with guilt and becomes very paranoid when Ethan comes to Arno's law firm for help in finding the hit-and-run driver . Phoenix and Ruffalo are apt actors , but have to deal with dialogue that makes the story clunk along . Also in the cast : Mira Sorvino , Elle Fanning , Sean Curley and Eddie Alderson . I don't recommend going out of your way to see this one .
High School students vs maniacal murderer	Bloody , gory and well photographed slasher flick . Acting is atrocious , but cast features a score of knockout beauties . There will be a few empty chairs at graduation . Kim Taggart plays detective Vega , who is lead detective on a very puzzling case . A serial killer causes citizens of a small town fearful of opening their front doors . . . that is where he nails some of his victims . A group of popular high school students encounter a deranged killer that teaches them a few lessons . The number one person under suspicion is a traumatized loner at the school . The body count increases rapidly . Some pretty disturbing images may just be the only redeemable thing about KNOCK , KNOCK . Also featured are : Suzi Lorraine , Antonio Mastrantonio , Nicole Abisinio , Joli Julianna , Kat Castaneda , Anthony Palladino and Chris Bashinelli .
Murder at a house party .	Frank R . Strayer directs this well acted 1931 who-done-it . What people won't do to have fun at a party . Accidental murder probably is a party pooper every time . . . but you can't say it isn't interesting . Way back when . . . a good party starter was a tame little game of charades . One particular night a staged murder in a game of charades turns to the real thing . The bullets weren't blank . . . leaving a man dead . The mood of the party guests takes on disbelief and a little paranoia . Inspector Taylor ( Robert Elliott ) puts the gathering of friends and lovers through their paces in search of the murderer's identity . Is it Lawrence , the butler ( Brandon Hurst ) ; Colton , the lawyer ( William Humphrey ) ; the maid ( Alice White ) or Aunt Julia ( Clara Blandick ) ? Put disputed inheritance and infidelity in the mix . . . why wouldn't murder be the result ? A long , heavy rainstorm could have made for better atmosphere ; but all - in-all the 67 minutes running time is not wasted .
Nightmare in the desert . . . or just a dream .	The lives of Megan ( Jackie Kresler ) and Dylan ( Shane Elliott ) change in the Nevada desert between Reno and Las Vegas . They stop to eat at a small greasy spoon where they reluctantly learn about the infamous Area 51 by the café proprietor ( Jonathan Breck ) . After getting back on the road in their forty year old Lincoln , the radio gets a little crazy broadcasting Hitler's speech at the 1836 Olympics and then later a 1958 news bulletin of Elvis Presley being drafted into the military . The car slowly breaks down and the two are in for the scare of their lives as mysterious unexplainable things happen in the lonely radiation-poisoned desert ; remnants of nuclear testing . Megan meets a lost little girl ( Channing Nichols ) and a wounded WWII soldier . The nightmarish journey doesn't end there . Kresler is impressive to a degree and writer / director James Lay makes good use of Patsy Cline tunes . All in all , moderately interesting Sci-Fi .
The museum of wax is not just for your enjoyment .	If you don't expect much you'll be satisfied with what little you get . This is a far cry from the beloved original HOUSE of WAX ( 1953 ) starring Vincent Price . Similarities all but nil . . . interesting though . This teen-slasher flick has a group of young people traveling to Baton Rouge to watch a college football championship game . In the middle of the night the group decide to go " off road " and rest and get an early start by daybreak . A nasty smell from the woods turns stomachs and builds curiosity . The group comes in contact with a set maniacal murderous brothers taking care of a museum in a small community that is made of wax . The wax figures inside the museum look so life-like for a reason . You guessed it . The movie is a little more than just ho-hum until the finale when the museum catches fire and begins to melt . Heaven forbid a revelation is made that may lead to a repeat . Cast members include : Elisha Cuthbert , Chad Michael Murray , Paris Hilton , Brian Van Holt and Jared Padalecki . Cuthbert and Murray are believable and you have to give Hilton some credit for possibly being the reason for some to watch this movie in the first place . She is surprisingly not that bad . The roadkill collector ( Damon Herriman ) is also a hoot . Jaume Serra directs this sadistic thriller .
They crawl . They pulverize their victim's bones .	Kind of cheesy , but still creepy . A small island is terrorized by a shell-like creature with tentacles that pulverize and suck the bones out of their victims . This is one of those sci-fi flicks that seems to end up funnier than it is frightening . Still worth a watch . Special visual and sound effects are obviously dated . Veteran horror master Peter Cushing can't save this one . The better acting comes from Edward Judd , Carole Gray and Eddie Byrne .
Tourists beware of paradise .	Brazil with its white sand beaches , beautiful women and thick jungles . . . and even more to offer tourists . A group of backpackers get stranded in a remote Brazilian beach village after their tour bus runs off a winding mountain road . The adventure and exotic pleasures they expected is short lived . They are seduced , drugged and robbed ; and there is even a darker disturbing secret that awaits . There is most definitely danger in this Portuguese speaking paradise . A weaker story line gets more interesting . Action picks up ; but most is unbelievable . Beautiful scenery and some lame acting eye candy . These tourist should have stayed home . Graphic violence and the unrated version of TURISTAS features even more disturbing content . Gore lovers will be pleased . The cast features : Josh Duhamel , Melissa George , Olivia Wade , Beau Garrett , Desmond Askew and Miguel Lunardi .
Army Rules & Regulations : " Doodley Squat " .	Members of the Pentagon brass takes a direct hit in this witty Richard Benjamin satire about the efforts of a whistle-blower ( Cary Elwes ) to test a defective Bradley troop transport / combat vehicle . Kelsey Grammer plays Major General Partridge a wordy , self serving horse's ass . Mocking humor . Supporting cast includes : John C . McGinley , Viola Davis , Tom Wright and director Benjamin plays Secretary of Defense Casper Weinberger .
Don't expect a get well card .	A kind of creepy , slasher flick from Canada . Colt Hawker ( Michael Ironside ) is a psychopathic killer that seems to get off on killing women and keep photographs of their last dying gasps . This crazed hacker slasher rapes and brutalizes the opinionated journalist Deborah Ballin ( Lee Grant ) . Just like her opinions , this gal is tough and survives the attack . When Hawker realizes she didn't die , he goes to her hospital room to finish the job . Some of the brutal scenes were controversial upon release in 1982 , but are rather tame by today's standards . The story line is predictable , but watchable . Ironside seems driven and ruthless . Grant somehow seems to get these roles of the strong female and plays them with conviction . . . which often becomes pretty damn annoying . Others in the cast : William Shatner , Linda Purl , Michael J . Reynolds and Lenore Zann .
Sometimes you have to help your dreams come true .	Sally Fields directs this light dramatic comedy about beauty pageants . There is all the back biting , lying and dirty dealing your way to the coveted crown . Mona ( Minnie Driver ) at an early age has decided to dedicate her life to winning a beauty pageant . Nothing is too large to stand in her way ; even forsaking a personality is not too great a sacrifice . Ruby ( Joey Lauren Adams ) , in spite of her own lack of esteem and personal troubles , remains the faithful seamstress and best friend of the sometimes unrealistic Mona . Driver is flawless in the role of the glory seeking beauty . She also sings a sultry version of " Will You Love Me Tomorrow " . In supporting roles are Kathleen Turner , Michael McKean and Leslie Stefanson .
A kiss is on his bloody lips , but what is on his mind ? !	A hackneyed story line with a slight twist . Some clever camera work and interesting sets and scenery are all captured in luxurious Hammer color . You know where the blood is blood red and fangs almost outnumber cleavage . The only thing from making this a genuine classic is the lack of more familiar stars . A couple ( Edward de Souza and Jennifer Daniel ) on a desolate road runs out of gas and ends up in the inner sanctum of a white wearing vampire and his sect eagerly looking for new members in their secret society . Also in the cast are : Clifford Evans , Isobel Black , Vera Cook and Barry Warren . Just being a Hammer film makes this watchable . Beware of a couple of thrills .
The rubber melts on the road . Live life a quarter of a mile at a time !	Story does not totally lack substance , but primary purpose is to show of some fast and pretty souped up cars . Vin Diesel fans will rejoice . Otherwise don't expect much to redeem pit grease . An undercover cop ( Paul Walker ) infiltrates a gang of L . A . street racers in hopes of solving moonlight highway robberies . Also in the cast are Chad Lindberg , Rick Yune , Ja Rule and the ever so hot Michelle Rodriguez . Not the worst ever made , but an Indy 500 away from mediocre . Rev those engines boys and girls .
Horrid acts of homicide .	The gimmick of being filmed in " Hypnovision " seems very little help in making this a memorable film . Gruesome and brutal methods of murder do give you something to talk about , especially the binocular scene . Michael Gough is a writer that uses hypnotism to commission chilling murders . Also appearing are June Cunningham , Geoffrey Keen , Shirley Ann Field and Graham Curnow . Watching this today seems to conjure up more giggles than shudders . But for 1959 , this one is a slow chiller .
A retired teacher's job is never done .	Academy Award winner Sidney Poitier reprises his role of Mark Thackeray . After retiring from thirty years of teaching in London , he returns to Chicago only to come out of retirement to take on the new challenge of teaching another classroom of misfits . This sequel does not pack the punch of the original , but is interesting if not predictable . Judy Geeson and Lulu reprise their original roles to send off their favorite teacher to America . Also in the cast are : Daniel J . Travanti , John Beasley , Dana Eskelson and Christian Payton . Kudos to famed director Peter Bogdanovich .
Truth can be stranger than fiction .	I was intrigued with the trailers for almost a month . I chose this movie over two others I intend to see . The less than fresh popcorn along with my Cherry Coke were more satisfying than the movie . A top reporter for The Washington Post ( Richard Gere ) is lured to Point Pleasant , West Virginia , where strange and bizarre occurrences caused fear in the mid 1960s . The reporter's wife was killed in a car accident that may be connected to another series of strange events . Where is the horror ? Where is the terror ? Where is the scary and intense flick I thought I was going to see ? I will wait and watch again for free on cable . Gere proves to still be able to carry the lead role . Also in the cast are Will Patton , Laura Linney , Alan Bates and Debra Messing . Go see for yourself . Maybe I am too jaded !
Fight fire with fire .	Rob Bowman directs this fantasy tale of postapocalyptic 2020 London where a survivalist ( Christian Bale ) reluctantly teams up with a military man ( Matthew McConaughey ) to slay fire-breathing dragons . Special effects make up for the story that drags . The fire-breathing dragons are cool . And the final showdown is worth sitting though till the end . Also featured are : Izabella Scorupco , David Kennedy and Scott Moutter . If you have seen the previews . . . you've pretty well watched the whole movie .
Cheap and quick does not make good sci-fi .	This is a rip off of the old Frankenstein premise . An acclaimed scientist is killed in a freakish accident and his father , a noted brain surgeon saves the brain . It is then put into a robotic body of his own design . His brother , an electrical genius , gives the ' colossus ' impetus to transfer thoughts into motion . The whole project goes bad , when the creation goes berserk . Special effects are undeveloped . The script is lacking . And it is humorous that this is not scary a bit . Well , very small kids will think this is good . If you are wide awake at three in the morning and this comes on . . . . night , night . The lead characters are played by Otto Kruger , John Baragrey and Ross Martin . Ed Wolff played the ' Colossus ' .
Fantasy fare for the little ones .	Just perfect for rugrats and pre-schoolers . Several Hans Christian Anderson tales told by way of live action and stop motion puppetry . A diverse cast donated time and talent to this somewhat dated film . The cast features Ed Wynn , Ray Bolger , Patty Duke , Boris Karloff , Burl Ives , Margaret Hamilton , Tallulah Bankhead and Paul O'Keefe .
Uncover the cover up . Good mystery / drama .	A beautiful young woman ( Leslie Stefanson ) is found raped and murdered . Not only is she an Army Captain , she is the daughter of a very popular General , played by James Cromwell . The general wants a hurried and hush-hush investigation that won't interfere with his political future . John Travolta plays Warrant Officer Paul Brenner that uncovers the victim's past as a major clue to her demise . Madeleine Stowe is co-investigator and verbal sparring partner for Travolta's character . Timothy Hutton and James Woods are also featured . Graphic scenes .
Hard to agree to disagree .	Believing the hype sets you up for a let down . An unlikely couple meet at a Cubs game , with a hot dog breaking the ice . Brooke ( Jennifer Aniston ) works at an art gallery ; Gary ( Vince Vaughn ) is a host on a Chicago tour bus . When the new wears off of the relationship ; argument after argument leads to Brooke's obsession with " why can't you just do this one little thing for me " ; urging the decision to break up . Friends , family and even total strangers give advice to remedy the touchy situation . The relationship is not the only thing at stake ; the couple shares a high end condo that neither wants to give up . Of course my favorite scene is that of a rear view of a naked Brooke walking down the hall . Don't talk of a body double ; my mind will not accept the notion . To be exact , the only reason I really watched this movie is Aniston . I am not a Vaughn fan . Supporting cast features : Jason Bateman , Joey Lauren Adams , Vincent D'Onofrio and Ann-Margret .
Beware of that nasty ' wacky weed ' .	Intended to show the results of smoking marijuana , this movie is interesting in the fact it is fun to watch the ' over acting ' or lack thereof . A young punk ( Scott Marlowe ) fresh from reform school enrolls into a Kansas City high school with the intent to push marijuana . It is comical watching the results of just the introduction to the ' special smoke ' . Watching this today is a hoot with or without the munchies ! Also in the cast are : Richard Bakalyan , Dickie Jones and Gigi Perreau .
A dangerous hunt for longer life .	A team of scientist go on an expedition to Borneo in search for a flower known as the Blood Orchid , from which a medicine is believed to be developed . . . a pharmaceutical equivalent of a fountain of youth . Of course the jungle river is full of anacondas , which happen to be in the middle of their mating season . Not only does the team of scientist and chemical manufacturing reps need to fear the hungry giant snakes , but also each other . One by one , the hunting party gets smaller and more determined to find the elusive orchid that only blooms every seven years . The story line is hackneyed and the acting pretty lame . One bright spot though is KaDee Strickland with her appealing southern accent . The anacondas actually look pretty fearsome . Other cast members : Johnny Messner , Salli Richardson-Whitfield , Eugene Byrd , Matthew Marsden and Morris Chestnut .
You'll be scared out of your skull !	This horror tale takes place in the Namib Desert of Africa . A Canadian systems analyst , Zach Straker ( Scott Bairstow ) is sent on an assignment for a diamond mining company . Although he hates field work , he finds himself in a truck with a rescue unit in the open desert fighting sand flies and whipping , blowing sand . Four diamond prospectors are found . . . well whats left of their scattered bones are discovered . During a long cold desert night a shape-shifting monster makes its appearance . Zach and his colleagues are terrified when their truck is stranded and members of the unit are dying horribly one by one . There is no character development ; let alone dialogue to speak of . The desert set in its own way is beautiful and without giving anything away . . . the creature is as old as the desert sands . Also in the cast are : Rachel Shelley , Warrick Grier and Patrick Shai .
You can not just walk away from lust in love .	It is the 1880s and Cuba is a hotbed of commerce and personal manipulations . A wealthy businessman ( Antonio Banderas ) is thrust into a dizzy world of danger and mystery after marrying a sensationally beautiful woman ( Angelina Jolie ) . Her past governs her future and her newlywed husband is obsessed with giving her his whole world . The story line seems at times a bit haphazard ; but the steamy love scenes are worth more than the cost of admission . And we are talking about full redeeming nudity , because the story's very meaning lies within . Banderas has not been this powerful since MASK OF ZORRO ( 1998 ) . And Miss Jolie evokes sex period . The sizzle between the two is what holds the movie together . In supporting roles are Thomas Jane and Jack Thompson . This movie may not be the best or even that memorable ; but it will damn sure give you something to talk about .
Religious procedure goes wrong .	Based on a true story . Not very scary , but haunting . An average young college student Emily Rose ( Jennifer Carpenter ) begins seeing strange visions , speaking in unrecognizable tongues , succumbing to horrid body contortions and mutilations of her body . She was thought to be a victim of epilepsy or psychosis . Her priest , Father Moore ( Tom Wilkinson ) believes she is a subject of demon possession . Father Moore is requested by the family to perform an exorcism to rid Emily of her torment . Emily does not survive and the priest is charged with negligent homicide . An ambitious , admitted agnostic lawyer Erin Bruner ( Laura Linney ) takes on Father Moore's defense . The finale contains an unexpected twist . It was nice to not see it coming . Cast also includes : Campbell Scott , Colm Feore and Ken Welsh .
Hunger for human carnage .	A young forest ranger Danielle ( Cerina Vincent ) uses her lonely outpost to grieve the death of her best friend . In a cave in the forest , a Native American legend comes to life from years of slumber . The creature has already slaughtered campers and hikers and attacks the ranger outpost . The creature slowly stalks and makes her life more miserable . Danielle's boyfriend Justin ( Dominic Zamprogna ) tries to help to no avail . She must face the wrath of the ruthless monster and destroy the flesh-ripping creature from hell . . . alone . This horror flick is better than expected and is given some credibility by being produced by Stephen J . Cannell . Also in the cast : Greg Kean , Miranda Frigon and Eric Schweig .
Silent as you go . Mediocre submarine flick .	Very predictable , but entertaining . Dr . Van Tasset ( Barry Livingston ) is an American expert on chemical weapons , who is kidnapped following a military coup in Iran . An elite squad of the Navy Seals called the " Steel Sharks " are assigned to rescue him . The " Sharks " are led by Lt . Zambroski ( David Roberson ) and last minute new member Bob Rogers ( Billy Warlock ) , who has doubts of living up to the Seals standards . Capt . McKay ( Gary Busey ) , commander of the submarine the USS Oakland , draws the assignment from Admiral Perry ( Billy Dee Williams ) to take the " Sharks " to Iran . Van Tasset is rescued , but along with the " Sharks " are captured and held prisoner on an Iranian submarine . Thus comes the expected underwater duel . Very few surprises . I still don't get the prudence of a gun battle on a submerged submarine . Also in the cast : Anthony Griffith , Tim Lounibos and Matthew R . Anderson . I have always been a sucker for submarine flicks .
Hardly worth it .	This Jerry Lewis project does not ring with the sound of success . This film is way below the high standards that the legendary star / director has set for comedy flicks . The plot is quite simple and most of the sight gags are over done . A bumbling idiot has trouble keeping a job . He has tried being a circus clown , gas station attendant and even delivering the U . S . Mail . Unlucky in the working world , but lucky in love . Go figure . Also in the cast are Susan Oliver , Harold Stone and Stephen Baccus .
What are friends for ?	A wacky , manic movie about a California stoner-turned-scholar ( Colin Hanks ) being turned down by Stanford University . He is desperate enough to enlist the help of his girlfriend ( Schuyler Fisk ) and his totally stoned brother ( Jack Black ) for alternate ways to be accepted after the usual process failed him . Interesting array of veteran talent try to make this little movie something to remember . Adding the punch to the cast are : Chevy Chase , John Lithgow and Catherine O'Hara . A very enjoyable soundtrack helps move the story along . Some pretty good tunes from the Foo Fighters , Red Five , Ivy , Brian Wilson and the Phantom Planet .
Not much to miss .	Based on personal memoirs of Hollywood producer Art Linson and directed by the famed Barry Levinson WHAT JUST HAPPENED is a fictional flick about showbiz . Ben ( Robert De Niro ) is a struggling producer desperately trying to save two marriages and salvage two movies . His movie " Fiercely " is in a downward spiral after a disastrous test screening and the studio head ( Catherine Kenner ) is not impressed slightly and is certain that even lead star Sean Penn can't save it . Ben's upcoming film is in jeopardy because its star Bruce Willis has gained considerable weight and is sporting a woolly beard . . . detrimental to his audience appeal . Hollywood is filled with deceit , greed and inflated egos bouncing out of control . Even humor can't get too dark . Also in this star-studded cast : Robin Wright Penn , John Turturro , Stanley Tucci , Kristen Stewart and Michael Wincott .
They're dead things !	Produced , written and directed by S . William Hinzman . Trashy , cheesy and fun to watch . A group of college friends are planning to knock back some beers and " fool around " a bit on an overnight hayride . A nearby farmer clearing a stump manages to unleash a Fleasheater ( Hinzman ) from his coffin and that jump starts a zombie feed frenzy . Special effects are not exactly special , but pretty disturbing all the same . Some blood and ropes of guts and bullet holes in the head . Obligatory female nudity never hurts . Lame acting , but the main cast dies and becomes the living dead . Not a total waste . The cast includes : Leslie Ann Wick , Charis Kirkpatrik Acuff , James J . Rutan , Kevin Kindlin , Lisa Smith and Terrie Godfrey , as the police dispatcher .
A honeymoon to wild to forget .	William Nigh directs this early 40's madcap comedy . Morey Amsterdam's screenplay is cleverly funny and somewhat witty . The 56 minute film is fast paced with hardly a scene wasted . Newlyweds Webster ( James Dunn ) and ' Jackie ' ( Florence Rice ) spend their honeymoon in an old country home . Along with a nervous chauffeur ( Sam McDaniel ) the couple meets the town's executioner who has a fixation with nooses . Even before getting to settle in ; a coffin arrives carrying the former owner and the spooked couple call the police . When the Police Chief ( Jim Toney ) arrives it is discovered the coffin is now empty . Before this situation can be dealt with along comes the believed " deceased's " next of kin and a gang of jewel thieves trying to find a fortune in diamonds hidden in the house . This all becomes fodder for Police Chief Bagwell's attempts at writing pulp fiction . Dunn's stupidity is somewhat funny ; but McDaniel ( the chauffeur ) steals the show . Also in the cast are : Robert Bice , Eddy Chandler , Robert Dudley and Tony Ward .
Half of nothing is nothing .	Amy Holden Jones writes and directs this tense drama about a beautiful woman ( Halle Berry ) who feels her wealthy husband ( Christopher McDonald ) is not spending enough time with her . She makes a mistake telling her marital woes to a stranger who decides to help her out by killing her husband . She of course becomes the prime suspect and ends up dealing with a double cross times two . Her husband left a strong prenup in his favor and did not leave a will . The finale offers one hell of a twist . Rounding out the cast are : Clive Owen , Peter Greene , Frankie Faison and Clea Lewis . At times this thriller drags a bit ; but I did not watch this for the story . I watched this for the sensual Halle Berry .
Dueling magicians . Secret obsessions .	I personally don't agree that THE PRESTIGE will be one of the best films you have the chance to see . Visuals are stunning and you can tell that the director Christopher Nolan put a lot of labor into this project . Set at the turn-of-the-century London , magicians are celebrities and idols of the day . Two magicians , that have turned enemies deluxe , will passionately not stop at nothing to learn each other's majestic secrets . Each magician will apply deceit , sabotage and other dastardly deeds to become the greatest magician of all time . This movie is overly long and at times seems like it is just plodding along . Stars include : Hugh Jackman , Michael Caine , Piper Perabo , David Bowie and Christian Bale .
Count Dracula his house haunting . . . uh , hunting .	Produced , written and directed by Werner Herzog . A moody tale that drags at a lumbering pace . Haunting music is noteworthy and scenery is placid . I have never before seen Count Dracula spending his nights in an almost all white abode . What happened to a dark and dank castle ? Jonathan Harker ( Bruno Ganz ) must take a trip to see Count Dracula , who is in the market to buy a new residence . Jonathan reluctantly leaves his lovely wife Lucy ( Isabelle Adjani ) and worries about her safety . If he sells a nearby old home to the Count , the commission on the sale would be enough to buy Lucy a new home . Against warnings Jonathan finds out why the towns people are afraid of his possible client . My favorite scene is where the Count quickly grabs and sucks the blood from Jonathan's cut hand . Quite puzzling is how pale Lucy is and that is before she ever sees Dracula . Oh well , the story is basicly a good one ; it just seems a little long in the tooth . This is a must see for any dyed in the wool Dracula buff .
Leaping horny toad !	Talk about your wild life . Barely a B-movie , but what the hay . . . corny Sci-Fi and lesbian sex . From the mind of writer and director Cody Jarrett , a cheesy slice of fun . A chemical company is dumping waste that is causing mutants in a fish farm . The hot Kristi Russell stars as Dr . Barbara Michaels , an EPA agent sent to investigate this environmental dilemma . She just happens to enter a lesbian relationship with bartender Trixie ( Ariadne Shaffer ) and their love scenes are about as good as this film gets . A man-size frog incites chaos ; causing a car crash , raping the chemical company boss's daughter , raping a girl under the bleachers at a football game , stiff-arm tackling a runner in the football game , raping a nun . . . all before being shot twice in the chest after an antidote was found all ready . The special effects . . . well , not special ; a guy in a rubber frog costume without the genitalia to prove himself . Tough tadpoles , do you still want to watch it ? Go ahead , but bribe any witness to secrecy .
Once again aliens war among themselves .	Sporadically funny retread of the original . Once again J ( Will Smith ) and K ( Tommy Lee Jones ) special agents of a secret society of protectors of Earth aka Men in Black must shield the world's population from aliens at odds with themselves . The diverse cast can't save this film from itself . Smith is sometimes funny , but mostly predictable and a little flat . Isn't Jones getting a little old for this s # t ? Other featured players : Johnny Knoxville , Rip Torn , Rosario Dawson and the fetching Lara Flynn Boyle . And cameos for Peter Graves , Martha Stewart and Michael Jackson . Worth watching just for the aliens and terrific F / X .
The alpha male attracts chaos .	Nick Cassavetes directs this glorification of the true life story of one of the youngest people ever wanted by the FBI . Emile Hirsch plays drug dealer Johnny Truelove . He comes from a very well off family , owns his own home , several cars and numerous sycophants . Actually Johnny is idolized by his suburbanite posse . There is the dolt Elvis ( Shawn Hatosy ) and the burnt out Frankie ( Justine Timberlake ) . Jake ( Ben Foster ) is a druggie that shorts him in a pot transaction . The speed freak Jake welches on the debt ; so the powerful and privileged Johnny has Jake's 15-year-old brother Zack ( Anton Yelchin ) kidnapped and held as a marker . It becomes obvious the debt won't be paid any time soon . When Johnny and closer followers realize they're subject to doing long hard time behind bars for kidnapping ; they consider the options : return Zack or off him . This film gives Timberlake the chance to strip his shirt off , show tattoos and partake of the drugs that comes with the territory . Plus his mouth couldn't be much fouler . All said , Justin probably does the best acting in this chaotic flick . Also in the cast are Bruce Willis , Sharon Stone , Dominique Swain , Laura Nativo , Regina Rice , Olivia Wilde and Harry Dean Stanton .
Look before you leap .	Kip Allen aka The Durango Kid ( Charles Starrett ) uncovers the smuggling of stolen U . S . minted gold . A ring of greedy cowpokes use an old prospector named Grubstake ( Emmett Lynn ) as the front for the transport of stolen gold supposedly from his " lost mine " . He goes along with the plot in order to impress his visiting daughter Gail played by Pat Parrish . The Durango Kid is also a Texas Ranger and off handedly has help from Tex Harding in uncovering the dirty dealin's going on . Tex appears to be in competition for the interest of Grubstake's daughter Gail and is none too shy in joining in with singing with a group of talented ranch hands ( The Jesters ) . Al Bridge is flawless as the villain Lucky . Also of note is the comic relief provided by the absent minded Cannonball ( Dub Taylor ) . No real surprises here . Just your typical western of the 40s lasting about 97 minutes .
Memories are not always stone cold .	Director Roger Corman again adapts Edgar A . Poe in a slow moving and often confusing tale of terror . Set in a wonderful old ruin like homestead ; mysterious black cat ; moody thunderstorms and eerie music are positive elements of this nerve wrecker . Vincent Price is masterful as a nobleman under the spell of his dead wife . When he takes a new bride back to the manor , the spirit of the first wife is to be reckoned with . A poetic finale is probably the highlight of this full color horror drama that would be just as much fun to watch in black and white . Also featured in the cast are : Elizabeth Shepherd , Derek Francis and John Westbrook . Just creepy enough to be memorable .
Not entirely flaccid . Gore with humor .	Not to take seriously . Sit back and have fun . A thirty foot alligator is raising havoc in a lake in Maine . Bill Pullman is a park ranger and Bridget Fonda is a museum curator , who try to help the local sheriff contain or kill the gator . Seeing a man bit in half is nothing compared to seeing a grizzly bear and a cow consumed by the toothy menace . Pullman plays his part by the numbers . Fonda plays a very irritating character . Betty White is funny and comes up with a few foul mouthed comments that lightens the movie . The best acting and best lines went to Oliver Platt , playing Hector , who is a rich snob that goes around the world just to swim with alligators . Adam Arkin also has a very small role . The few special effects were too few to make a real scary show . Stay calm and laugh at will .
The King of Rock ' n ' Roll pursues and captures an innocent heart .	In 1972 , after his wife left to go her own way , Elvis Presley began dating Linda Thompson . Miss Thompson , a good-humored , long haired , lovely , statuesque beauty queen , is charted to fill a void in Elvis ' life . When Elvis ' divorce became final , Linda was already in place as the legendary performer's live-in girlfriend and travel companion until 1976 . This is a gaudy look at their love affair and companionship . Linda whole-heartedly tending to her lover's needs and desires . And even putting up with his swallowing medications by the handful and introducing her to her own love affair with valium . At times this movie is harsh and dark of heart ; a very unattractive look at the ' King ' and his queen . Don Johnson is absolutely awful as Elvis . Over acting to the hilt is not attractive . Stephanie Zimbalist lacks the classiness of Linda , but does the job pretty well . Supporting cast includes : John Crawford , Ruta Lee , and Rick Lenz . Watching this twice is more than enough for me , but don't let this review stop you from checking it out . For most Elvis fans that I have conferred with , this is not a favored presentation .
Green Berets vs Bikers .	A biker gang led by William Smith has one bad cog ( Michael Haynes ) , who runs two girls off the road . Both are killed , one being the girlfriend of a Seargent ( Tony Young ) in the Green Berets . The Sgt . and few of his buddies , including singer Marvin Gaye , set out to do what the local authorities are having trouble doing . . . hunt down the biker gang . Buying motorcycles and " borrowing " some Army weapons and a truck , the small group of Green Berets seek out the gang , The Wizards , to deal revenge and justice . Also in the cast : Peter Brown , Katherine Baughmann , Herb Jeffries , Bobby Pickett , Cheryl Ladd and Dan Haggerty . NOTE : Pickett is the same Bobby " Boris " Pickett whose original " Monster Mash " hit the Billboard's Top 100 on three different occasions . Motown artist Gaye does not sing in this his one and only film appearance .
Has Nanny been with the family too long ?	This story evokes fear and is sustained by suspicion . Bette Davis is the Nanny , who seems to have been with a strange and dysfunctional family forever . There is the almost helpless wife , self centered husband absorbed with his work and a bratty little boy that insists the Nanny drowned his little sister in the bathtub . The young boy ( William Dix ) returns home after being placed in a correctional home for a couple of years and appears to be more disturbed than ever . It becomes a battle of suspicions and will power between Nanny and the boy leaving you wondering who in the Hell is responsible for all the little evil deeds surrounding the family apartment . At times Miss Davis seems passive and overwhelmed ; then again she leaves an impression she is evil and down right creepy . Dix is so good in his role , you want to slap a knot on his head yourself . There is more suspense than horror , but just not shocking enough for my blood . Also in the cast are Wendy Craig , Jill Bennett and James Villiers .
End of the world classic .	Scientists have calculated the end of the world . Then comes the usual race against time to prepare for transplanting mankind to the " new world " . Compared to today's standards ; the acting is cardboard and the special effects are wimpy . But remember back in the early ' 50s , plenty of little eye balls popped watching this at the Saturday matinee . George Pal was honored for production . Familiar faces in the cast , Richard Derr , John Hoyt , Frank Cady and Barbara Rush . This is still neat to watch .
Science and medicine go astray in the swamps of Louisiana .	A honeymoon is cut short when a maimed war hero ( Richard Crane ) seeks healing . The newlywed bride ( Beverly Garland ) tracks her husband down in a Louisiana bayou getting injections of a serum from alligator glands . A mad scientist tries to heal cripples with his bizarre experiments . After awhile the injected mutate into . . . well you can guess by the movie's title . Veteran actor Lon Chaney Jr plays a crazed Cajun with a left hook ( pun ) and a strong aversion to ' gators ' . Great scenery and background score . Special effects are pretty neat . Garland is beautiful and flawless in this Sci-Fi thriller . Notable support from George Macready , Bruce Bennett and Frieda Inescort . This is an attention grabber and well worth your while .
The population stays the same .	A traveling census-taker ( Jerry Sisto ) is assigned to visit the tiny town of Rockwell Falls . Mysteriously the population has stayed at 436 for the past 100 years . After two flat tires , the census-taker is given a ride by a Deputy Sheriff ( Fred Durst ) , who tells him not to worry about some traditions in Rockwell Falls that may seem a little odd . The town functions beneath a peaceful facade ; and when Sisto stumbles upon the truth about the town's population , he needs to flee in order to save his life . The horror is absent ; the mystery is moot ; you keep waiting on something from somewhere to deliver a punch . . . a punch that is never thrown . You continue to watch out of curiosity . Other cast members : Charlotte Sullivan , David Ames , Frank Adamson , David Fox and Reva Timbers .
Provocative western .	Spreading the gap between the white man and the American Native is TELL THEM WILLY BOY IS HERE . This is director Abraham Polonsky's first film in 21 years since his ' banishment ' . Willy Boy , a Piute Indian ( Robert Blake ) kills a man in self-defense and becomes the subject of a manhunt in 1909 California . With him is his lover Lola ( Katherine Ross ) trying to stay one step ahead of a posse led by Deputy Sheriff ' Coop ' Cooper ( Robert Redford ) . Being a ' savage ' , the deck is stacked against Willy Boy . . . his accusers of course assuming his guilt . Talent shines in this sage brush drama . Redford and Blake are excellent . Ross is so easy on the eyes you forget she has talent . Other standouts in the cast : Susan Clark , Barry Sullivan and Charles McGraw . This may be thought of as a thinking man's western .
The human condition is challenged . Exhilarating story .	A Werner Herzog film based on a true story with some liberties taken . RESCUE DAWN is an intense tale of camaraderie and bravery in the face of despair . In 1965 , U . S . Navy pilot Dieter Dengler ( Christian Bale ) was on a top-secret bombing mission over Laos when he is shot down , captured and taken to a hellish prison . He refuses to sign a document discrediting America and its military action . Dengler , much to his surprise , finds other captives who have been victim of physical and psychological torture . Dengler instigates an escape plan for the captives to take separate routes through the jungle trying to reach Thailand on the other side of the Mekong River . Nerves will knot as your blood pressure pounds . Enough action to sustain attention . Other cast members : Steve Zahn , Jeremy Davies , Francois Chau and Zach Grenier .
If the taxpayer only knew the truth .	This is a terse drama with its moments of comedy . Keifer Sutherland is a young doctor signing on at a Veteran's Hospital where Ray Liotta leads a renegade group of doctors going against hospital rules and lack of funds to provide help to ailing veterans . You won't get what you want . . . and what you do get ain't worth # ^ t . That attitude is easy to take when you're a victim of Bureaucratic Red Tape . This is an eye opening movie , but not evocative of the majority of VA Hospitals . The very talented cast includes : Forest Whitaker , John Mahoney , Lea Thompson and Keith David . Along with Liotta , John C . McGinley and veteran actor Eli Wallach seem to add a special touch . Worthwhile even if it is sometimes stretching the boundaries of reality .
The suicide of a bullied student is not to be forgotten .	Not a teen slasher flick . . . but teens do go down , one by one . Bullies and jocks at Rogers High School die shouting the name of a former student Abel Frye ( George Humphreys ) , who hung himself in a wing of the school still under construction . David Keith plays a special investigator , who along with his wife ( Mel Harris ) , son ( Douglas Smith ) and daughter ( Leighton Meester ) work undercover at the school to discover the truth about the legendary curse and end its death grip on the school . Actually interesting and worth watching . Keith fit his role perfectly . Harris seemed pedestrian at best . The cast includes : Edwin Hodge , William R . Moses , Daniel Farber and Margaret Travolta .
Cujo has nothing on this breed .	Wes Craven presents a thriller that satisfies . Two brothers , Matt ( Eric Lively ) and John ( Oliver Hudson ) fly to a deserted island for a week long party . Joining them are Matt's girlfriend Niki ( Michelle Rodriguez ) , John's girlfriend Sara ( Taryn Manning ) and a good friend of the group , Noah ( Hill Harper ) . On the schedule , kick back with good wine and good friends . But the weekend of fun and relaxation turns sour , when Sara is attack by a vicious dog . The island proves not to be too damn deserted . When the group finally decides to leave the island early . . . they discover their plane has drifted away and even worse , they are surrounded by a pack of genetically tampered dogs trained to kill . The trapped friends must outsmart the wild dogs if they intend to survive the nightmare that has started .
Mr . President , are you really above the law ?	Not the best nor worst from director Clint Eastwood . A master thief ( Eastwood ) becomes a marked man after witnessing the President's ( Gene Hackman ) involvement in a murder . The story line is not the easiest to believe , but interesting enough . Some good performances by the likes of Ed Harris and Laura Linney . Rounding out the cast are Judy Davis , Scott Glenn and Dennis Haysbert . The slow pace is the biggest fault I find with the movie ; but maybe that is to build drama . Albeit Eastwood fans have endured worse .
Sherlock takes on Nazi agents .	Arthur Conan Doyle's super sleuth Sherlock Holmes ( Basil Rathbone ) and his assistant Dr . Watson ( Nigel Bruce ) work seriously to save the British war effort . Holmes is again up against his arch enemy , Professor Moriarty ( Lionel Atwill ) , who is now working for the Nazi and they must be stopped for getting their hands on information concerning a crucial new bomb site . While investigating Holmes takes on a few disguises : an old German bookseller , a Swiss inventor and even a criminal named Lascar . Also featured in this crime thriller is Dennis Hoey as inspector Lestrade , Holmes Herbert , Kaaren Verne and once again Mary Gordon plays Mrs . Hudson the faithful housekeeper at 221B Baker Street . For some reason I thought Rathbone appeared less intense as usual . And although Atwill is known for being a good villain he is bland compared to Henry Daniell as Moriarty . NOTE : The USA release runs 68 minutes . . . 12 minutes less than the UK film .
Talk about bait and trade . . . where is the booty of this heist ?	David Mamet writes and directs this helter skelter caper about a veteran thief ( Gene Hackman ) who is being pressured into pulling off one more big heist by a greedy , ruthless gangster ( Danny DeVito ) . Hackman does what Hackman does . . . and superbly . DeVito's character is one slimy S . O . B . and Danny seems to have fun with it . Also in the cast are Delroy Lindo , Rebecca Pidgeon and Sam Rockwell . This zigzagging story is well worth your efforts .
Captivated attention .	The orphaned Fitzgerald girls , Ginger ( Katharine Isabelle ) and Brigitte ( Emily Perkins ) make their way across 19th century Canadian wilderness . While visiting an Indian campsite , they are given warning about what may be ahead for them in the snow covered woods . The girls take refuge in a trading fort containing men only . There is danger outside the walls . . . werewolves . Two things become obvious ; the fort may not be able to hold off the siege of hungry werewolves , and one of the orphans is bitten and slowly starts to change . Is the Indian prophecy to become reality ? Entertaining fantasy horror with a dark atmosphere . Other cast members : Hugh Dillon , David La Haye , Brenden Fletcher and Nathaniel Arcand .
Cowboys lasso carnivorous creatures from the past .	Special effects master Ray Harryhausen is at the top of his game . What sounds corny turns out to be a very interesting cult classic . Jim O'Connolly directs this western meets science fiction thriller about cowboys discovering a lost valley of prehistoric monsters / creatures . These historical finds are then suppose to be the show saving performers in a traveling circus . This turns out to be one the best dino movies you will ever see . The stop-motion animation is blended so well , it should take top billing . So many other movies are so fake in appearance . . . this project sticks out like a masterpiece . The cast includes James Franciscus , Richard Carlson , Laurence Naismith and the alluring Miss Gila Golan .
Fast paced western .	Remember Saturday mornings at the movies ? This is a perfect example of the memories . Almost an hour of good guys , bad guys , pretty gal in trouble and gun play . Three saddle pals stop foreign spies from smuggling a dangerous chemical into Mexico . The chemical is used to make poison gas . Fast horses and stray bullets travel with the familiar generic background music . John Wayne , Ray ' Crash ' Corrigan and Max Terhune are the saddle pals . Doreen McKay is the government agent that needs help catching the bad guys .
It is not easy to hide in a house of glass .	This thriller has the chances of being a real chiller . . . but falls apart . The script leaves a lot to be desired in a story that has too many holes in it . Two orphaned kids ( Leelee Sobieski and Trevor Morgan ) go to live with a wealthy couple ( Stellan Skarsgard and Diane Lane ) who are not as benevolent as they seem . The couple is cash strapped and intend to swindle the youngsters out of their inheritance . Some pretty wicked behavior keeps interest alive . Sobieski and Lane do their best with the characters they have to work with , but both barely unleash their talent . Sobieski's sexpot appearance is wasted . Also in the cast are Bruce Dern , Chris Noth , Kathy Baker and Michael O'Keefe .
Sherlock Holmes and murder on a speeding train .	A mysterious murder on a fast moving train is not exactly a unique story line , but this Sherlock Holmes who-done-it is entertaining . Holmes ( Basil Rathbone ) and his faithful sideman Dr . Watson ( Nigel Bruce ) are hired to guard against the theft of Lady Margaret Carstairs ' ( Mary Forbes ) precious " Star of Rhodesia " , a diamond huge enough to choke a pony . While on a speeding train from London to Edinburgh Lady Carstairs ' nephew is killed and the priceless gem is stolen . Holmes sets out to find the murderer and retrieve the diamond . Besides everyone being a suspect ; also on board is the infamous criminal Colonel Sebastian Moran ( Alan Mowbray ) , a master of disguise who can be posing as any of the passengers . Pretending to be on his way toward a fishing vacation is Inspector Lestrade ( Dennis Hoey ) of Scotland Yard , who wants to be in the middle of the confusion trying to solve the mystery . Intrigue and suspense builds at every turn of the speeding train . This is not one of the best Holmes films , but interesting enough . Perfect for your late night viewing .
It is not who you were ; it is who you step up to be .	During a pro-football players strike , a savvy owner hires an unconventional coach ( Gene Hackman ) to keep the season alive with a rag tag motley crew led by Keanu Reeves . Reeves ' character must overcome his own demons before helping the " replacements " find short lived glory . This is comic relief , but not comparable to baseball's MAJOR LEAGUE . Some hard hitting action on the field gives this flick reality . At times you can feel the pain . You don't have to know anything about or even like football to enjoy this movie . Beware of splittin ' a rib laughing . Supporting cast includes : Orlando Jones , Faizon Love , Brooke Langton and Gailard Sartain .
Beware of the one that makes his own rules .	This movie is also known as UNDER PRESSURE . The pressure of being an honored and highly recognized fire fighter , ( Charlie Sheen ) has driven his wife and small son away with his demeaning and demanding attitude . He carries a heavy chip on his shoulder and leaves no slack for those who come in contact with him . Constant confrontations with his next door neighbors finally comes to a head . No one is spared . The neighbor , his wife and two children are totally terrified . When the police are called ; and they visit with the public servant with a dual personality , all hell breaks loose . Sheen really gets into this part . He is pretty menacing . And has that frightening stay away stare . Also featured are Mare Winningham , John Ratzenberger and David Andrews . There is also a cameo part for baseball great , Reggie Jackson . This tense thriller is equal to a two alarm blaze . A don't miss for Sheen fans .
The under belly of human drama .	Great performances from Gene Hackman and Al Pacino . Two hitch hikers meet on the beaten path leading to an uncertain future . Hackman's character has been saving money in his shoe in hopes of someday buying a car wash . Dialogue on the rough side . This is a very moody piece about being down and surviving on your dreams . Movie drags on and on , but is redeemed by the acting skills of Hackman and Pacino . Was that a body double for Eileen Breenan ? If not , what a cameo .
A different meaning to " bringin ' down the house " .	Richard Benjamin directs this comedy about a young couple and their misery trying to turn a dilapidated house into their dream home . Situational comedy makes up for the flimsy story line . Two young stars on their way up . . . Tom Hanks and Shelley Long work absolutely great together . Funny script with even funnier one-line rebuttals . Very good support from Joe Mantegna , Philip Bosco and Yakov Smirnoff .
A touching reunion . A movie of interest .	A struggling young actress ( Andrea Leeds ) keeps her past a secret in efforts to succeed by getting much sought advice from a famous stage actor ( Adolphe Menjou ) . When it is discovered this popular thespian is her estranged father , she decides to keep their relationship mum to the public in order to not damage his ego and reputation . LETTER OF INTRODUCTION blends drama with comedy and is sustained by a somewhat strange , but strong cast featuring : Eve Arden , George Murphy , Rita Johnson , Ann Sheridan and Edger Bergen with those not so dumb dummies Charlie McCarthy and Mortimer Snerd . This movie has been shown well - preserved on both AMC and PBN .
The little lion that tried to roar .	Interesting animated feature directed by Steve ' Spaz ' Williams . An all-star cast lends voice to a diverse group of animals from the New York Zoo . A young lion Ryan ( Greg Cipes ) is impatient with his coming of age and acquiring a roar like his dad Sampson ( Kiefer Sutherland ) . Sampson is living on a false reputation that he was once a king in the African wild . Ryan runs away on a ship destined for Africa to rescue animals . Sampson and his friends commandeer a tugboat and head to Africa to find Ryan . Other vocal talent provided by : Janeane Garofalo , James Belushi , William Shatner , Eddie Izzard , Richard Kind and Miles Marsico . THE WILD is interesting enough for adults , but just not as good as some of the other animated features out there at the moment .
You know you did it and he knows you did it .	Sixty year old Tom Selleck still has that boyish macho charm working for him . Based on a Robert B Parker novel , Selleck plays Jesse Stone a former big-city detective turned laid-back police chief of a small fishing community Paradise , Massachuesetts . Stone still fights his demons , namely the thought of his ex-wife and his thing for drinking . Two major crimes confront Stone : a gang rape of a teenage girl ( Alexis Dziena ) and a seemingly random series of killings . Stone strongly suspects a pompous vacationer ( Reg Rogers ) and his slightly loony wife ( Jane Adams ) of the methodical murders . . . but still needs to build up enough evidence to prove it . My favorite scene is where a cunning lawyer ( Mimi Rogers ) hikes her skirt and straddles a seated Selleck to muddle his mind with seduction . The no real frills climax is not unexpected . Also in the cast are : Cindy Sampson , Kohl Sudduth and Viola Davis .
A newspaper copy editor becomes prom queen .	This is a very predictable little story ; but the finale is the most romantic I've seen in a while . A 25 year old copy editor for a Chicago paper gets her first assignment as an undercover reporter . She ethically blows her own cover , ruining her story ; but turns in an alternate story about her real experiences in high school . I did not go out of my way to see this ; but since I love Drew Barrymore , I couldn't totally pass it up . Without Barrymore this would not make the grade . Silly plot , but interesting sub-plots . The finale brings about a big happy sigh . The other cast members include : David Arquette , LeeLee Sobieski , Molly Shannon , Michael Vartan and Garry Marshall .
Jokers are wild and the stakes are deadly .	Also known as THE CARD PLAYER , this Italian horror film is intense enough to crack your white knuckles and turn your stomach inside out . A serial killer taunts a police detective ( Stefania Rocca ) into a video poker game , with the stakes being the mutilation and probable slaying of a young woman . The police department watch via web cam . An Irish forensics expert from England ( Liam Cunningham ) joins in the race to find this card playing sadist before he slaughters another victim . Dario Argento is a master of gore . He directs and writes like a true genius when it comes to chilling and violent horror . The grisly special effects by Sergio Stivaletti are top notch . Also in the cast of this stylish thriller : Silvio Muccino , Claudio Santamaria , Fiore Argento , Antonio Cantafora and Michele Pellegrini . This suspenseful shocker is highly recommended .
Thrilling Sci-Fi . Animal , mineral or alien ?	Robert Urich is a retired cop from New York City on vacation with his daughter . While traveling on vacation , a flat tire enables him to get involved investigating a series of mysterious cattle mutilations . JoBeth Williams is the local sheriff having trouble convincing authorities of her ideas about the cause of the killings . Gailard Sartain plays an anxious mayor . Visuals are not so graphic , but the suspense keeps you interested . Providing fine support are : Hoyt Axton , Peter Coyote and Harry Carey , Jr .
Sometimes truth is hard to take .	The fear of Communism runs high . Truth or propaganda ? An FBI agent turns counterspy burrowing his way into the U . S . Communist Party . Documentary style Film-Noir . Watching this fifty some years after its release dilutes the original intentions . A case of do as I say ; not as I do . Frank Lovejoy is sometimes stoic but effective . Also featured are Philip Carey , Dorothy Hart and Richard Webb . You may possibly get more into CONFESSIONS of a NAZI SPY ( 1939 ) starring Edward G . Robinson .
Blistering revenge and fire hot love in New Orleans .	This is a passionate drama that keeps heating up right to the interesting , but over blown finale . A rouge Chicago cop ( Richard Gere ) travels to ' The Big Easy ' and becomes a hit man in order to avenge the murder of his partner . This plot is nothing new , but the dynamic Gere pretty much takes control of the movie . And in scenes with Kim Basinger , the no nonsense detective and the New Orleans vixen about set the screen ablaze . The big showdown in the hotel is a bit contrived , but lets you know justice prevails . Gere and Basinger are outstanding together . Just the eye contact can speed up your breathing . George Dzundza plays a cautious police captain . Ray Sharkey has a small role as does Gary Basaraba . Jeroen Krabbe is one fearsome villain that deserves his demise . Love , hate , passion , violence and revenge leaves no room for mercy .
America's favorite cowboy turns doctor .	Hee-haw ! Gene Autry returns to Coffin Gap , where his father was murdered . Gene with his degree from Western University becomes the town's doctor . . . yep partner . . . Dr . Gene . Dusty Cosgrove ( Pat Buttram ) aids Gene in his search for the truth about his father's death ; and along the way helps settle a war between ranchers and copper miners . Plus Gene sings " Peter Cottontail " and " Utah " . Typical good guys and bad guys with gun play and flying fists . America's favorite cowboy fights ' em and heals ' em . A better than average supporting cast features : Elaine Riley , Denver Pyle , William Fawcett , Onslow Stevens and Donna Martell .
Religious relics cause more than concern .	This is a spine-tingling supernatural thriller about digging up the past and possibly seeing the future . A young woman , Cassie ( Christina Ricci ) is backpacking through a small English town when she is hit by an auto . Cassie suffers amnesia , but begins seeing visions of death . . . is it from the past or the future ? Those visions are part of a curse that closely relates to the townspeople . The local priest , Luke Fraser ( Simon Russell Beale ) , is startled when an under ground ancient church is discovered . Archaeologist Simon Kirkland ( Stephen Dillane ) is asked to investigate the ruins and try to help make sense of the religious sculptures that seem to involve the crucifixion of Christ . Others in the cast : Kerry Fox , Harry Forrester , Jessica Mann and Peter McNamara . When all is said and done , you may just recommend this to Ricci fans .
A family divided comes together in need .	Director Ron Howard strikes gold again with an intense western drama based on a novel by Thomas Eidson . The screenplay is the work of Ken Kaufman and New Mexico provides some very awesome scenery . The story is set in the 1880's when after a long disappearance a father ( Tommy Lee Jones ) finds the family he left behind . His daughter ( Cate Blanchett ) is not so pleased with her father's return and intends to allow him to stay long enough to receive some medical attention and then move on . When one of her two daughters is kidnapped for Mexican slave / sex trade , she agrees to accept her father and his Native American ways to find the girl . The father and daughter team proves to be a force to be reckoned with . A dramatic heartfelt finale complete with sadness and the reinforcement of independence leaves you throughly entertained . Also in the cast are : Evan Rachel Wood , Jenna Boyd , Steve Reevis , Jay Tavare , Sergio Calder and a cameo role for Val Kilmer .
Going down and not much time for air .	Directed and produced by Wolfgang Peterson and starring Kurt Russell . . . I really expected more and better . Another tale of Poseidon capsizing . Thirteen decks and 20-stories high , the Poseidon falls victim to a 150-foot rogue wave that flips the luxury ship over ; and as expected a desperate struggle to survive begins . A New Years Eve to be remembered . What was down is up and what was up is down ; Russell , Richard Dreyfuss , Emmy Rossum , Jacinda Barrett , Josh Lucas , Kirk B . R . Woller , Stacy Ferguson , Mia Maestro , Kevin Dillon and Mike Vogel are just a few that must trust each other as they seek safety through the flames and wreckage of their immediate underwater world . This is a nonstop action thriller with spectacular visual effects . I'm glad to see Russell's return to being a manly man . Also impressive is Ferguson aka Fergie of the Black Eyed Peas . POSEIDON is of course predictable , but a nail-biter well worth watching .
A worn out plot with better special effects .	How many times have we seen a group of people lured into staying the night in the haunted Hill House ? Liam Neeson plays a doctor seeking individuals with sleeping disorders . The participants have to deal with terror and the fear of dying . How can you sleep when visions come out of the drapes ? Neeson alone can't save this one . Catherine Zeta-Jones is absolutely ravishing . Equally impressive is the visual and sound effects . This movie had the room and the chances to be real scary , but it just laid there . I was begging for something to make me jump . Not this time .
Gene Autry saves the rodeo .	Thanks to the Encore Westerns channel for playing the fully restored HOME IN WYOMIN ' . Singing cowboy and radio star Gene Autry comes to the rescue to solve a murder mystery at the rodeo during a Frontier Days celebration . The rodeo promoter Tex Harrison ( James Seay ) has been drinking recklessly and has become involved with Chicago gangster's . Clementine Benson ( Fay McKenzie ) is a newspaper correspondent sent to dispute the reputation of all around hero Autry . Sidekick ' Frog ' Millhouse ( Smiley Burnette ) has his own sidekick . . . a smaller version of himself ' Tadpole ' Millhouse ( Joe Strauch Jr . ) . This is comical in itself . Gene always manages to get a few songs in . This time the likes of " I'm Thinking Tonight of My Blue Eyes " and " Tweedle O'Twill " . In honor of the female reporter there is a rousing version of " Clemetine " . And whoa Nelly . . . Gene and Champion get to chase a gangster's sedan . Also in the cast : Olin Howland , Charles Lane , Hal Price and Forrest Taylor .
Gene Autry in majestic Canada .	Columbia Pictures and director John English has U . S . Marshall Gene Autry on his Wonder Horse Champion with saddle buddy Scat Russell ( Pat Buttram ) in hot pursuit of bank robbers Pierre LaBlond ( Carleton Young ) and Raoul Duval ( Trevor Bardette ) . The bad guys cross the border into Canada , where Gene and Scat find a wounded Canadian Mountie , Terry Dillon ( Richard Emory ) , who tells of his partner being murdered by the bandits . Gene , Scat and the Canadian Mounties track down and wipe out LaBlond and his gang . The grand finale being a vicious shootout . Gene gets to croon " Blue Canadian Rockies " . The beautiful Canadian scenery is not Canada at all , but mostly San Bernadino National Forest in California . Other players : Elena Verdugo , Francis McDonald , Herbert Rawlinson and Jim Frasher .
What a wild ride !	This sequel leaves the original THE LOVE BUG ( 1968 ) in a cloud of exhaust . Although times change , the fun loving ' 63 VW Beetle named Herbie still has a mind of his own . Maggie Peyton ( Lindsay Lohan ) is the 18 yr old daughter of a once big name stock car driver ( Michael Keaton ) . Maggie loves racing and is line for a job covering NASCAR for ESPN ; knowing her dad forbids her getting behind the wheel of a race car . . . this attractive teen has it in her blood . After graduation Maggie discovers Herbie in a junkyard . . . then the magic begins . Freewheelin ' Herbie in on the road to becoming a NEXTEL champion . Matt Dillon plays Trip Murphy , an obnoxious self-loving rival racer . Justin Long is Maggie's ' best ' friend Kevin . Maggie's throttled brother Ray Jr . is played by Breckin Meyer . Also in the cast are : Cheryl Hines , Jimmi Simpson and Jill Ritchie . This movie is fast paced and is fueled by a very good soundtrack featuring the likes of the Beach Boys , Van Halen , Pilot , Lionel Ritchie , Loverboy and Ms Lohan singing " First " . HERBIE : FULLY LOADED is fun for the whole family .
Cold war cat and mouse .	Almost forgotten film-noir with the pairing of George Raft and Edward G . Robinson . Commies , gangsters and intrigue . A communist spy concocts a plan to kidnap an important American atomic scientist . An infamous tough guy is employed to do the actual kidnapping . At the same time , a determined G-man plans to rescue the scientist ; but as circumstances would have it , the communist spy sets into motion the interception of the detective to have him " bumped off " . As the cat and mouse activity progresses , the gangster makes his democratic allegiance known . . . guess what . . . the world keeps right on spinning and democracy is safe for another day . Am not sure if Robinson or Raft knew who the real star was . Other players in this drama : George Dolenz , Audrey Totter , Joseph Vitale and Toni Gerry . This little escape runs 85 minutes .
Not just a walk in the woods .	Gore and paranoia is the fuel that keeps this quirky thriller burning . Written and directed by Eli Roth , this flick is not for one with a weak stomach . Five college students decide to spend a week in a cabin in the woods before joining the real world . Don't ask how or why . . . a flesh-eating virus is introduced to the group by a dying hermit ( Arie Verveen ) . Interesting and odd is that it is not the virus that actually kills off the decadent vacationers one by one . The acting is as lame as the story but CABIN FEVER is a dose of chilling entertainment . The cast features Rider Strong , Jordan Ladd , Cerina Vincent , Joey Kern , James DeBello and even a bit part for Roth . NOTE : Ladd is the daughter of a former " Charlie's Angel " Cheryl Ladd . Strong in spite of a name fit for a porno star is better known for his TV work . Forget the popcorn for this one because it won't stay down long . If you're a gore monger you will be pleased .
There is more than just being social .	Gene Kelly directs this occasionally funny western . Star power galore does not mean a top notch movie . John O'Hanlan ( James Stewart ) inherits a Texas landmark . . . well , its actually a popular whore house . Down on his luck O'Hanlan talks his good friend Harley Sullivan ( Henry Fonda ) to help him run it . Yes , there is some laughs ; but this movie seems way beneath efforts and reputations of both Stewart and Fonda . Situational comedy just doesn't seem to be even par with the cast . Stewart and Fonda work very well together . Others of note in the cast : Sue Ane Langdon , Shirley Jones , Dabbs Greer , Elaine Devry and Arch Johnson .
A singing cowboy is executor of the will .	Cody Langham ( Carol Hughes ) is a girl from the east and attempts to run a ranch left to her by her father . Ranch foreman Gene Autry is named executor of the will and agrees to turn the ranch over to Cody when she marries a man of Gene's approval . The young woman is smitten with a scoundrel ( Craig Reynolds ) , who wants to get rid of Gene when he learns he will not give Cody permission to marry him . A fake cattle rustling raid , kidnappings and attempted murder are in Gene's way of bringing Cody to her senses . Gene sings " There's A Gold Mine In The Sky " and " As Long As I Have My Horse " . Sidekick Frog Millhouse ( Smiley Burnette ) sings " That's How Donkey's Are Born " . Rounding out the cast are : Le Roy Mason , Frankie Marvin , Ben Corbett and the Stafford Sisters .
Beware of someone who owns you and your secrets .	Harrison French ( Matt Davis ) is a young businessman who's career is headed for the crapper . On the way home from a gathering he accidentally runs over and kills his own brother-in-law on a rainy highway . The man to help cover up this crime is a smart and powerful attorney William Ashbury ( James Spader ) , who is the leader of an underground society of other men of notoriety trapped in a web of fear and blackmail . These men give up every Tuesday night with no exception to meet . Caught in this devious society are lawmakers and law enforcers . Troubles can seem to disappear while under Ashbury's thumb . But sometimes a new future is able to slip away from the shadow of fear . Intense and gripping with a well thought out finale . Spader is perfect in this role . In the supporting cast : Peter Coyote , Robin Tunney , Aidan Quinn and Lacey Chabert . Kudos to Rich Cowan , director of this thinking man's thriller . Writing credits : Matthew Hollaway and Arthur Marcum .
The ground begins shakin ' ! Perfection will not be the same .	The small desert town of Perfection , Nevada is being rattled by strong underground tremors . Pulses start pounding when the town is terrorized by the cause of the powerful vibrations . . . earth worm-like creatures that measure 30 foot long . A little off beat and quirky . Sometimes a bit silly and very light on intelligent dialogue . FX are pretty darn good and this comedic Sci-Fi will get you to squirming . Fighting off these huge crawlers are Kevin Bacon , Fred Ward , Michael Gross and country music warbler Reba McEntire . Also notable are Finn Carter , Bobby Jacoby and easy on the eye Charlotte Stewart . If you like ' em scary and funny , you should enjoy TREMORS .
Those lovable " rag-a-muffins " take on Paris .	Very good animated comedy . And true to the TV series , out of the mouths of babes comes potty talk and there is always the heavy helping of potty humor . The Pickle clan along with Chuckie Finster and his widowed father find themselves at a Japanese theme-park in Paris where the greedy proprietor Coco LaBouche ( Susan Sarandon ) tries to force Mr . Finster into marriage . Chuckie interrupts the wedding at the appropriate time by uttering his first word ( understood by adults ) . . . NO ! But that doesn't mean romance is dead . All is well that ends well . The Rugrats ' appeal seems to still be snowballing . This flick has what it takes to please everyone in between the younger diaper set to the older diaper set ! Forget about your troubles for just a little while and find the humor in the messes these toddlers and crawlers get into . Christine Cavanaugh is the voice of Chuckie . Cheryl Chase gives voice to the group's brat Angelica . Sarandon is not exactly in her element with the French accent . Some other voices you may or may not recognize are that of : John Lithgow , Melanie Chartoff , Casey Kasem and Debbie Reynolds .
That's all the news that is news . Film at eleven .	A seasoned TV journalist ( Robert Redford ) molds . . . and falls for . . . an engaging , ambitious news woman ( Michelle Pfeiffer ) . A strong , romantic story that also gives a glimpse of behind the scenes TV journalism . Redford and Pfeiffer are magical together . The finale is sad , but intelligent . A charming movie with a very talented supporting cast that includes Stockard Channing , Joe Mantegna , Kate Nelligan and a small role for Pfeiffer's sister . An excellent first date movie .
It isn't always easy to get along with your neighbors .	This is a ' get on your nerves ' thriller . Juliette Lewis is a New York decorator that inherits her dead aunt's apartment . She wants to move in against the wishes of her boyfriend , a popular TV weather man played by William Hurt . Shelley Duvall plays the building's busy body / snoop . Strange things start making living in the apartment uncomfortable . Leeches , maggots and rats are to be dealt with as well as the whole creepy atmosphere and inhabitants of the building . The young decorator is sure that she is being terrorized by the 80 year old recluse that lives on the 4th floor . Do not blink during the last three minutes of the movie , if you want to know the cause of all the dirty deeds . Lewis is actually very convincing in this role . Hurt is boring and very hard to like . Duvall is over the top , but fits the role perfectly . Beware of the mild mannered neighbor Mr . Collins played by Austin Pendleton . Watching this late at night will add to the atmosphere . Enjoy .
How much can crime buy ?	This is a great gangster movie with a very talented cast . Wallace Beery plays a Capone-type hoodlum that allows nothing to stand in his way . Well , tax problems do put his power and glory on the skids . The veteran actor Lewis Stone is a ' high brow ' crime lord . Usual good guy Ralph Bellamy is a bootlegger / night club owner . The Chicago night life and gangland activity keeps this flick rocking back and forth , but well worth watching . Talk about a great supporting cast . Get a load of this : Johnny Mack Brown , Clark Gable and the enchanting Jean Harlow . Fun to watch on the same evening with SCAREFACE ( 32 ) and THE STAR WITNESS ( 31 )
Chaos on Nantucket . Goofy comedy .	Very good cast of cut ups for a goof ball , high spirited comedy . John Cusack plays an art student with his mind set on being a cartoonist . He spends his vacation on Nantucket Island in New England with some pretty strange and wacky friends . The adorable Demi Moore is a struggling singer that needs help saving her family's property from a greedy property developer . With his heartstrings humming , Cusack joins his pals in aiding the stressed singer . Along with Cusack and Moore are Curtis Armstrong , Joe Flaherty , John Matuzak , Bob Goldthwait and Joel Murray . Moore of course does a super job ; and Cusack is on the edge of his future stardom in more meatier roles . Cool soundtrack features the sounds of : ZZ Top , The Beach Boys , Eurythmics , David Lee Roth and Miss Moore's sizzling " Don't Come Back " .
A returning nerd is the talk of the town .	Craig Gillespie directs this comedy about Mr . Woodcock ( Billy Bob Thornton ) , the junior-high gym teacher from hell . He runs his class like a drill instructor . John Farley ( Seann William Scott ) returns to town for an honorary award for writing a popular best selling self-help book . He grew up chubby with very low self-esteem . And he was one of Woodcock's favorite's to dole out his meanness on . Now he is healthy and has just enough self assurance . On his return , he discovers that his beautiful widowed mother ( Susan Surandon ) is getting married and her new fiancée is . . . Mr . Woodcock . John vows to do whatever it takes to stop the nuptials . Woodcock is very aware of John's intentions and he has plans of his own . . . by reputation , Woodcock never loses . Also in the cast : Ethan Suplee , Amy Poehler and Melissa Sagemiller . MR . WOODCOCK contains crude and sexual content and needs all the help it can get .
It leaves you cold and shivering in the wind .	Produced by Steven Soderbergh and George Clooney , good pedigree . Greg Jacobs directs this cold ride . A female student ( Emily Blunt ) is desperate to get home for the Christmas holiday . Instead of taking the bus , she excepts a ride with a classmate ( Ashton Holmes ) . He appears a little timid , but on the other hand he sounds to her more and more like a stalker . After hours on the lonely snowy highway , the stranger decides on taking a short cut on the " scenic route " . . . of course its through the woods . They are sideswiped by a hit-and-run driver and end up stuck in a snow bank . Her cell phone is in a dead zone , but they do find a candy bar to eat . She is still not certain about her driver ; but there is something else to worry about . . . they are not alone in the snow covered woods . Frightening apparitions begin to appear and the chills become more chilling . But somehow this story becomes a bit disjointed and the viewer is left understanding nothing more than a raging snowstorm on a remote country road .
Another view from " The Nautilus " .	This is a pretty fair TV version of the Jules Verne novel . No way does this come close to the 1954 classic starring Kirk Douglas and James Mason . The U . S . S . Abraham Lincoln is commissioned to investigate attacks of ships at sea . The ship is carrying marine scientist Henry Arronax ( Richard Crenna ) and his daughter Sophie ( Julie Cox ) . The Lincoln is suddenly rammed by what is thought to be a giant whale . The damage has been done by the evil minded Captain Nemo ( Ben Cross ) who has been attacking vessels at will from his advanced submarine " The Nautilus " . Arronax and his daughter along with harpooner Ned Land ( Paul Gross ) are taken aboard the futuristic submarine in the hopes of studying underwater marine life . " The Nautilus " comes under attack itself by huge sharks and a squid-like creature . Some of the visuals are pretty good and others not so good . It is obvious this is a classic on a shoe-string .
Colorful battle of Broadway divas .	No doubt director Bob Marshall does Bob Fosse proud ; but I guess I was expecting more . Catherine Zeta-Jones plays Velma Kelley , a popular Chicago nightclub star who gains more fame than she needs after shooting her cheating husband . Velma's notoriety soon begins to fade when an aspiring stage performer , Roxie Hart ( Renee Zellweger ) , who also shoots her lover and winds up in jail . Under the self-serving guidance of prison supervisor Mama Morton ( Queen Latifah ) and silver-tongued lawyer Billy Flynn ( Richard Gere ) , the two divas conjure freedom , with each trying to steal the favor of the spotlight from the other . Zeta-Jones is no less a goddess . Zellweger has the way to charm your attention . Queen Latifah if nothing else provides cleavage . And the ever charming Gere fights off being pedestrian . Albeit it only took close to three decades to get Fosse's Broadway musical glittering on the silver screen .
007 always completes his assignment , even against an archenemy .	This installment of the James Bond series will probably always be the source of argument . A lot say this is the best written so far ; while a lot of 007 fans are not thrilled in the least with the wooden-like George Lazenby as Bond , James Bond . I feel as many do , it is a shame that Sean Connery declined to continue the role . ( Thank goodness he did return for just a while later ) . Bond confronts his infamous archenemy Blofeld ( Telly Savalas ) , and must extinguish the plans of a global attack of germ-warfare . Scenery and special effects to please . And how could a Bond flick have too much action ? Also notable in the cast are : the gorgeous Diana Rigg , Gabriele Ferzetti and Ilse Steppat . The only fly in the ointment is Lazenby ; but go ahead and apply freely .
More than one man can handle .	Overblown and a bit silly , but more than enough rousing CGI action to hold your interest . Scripted chaos with elementary cheesy dialogue . Let your eyes overrule your brain and VAN HELSING is a never-ending battle against the forces of evil . Fabled monster hunter Van Helsing ( Hugh Jackman ) is summoned to take on Frankenstein's Monster ( Shuler Hensley ) and a somewhat redefined Count Dracula ( Richard Roxburgh ) . First he has to deal with Mr . Hyde ( Robbie Coltrane ) in a bell tower . Upon arriving in Transylvania he enters a love / hate relationship with Anna Valerious ( Kate Beckinsale ) and together they battle lovely swift-winged female vampires and deal with Anna's brother who has become a werewolf . My favorite scene is of the horse drawn carriage winding and navigating snow covered Transylvania and jumping the destroyed bridge . I also liked watching Van Helsing blow holes in the voluptuous vampires with his gas powered spear gun . Also in the cast are : David Wenham , Elena Anaya , Kevin J . O'Connor and Will Kemp . Jackman seems to come off as a poor man's Indiana Jones . And not to take anything away from the attractive Beckinsale . . . but give her role to Catherine Zeta-Jones and you'll have a more spectacular movie .
The dreams a life is built on .	A funny classic comedy about a milquetoast ( Danny Kaye ) henpecked by his domineering mother and fiancee . This constant under achiever finds refuge in his grandiose daydreams . He gets caught up in his dreams to the point that everyone thinks he is crazy . The cast also features : Ann Rutherford , Fay Bainter , Boris Karloff and the alluring Virginia Mayo . Wholesome fun for the entire family .
A bloody mess .	This remake of Herschell Gordon Lewis ' 1970 gore feature directed by Jeremy Kasten is dark and a vision of bloody mayhem . Montag the Magnificent ( Crispin Glover ) is a master of illusion who performs at rave-like venues . He uses females from the audience to participate in his act . These luscious ladies are disemboweled , dismembered right in front of the audience only to miraculously reappear untouched . Montag's slight of hand has fooled everyone . Or has he ? An underground reporter Edmund Bigelow ( Kip Pardue ) realizes that these woman are later found murdered with the same wounds they endured during the staged performance . Although Edmund is fascinated with Montag , he also would like to prove him responsible for the murders . Edmund's girlfriend Maggie ( Bijou Phillips ) feels he is in way over his head . It is a bloody mess and it won't be getting any better . This movie is neither exciting or even that entertaining . Glover is absolutely solid as Montag . Yes , it is violent with gory images ; just don't ask me what it lacks . The cast includes : Brad Dourif , Joshua John Miller and The Suicide Girls .
Robot invasion from Venus .	Not all that bad . Simplistic special effects , but I guess par for the early 1950s Sci-Fi / Horror flicks . With the Cold War and fear of UFO landings , TARGET EARTH takes advantage of innocent imagination . Nora ( Kathleen Crowley ) is unsuccessful in her suicide attempt . She awakens to an almost deserted Chicago . She runs into Frank ( Richard Denning ) , who also wonders about the situation until they find out that the city has been evacuated because of an invasion of a robot army from Venus . In actuality we only get to see the only robot created for the movie . It has a powerful and deadly ray that is used to kill humans and evaporate entire squadrons of bombers . Being filmed in Black & White aids the atmosphere . Also in the cast : Richard Reeves , Virgina Grey and Robert Roark .
A legend is summoned back to life to do evil .	With the famed Stan Winston directing you can expect amazing and superb creature effects . A farmer ( Lance Henriksen ) enlists demonic aid to avenge the death of his young son . High energy and run amuck terror with top notch visuals . Not exactly a gross out , but the hairs on your neck will rise . Backing up Henriksen's great performance are Cynthia Bain , Kimberly Ross , Jeff East and Florence Schauffler as the witch , Haggis .
Always beware of the finger on the trigger .	Very interesting action flick . An elite assassin ( Kristy Swanson ) for a covert U . S . agency decides not to pull the trigger on her latest assignment . She spots her target who is a well known TV reporter ( David Dukes ) playing with his child and decides to not take his life . Now she and her target are hunted down by her employers . Michael Madsen and Ron Perlman are determined to catch the savvy and sexy sharpshooter .
For romantics only ; love is alive .	I do not get tired of watching this movie . I really like the story and relationship development . A chance meeting in a book store and commuter train sparks a mutual romantic interest . Both people seem to be trapped in unhappy marriages and this chance meeting soon becomes planned meetings and a full blown romantic relationship . All the components of a love affair are here . The bittersweet finale is very dramatic and so goes romance . Robert De Niro and Meryl Streep are excellent as the smitten couple . The whole story is pretty ordinary , but these two actors make the characters transcend the screen .
Gore in the jungle .	Director Ruggero Deodato's JUNGLE HOLOCAUST is part of his cannibal trilogy and a part of the rash of such to flow out of Italy in the 70's . An oil company prospector and one of his researchers lands haphazardly in the Amazon jungle near a vacated company base camp . Mossimo Foschi and Ivan Rassimov are captured by a Aborigine tribe with Stone-Age intellect and customs with a cannibalistic appetite . The early part of the movie is spent sweeping a trail through the chest-high foliage ; but have no fear for there is time for maximum gore with a splash of nudity throughout the minimal plot . And oh yes , there is sex thanks to Me Me Lai . Be aware of the full-frontal male nudity . This movie was never rated by the MPAA .
If these walls could talk .	If you enjoy the look and feel of Hammer films you'll enjoy this collection of four chilling tales from Shepperton Studios . Peter Duffell directs these stories embracing the history of a desolate country estate that has experienced its share of shock . A very fine gathering of talent featuring : Christopher Lee , Peter Cushing , Jon Pertwee , Ingrid Pitt , Tom Adams and John Bryans . Cushing seems to have been wasted . The best episode is of course saved for last . . . you can't go too wrong with a vampire offering . Credit Michael Dress for the creepy atmospheric music . Worthwhile , but could have been a lot scarier . Most of the terror is pretty much predictable and implied and quite evocative of this genre in the early 70s .
What a mobster will do for love .	Based on true events , but how accurate this movie depicts the facts is of question . This is a very interesting story . It does get a little slow in parts , and keeps you waiting for fever pitch that never arrives . John Turturro plays mobster Sam Giancana , who while in Las Vegas falls in love with Phyllis McGuire , one of the singing McGuire Sisters . McGuire is aptly played by Mary-Louise Parker . Giancana stops at nothing in his whirlwind courtship of the sweet singer . The two become a big item and are summoned to appear before a Grand Jury in Chicago . Mobster Sam decides not to testify and goes to jail , ending up transfered to a Mexican prison . Strong language runs rampant ; this is a gangster flick after all . Your interest is maintained , but leaves you wanting to research the actual facts and events . Recommend for a lazy afternoon .
One man's treasure may belong to someone else .	INTO THE BLUE is beautifully photographed and most of the underwater scenes are astounding . Jared ( Paul Walker ) and Sam ( Jessica Alba ) are joined by old friend Bryce ( Scott Caan ) and his new squeeze Amanda ( Ashley Scott ) as they dive into the shark-infested waters of the Bahamas . Jared and Bryce have dreamed of discovering sunken treasure since they were boys . The foursome discovers a legendary pirate ship rumored to have gone to the bottom with millions in gold . The divers also find a sunken plane containing a cargo of cocaine worth a king's ransom that puts themselves in dutch with the drug lord wanting his illicit property . Walker proves to be a man's man in this well-paced adventure . And Miss Alba is a beat shy of cardiac arrest . Caan , son of veteran actor James Caan , is one of those method actors that can sometimes be a pain in the butt . Another actor's son is in the cast . . . Josh Brolin , son of James Brolin . The younger Brolin plays one of those cocky friends that turns out to be two-faced and devious . Miss Scott is attractive in her own way , but her talent seems one dimensional . Expect edge of your seat thrills and more than enough action to hold your attention .
The world's first superstar . . . Elvis .	Jumping on the Elvis documentary bandwagon , ELVIS : THE JOURNEY , takes a look at the development of a meteoric talent that burst into a supernova . From humble beginnings to American royalty . In-dept look that is not exactly fresh , it seems most is taken from the documentary ELVIS : THE MISSING YEARS ( 2001 ) . The narration seems very rushed and not very enthusiastic . The typical Elvis story . . . Sun Records ; breakthrough year of 1956 ; military service ; travelogue movies ; 1968 comeback ; the Vegas years ; tedious tours ; and the early death of a King . Archival footage is the primary source and actually a good introduction for an un-Elvis-educated generation .
This game is like no other .	Roll doubles and look out . Elaborate special effects highlight this tale about two kids who release an imprisoned player trapped for decades in a supernatural board game . Story line is quite stupid , but this is so much fun to watch . Robin Williams does his thing . A young Kirsten Dunst is charming in this preview of her future talents . Rounding out this mish-mash of a cast are : Bebe Neuwirth , David Alan Grier , Bradley Pierce , Bonnie Hunt and Jonathan Hyde in a dual role . Special effects and sight gags are redeeming .
A no boundaries over-the-top comedy .	SCARY MOVIE is not scary ; but it is hilarious . Keenen Ivory Wayans directs and his brothers Shawn and Marlon write . After a beautiful classmate ( Carmen Electra ) is murdered ; a clueless group of friends realize that there is a serial killer among them . Laugh out loud funny . Is this a spoof of a satire or a satire of a spoof ? A man is accidentally killed and the body is disposed of . . . while a masked stalker likes to strike terror among the misguided teens . Cindy Campbell ( Anna Faris ) and her close friend Brenda ( Regina Hall ) try to comfort their friends as well as stay one step ahead of the killer . Strong crude sexual humor , violence , vulgar language and depiction of drug use guarantees an R rating . The cast also features : Dave Sheridan , Jon Abrahams , Cheri Oteri , Shannon Elizabeth , Marlon and Shawn Wayans .
Attack of large rodents wearing bad hair pieces .	Ray Kellogg directs a lower than low budget B feature . Sci-fi or horror ? Either way this is pretty cheesy fare . Imagine a group of people trapped in a cabin surrounded by mutant shrews . Almost comical are the demon rodents ; looking like dogs wearing body wigs of carpet scraps . This one is still scary for little kids . Don't let them see you laughing . James Best , Ken Curtis and Ingrid Goude are the human stars .
Water has its value ; money is money .	Popular Indiana born cowboy Rocky Lane's heyday was probably the 1940's and 50's , although he worked from 1929 till the mid 60's . VIGILANTE HIDEOUT is evocative of his cowboy roles . Rocky and his faithful stallion Black Jack come to the rescue of eccentric Nugget Clark ( Eddy Waller ) , who is trying to help his neighbors fight the harsh drought by providing them water . There is $25 , 000 in the bank for the purpose of building an aqueduct . Rocky places himself right in the middle of the bitter battle over the water rights . Bad guys led by Muley Price ( Roy Bancroft ) rob the bank , but of course have little hope of getting to far with Range Detective Lane on their trail . Average or better Saturday morning cowboy movie . Surely entertaining enough . Also in the cast : Virginia Herrick , Don Haggerty , Guy Teague and Cliff Clark .
Be careful of what you ask for .	This movie is actually better than you might think . Several college students end up spending a rainy Thanksgiving holiday in the dorm and one , Lauren ( Kandis Erickson ) is certain she shares her room with the ghost of a little girl . Things get to be too creepy and there is a séance in an attempt to rid the room of the scary little girl . The group get more than they ask for . . . for they have summoned back the little girl's killer . Not much on scenery , but the atmosphere of an old building with electrical problems during a storm . . . duh . Some situational thrills , but SEANCE is no horror-fest . Pretty bland . Others in the cast : Joel Geist , Chauntal Lewis , A . J . Lamas and Adrian Paul .
A gypsy curse succeeds where diets don't .	Based on an interesting Stephen King novel , THINNER has just enough edge to keep you wide eyed and interested . Michael McDowell's screenplay is faithful to King's story . Billy Halleck ( Robert John Burke ) is an obese man who is fed up with dieting . Things change after an unfortunate accident causes a gypsy to place a curse on Halleck and soon the rotund man begins wasting away . Also in the cast are : Lucinda Jenney , Sam Freed , Joe Montegna , Michael Constantine , Kari Wuhrer and King's cameo as Dr . Bangor . King's macabre tale relates well to the screen .
Is it a bribe or blackmail ?	Robert Montgomery directs and stars in this seldom seen piece of Film-Noir . A hard-boiled war vet ( Montgomery ) arrives in the small town of San Pablo as the community is preparing its annual fiesta . He gets the help of a carousel owner ( Thomas Gomez ) and an alluring young woman ( Wanda Hendrix ) to track down a profiteer to blackmail him as revenge for killing his buddy . At times it is hard to tell the good guys from the bad . Well directed and photographed . Hendrix is absolutely beautiful . Also in the cast are : Fred Clark and Art Smith .
A sadistic killer is born .	THE BEGINNING is full of guts , gore and blood ; but doesn't have the power of say the original . Not exactly a lame retread , this movie does have some real spine-tingling moments . You may have to wait a while between squirms and squeals . . . its worth it . A baby boy is thrown away and dug from a dumpster and raised by a morbid , demented family . The disfigured Thomas Hewitt ( Andrew Bryniarski ) would grow up in the family slaughter house ; that is where he develops his ravenous desire for chainsaws and torture . Four teenagers would have the misfortune of being stopped and brought to the Hewitt's home by Charlie Hewitt Jr , who takes on the persona of Sheriff Hoyt ( R . Lee Ermey ) . Welcome to grisly torture and the chainsaw wielding " Leatherface " . The cast features : Jordana Brewster , Taylor Handley , Diora Baird , Matthew Bomer , Marietta Marich and Terrence Evans . The incredible violence , extreme gore and disturbing scenes could only be rated no less than a strong R . Is the franchise still alive ?
Gene Autry : a decoy for the law .	This Republic Picture has Gene Autry and the Cass County Boys accused of bank robbery . To prove their innocence , Gene and the boys are used as decoys to find the missing money . A dude ranch is renovated and who is among the first to check into the Serenity Ranch ; dudes for sure , two rival groups of gangsters with two purposes . . . to hideout and search for the stolen money . Plenty of action ; the usual fisticuffs , horse and car chases plus Gene and the Cass County Boys sing several songs including : " Going Back to Texas " and " The Merry-Go-Round Broke Down " . Where is Texas ? This oater is filmed in Chatworth , California . To be exact . . . where is Robin Hood ? Among the list of players : Sterling Holloway , Lynne Roberts , Adele Mara , James Cardwell and Ray Walker .
Homage to Elvis the entertainer .	This 2004 documentary is a tribute to Elvis Presley by his friends and peers . Honestly , how could anyone know in 1954 , when Sun single 209 " That's All Right " was released that the young 19-year-old truck driver would become one of the world's most beloved entertainers ? A musical legacy that will never be matched ; and a very successful movie career that began waning in the mid 60's . There was the " The Comeback TV Special " that allowed Elvis to reinvent himself . Then the King taking his act on the road with sold out concerts , even when he became a mere parody of himself ; right up till his early death in 1977 . This documentary celebrates Elvis ' long and varied career in show biz through interviews with the likes of : Sam Phillips , Tom Jones , Scotty Moore , Pat Boone , Mac Davis , Suzie Quatro , Joe Cocker , ZZ Top , Barry Gibb , Teri Garr , Jackie De Shannon , Tab Hunter , Wink Martindale , Patti Page , Glen Campbell , Neil Sedaka and Charlie Hodge . With a myriad of Elvis tributes out there , this is not the best and not the worst ; but well worth your attention .
Investigation of The Burmuda Triangle .	A six-hour Sci-Fi Channel mini-series that starts out real promising and gradually gets murkier and deeper into disbelief . . . wait . . . this IS science fiction . Don't get me wrong . . . this is a very interesting project full of cool special effects . After the loss of several of his cargo ships , a billionaire ( Sam Neill ) with $20 million to spare , hires an expert team to investigate the Burmuda Triangle to search for reasons . And they find the makings of a very major event about to happen . The team consists of a scientist / adventurer ( Michael E . Rogers ) , a questionable journalist ( Eric Stoltz ) , a stunning oceanographer / engineer ( Catherine Bell ) and a doubting psychic ( Bruce Davison ) . A jetliner disappears over the Triangle and kick starts bizarre and unexplainable events . Lou Diamond Phillips and Charles Martin Smith are also in the cast . When the Sci-Fi Channel presented the episodes back to back it was a little tiresome and more times than often hard to follow ; so you can imagine the experience of watching this in several portions at a time . Kudos to director Craig R . Baxley .
Disturbing lives intersect in the under belly of NYC .	Over acted , under acted , moody , dark and depressing . This movie is very interesting if you give it a chance . A young woman ( Angelina Jolie ) falls in love with the man that accidentally killed her brother in a botched robbery . I mainly watched this movie because of Miss Jolie , who is becoming my favorite naughty girl as per her role in GIA . Mekhi Phifer shows great potential for heavier and more acceptable roles . William Forsythe seems quite subdued while Rosanna Arquette deals with going from chemically induced to sober . Fans of NYC and or Jolie will give this a ' yo ' .
Baseball helps mend a city .	This informative documentary takes a look at the 1968 Detroit Tigers and the team's effect on a torn and divided city after the explosive race rioting of 1967 . Sporting only three blacks on the team the Tigers winning the World Series helps blacks and whites find common ground in putting their differences in the past . In 1968 Detroit was the nation's fifth most populous city and learning how to heal itself . Baseball fans and historians alike will find this hour documentary interesting .
Lessons of life learned on the cattle trail .	Interesting and innocent enough western tale of a daydreaming hotel clerk ( Jack Lemmon ) joining up with ramrod Glenn Ford on a cattle drive to Mexico . Lemmon hopes to win back the charms of his former girlfriend ( Anna Kashfi ) and finds there is a lot to learn about life and death on the cattle trail . Ford and Lemmon work well enough together . Joining them on the cattle drive are : Brian Donlevy , Richard Jaeckel , King Donovan and Dick York . Nice scenery and kudos to director Delmer Daves .
Don ' t risk what you can't afford to lose .	Cleverly written with a splash of suspense . Don't even forget about a dark side . People always want more than they have ; more money , more time , more love . . . more life . A group of individual's lives are connected through an addiction to gambling . Kim Basinger is a perplexed writer that has lost almost all of her family's savings . Her husband ( Ray Liotta ) misses her and her daughter ( Carson Brown ) no longer has a college fund . Forest Whitaker needs his NBA bound nephew Nick Cannon to shave points in basketball games to win money . Danny DeVito is a washed-up magician needing money to restart a career . Jay Mohr is a volatile bookie , who is ruthless in collecting his money . Kelsey Grammar is a detective investigating the killing of two bookies . Atmosphere is moody and the pace pulsing . Also in the cast : Tim Roth , Carla Gugino and Grant Sullivan .
It came from out of the sky .	This adaption of Stephen King's novel leaves a lot to be desired . Even the book was a slow read ; but some major elements of the novel and lead characters were totally reworked for the movie and King's intent is by the wayside . A UFO crash lands in the forest guarding Haven , Maine and the impact burrows the craft into the ground . Eminent vibrations from the alien craft has citizens creating mechanical gadgets for no good reason , while some of the inhabitants just disappear or gravitate to the dig site trying to unearth the alien ship . Jimmy Smits seems out of place playing the alcoholic writer and eventual hero . His awkward performance still out shines the rest of the cast except for Marg Helgenberger . She is very easy on the eye and plays her character flawlessly . Former porn star Traci Lords still needs a lot of work to move into mainstream movies . Her part was played over the top and becomes quite irritating . Not as abrasive as Allyce Beasley and Robert Carradine . Cliff De Young plays the cheating husband effortlessly . Joanna Cassidy and E . G . Marshall round out the diverse cast . The special effects , namely the aliens buried in the craft are pretty top notch for a made-for-TV project . Stephen King is my favorite writer and I do have to agree with those that think Tommyknockers is no where near his better work . But in this case , read the book first and then watch this presentation . It is not what it could have been . . . better .
From the city to the country and down the Devil's throat .	Not quite as scary as the trailer , but worth a look see . A family has decided it is time to get away from the hectic city life ; so the couple ( Dennis Quaid and Sharon Stone ) decide to buy a sprawling run-down farmhouse . Very soon they realize that their dream home has become a nightmare . The previous owner ( Stephen Dorff ) returns from prison and wants his mansion back . This accounts for Hell freezing over and nothing but bad ass t-r-o-u-b-l-e ! There is plenty of room to be scary , but nerve wrecking prevails . Quaid fits the role easily . Stone is so easy to look at . Dorff seems to be the man of this almost two hour thriller . You'll remember his character long after this one is over . Also in the cast are : Juliette Lewis , Christopher Plummer and Dana Eskelson .
Deadly germs cause havoc .	A small community in Utah stands by in disbelief and fear . There is a leak at Biotek , supposedly an agriculture research lab . These germs , exposed to the air , forces the ultra secretive building to be sealed off . Citizens want their loved ones rescued ; not knowing that some are infected and are dropping dead . But , lo and behold , the dead are rising as berserk zombies . They become just as lethal as the germs slowly filling the building . The local sheriff ( Sam Waterston ) really has a hard task at hand , because his girlfriend ( Kathleen Quinlan ) is in there with the infected . Not necessarily suspenseful , the horror is minor ; but the Sci-Fi flourishes . No great shakes . Others in the cast : Yaphet Kotto , Jeffrey De Munn , Richard Dysart and G . W . Bailey .
A training mission examines survival skills .	A troop of British soldiers on a routine training exercise in the Scottish highlands discover they are sharing a forest with a pack of savage wild animals . Taking refuge in an abandoned farmhouse , the soldiers have a lot to think about when a zoologist ( Emma Cleasby ) explains they are the prey of a pack of overly developed werewolves . No training imaginable will prepare this group for what is to come . With more courage than ammunition , the soldiers realize that a bloodbath may be unavoidable . DOG SOLDIERS takes aim and shoots , bites and splatters at a decent pace . The cast includes : Kevin McKidd , Sean Pertwee , Liam Cunningham and Darren Morfitt .
Unsavory family tradition .	Creepy and not as bad as you may have heard . Another flick from After Dark Horrorfest and definitely better than some of the earlier releases . Three attractive sisters find out that a grandfather they never knew has died and left them a motel and lake property . Of course , it is in the middle of nowhere . One sister arrives early and is not there to greet her sisters and friends that made the trip in an RV with thoughts of camping . This back country is no paradise ; actually the property is still occupied by a psychotic incestuous family wanting to keep the inbred clan thriving . Hell on earth is unleashed for the sisters and their friends . Some very disturbing scenes and some nudity spice up the story line . This redneck-invested property is just not fit for anyone with sense enough to leave . I liked it . Starring Kelsey Crane , Malea Richardson , Jim Devoti , Pat McNeeley , James C . Burns and Tara Gerard .
The star of her own nightmare .	Its a chiller . Better than average special effects . A story that seems to just not come clear . Claire ( Gabrielle Anwar ) is a stressed out , sophisticated author of children's books . She will soon take the lead role in a story a little too heavy and scary for a kid's book . She has frightening dreams and even sketches faces she'll see soon enough . Clair takes some time off and decides to stay at the Rose Marsh Farmhouse , which looks very much like a house she has sketched before . Strange things begin to happen when Clair settles in the farmhouse . She meets Noah ( Justin Louis ) the publisher of the local newspaper and historian of the small community . The apparitions she begins to see in the house causes her to call on Noah Hunt ( Forest Whitaker ) , a consultant on the occult and paranormal . Together , they begin to unravel the town's dirty , dark little secret . But has she found meaning to her previous nightmares ?
Command is not always honorable .	Howard W . Koch directs this black & white action packed sage brush yarn . A band of Apaches with every intention of a peaceful surrender are slaughtered by a detachment from Fort Bowie , where Major Wharton ( J . Ian Douglas ) rules with an iron hand . Colonel James Garrett's ( Kent Taylor ) wife Alison ( Jan Harrison ) is joining her husband and for safety is escorted by Captain Tom Thompson ( Ben Johnson ) . Garrett is a tried and true military man more than eager to carry out orders to go out and gun down Apaches . Feeling ignored in the romance department , Alison claims that Thompson is trying to steal her affection . This succeeds in making the Colonel jealous , but also a pretty Indian girl Chanzana ( Jana Davi ) , who is in love with the dashing Thompson . A turn of events has the Cavalry being forced to attack their own fort following an Apache takeover . This battle is frantic and the best part of the movie . I personally like the few scenes featuring the absolutely beautiful Miss Davi . Others in the cast : Larry Chance , Peter Mamakos and Jerry Frank .
One stitch at a time .	Low budget with some better than average special effects . Mrs . Lucy Albright is a sorceress that fashions her outer self out of stitching together skin and body parts of her victims . She checks into a quiet New England boarding house with the full intent of stealing the guest's souls and turning them into paper dolls for her book of memories . Don't expect any gore ; some may say don't expect much at all . . . but STITCHES is really not all that bad for 81 minutes of straight to video . For a low budget flick this film is photographed rather well . There is some over-acting ; but the story is kind of novel . Other cast members : Debra Mayer , Kaycee Shank , Marc Newburger and Robert Donovan .
It takes a thief to catch a thief .	A light romantic offering from director Alfred Hitchcock . Cary Grant is a former cat burglar that is getting the blame for a rash of jewelry heists on the French Riviera . A beautiful and wealthy tourist , Grace Kelly , applies her charms on the reformed thief . Grant is cool and suave as ever . Miss Kelly is fabulous . The love scene with the fireworks display in the background is what dreams are made of . Great photography and scenery . Bright and whimsical musical score . Just enough humor and romance . Well paced and interesting ; but this is not the type of movie that made Hitchcock famous .
Avoid the bite that binds .	Thank you , Wes Craven . Right when we needed another werewolf flick . It is obvious that Craven loves having fun making a movie . Too be exact , there are more smiles than signs of fright on the character's faces . Ellie ( Christina Ricci ) and her nerdy brother Jimmy ( Jesse Eisenberg ) are on their way home one night when something comes out of nowhere and smashes their windshield causing their car to collide with another , driven by Becky ( Shannon Elizabeth ) . While checking on Becky's condition all three are attacked by a . . . you guessed it . There are some pretty grizzly scenes ; fangs , claws and werewolf transformations . The use of CGI is not real smooth ; but then the script isn't either . The eye appealing Ricci goes through the motions like a champ ; after all she is working with nerds , bullies , a dog named Zipper and a werewolf ( Derek Mears ) . Also starring are : Joshua Jackson , Milo Ventimiglia , Kristina Anapau and a cameo by Scott Baio . . . let's not forget Solar the dog . Talk about a catchy intro , the use of Bowling for Soup's cover version of Sam the Sham's oldie " Little Red Riding Hood " is fantastic .
Can't we try to get along ? Sophisticated humor .	This is a well written comedy . Some of it is dry , but very potent . The former First Lady Tess Carlisle is played to perfection by Shirley MacLaine . She has her own reasons for picking Doug Chesnic ( Nicolas Cage ) to head up her Secret Service security detail . Chesnic is puzzled and reluctant , because the former First Lady is not one of his favorite people . MacLaine and Cage played their parts like no one else could . The interaction was sometimes hilarious . And then came the tender and touching enlightenment . Sometimes well-to-do people get cranky just because they are lonely . Rounding out the cast are Richard Griffiths , Edward Albert and David Graf . Hugh Wilson shares writing credits , as well as directing this enjoyable film . Give it a chance to grow on you .
Brother against brother in old Arizona Territory .	Very familiar western plot , but well worth watching . Two young brothers witness the hanging of their father and are forced to grow up on their own . One becomes a sheriff and of course the other an outlaw . Good enough to keep your interest . Cast includes Forrest Tucker , Mark Stevens , Gale Robbins and Bill Henry .
Blues at harvest time .	Picture 1950's Alabama at harvest time . Tyrone Purvis ' ( Danny Glover ) former swinging little juke joint , The Honeydripper lounge , whistles a lonesome long-gone blues . Business is no business and he may be forced to shut ' er down . But wait , he may be able to save the Honeydripper with just one big ass rockin ' Saturday night . He will hire the legendary Guitar Sam to be his champion . But any news is just more bad news . . . Guitar Sam can't make the gig for being in the hospital . So the story goes , Tyrone must quickly find another guitar-slinger to save face and his Honeydripper . A versatile cast featuring : Lisa Gay Hamilton , Charles S . Dutton , Vondie Curtis-Hall , Mable John , Gary Clark Jr . , Keb ' Mo ' and Stacy Keach . Volatile soundtrack featuring electrifying rockin ' blues from the likes of : The Aces of Spades , Gary Clark Jr . , Mable John , Keb ' Mo ' , and even Hank Williams .
And now batting again . . .	Stan Ross ( Bernie Mac ) of the Milwaukee Brewers is his own number one fan . Vain as the devil and as jaded , the big slugger on a slumping team achieves his career milestone . . . 3 , 000 hits . He is more than happy to rejoice in his elite distinction that should be an automatic election into the hallowed Hall of Fame . After entering the stands and grabbing his 3 , 000 hit ball from the hands of a young fan ; Ross retires and parlays his achievement into a strip mall based on his 3 , 000 hits . Some time later the owner of the Brewers ( Christopher Noth ) realizes that attendance is headed for an all-time low and decides to put some butts in the seats by having a Stan Ross day . That is when Stan realizes he had very little respect from his former teammates . . . but the fans still loved him . Upon checking stats in the record books it is discovered that three of Ross ' hits were counted twice . . . leaving him three short of the actual three thousand hits . Stan " The Man " comes out of retirement and rejoins the dismal Brewers at the end of a season that finds them in reach of finishing third in their division . All Stan needs is three hits and finds it easier said than done . He discovers that he really missed the game that he took for granted . He now found enjoyment in giving advise to the younger players . And he found himself refurbishing a broken down relationship with an old flame Mo ( Angela Bassett ) who works for ESPN no less . Funny man Mac doesn't look too out of place as a ballplayer . I wish there was a way Bassett's role could have had more screen time . Also in the cast are : Michael Rispoli , Brian J . White and Paul Sorvino . Sexual content and language makes for a strong PG-13 .
When the going gets tough ; the rough get rougher .	Raucous , explosive , predictable and close to being forgettable . The top LAPD brass wants to repair and polish a tarnished reputation by bringing back from retirement Sgt . " Hondo " Harrelson ( Samuel L . Jackson ) to hand pick a special S . W . A . T . team to take care of extremely dangerous situations . The last picked , but most impressive officer is Jim Street ( Colin Farrell ) whose swagger has put him in hot water with the powers that be . Also on the squad is Chris Sanchez ( Michelle Rodriguez ) who has already been turned down for S . W . A . T . duty just because she is female . She is one tough babe that can more than carry her share of the load . The team gets assigned to transfer the head of a notorious European crime cartel Alex Montel ( Oliver Martinez ) to a Federal lockup . He has just murdered his uncle , but is arrested for a missing tail light on his uncle's car . Hell breaks loose when Montel looks into a news camera and claims to give $100 million to anyone who can set him free . A routine transfer turns into an all out war fighting off several different factions greedy for the crime boss ' money . The twisting climax proves there can be a scumbag among collective honor . The special effects are entertaining and far better than the some times stupid dialogue . Farrell and Jackson more or less carry the movie ; not to over look the winsome Rodriguez . Also in the cast are : Jeremy Renner , Larry Poindexter , Josh Charles and rapper LL Cool J . Watch for Steve Forrest who played " Hondo " Harrelson in the mid 70s TV series . He has a small role as a S . W . A . T . truck driver . I seriously doubt this movie causing any change in anyone's view of the LAPD .
Mama may have met her match .	Not outrageously funny like I was hoping ; but funny enough to tell your friends about . Beautiful , but not so lucky in love , yoga instructor Charlotte ' Charlie ' Cantilli ( Jennifer Lopez ) finally meets the man of her dreams . . . and he's a doctor . Kevin Fields ( Michael Vartan ) is successful and his own man . . . well , he does have an overbearing mother . Viola Fields ( Jane Fonda ) recently lost her long time job as a star TV news anchor and now decides to make her son her life's project . Controlling and volatile , Viola fears losing her son's affections to ' Charlie ' . When the two finally get to meet , Viola begins working on destroying the budding relationship and becoming the future mother-in-law from hell . The impetus of the whole movie is Fonda and Lopez trading barbs and insulting schemes . Wanda Sykes plays Ruby , Viola's ' girl Friday ' . She has a few humorous one liners , but mostly I found her annoying . My favorite scene is where Viola enters the room and blasts an air-horn at ' Charlie ' and pretending she thought it was a can of air freshener . Fonda's laugh is infectious and you can tell she is having a lot of fun playing the MONSTER-IN-LAW . Lopez is admittedly very nice to look at . . . but her acting skills still need to be honed .
World War II drama .	Average war drama based on a John Brophy novel . The immortal sergeant is British Sgt . Kelly ( Thomas Mitchell ) in charge of a 14-man patrol in the desert of WWII Libya . Kelly is tough , but compassionate and held in high regard by the men in his unit . The group becomes smaller as only six survive an air attack in the open desert . Kelly's corporal is Colin Spence ( Henry Fonda ) , a shy and laid back Canadian with enough military smarts to impress the sergeant in picking him as his replacement . The fatigued patrol comes face to face with a Nazi tank and after a harsh confrontation Spence is forced to step up and take the place of their fallen leader . The photography for this war drama is very good for the mid-40's . Black & White film sets the mood and feel of the movie well . The action is broken up with Spence's flashback reminiscing of the girl he left behind , the beautiful Maureen O'Hara . Also in the cast : Reginald Gardner , Allyn Joslyn , Melville Cooper , Morton Lowry , John Banner and a small role for Peter Lawford .
A persistent cop evens the score .	William Baldwin is a Denver policeman that come hell or high water will avenge the killing of his wife during a drug bust gone bad . Some blatant violence and the obligatory , mostly implied sexuality for spice . The story is a little hackneyed , but you have to root for the frustrated Baldwin . Brigitte Bako is absolutely gorgeous and impressive with her mood swings . Lee Majors at this age finds a part that he carries off real well . Tim Ryan and Robert Madrid are notable in support . Intrigue , anxiety and revenge keeps the story moving .
The Hamilton's are not exactly the Jones's next door .	Independent horror written and directed by the Butcher Brothers . The Hamilton family hides a deep dark secret . When the parents are killed in an accident , eldest son David ( Samuel Child ) relocates his siblings to a quiet California suburb . Twins Wendell ( Joseph McKelheer ) and Darlene ( Mackenzie Firgens ) have a bizarre bond beyond the family secret . The youngest , Francis ( Cory Knauf ) , finds a movie camera of his parents and decides to use it for a school project filming his family . The Hamilton's are in need of constant nourishment that requires luring people to the home ; forcing them to the basement where they are chained in a cage and become the family's primary food source . They do have to relocate quite often ; who knows . . . they may just become the Jones's next door . Some disturbing scenes , but no real great shakes .
Frontier scout befriends the Red Man .	COMANCHE is filmed in Durango , Mexico for a sense of authenticity . It is also one of the first Hollywood films to be sympathetic toward the Native American Indian . A Comanche attack on a Mexican village nets the capture of several woman and children including the lovely Margarita ( Linda Cristal ) . Black Cloud ( Henry Brandon ) is a hotheaded brave that have no use for the white man , let alone Mexicans , whom he can also get the pleasure of scalping . Jim Read ( Dana Andrews ) is a strong willed frontier scout , who hopes to shield his Native American friends from a bigoted genocidal Gen . Miles ( John Litel ) . It is Read and his friendship with Chief Quanah Parker ( Kent Smith ) that restores trust and peace between the Indians and the white man . This is Cristal's movie debut . Andrews , not out of the norm , is wooden . Others in the cast : Nestor Paiva , Tony Carbajal , Lowell Gilmore and Iron Eyes Cody .
A Navy S . E . A . L . pulls awkward duty .	Some situational laughs as Shane Wolf ( Vin Diesel ) a stout and tough Navy S . E . A . L . goes from dangerous duty to " do-do " duty . Wolf is assigned to protecting a military widow's ( Faith Ford ) five out-of-control kids . Involved in dangerous missions all over the world ; babysitting duty proves to provide its own risks and humorous problems . Absolutely hilarious is Carol Kane as housekeeper Helga . School Principal Claire Fletcher ( Lauren Graham ) , who also has military training , easily sides with Wolf and his awkward assignment . Brad Garrett is perfect as the pompous Vice-Principal and wrestling coach . Sometimes a little too cute , but after all this is a Disney Picture . The rented DVD is a cheap babysitter .
An epic tale . Cast of thousands .	If it were 1962 and I just found my favorite seat at the theater , I would be engrossed with this action packed spectacle . There was a time when everyone loved cheering on the " under-dog " . Times change , and stories are told too many times over . . . like THE 300 SPARTANS . King Leonidis ( Richard Egan ) can't convince the ruling council of the real danger that is on the way . . . a mighty Persian force on the march and counting on a massacre . Leonidis does round up 300 volunteers to stave off the Persians in hopes of Sparta sending more gladiators . Battle scenes are notable and the wardrobe impressionable . Egan plays his role strong as does Ralph Richardson . Others in the cast : Diane Baker , Barry Coe , David Farrar , Anne Wakefield , Donald Houston , John Crawford and Anna Syndodinou .
Is it true that love will set you free ?	For the hard-core Chucky fans . The lasting remains of Chucky are stolen from the police evidence room and a dizzy , twisted woman ( Jennifer Tilly ) puts the doll together again in order to find a home for her dead boyfriend's spirit . Demented , comedic , violent and gory . One humorous scene is where Chucky gets a " woody " . Another highlight finds Chucky and his newlywed bride having a duel with shovels in a cemetery . Tilly also supplies the voice of Chucky's bride . Tilly always seems to get the parts of sexy air heads ; this role is no different . Some of the insults between the miniature couple are quite funny . Brad Dourif again provides the voice of Chucky . This comedy of gore also features busty Katherine Heigl and Nick Stable . John Ritter takes some gruesome punishment in his role as the Police Chief . If you have seen the first three installments , you owe it to yourself to witness Chucky in unholy matrimony . It goes to show that love sometimes can be a bitch .
Agree to disagree . There is love to be lost .	This snappy romantic comedy pits two Baltimore reporters , Dan Hanson ( Kevin Bacon ) and Lorie Bryer ( Elizabeth Perkins ) , writing for an editorial page with opposing opinions . . . Dan the conservative and Lorie the liberal . Their popularity grows as a romance blossoms and soon they have a TV show ' He said , She said ' . Frequent bickering may end the TV show as well as the romance . The leads are very likable and the supporting cast is solid , but the film at points just comes across too sappy and gimmicky . Charming is as charming goes . Bacon and Perkins work well together . Supporting cast features : Sharon Stone , Nathan Lane , Anthony LaPaglia and Stanley Anderson .
Some love endures always .	Victor Fleming directs this sentimental star-studded fantasy that takes place during World War II . Spenser Tracy plays top flying Pete Sandige , who with his buddy Al ( Ward Bond ) , go out on a bombing mission before taking on the assignment of training young pilots . Pete's girl Dorinda ( Irene Dunne ) knows that his " number " is up ; and drama thickens as Pete doesn't make it back . Hollywood fantasy takes over as Pete's angel guards over young pilot Ted Randall ( Van Johnson ) in his training ; even as he romances Dorinda , who still remains devoted to his memory . Supporting cast is full of talent : Lionel Barrymore , James Gleason , Don DeFore and Esther Williams .
Epic tale of power , jealousy and greed .	Ditch class . Put the books away . Watching this movie will hold your interest longer . Not to say the information should be written in stone , but Robert Rossen makes history a pleasure . This is a grand tale of the life of the Macedonian who set out to conquer the world in the 4th century B . C . The young Richard Burton is dynamic and powerful as Alexander . The huge cast also includes : Claire Bloom , Fredric March , Stanley Baker , Peter Cushing , Gustavo Rojo , Danielle Darrieux and Harry Andrews . History or an attempt unfolds before your eyes and you don't mind at all . The diverse and apt cast helps to over look some sluggish pacing of the spectacle . Numerous well staged battles featuring spears and arrows adds meat to this tale of the legendary conqueror . Should compliment any high school history class .
Enough of being scared silly ?	Director David Zucker masterminds the fourth installment of the SCARY MOVIE series . Spoofs of THE GRUDGE , THE VILLAGE , SAW and WAR of the WORLDS . Cindy Campbell ( Anna Faris ) moves into a house that is haunted by a little boy . The who , why and when needs to be answered ; and an alien invasion threatens to eradicate the entire human race ; but Cindy and her gal-pal Brenda ( Regina Hall ) may have something to say about that . My two favorite scenes involve invading giant " Tr-iPods " and a comedic Dr . Phil McGraw . Almost non-stop crude and sexual humor ; some comic violence and strong language earn a PG-13 rating . Others featured : Leslie Nielsen , Molly Shannon , Carmen Electra , Chris Elliott , Anthony Anderson and Shaquille O'Neal . Sick , but still worth a laugh .
Don't underestimate " authority " .	Russell Wade plays an officer signing aboard a ship under the command of Captain Will Stone ( Richard Dix ) . It doesn't take Wade long to witness how the captain uses his " authority " in dealing with resentment towards crew members . Stone becomes obsessed with his power . Wade has trouble trying to convince the crew that their beloved captain is going mad . Special effects good for 1940's . Also in the cast : Edmund Glover , Ben Bard and Edith Barrett .
The U . S Cavalry seeks safe passage .	This is a hackneyed western with few faults . I found it more interesting than I expected . Chuck Connors plays a young Cavalry Sargent that must take over a unit led by an injured and temporarily demented Lieutenant . This action takes place in Apache territory . . . the boys in blue hope to find safety in a fort that has already been ravaged . Short , but action packed . Also in the cast are : John Smith , Robert Knapp , Susan Cummings and a young Harry Dean Stanton . Kind of feels like sitting in the Kiddie Matinee on Saturday morning .
Guns and Apaches don't mix .	One of Audie Murphy's last movies is nothing to really brag about . But he is a genuine American military hero and extremely popular . Harsh Captain Bruce Coburn ( Murphy ) leads a group of the Cavalry to accept a shipment of forty valuable rifles : and hopes to avoid Cochise ( Michael Keep ) and the Apaches . Corporal Bodine ( Kenneth Tobey ) starts a mutiny against the much hated Cpt . Coburn and intends to sell the rifles to Cochise instead of going to Mexico to trade them . Cpt . Coburn arrives back to the command post at Apache Wells in shame and loses his rank . In spite of this , he heads out singlehanded to retrieve the guns , capture Bodine and put down a massive Apache attack . Filmed in California and the most scenic location being the Red Rock Canyon State Park . The cast also features : Michael Burns , Laraine Stephens , Robert Brubaker and Byron Morrow .
Pictures don't lie .	This is a sequel to 8MM ( 1999 ) , but not a continued storyline . The career of a prominent politician ( Johnathon Schaech ) is about to derail . Everything looks in his favor to climb the political ladder . His fiancée ( Lori Heuring ) is beyond wealthy and her daddy ( Bruce Davidson ) is an Ambassador . Schaech's becoming a congressman is in jeopardy due to an extortionist with revealing photos and a video of the young couple having a sordid sexual tryst with a model / prostitute ( Zita Gorog ) in Budapest . They must delve into the underworld of sex and pornography to retrieve the evidence in order to save the young politician's career , as well as his future father-in-law's . A very strong rated R due to very graphic sexual activity . Not fade away or quick shots of the sex either . So this erotic thriller is not meant for everyone . And it is worth watching again in spite of the lackluster unimaginative ending .
All for one and . . . one for the money .	Dark , twisted and some what funny entertainment . Prof . Marcus ( Alec Guiness ) rents lodging from a little old lady Louisa Wilberforce ( Katie Johnson ) that is more enduring than meets the eye . The demented-looking Professor claims to be a musician and uses his room to gather his bumbling friends that pass for a musical troupe with intentions of planning and carrying out the robbery of a London armored car . The addled brain robbers think they are in the clear until Mrs . Wilberforce discovers the stolen money that has fallen from a cello case . She is led to feel the guilt from her unintentional small part in the robbery . This motley crew now are convinced it is safer to draw lots to see who will " do away " with the little old landlady . Easier said than done . . . each man in turn will fail in their dastardly attempts of homicide . The gang of crooks feature : Peter Sellers , Cecil Parker , Herbert Lom and Danny Green . My favorite scene is when Harry ( Sellers ) tries to capture Mrs . Wilberforce's bird that has flown the coop . Beware : spurts of bumbling action soon becomes short of irritating .
Sometimes life is a gamble .	Get a good grip and hang on . Director Brian De Palma gives us another one of those fast paced suspense filled thrillers . And what about Nicolas Cage ? Does he love to act or just show out ? I think Cage is very good at what he does and is manic enough to get your undivided attention . Cage plays a highly visible Atlantic City detective Rick Santoro who is not too good to shake down drug dealers in order to buy gifts for female companions and most of all fund his illegal gambling habit . Santoro finds himself riding out a hurricane at a boxing arena where he has money bet on the champ ( Stan Shaw ) who just happens to be one of his former high school classmates . Oh no ! It looks like the champ has taken a dive . At the same time his best friend ( Gary Sinise ) is a Pentagon security chief who is guarding the secretary of defense who happens to be in the arena . Sauntering in is a beautiful mystery lady ( Carla Gugino ) who is somehow involved with the shooting of the defense secretary . The mercurial detective now juggles three things : finding out why the champ took a dive ; the identity of the mystery woman ; and who in the hell shot the secretary of defense . As Santoro starts putting the pieces of the puzzle together he finds out that his old friend ( Sinise ) is not the " straight ahead " guy he used to be . SNAKE EYES will have your knuckles turning white or maybe blue while hanging on the edge of your seat . Just enough violence and blood to excite and give a jump start to the many of plots . And how confusing can an ending be ? What does it mean ? Pretty decent movie and real good movie if you like watching Cage end up a bloody pulp .
Some like it slow . . . some like it rough .	This starts out a bit slow with the potential of being a dud . The action does heat up and actually finds a pulse and gets interesting . I admit my whole attention was on Marcia Gay Harden . Ray ( Armand Assante ) has been in prison for four years and upon his release he expects to go back to his old girlfriend Lacy ( Harden ) and start living the straight life . One catch . . . she is now seriously living with a lawyer named Elliott ( Sam Neil ) . From behind bars , Ray's prison rival ( Joe Spano ) is now calling the shots to frame Ray to force him back into prison . To convince Ray , Lacy is kidnapped causing Elliot to join with the ex-con to find and free her . Supporting cast includes : Gregg Henry , Gordon Clapp , Tim Ransom and Steve Rankin .
Involvement is natural . Survival is for the smartest .	This is an interesting above average made-for-TV crime drama about a Miami cop ( Jimmy Smits ) who lets his career and life get entangled with homicide , mobsters , a singer ( Markie Post ) and a sleazy ex-con ( John Diehl ) . This should broaden Smits ' fan base and for Post , she needs no help in using the best of her talents . Also appearing are Madison Mason and Robin Strasser .
A haunting honeymoon .	A bit spooky . The real shame is waiting until the last fifteen minutes or so to really raise the hair on your neck . Photographer Benjamin Shaw ( Joshua Jackson ) and his new bride Jane ( Rachel Taylor ) fly to Japan so he can report for his new job , a very lucrative fashion shoot in downtown Tokyo . The honeymoon will become tense and stressful when they discover their personal photos contain ghostly reflections of a strange young Japansese woman . An expert on such strange occurrences says that the blurs are probable " spirit image " and may be a link to part of Ben's past . When two of Ben's working colleagues die mysteriously Jane is sure they are on the threshold of danger and fears for her husband's life . The newlyweds return to America only to find they haven't outrun the strange intruder . There is no hell like a woman scorned . . . takes on a new twist . Definitely creepy , but no real screamer . The cast is rounded out by : Megumi Okina , David Denman , John Hensley and Maya Hazen .
The King croaks . . . and Shrek revolts .	The third in the animated comedy series . Not on par with the first two , but still very funny and a hoot to watch . Shrek ( Mike Myers ) comes to the realization that being king is not meant for a smelly ogre . When Princess Fiona's ( Cameron Diaz ) father ( John Cleese ) , the King of Far , Far Away , croaks ; Shrek is next in line to rule . . . the likable green Shrek sets out quickly to find the rightful heir to the throne , Artie ( Justin Timberlake ) . Shrek is joined by Donkey ( Eddie Murphy ) and Puss in Boots ( Antonio Banderas ) in finding Artie and persuade him to accept the crown . As Shrek leaves on his journey , Fiona lets him know that he is going to be a father . Meanwhile in Far , Far Away , Prince Charming ( Rupert Everett ) sets things in motion to claim the royal title he thought he was cheated out of . The obligatory potty humor and lightly suggestive content scores the PG rating . Other voices featured : Eric Idle , Julie Andrews , Ian McShane and Larry King . Will Shrek and triple diaper duty continue ?
Alarming . Down right chilling . The count begins .	Absolutely one of the best shockers to come along in a very long time . Two detectives ( Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman ) work in tandem trying to track down a ruthless serial killer , whose modus operandi is inspired by the seven deadly sins . Some very graphic after-the-fact violence . Pitt and Morgan could not appear more realistic . Very strong language is atmospheric in this crime drama . Don't be ashamed if you flinch , hide your eyes or redecorate the chair you're sitting in . This movie is powerfully good . Also in the cast are : Kevin Spacey , Gwyneth Paltrow , R . Lee Ermey and Daniel Zacapa .
Organizing activities can be harmful to your health .	Robert Greenwald directs this brilliant biopic of ' 60s counter-culture rabble-rouser Abbie Hoffman ( Vincent D'Onofrio ) following his involvement with civil rights demonstrations in the south ; his association with the infamous Chicago 7 and his disappearance underground in the ' 70s . Great mix of actual historic footage and well paced dialogue based on the books of Hoffman and his wife Anita . The perky Janeane Garofalo portrays Anita Hoffman and Jeanne Tripplehorn plays Hoffman's girlfriend Johanna Lawrence . Also in the cast are Kevin Pollak , Troy Garity and Kevin Corrigan . D'Onofrio is excellent in the lead role . This is the least heard account of events , but very thought provoking and interesting .
All things are possible .	A movie about football and faith . Shiloh Christian Academy has a football team that has not had a winning season in six years . Coach Grant Taylor ( Alex Kendrick ) is down trodden and losing his faith . Facing problems with unhappy team boosters that want his job terminated . His car won't run . And he and his wife face the problems of starting a family . Coach Taylor finds a new outlook on things when restoring his faith and getting his team to dedicate its attention to honoring God . Good things begin to happen and the Shiloh Eagles find themselves with a winning season and a shot at becoming champions . A wholesome , very predictable film that wipes away cynicism and doubt and encourages never giving up , never backing down and never losing faith . Kendrick also directs and shares writing credit with his brother Stephen . Also starring are : Jason McLeod , James Blackwell , Bailey Cave , Jim McBride and Ray Wood . Game sequences are not all that impressive . Before the credits roll there is that unmistakable warm and fuzzy feeling .
Crazy is as crazy does .	Eriq La Salle directs , writes and stars in CRAZY AS HELL . A well known psychiatrist , Dr . Ty Adams ( Michael Beach ) comes to Sedah State Mental Hospital with an around the clock film crew to shoot a documentary about his non-traditional approach in treating mental illness . Dr . Delazo ( Ronny Cox ) runs the institution and seems to be the only one with lack of confidence in Adams . Adams appears to be helping some of the self-destructive patients until the day a mystery man ( La Salle ) voluntarily checks himself into the hospital . The man claims to be Satan and wants to know why the world blames him for everything that goes bad instead of blaming God . Satan becomes the one to pull Adam's chain and forces him to deal with his own innermost turmoil . Comedian Sinbad plays an orderly that is contently wanting a moment of Dr . Adams's time . Also in the cast are : Jane Carr , John C . McGinley , Tracy Pettit and a vivacious Tia Texada that will make you stand up and take notice . La Salle , who made a name for himself as Dr . Benson on TV's ER , is more than just focused . . . he is dynamic . You need to be in the right mood for this slightly dark drama .
Sir , Watch your back , Sir !	John McTierman directs this sometime confusing , but intriguing military drama . Sergeant West ( Samuel L . Jackson ) is a reviled legendary Army Ranger that is " fragged " while commanding a Special Forces training mission in a hurricane-battered Panamanian rain forest . Two survivors ( Giovanni Ribisi and Brian Van Holt ) recall the mission . . . but the truth is not unfolding to the satisfaction of Brass . Former Ranger and current DEA agent Hardy ( John Travolta ) is summoned against the wishes of Army Investigator Osborne ( Connie Nielsen ) to sort out conflicting recall and find the truth of what actually happened on that ill-fated mission . Enough twists and turns to keep you hanging on . The ending may be somewhat a let down . Ranger protocol may be side stepped a bit . . . but still the mind is a fearsome weapon . Rounding out the cast are : Tim Daly , Taye Diggs , Roselyn Sanchez and Harry Connick Jr .
Do as I say ; not do as I do .	Written and directed by Robert Duvall who stars in this drama about a fervent , volatile Pentecostal preacher who is struggling with his own personal demons . Duvall is dynamic as the colorful ' Sonny ' Dewey . Less than interesting in support are Farrah Fawcett and Billy Bob Thornton . The subject matter did not flesh out as shocking as it was probably intended . Duvall is impressive in the fact that he can work so hard and make it look easy . Outside of finding June Carter Cash annoying , I found THE APOSTLE to be very interesting and a good test of where you place your sympathy , compassion and faith .
All in the name of perfection .	Once again director / writer Wes Craven delivers the thrills and chills . A young boy ( Brandon Adams ) is persuaded by a hapless crook ( Ving Rhames ) to break into his landlord's house to steal a gold coin collection . The house turns out to be an overly secured mansion that was formerly a funeral home . The demented landlord ( Everett McGill ) and his wife ( Wendy Robie ) and daughter ( A . J . Langer ) are not the only weirdness to be found . There is the mangled denizens under the stairs . . . in the basement . . . between the walls . The husband and wife are actually brother and sister . This tale of horror turns into a campy riot and easy to gain a cult following .
With nothing else to lose . . .	Like it or not Schwarzenegger gets the job done . A Los Angeles firefighter pursues a Columbian terrorist responsible for the deaths of his wife and young son . Sporadic action keeps you in your seat with full attention . Enough gun play and various size explosions keep everyone happy . The supporting cast is super . You can love and hate the lovely Francesca Neri . Just plain dislike Elias Koteas and Cliff Curtis . John Leguizamo is cocky and flawless in his small role . And John Tururro with little more than a cameo resembling a raving lunatic . Thrilling finale with its surprising twist . Respectable offering with its original release date understandably pushed back due to .
" Mockumentary " of meeting between The King and The President .	This is a tongue in cheek look at an actual meeting between Elvis Presley and Richard Nixon . On December 21 , 1970 , Elvis , armed with a gun and chemically enhanced , met in the Oval Office with President Nixon . The reason for the meeting was Elvis ' request for a badge from the Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs , thus making him an agent-at-large of the DEA . Hard to believe , but true . . . the visit was a success . Rick Peters does an over the top parody of Presley . Bob Gunton is a very laughable President Nixon . Also in the cast are : Curtis Armstrong , Alyson Court and Denny Doherty . Quite a bizzarre event and in retrospect you see the hypocrisy and contrasting truth to be pretty silly .
Body language speaks wonders .	Drew Barrymore plays Ivy a Lolita-like teen that gradually moves in with a shy reclusive classmate Sylvie ( Sara Gilbert ) and the presence of the streetwise Ivy starts a chain reaction of mixed emotions . Sylvie's self destructive mother ( Cheryl Ladd ) is jealous of her husband's ( Tom Skerritt ) reaction to Ivy's seductive ways . Soon he is hooked and can't get enough of the perverse teen . Questions arise concerning the death of Sylvie's mother about the time Sylvie realizes what is going on between her father and Ivy . My favorite scene is the sultry love making in the rain on the car hood . It is hard to tell who is seducing who . The 17 year old Barrymore is hypnotic . I couldn't take my eyes off of her . Kudos to Katt Shea for directing this erotic thriller . Note : Look for a young Leonardo DiCaprio .
The mouth that roared .	Michael Mann directs an interesting glimpse into the life of Muhammad Ali ( Will Smith ) . The years 1964 to 1974 show us the winning of the world's championship of boxing , losing it and then the renowned Rumble in the Jungle . As well as the refusal to be drafted into military service and relationships with some diverse people as Malcolm X ( Mario Van Peebles ) , Herbert Muhammad ( Barry Shabaka Henely ) and Howard Cosell ( Jon Voight ) . The hard work of Will Smith to pull this whole thing off is obvious . And Voight's portrayal of Cosell is outstanding . The photography is excellent and the scenes in the ring are some to be unrivaled . The supporting cast includes : Ron Silver , Jamie Foxx , Michael Michele and Jada Pickett Smith . Ms . Michael needed no script ; thanks for just being there . You need not be a fan of Ali to stick around till the final bell .
Why isn't paradise like paradise ?	Possibly considered a spoilerThis fact based story made for TV movie contains romance , intrigue , misconception , fear , mystery and murder . And taken from the pages of a novel by famed attorney Vincent Bugliosi . A psychotic low life ( Hart Bochner ) on the run from the law convinces a younger lover ( Rachel Ward ) to sail away to paradise and away from the world . On a remote island in the South Pacific where they are running low of provisions their relationship is becoming odd at best . A yacht arrives with an older couple ( Diedre Hall and James Brolin ) who intend to spend a year on the island . It is the meeting of the " hippies " and the " yuppies " . The older couple being really annoyed by the young couple one day is nowhere to be found . Until a crate washes ashore with dismembered remains inside . Bochner is convicted of murder and the last half of the movie Richard Crenna as Vincent Bugliosi is defending Ward in court . Bochner plays this part so well it is easy to dislike him . Ward's acting is so-so , but it doesn't matter that much with her many scenes of alluring attire or lack of . Crenna is flawless . The talent of the lovely Hall is practically wasted . Even as the final credits roll you still have questions to be answered . Best watched on a lazy day , because this movie seems to be in no hurry .
Why don't detour signs also say BEWARE ?	Wheather or not Herschell Gordon Lewis ' 2000 MANIACS ( 1964 ) needed a sequel or not . . . here it is . Director and co-writer Tim Sullivan infuses tongue-in-cheek humor with gore and splatters . This film is crammed full of the sort of scenes you would expect in a very low-budget B-movie . Photography says different and there is actually a real good performance from Robert Englund . On the way to spring break in Daytona Beach , a group of college kids end up taking a detour leading to a small town in Georgia , Pleasant Valley . The mayor ( Englund ) insists that the young people stay and take in the their annual barbecue and reenactment of the Civil War . Southern hospitality becomes unpleasant when the horny students one by one find themselves the main entrée . Strong horror violence and gruesomely graphic images alternate with sexual implications for rated R fare . At least getting to the gore is imaginative . Also in the cast : Giuseppe Andrews , Gina Marie Heekin , Crista Campbell , Marla Malcolm , Matthew Carey and Lin Shaye . You'll squirm and then roll with laughter .
Seat-squirming comic horror .	Kudos to director James Gunn for this fun Sci-Fi , horror , comedy combo . This is a real hoot ! A sleepy little town called Wheelsy , with a foul-mouthed mayor Jack MacReady ( Gregg Henry ) and a brand new sheriff Bill Pardy ( Nathan Fillion ) , is plagued by evil from outer space that resembles over-sized slugs . Farm livestock are mutilated and a young woman goes missing ; also the town's richest citizen Grant Grant ( Michael Rooker ) begins to act very strangely . These squirming slithering invaders intend to absorb and devour all mankind . Sheriff Pardy and his officers are aided by Grant's wife Starla ( Elizabeth Banks ) in trying to stop the siege that is turning charming folks into meat and flesh eating zombies . There's quite a few scares and even more laughs . SLITHER is twisted and chilling and very entertaining . Others in the cast : Tania Saulnier , Brenda James , Haig Sutherland and Don Thompson .
Revenge turns to obsession .	Pathetic , disjointed and slow . Written and directed by Sean Penn , this film's focus is on Freddy Gale ( Jack Nicholson ) , who's daughter was killed by a drunk driver . Gale mistakenly thinks the best thing for the family is abandon them and vow to murder the guy who did it . Gale is a shady jeweler that has turned himself into a whore-mongering drunk . And growing is his obsession with John Booth ( David Morse ) , the driver that killed his little girl . Booth finishes doing time for the crime and moves into the basement of his parent's home . Freddy Gale is in countdown mode to commit murder . . . murder Booth . My favorite scene is Gale and Booth playing cat and mouse on a city bus . . . Booth running for his life and Gale with gun in hand . Also in the cast are : Anjelica Huston , Piper Laurie , Robbie Robertson and Robin Wright Penn .
Teenage dreams meet girl power .	Welsh director Sara Sugarman provides a nice little escape with Gail Parent's screenplay . Lola ( Lindsay Lohan ) is a New York teenager transplanted in the suburbs of New Jersey , where she tries to survive on wits and imagination . Lola's mom ( Glenne Headly ) and younger twin sisters have no clue to what makes the family drama queen tick . Lola finds a loyal friend in Ella ( Alison Pill ) , who helps in her desire for the coveted lead in the school play ; as well stays by her side as the class princess Carla ( Megan Fox ) and prissy clique try to make light of the attractive New Yorker . Lola and Carla compete tooth and nail over an after-party for Stu Wolff ( Adam Garcia ) front man of a disbanding rock band that Lola worships . Also in the cast : Eli Marienthal , Tom McCamus , Ashley Leggat and the hysterical Carol Kane . This movie progresses with a catchy soundtrack featuring four vocals by the versatile Ms . Lohan . Truthfully , CONFESSIONS OF A DRAMA QUEEN lacks redeemable substance ; but I watched for one reason . . . Lindsay Lohan . That girl is HOT !
Beware of who you trust .	This version of INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS is directed by Oliver Hirschbiegel . This INVASION is written by David Kajganich and has the lovely Nicole Kidman to carry the movie . The space shuttle has crashed and investigators find something not of this earth in the debris . A very mysterious epidemic soon infects most of mankind . Washington , D . C . psychiatrist Carol Bennell ( Kidman ) suspects the mind altering outbreak to be extraterrestrial in origin . Helping her is longtime friend Dr . Ben Driscoll ( Daniel Craig ) , who discovers the alien virus attacks people while they are in deep sleep . Carol realizes her young son may be the key to saving the human race ; and she now must stay awake long enough to find her son who has ran away from her ex-husband's home . Included in the cast : Jeffrey Wright , Jeremy Northam , Eric Benjamin and Jackson Bond . I was expecting this psychological Sci-Fi to be better . There are some disturbing images , but nothing to really fear .
A young photographer has a big crush .	Cute . Cozy . A dash of sizzle . Jon Cryer is a high school student , who has devoted his life to photography . He accidentally takes a shot of a young woman ( Demi Moore ) that will become his obsession . Moore plays a singer trying to get her career started . Cryer spends his life savings ( $6 , 000 ) on putting Moore's picture on 175 taxi cabs . The rest is pretty juvenile . Miss Moore at times is down right sultry and I was disappointed that she was not doing her own singing . The voice you hear is that of Chrissy Faith . In my opinion , Miss Moore is the only good thing to happen to this movie . I admit watching it three times and find the goodbye scene at the airport worth the price of admission or rental . A kiss to remember . Also in the cast are George Wendt , Ann Wedgeworth , Jennifer Tilly and Jeffrey Tambor . Look for a small part for Tim Robbins .
A reunion hard to forget .	A birthday party and reunion of old high school friends goes terribly wrong . Two single couples and a new pair of parents look forward to a nice weekend aboard a luxury yacht . A small baby in tow is not what spoils the party . Hopping into the water for a refreshing swim , no one remembered to lower the ladder necessary for reboarding . Now the joyful reunion turns into a frightful fight for survival . Two couples worry about fatigue and sharks . The new parents worry about their baby still on board alone . Personal revelations become known while the swimmers list into desperation ; knowing the boat is too large to climb to safety . Obviously acting ability isn't required much . Starring are : Susan May Pratt , Eric Dane , Cameron Richardson , Ali Hillis , Niklaus Lange and Richard Speight Jr .
Die hard football fan keeps his favorite team alive .	Mac Davis plays a devoted fan and the radio voice of his alma mater Nowata High School . After a very long losing streak , the school administration decides to do away with the football team . Davis starts missing the Friday night games and decides to buy up commercial time and broadcast fantasy games featuring a winning version of his beloved Possums . Finally the small Oklahoma town takes pride in their dismantled team . The real Possums are challenged by the real State Champs . The Possums lose again , but score their first actual touchdown in years . This is a charming , down home movie . You actually feel the heart warming and emotional accomplishments of Davis ' character . The action scenes truly represent high school football play . This movie leaves you in a happy , upbeat mood . And is really fun for the family to watch . Davis was very believable . Others in the cast : Andrew Pine , Greg Coolidge , Monica Creel and a cameo by former famed Oklahoma University and Dallas Cowboys coach Barry Switzer .
A nail biter . Very good thriller .	This will drain you dry . It will wear you down to a frazzle . C . Thomas Howell is in for the ride of his life . He is driving through the desert and is terrorized by a psychotic hitchhiker , Rutger Hauer . This has to be Hauer's finest performance . What a menacing character , ruthless and relentless . The dialogue is a little skimpy , but the violent action scenes keeps you on pins and needles . Also featured are Jennifer Jason Leigh , Billy Green Bush and Henry Darrow . This will remind you to lock the car doors and not stopping for anyone .
Ride that rocket , cowboy ! The team gathers one more time .	NASA is in a pinch . A Russian communications satellite is about to crash after an obsolete guidance system fails . The system was designed by Dr . Frank Corvin ( Clint Eastwood ) retired Air Force test pilot . Corvin and his old crew team up to ride to the rescue . The aging astronauts are as humorous as they are fit for duty ; well . The other space " cowboys " are : Tommy Lee Jones , Donald Southerland and James Garner . Garner is a bit of a disappointment among the " cowboys " , but other notables in the cast are : Marcia Gay Harden , James Cromwell and William Devane . This is a fun watch . No great shakes , but really enjoyable .
Crime fighters and partners to the end .	ZAP . POW . ZING . I was surprised that I watched the whole movie . I had my doubts at first . This is not the best of the Batman movies , but it does hold your interest . It is wonderful to watch . The scenery , backdrops , and music gave this thing a life . I like George Clooney , but not as Batman . Uma Thurman's Poison Ivy was the best acted character . Arnold Scwarzenegger's Mr . Freeze was pretty hokey and over the top . Chris O'Donnell was pedestrian as Robin . Pat Hingle was quite animated as Commissioner Gordon . Alicia Silverstone was winsome as Batgirl . The fast pace of the story took your mind off of the length of the movie . For avid fantasy freaks this is a treat .
Harsh are the winds of war .	Cornel Wilde directs , writes and produces this story of a U . S . Marine invasion of a Japanese held island . Wilde plays Capt . MacDonald who with the help of Gunnery Sgt . Honeywell ( Rip Torn ) leads anxious troops against savvy Japanese snippers . The use of stop motion and flash backs adds to the look of this war drama full of factual looking fighting . Also in the cast are Dewey Stringer , Jean Wallace , Burr DeBenning and Patrick Wolfe . BEACH RED proves its point .
Scenic drama . Family fare . Stranded !	Beautiful scenery , romantic and just enough action . A Seattle yachtsman , his two daughters , a stowaway and a young reporter are stranded on an Alaskan island . At times a little too " touchy , feely " , but a tender and warm family flick . Robert Logan is convincing as the cool dad and Miki Jamison-Olsen is very good as the reporter . Rescuing a caribou is tender , while the salmon catching scene is a relaxed frolic . Scenes of the natural wildlife are wonderful . Nothing here to really cause you any stress . . . sit back , relax and enjoy .
Another chapter with similar verses .	Tense drama of life imitating art . A popular suspense novelist ( Candice Bergen ) with a myriad of phobias is terrorized when a couple of strangers appear at her isolated beach house . Murder is the theme and it takes big time nerve and little savvy to survive . Bryan Brown as well as Bergen are tremendous and believable . Also in the cast are Bug Hall and Michael Murphy . Very good for a made-for-TV movie . Kudos to Christopher Franke for the mood setting musical background .
Mountain man moves moonshine to Memphis .	Arthur Ripley directs this cult classic crime / Noir . War vet Robert Mitchum returns home to ramrod the family moonshine business . This hard headed bootlegger takes on the Feds and the Mob while burning the roads in his whiskey laden hot rods . If that is not enough , he must keep his young brother ( James Mitchum ) from moving up from mechanic to driver in the family business and then there is the romancing of a Memphis chanteuse ( Keely Smith ) . Also in the cast are Gene Barry , Sandra Knight and Jacques Aubuchon . Bob Mitchum produces , and takes partial writing credit plus writes songs for this evocative glimpse of southern culture . Mitchum also oversees his younger brother's film debut . NOTE : It is said that Elvis Presley enjoyed this movie so much he memorized bad Bob's lines of the script .
A teenage prank gets out of hand . Suspense prevails .	A very talented double cast of characters and excellent use of flashbacks makes for a very good dark drama . Four young friends meet in an abandon quarry and a devious prank turns into an accidental double murder . The four go their separate ways and meet again as adults when the authorities get close to solving the crime by tracing the gun back to one of the four . Now the four turn on each other in order to protect themselves . The four adult friends are played by David Paymer , Tom Goldwyn , Arlis Howard and Colm Feore . Their younger counterparts are Adam Scott , Jonathan Scarfe , Marc Warden and Steven Petrarca . Both sets of actors were brilliant . Not exactly predictable and enough tension to curl the hair on the back of your neck . One minute you feel sorry for each of these characters and then a few moments later you want to slap a knot on them yourself . Suspense and nail biting galore . You wear yourself out just watching .
Convicted and more than willing to die .	This depressing , but interesting drama depicts dysfunction as well as perseverance . Gary Gilmore ( Elias Koteas ) was convicted of a double murder and set to be executed by the state of Utah in 1977 . This would be of interest from coast to coast for being the first execution in America in ten years after a declared nix on capital punishment . This movie is based on Gary's estranged brother Mikal's ( Giovanni Ribisi ) book . Mikal would have several meetings with Gary during his final days with the attempt of a stay of execution . The two along with brother Frank , Jr . ( Lee Tergesen ) reminisce about the family's dysfunction , tragedy and the Mormon belief with its customs and circumstances . Ribisi gives a moving performance . Koteas seemed to caricature a poor man's Robert de Niro . Supporting cast features : Sam Shepard , Amy Madigan and Eric Bogosian . This HBO Original has a soundtrack featuring : Fats Domino , Johnny Cash , Bruce Springsteen and Elvis Presley .
Spectacular gladiator movie .	RKO Radio epic in grand style . Title is taken from a Sir Edward Bulwer-Lytton novel , the movie does not employ its plot , story line or characters . Even an opening disclaimer denies any historical content besides using the eruption of Mount Vesuvious in 79 AD . as climatic backdrop . Marcus ( Preston Foster ) , an Ancient Roman blacksmith is forced to become a gladiator after his wife and son are accidentally killed . He takes a young boy Flavius ( David Holt ) under his wing and raises him as his own . Basil Rathbone is superb as Potius Pilate , who is preoccupied with the execution of Jesus Christ . Marcus witnesses Christ's march to Calvary and later calls for divine help in saving the life of Flavius as Vesuvius erupts . Other players : John Wood , Alan Hale , Louis Calhern , Edward Van Sloan and Zeffie Tilbury .
A bevy of lovelies are out to catch the same man .	Elvis Presley plays Mike McCoy , the leader of a small time combo on the road . Millionaire Howard Foxhugh played by Carl Betz wants McCoy to sing solo for his daughter's birthday . Daughter Cynthia is aptly played by Shelley Fabares . Entering the plot further , Foxhugh wants the singer to drive his new race car in an up and coming race . Deborah Walley plays the drummer in the combo and has a mad crush for her boss . Diane McBain plays an author looking for a subject for her next book ; guess who ? Auto racing , light comedy and plenty of music helps McCoy dodge the girls . Highlights from the soundtrack are " I'll Be Back " , " All That I Am " and the title tune . This one made an Elvis movie fun again . Also in the cast are Will Hutchins , Dodie Marshall and Jimmy Hawkins .
A Guy Ritchie crime caper .	Discribing ROCKnROLLA is like trying to do a play-by-play of five blind mice with catnip on their tales hiding in a cat carriage . A very manic crime comedy with plenty of action . London's underworld becomes the playground of every schemer and criminal big and small . Russian mob elements orchestrate a lucrative riverfront property scam getting the interest of a ruthless crime boss ( Tom Wilkinson ) , who is finally getting the screws put to him ; a small-time local criminal ( Gerard Butler ) and a corrupt accountant ( Thandie Newton ) are joined by a punk rocker ( Toby Kebbell ) , who is faking his own death , embroiled in wanting a piece of the real estate scheme . I enjoyed Richie's SNATCH a whole lot better . But this kinetic face-smashing gangster caper will keep you laughing . This flick is definitely intended for mature audiences only . Also in the cast : Jimi Mistry , Jeremy Piven , Mark Strong , Karel Roden and Chris " Ludacris " Bridges .
Things aren't the same on the ranch .	Elvis Presley plays a singing rodeo cowboy waiting for the rodeo season to open and takes a job at a dude ranch / health spa for models and well-to-do women . The adorable Jocelyn Lane plays the cowboy / handyman's love interest . The ranch manager ( Julie Adams ) also has eyes for the singing distraction . Hidden treasure in a ghost town causes mild suspense and some slapstick comedy . In order to save money for the production company no new songs were recorded for the movie . Some tunes are almost five years old . The better ditties include : " Night Rider " , " Dirty , Dirty Feeling " , " Slowly But Surely " and " Easy Question " . Some of the background sets are super cheap ; the plot kind of flimsy ; but the magic between Presley and Lane sizzles and smolders . I think that and the music are worth the price of admission . Also in the cast are : Jack Mullaney , Edward Faulkner and Barbara Werle .
Knowing the truth is dangerous .	The President ( Jack Scalia ) has been assassinated and is that crocodile tears the First Lady ( Anne Archer ) is shedding ? White House Secret Service agent ( Cuba Gooding Jr . ) and a strong willed Pulitzer Prize winning reporter ( Angie Harmon ) start putting together the pieces to prove conspiracy . Top to bottom and side to side , this political thriller is full of action and suspense . The captured assassin is in the hospital dieing of lung cancer , but leaves a line of keys to the conspiracy . . . the dangerous thing is that anyone possibly involved is coming up dead . An exceptional all-star cast includes : James Woods , Peter Green , Burt Reynolds , David Selby and Brian Presley . END GAME is directed by Andy Cheng , who joins J . C . Pollock as writers . This movie is interesting enough , but could have done well with a different ending . Of note : Brian Presley was born on the same day Elvis Presley died .
The crowned King is a murderer .	Legendary Roger Corman directs this remake of the 1939 classic of the same title . This period piece is made into a horror / melodrama that chills your spine . Atmospheric B & W . Bloody events and plot twists thread through this low-budget feature . Vincent Price plays the hunchbacked Richard III , who ruthlessly tortures and murders anyone he deems standing in his way ascending to the throne of England . Richard is haunted by those he disposed of . This Gothic setting bodes well for Corman's sadistic style . Price's menacing and maniacal performance adds to his legend . One of Price's earliest roles was a supporting one in the afore mentioned 1939 original . Other players of note : Michael Pate , Joan Freeman , Donald Losby , Joan Camden , Robert Brown and Sandra Knight .
A stranger with a mystical touch .	The small town of Antioch is slowly divided by the magic touch of a mysterious stranger . Robby Henson directs this adaptation of a novel by Frank Peretti . The charismatic stranger Brandon Nichols ( Edward Furlong ) appears to have the power to heal , nevertheless he also has an aura about him that is of pronounced menace . A fallen ex-minister Travis Jordan ( Martin Donovan ) begins putting back his unraveled faith and goes about proving Nichols is a false prophet avenging his past sorrows . More supernatural than horrific . Furlong is commanding as the malevolent messiah . Actually a pretty good movie . The cast includes : Kelly Lynch , Randy Travis , Joe Unger , Priscilla Barnes , James Horan and Richard Tyson .
Elvis impersonators knock ' em dead in Vegas .	Thomas J . Murphy ( Kevin Costner ) and Michael Zane ( Kurt Russell ) ramrod a gang of ex-cons in a blatant robbery of a Vegas casino . It is Elvis International Convention time , so these daring criminals dress up as Elvis and pull of a violent robbery with high damage and body count . The group implodes on itself leaving just Murphy and Zane to battle over the money . Along the way , Michael does some torrid mattress dancing with an alluring Cybil with a C ( Courtney Cox ) . The finale is just as loud and bloody as the robbery almost two hours earlier . Expecting a charming movie about a group of guys that like to play dress up as Elvis is at least 3 , 000 miles from what you get . " The King " himself liked things a little gaudy ; this movie is gaudy in over drive . He may have liked the blazing gunfire ; but would probably roll over in his grave with the soundtrack . Instead of striking gold with rockin ' Elvis tunes , what is chosen is metal / head-bangin ' / rap from the likes of Filter , Spineshank , Bender , Crystal Method and George S . Clinton . We do hear bits and pieces of a few Elvis rockers and during the credits Russell resurrects his acclaimed Elvis portrayal lip synching the smash hit " Such A Night " . Costner fans might be shaking their heads for awhile wondering why Kevin took this part . Talk about a ruthless bad ass . Russell is by far the likable bad guy . This is the best performance I have seen Cox put on film . Christian Slater , David Arquette and Bokeem Woodbine also donned the Elvis gear as gang members . Former football star Howie Long is the high paid escape helicopter pilot . Kevin Pollak is very good as a U . S . Marshal in pursuit . Also in the cast are Ice-T , John Lovitz and Thomas Haden Church . Paul Anka is totally obnoxious in his small role working with the casino security . If you like action ; it is here . If you like a lot of blood shed ; it is here . The movie trailers lead you in a different direction . Sit down , hang on and shut up . Like it or not , you will have something to say about this one . All I can say now is . . . I want to see it again .
Change of plans . . . a trip to Mars .	Although it has George Pal written all over it ; it is not his best project , but a pretty darn good Sci-Fi flick for its time . A team of American astronauts assemble a space station called " The Wheel " to enable a spaceship to be built . Gen . Samuel Merritt ( Walter Brooke ) and his crew that includes his son Captain Barney Merritt ( Eric Fleming ) believe their mission is to eventually land on the Moon . Change of orders ; new destination . . . Mars . Special effects are redeemable with the most striking color and depiction of the ' angry red planet ' . Religion and human emotions are the subplots , because in the mid 50s we want to see space travel . Most of the cast will be remembered for later work : William Hopper , Benson Fong , Ross Martin , Mickey Shaughnessy and Phil Foster .
Be a man , sailor !	Very colorful comedic drama best rented or watched on commercial-fee uncut cable for best effect . A pair of career petty officers ( Jack Nicholson and Otis Young ) are given the detail of transferring a young sailor ( Randy Quaid ) from one Navy brig to another . The hard-ass officers decide to have a little fun along the way by helping their prisoner move into " real " manhood before being locked away for the next eight years . Nicholson is a riot ! Also in the cast is Michael Moriarty and smaller roles for Carol Kane and Nancy Allen who play small time prostitutes . My favorite scene is the roasting of wieners in a snow covered park . No buns , but a jar of mustard . Hilarious fun !
Futuristic environment . A trip farther than tomorrow .	What a way to start a meteoric career . The first major project written and directed by George Lucas . Sci-Fi from the expanding corners of a mastermind . A look so far into the future , it is still timeless . We get a view of a very technical , mechanized society in a subterranean world in the 25th century . Forget looking for a reason or purpose ; if there are any questions to be answered . . . they change with each viewing of this classic . Top shelf Sci-Fi . The cast includes : Robert Duvall , Donald Pleasence , Ian Wolfe and Maggie McOmie . Permission to access is granted .
The walrus looks for Lucy in the sky .	A wonderful movie about a mentally challenged man ( Sean Penn ) fighting for custody of his daughter ( Dakota Fanning ) who has been taken by the State to place in a foster home . The man seeks help from an attorney ( Michelle Pfeiffer ) to represent him in court . Penn is fantastic , but I'm afraid that Miss Fanning has that way about her to steal the show . Also in the cast are Brad Silverman , Dianne Wiest and Luara Dern . The soundtrack is most impressive featuring covers of Beatle's tunes by the likes of Sheryl Crow , Eddie Vedder , The Wallflowers , Grandaddy and The Black Crowes . Delightful , funny and uplifting . A don't miss !
A serious laugh at the moody films of the 40's .	I had to watch this a second time to appreciate it . The story is not the most impressive ; but the concept is . Steve Martin plays a detective in a parody of classic film noir . The movie features actual scenes cut from several films and blended with precision . These skillful splices feature some of the great names from old time Hollywood . Names like Cagney , Douglas , Davis , Crawford and Bergman . Martin really shows his talent and ability to make a scene imitate reality . His comedic wit is sharp as a switchblade . His co-star is Rachel Ward , who can vamp or play coy with the best of them . Along with directing , Carl Reiner has a cameo part . Swift directing , with superb lighting and shading made this black and white crime comedy shine .
When there is a will there is a way .	Noel Coward in his account of a WWII destroyer and its valiant crew . The use of flash backs sometimes muddle the story's progression , but are vital for insights of the main characters . Very good acting from Coward , John Mills , Celia Johnson , Bernard Miles and Joyce Carey .
A serial killer is asked to help find another .	This is the first in the Dr . Hannibal Lecter trilogy . William Peterson is a Special Agent with the FBI and is called on to help track and find a serial killer before he strikes again . The manhunter pays a visit to another killer , Hannibal Lecter ( Brian Cox ) , whom he helped put in prison . Talking to Dr . Lecter just might give some insight in tracking down the current stalker / killer on the loose . Awesome camera work and chilling use of soundtrack featuring Iron Butterfly and Red 7 . Frightening , thrilling and tension filled film . Director Michael Mann teams well with Thomas Harris , who based the screenplay on his novel " Red Dragon " . Peterson's character is fearless , yet laid back . Cox is creepy in his short scene as Lecter . Tom Noonan plays the lumbering , but volatile villain . Dennis Farina and Joan Allen also appear .
Desperate times call for desperate measures .	A devious attorney ( Ben Affleck ) and a recovering alcoholic ( Samuel L . Jackson ) are involved in a collision on the freeway and that is just the beginning of a very bad day for both men . Both are late for court dates and both pay the piper for being late . The lawyer has the other man's credit screwed and a very important document of the lawyer is held hostage . Both men are facing a crossroads in their lives and are having trouble dealing with the fall out of their recent bad behavior . Tense filled drama that has you cracking your knuckles . Also in the cast are : Sydney Pollack , Toni Collette and Ileen Getz . This road rage goes a little bit too far .
They had a mind of their own .	Stephen King directs and adapts his short story " Trucks " for the screen . Not exactly the best thing King has been involved in ; but given a chance this juvenile driven story is not all that bad . A meteor storm with radiation somehow animates various size machines . . . lawn mowers , soft drink machines to semi trucks . . . turn on those that possess or use them . Emilio Estevez leads a group of survivors held captive in a roadside diner by some angered semis . Talk about an unwelcome roundup . The group held captive by the circling trucks , are terror stricken as they watch themselves get bumped off one by one . As expected , some scenes are very graphic . There is more fear than scare in this tale of terrifying trucks . Also in the cast : Pat Hingle , Yeardley Smith , John Short , Laura Harrington , Holter Graham and a cameo by King .
War on land and in the sky . John Wayne . Wow !	A clash of leadership skills and methods pit Robert Ryan against John Wayne during the battle of Guadalcanal . The Wildcats squadron is needed to help the ground troops in their advancement . Plus to deal with the Japanese naval and flying forces makes for a very busy movie . A gathering of different personalities makes for the usual , but interesting war picture . Ensemble cast features : Don Taylor , Jay C . Flippen , James Dobson , Janis Carter and James Bell .
Sisters . . . nothing alike .	Romantic comedy about high school sisters different as night and day . Bianca Stratford ( Larisa Oleynik ) is cute and popular , but her extremely strict father ( Larry Miller ) will not let her date until her older sister does . That is a slight problem since sister Kat ( Julia Stiles ) is smug with an intellect that matches her good looks and will alienate any guy who might be interested in her . Cameron ( Joseph Gordon-Levitt ) wants to date Bianca bad enough , he pays tough guy Patrick Verona ( Heath Ledger ) to try and take out Kat . Sex-related humor and dialogue plus drug and alcohol scenes account for a PG-13 rating . A real lively soundtrack featuring the likes of The Thompson Twins , Sprung Monkey , Brick and Letters To Cleo keep this flick up beat and moving . If you like Stiles and Ledger , you'll like 10 THINGS I HATE ABOUT YOU .
Desperate love on the run .	Director David Lynch excels at the weird magic he weaves . A love starved young woman is on the run with a paroled murderer . A psycho mother puts a private eye and a deranged hit man on their trail . Some scenes are hard to watch ; and then there are those typical Lynch scenes that you still don't know what the hell you saw . Very wicked soundtrack featuring Chris Isaak and Gene Vincent . Nicolas Cage is infatuated with Elvis . Laura Dern is down right NASTY . Willem Dafoe , definitely bizarre . Diane Ladd is way over the edge . Crispin Glover is clever as a cabbage . Harry Dean Stanton always seems to be at ease being clueless . Sherilyn Fenn , a waste of beauty to play a corpse . The erotic , violent and irreverent script is what holds this cast together . David Lynch fans get everything they could expect and then some .
A sensual thriller . A visual treat .	This is a grisly drama that is torture-driven . Aubrey Fleming ( Lindsay Lohan ) is a high school student with a flare for creative writing . She writes of a fictional character , a stripper named Dakota Moss . Things get strange when Aubrey is abducted by a sadistic killer . After and extensive search , Aubrey is found alive . . . but changed . She is missing limbs and when questioned , she takes on the personality of the sultry pole dancer Dakota Moss . The FBI thinks she is delusional and there seems to be a brick wall between her own sanity and sense of reality . Some pretty disturbing fare with scenes of Aubrey / Dakota pole dancing contrasted with visions of her as an amputee . Family secrets are made known leading to the unmasking of a brutal and stylized serial killer . Haunting and quirky . Kudos to director Chris Sivertson for his blending of mystery , murder , suspense and sex . Even if you think the story is a dud . . . you have to admit Lohan as a stripper is a winner . Also in the cast : Neal McDonough , Julia Ormand , Brian Geraghty and Garcelle Beauvais .
Searching for shelter may be hazardous ; even deadly .	From the works of macabre master H . P . Lovecraft comes DAGON . Paul ( Ezra Godden ) and Barbara ( Raquel Merono ) are vacationing off the coast of Spain when their yacht is damaged in a storm . The small town along the shore is not what it appears to be . The population is made up of pale-skinned people , who are slowly mutating into half-fish and ruthless killers . These hideous water creatures are in the process of hunting the next sacrifice to the ancient fish-god Dagon . In spite of the community mumbling in their own language ; Paul and Barbara are apprised of their situation and spend a lot of time dashing about in a constant torrent of rain trying to avoid being sacrificed . That be said , you have a fun to watch horror / fantasy flick . Other cast members : Birgit Bofarull , Francisco Rabal , Macarena Gomez and Brendan Price .
Lusty vampire mesmerizes .	Not exactly a Hammer Films classic , but really worthy of watching . There is the great Hammer color and plenty shots of bouncing bosoms and this time a bit more . . . a lot more . Ingrid Pitt plays a voluptuous lesbian vampire posing as a needy house guest . She will attack men just in order to ravish and drain young girls in an otherwise peaceful European setting . This is the first Hammer Studios horror flick to serve up full nudity . The lesbian love scenes may be the most memorable sequences in this movie . The cast also features : Peter Cushing , Madeline Smith , Pippa Steel , George Cole and John Forbes-Robertson . For a good double feature watch with another Pitt film from Hammer , Countess Dracula .
Classic sci-fi that survives the test of time .	One of the most intellectual sci-fi flicks ever made . This is masterfully directed by Robert Wise . It still radiates with sullen suspicion and paranoia . Michael Rennie plays a visitor from a far away planet making an exploratory stop on earth . He is disappointed that men on earth and their attitudes toward others is damaging the planet . Rennie is stoic , but perfect for his part as the stranger from outer space . He is befriended by a little boy played by Billy Gray . The boy's mother is played by Patricia Neal and Sam Jaffe is the old professor that the boy confides in . This is still a classy film and one of the absolute best of the genre . If I have seen it once ; I have watched it thirty times . It still holds interest after all these years .
Only the strong survive .	ESPN Original movie directed and written by Mike Robe using a novel by Jim Dent as a template . Tom Berenger is outstanding as the legendary football icon Paul " Bear " Bryant . This is suppose to be the true-life story of that infamous first preseason training camp when Bryant took charge of the Aggies of Texas A & M . Making no mistake who the boss was Bryant loaded over a hundred boys into two buses and took his team from College Station to Junction , Texas . It was 102 degrees in the shade ; in the middle of a drought in no-less the middle of nowhere . Those ten days in the summer of 1954 will prove to be remembered by all involved and especially the 25 players that survived that grueling training camp . " Bear " Bryant was harsh , blistering and in no way going to settle for less than excellence . It is obvious that Hollywood took liberties with actuality ; but THE JUNCTION BOYS is a movie that introduces you to a bigger-than-life coach that took young men and turned them not only into football players , but also champions . Others in the cast : Fletcher Humphrys , Bernard Curry , Luke Ford , Ryan Johnson , Nick Tate and Ryan Kwanten .
Interesting enough to sustain attention .	Why is disaster so interesting ? KILLER WAVE leaves room for some improvement , but all-in-all is not really bad . Massive torrential waves begin battering the east coast without any logical explanation . Is it really Mother Nature at work or is she getting some help ? Multi-millionaire businessman Victor Bannister ( Tom Skerritt ) offers to foot the bill for clean up and help in restoration . Out-of-the-loop scientist John McAdams ( Angus Macfadyen ) isn't so sure the series of " killer waves " are natural and is determined to prove that they are being created by terrorists . Helping to back up this revelation is Oceanographic genius Sophie Marleau ( Karine Vanasse ) . The eastern seaboard is living in fear as McAdams himself is on the run from authorities and terrorists . Other players include : Vlasta Vrana , Christopher Heyerdahl , Ellen David , Bruce Dinsmore and Stephen McHattie .
Glimpse into the life of a musical genius .	A made-for-TV documentary centering on Brian Wilson , founder and heart and soul of one of America's foremost musical groups . Sunshine , surfing , fast cars and California girls . . . subjects of some of the most cheerful songs written by Brian for his group the Beach Boys . The Beach Boy sound in the mid 1960's was unique , honest , refreshing and relished by the young at heart from coast to coast and around the world . Brian's life has been undeniably remarkable as it has been troubled and tormented ; with seclusion in his bedroom for lengths at a time and his scrambled mental health and discord of his brothers and cousin , who continued the Beach Boy machine with or without its genius . Helping us understand a little bit more about Brian's influence are his daughters Carnie and Wendy , his ex-wife Marilyn ; as well as tributes from such luminaries as John Cale , David Crosby , Danny Hutton , Tom Petty and Graham Nash . Well worth watching : even for the non-fan .
Combination of drama and tragedy .	Nicole Kidman plays Grace , a beautiful fugitive , that finds her way to a small isolated town named Dogville . She is hiding from her gangster father ( James Caan ) and is befriended by Dogville's self appointed spokesman Tom Edison , Jr ( Paul Bettany ) . Grace ends up working an hour a day for each Dogville family in return for her shelter . As the stakes grow higher for knowledge of her whereabouts , the town decides to double her work hours ; if that is not enough she is raped and then becomes the victim of aggravated sexual assault from about every man in town . . . except Tom , whom she has fallen in love with . Grace is then forced to make a major decision about how she is going to live the rest of her life . She makes sure that Dogville will never again be the same . At times this movie lumbers on its way to the finale two minutes short of three hours . Written and directed by Lars von Trier , DOGVILLE makes use of a noble and interesting cast : Lauren Bacall , Ben Gazzara , Stellan Skarsgard , Patricia Clarkson , Chloe Sevigny and Blair Brown . John Hurt narrates and at times gets annoying . This movie just seems not meant for everyone . . . but after watching you definitely know you have seen something with substance .
A land baron's empire is in jeopardy .	A rather odd western , but its ' The Duke ' . John Chisum ( John Wayne ) owns cattle , horses and land farther than the eyes can see . An envious land-grabbing developer Lawrence Murphy ( Forrest Tucker ) comes to Lincoln and starts buying stores , setting up a bank ; and buying the law with full intent to disrupt a calm territory . Chisum is forced to protect his empire from the equally strong willed and corrupt Murphy . Strange enough ; aiding Chisum is Billy ' The Kid ' Bonney ( Geoffrey Deuel ) and Pat Garrett ( Glen Corbett ) . Thus the battle lines are drawn for New Mexico's 1878 Lincoln County Land War . The supporting cast is a who's who of the western genre : Ben Johnson , Andrew Pine , Richard Jaeckel , Patrick Knowles and Bruce Cabot . For static decoration there is Pamela McMyler and Lynda Day George . This movie comes in the twilight of Wayne's remarkable career . As always , ' The Duke ' still packs a punch .
Death does not play favorites .	Mick Garris directs and creates this screenplay based on the works of macabre master Stephen King . RIDING THE BULLET refers to the awesome amusement park roller-coaster young Alan Parker ( Jonathan Jackson ) was too scared to ride after eagerly standing in line . Parker since became a college student obsessively dwelling on death . His sketch pad would testify that Parker was not too shy to flirt with death . On Halloween 1969 , Alan's girlfriend ( Erika Christensen ) fakes breaking up with him in order to plan his surprise birthday party . This is when Parker is found in his bathtub slicing his wrist . Alan gives away his birthday present of tickets to see a John Lennon concert when he gets the news that his mother ( Barbara Hershey ) has had a stroke . Parker sets upon hitchhiking 100 miles of North Miane back-roads to be with his dying mother . Along the way he is picked up by a mysterious stranger named George Staub ( David Arquette ) , who broadsides his ' 58 Plymouth Fury through a trailer load of pumpkins . Not only is Parker now haunted by visits from Staub and the Grim Reaper ( Simon Webb ) , but also from the visuals of his mother's and his own burial . This intense thriller also stars Matt Frewer and Cliff Robertson .
Viva la France . Very good war drama .	Directed by Tay Garnett , who was a Naval pilot in WWI , this war drama has substance . French soldiers , believing that WWII is over , unwittingly surrender to German forces and are placed in a POW camp . A terrific and realistic look at being held prisoner under the thumb of the Nazis . A very good collection of talent featuring : Jean-Pierre Aumont , Gene Kelly , Hume Cronyn , Sir Cedric Hardwicke , Peter Lorre , Wallace Ford and Richard Whorf .
Americans join French fliers in the " The Great War " .	In 1914 , before America joined the fighting in WWI , American men volunteered to fly single engine fighter planes as members of the Lafayette Escadrille . The Allied Powers of France , Italy and England had their backs pinned to the wall by the German juggernaut . Although some young American men disagreed with war , they had individual reasons to learn to fly alongside the French knights of the sky . These courageous young men distinguished themselves , while making close friendships in spite of the life and death situations they endured . The dogfights were graphic and realistic showing how brutal the battle was for command of the skies . Ariel Tactics nothing short of awesome . Tony Bill directs this strong cast that features : James Franco , Philip Winchester , Jean Reno , Jennifer Decker , Reed Cassidy , Abdul Salis and David Ellison . The war action is violent and graphic making the two hours worth while .
Your future is in his future .	Heartfelt drama culminates in tears of joy . Get your crying towel and give your emotions free reign . Ben Thomas ( Will Smith ) is an IRS agent that strays from the mold . Thomas has his demons and is searching for redemption to help cleanse a harrowing secret . His conscience is heavy and his life presents a minor complication that puts the power of changing lives in his hands . He has the ability to turn around the circumstances of seven strangers . . . if he deems they actually deserve a second chance . Its an extraordinary journey for a man that usually deals out misery instead of mercy . The cast also features : Woody Harrelson , Rosario Dawson , Barry Pepper , Michael Ealy and Gina Hecht .
Romantic comedy about young love .	Writer John Hughes has the 80's pegged . But this story could have been set in the 50's or 60's and still worked well . That is why I think this movie is so relevant . Devotion , friendship , and self worth are quizzed . The young actors were better than expected . I have watched this over a dozen times and I don't care if some people refer to this as a " chick flick " . A young girl falls in love with a boy from the other side of the tracks . Problems occur when his peers think the object of his desires is socially beneath him . Molly Ringwald was very good . Andrew McCarthy and Jon Cryer seemed to feel their part more than the rest of the cast . But James Spader was such a realistic jerk , you want to get up and punch his face in . Harry Dean Stanton and Annie Potts play the adult roles of substance . Have you ever seen Stanton so sympathetic ? A very upbeat soundtrack keeps the movie flowing and helps you feel the atmosphere . Don't write this off as just another teen movie . Highly recommended .
The Countess needs virgins !	Under par horror from the famed Hammer Studios . There is the Gothic atmosphere , bright red blood and well rounded bosoms . . . but it just feels COUNTESS Dracula doesn't have the ' bite ' it needs . The tale is based very loosely on the legend of a noblewoman obsessed with the natural aging process . Wrinkles , wrinkles go away . Countess Elisabeth Nodosheen ( Ingrid Pitt ) , upon the death of her husband , thinks about an amorous relationship with a much younger army officer , Lt . Imre Toth ( Sandor Eles ) . The countess accidentally discovers that her aging body transforms into a much younger and voluptuous version of herself with the help of blood from young virgins . And she must keep her military lover satisfied . But the Countess is forced to share her bed with her castle steward Capt . Dobi ( Nigel Green ) , in order to keep her aging secret and a supply of nubile lasses to drain for her ' wrinkle cream ' . Also in the cast : Maurice Denham , Andrea Lawrence , Peter Jeffrey and the lovely Lesley-Anne Down . Miss Pitt gives a standout performance and switches roles convincingly .
Good triumphs over bad again !	This movie directed by William Wellman is nothing elaborate or scenic , but a real good feel good picture . The typical good versus bad with pride and patriotism mixed in . Law abiding citizens are terrorized by gangsters . One family endures mobster threats , violence and kidnapping after members of the family witness a couple of murders . Walter Huston is the devoted crime fighting district attorney . But the scene stealers are young Dickie Moore and Charles ' Chic ' Sale , the lovable grandpa that walks away from the old soldiers home to become the story's hero .
Fear of the unknown . Tense and scary .	A film from Larry Fessenden that builds to chaotic fear . In this snowbound thriller , Ron Perlman plays Ed Pollack , an ultra-macho leader of a team of oil scouts assessing the environment from their Alaskan base just outside the Arctic Circle . Not only is cabin fever a problem for the isolated crew , but there seems to be an unnatural evil that stalks through the wind in the blinding luminous white . It seems not everything buried below the frozen tundra is there waiting in peace . Horrifying visions in the blowing snow are believed to be nature's warning to not continue with greedy thoughts of laying a pipeline . Even the most experienced become mumbling shells of themselves as staff and crew become corpses one by one . Also in the cast : Connie Britton , Zach Gilford , James LeGros and Jamie Harrold .
All he knows what to do . . . . is be a Marine .	Underrated explosive action flick . WWE Champion John Cena plays John Triton , a heroic Marine , who is unwillingly discharged from the war in Iraq . Back in the states , he finds being a security guard is just not him . With intentions to take a short vacation , his beautiful wife Kate ( Kelly Carlson ) is kidnapped by a rag-tag gang led by a relentless criminal named Rome ( Robert Patrick ) . The cold and calculated Rome steals a fortune in jewels and really doesn't plan on sharing . Rome , with Kate as a hostage , thinks he can out-smart the law , as well as his gang and girlfriend Angela ( Abigail Bianca ) . He has no idea that Triton will stop at nothing to get his wife back alive . If you like explosions and massive automatic gunfire , this is for you ; some real amazing fight scenes too . My favorite sequence is the car chase through the South Carolina wilderness . Also in the cast : Anthony Ray Parker , Drew Powell , Manu Bennett and Jerome Ehlers .
Powerful western drama .	A super director , John Sturges ; two macho leading men , Kirk Douglas and Anthony Quinn ; plus a very interesting story makes for a better than your typical western . Douglas plays a lawman avenging the rape and murder of his wife . Long time friend , Craig Belden ( Quinn ) is a rich land baron / rancher / town owner that must defend the actions of his young and restless son played by Earl Holliman . Also in the cast are the alluring Carolyn Jones and Brian G . Hutton . Look for small roles played by Dabbs Greer , Ty Hardin and Bing Russell .
The importance of one last kiss .	To this very day , I still don't know if this is an homage or mockery of Elvis . A top of the heap rock ' n ' roller is drafted into the Army . A publicity agent and struggling song writer scheme up a plan to capitalize on the situation . Have the singer / draftee Conrad Birdie sing a song and bestow one last kiss on a lucky member of his fan club . That girl is Kim McAfee from Sweetwater , Ohio . This is to happen on the Ed Sullivan tv show for maximum publicity . Birdie is played by Jesse Pearson , whom I have never liked and have not been impressed with . Starring as Kim is the beautiful Ann-Margret . WOW ! Top billing of course went to Dick Van Dyke and Janet Leigh . Both were very good . I found Maureen Stapleton very irritating . And in top form was Paul Lynde . He was hilarious . Minor parts were played by Bobby Rydell and Frank Albertson . Ed Sullivan and John Daly had cameos . Most of the music is pretty hokey , but then again this was written as a play , and was big on broadway . A fun movie for the whole family to watch . Be ready to explain to the youngsters what the big deal is .
Roy Rogers is in search of " The Gypsy " .	William Witney directs Roy Rogers as he and Trigger join a traveling carnival in hopes of paying off a $10 , 000 note he co-signed for the Sons of the Pioneers . There is another source of funds . . . capture the mysterious desperado known as " The Gypsy " ( Tito Guizar ) . Plenty of action and song . Roy , being the ' Singing Cowboy ' , of course sings ; as well as Bob Nolan and the Sons of the Pioneers . There is limited comic relief from Constable Bullfincher ( Andy Devine ) . Also in the cast : Jane Frazee , Estelita Rodriguez and Fred Graham . This is one of my favorite Roy Rogers flicks . I can't really pinpoint why . . . just the atmosphere I guess . Running 75 minutes , ON the Old Spanish TRAIL is worth your time .
A road trip may be the last for three friends .	Three young friends from Connecticut ( Shane Johnson , Josh Hammond and Jason Dohring ) use their fake IDs to get into a Wisconsin roadhouse . The night of partying becomes a horrifying fight for survival as the trio are chased through the back woods of snow covered Wisconsin by a mysterious black ' 57 Cadillac . Revenge or retribution . The scared young men pick up a stranded peace officer ( Randy Quaid ) , but that doesn't exactly mean the bumping and chasing with the Caddie will end soon . This low budget road trip is tense and predictable . I was most impressed with Hammond . Quaid seems to be ad libbing throughout as a cop not on the up and up . Also in the cast : Kierstan Warren and Karl Johnson . The stunt driving may be even better than the acting .
Precognition and explosive thrills .	Not just another Nick Cage flick . NEXT builds up steam and the tension does not sputter . Cage plays Chris Johnson , who has a magic act in Las Vegas . As Frank Cadillac , he has fifty dollar tricks mixed with his personal ability to see a few minutes into the future . . . his future . An FBI agent , Callie Ferris ( Julianne Moore ) , is certain Chris ' special ability is authentic and she is desperate in recruiting him to help stop a terrorist group from setting loose a nuclear bomb in the middle of Los Angeles . Not only is the Government hot on his trail ; the terrorist want him out of the picture as much as the Feds want him in . Chris follows through with a love-at-first-sight reaction to a beautiful girl in a diner . . . Liz ( Jessica Biel ) . Chris hitches a ride with Liz , who at first doesn't know he is a man on the run . Chris becomes a reluctant hero in a race against the clock and it is so important that he can keep seeing at least two minutes in his future . This is a Sci-Fi action thriller you need to check out . Some fine background music from The Green Car Motels , Cream and Elvis . Also in the cast : Thomas Kretschmann , Tory Kittles , Michael Trucco and Peter Falk . No doubt about it , Biel is HOT !
That biological clock is ticking .	Former Saturday Night Live gal-pals Tina Fey and Amy Poehler co-star in this hilarious celebration of motherhood . Kate ( Fey ) is a single , successful businesswoman , who finally hears that biological clock ticking . . . loudly . She's going to balance her career with hopes of having a baby . She finds that she is infertile , but that doesn't stop her from finding a South Philly working-class gal Angie ( Poehler ) to be her surrogate . Opposite as night and day , Kate and Angie almost succumb to their different lifestyles and thoughts on rearing a child . This by-the-book businesswoman almost has the free spirited surrogate transformed into the ideal expectant mother until a deal breaking truth needs to be told . MAMA BABY does have its share of touching moments ; but it is the hilarious tag team comedy of Fey and Poehler that has you on the verge of peeing your pants . There is a very strong supporting cast that includes : Greg Kinnear , Sigourney Weaver , Steve Martin , Holland Taylor and Dax Shepard .
When families meet . . . caste caution to the wind .	Be ready to bust a rib and laugh your ass off . In MEET THE PARENTS ( 2000 ) Greg Focker ( Ben Stiller ) was under the scrutiny of his true love's parents . Wacky event endured . Now Pam ( Teri Polo ) and her parents ( Robert De Niro and Blythe Danner ) get to meet the Fockers ( Dustin Hoffman and Barbra Streisand ) . Retired FBI meets sex therapist and sun and fun lover . Crude and sexual humor abound . Polo and Danner have hardly anything do . . . but De Niro , Hoffman and Streisand are hilarious . Stiller remains to be the odd duck so-to-speak . This funny movie may just be better than the first . Hoffman and Streisand definitely bring a new dimension to the mix . My favorite scene is Streisand trying to get a kink out of De Niro's back . Situations are knee slapping . This one is worth seeing again .
A heart-pounding thriller . Love means more than a bullet .	This is an emotion driven . full-throttle thriller . Rose ( Helen Mirren ) , is an assassin working with her stepson , who is also her lover , Mikey ( Cuba Gooding , Jr . ) . This is part of the underworld is as harsh as their relationship is complex . When a ruthless and brutal crime boss , Clayton ( Stephen Dorff ) , wants his wife Vickie ( Vanessa Ferlito ) dead ; Rose has a change of heart and begs Mikey not to carry out this hit ; because the mark is pregnant . Mikey has to accept that Rose is turning soft since finding out she is terminally ill . The two assassins make amends to their violent way of life and Rose has her last chance at redemption by protecting Vickie and her new-born son . Daring and a bit exotic . Also in the cast : Joseph Gordon-Levitt , Macy Gray and Monique .
Delightful adventure . Curiosity has its moments .	In a word . . . cute . Even if you're older than seven , you can find a giggle or two and have some fun . Ted ( Will Ferrell ) - The Man in the Yellow Hat-must travel to Africa in hopes of bringing back a rare idol in order to save his job and Mr . Bloomsberry's ( Dick Van Dyke ) museum . Before coming home , Ted with a little help adopts an inquisitive and spunky chimp given the name George . Ted has an admirer in Maggie ( Drew Barrymore ) ; but he has his hands full sharing ( mis - ) adventures with his new little friend . Predicament after predicament , Curious George accidentally discovers a way to save the museum . The animation is juvenile , but delightful . More than a handful of songs garnish this picture , the best being " People Watching " by Jack Johnson . Other characters are voiced by : Eugene Levy , Joan Plowright , David Cross and Clint Howard . It really feels good to listen to a theater full of pre-schoolers chuckle and giggle in unison .
Going up ; going down ! Will it go in circles ?	PROZAC NATION is like a monkey on your back that won't laugh . A heaping depressing dose of life . Yet there is a flicker of light . Based on a book by Elizabeth Wurtzel . In print it would not be hard to put the book down . But on film it is like looking at a train wreck . . . how can you turn your back on it ! Lizzie ( Christina Ricci ) is a prize-winning student on her way to Harvard no less . This young journalist would love to have a career as a rock music critic ; but she goes in cycles with her friends , her emotions and life . She holds marathon writing sessions fueled by drugs and sleep deprivation . Jessica Lange plays the bitterly neurotic mother . Anne Heche is the therapist that has no way in hell to get her point across . Jonathan Rhys-Meyers is the guy she threw away . Roommate Ruby ( Michelle Williams ) has the best chance at being Lizzie's soul-mate ; but with reason gives up . And Jason Biggs is the guy who understands her the most and catches her wrath . Lizzie is a mess and hasn't got the clue to change . Ricci puts her abilities to the test and scores . . . with or without her clothes . I for one am glad that she is now a big little girl . Worth refilling your meds .
Latin rhythms and temperamental romance south of the border .	Richard Thorpe directed a previous Elvis movie , " Jailhouse Rock " . Elvis plays Mike Windgren , who is running away from a family trapeze act accident . He is hired as a life guard and singer . Elsa Cardenas , a lady bullfighter , wants Mike's attention . The beautiful Ursula Andress plays hard to get . Mike gets over his fear of heights by diving off one of the local landmark cliffs . The eleven song soundtrack of Latin-beat ditties includes " You Can't Say No In Acapulco " and the million plus selling " Bossa Nova Baby " . Better than average travelog .
Aren't we all refugees ?	Passionate , gritty and a real hard look at reality . Sarah Jordan ( Angelina Jolie ) is a well-to-do American socialite , who marries into prestige in London . When she meets renegade doctor Nick Callahan ( Clive Owen ) , she puts her marriage on hold and follows the doctor to war-torn nations helping in his humanitarian efforts . Even discovering gun-running in hopes of providing funds for medicine , does not deter Sarah's star-crossed romance and longing for Callahan . Sarah risks life and limb to sustain the commitment to help the down-trodden souls of impoverished nations and her raging desire for Doctor Nick . The finale is non-less explosive . Owen proves to be a man among men and Miss Jolie is as usual mesmerizing . . . able to put on a lip-lock with the best of them . She could suck a pineapple through a bamboo shoot . Also of note is Teri Polo , who plays Sarah's TV reporter sister . And real impressive is Noah Emmerich as humanitarian Elliot Hauser . War-related violence and visions of the unfortunate malnourished is a stark wake-up call .
NFL quarterback learns he's a daddy .	Maybe not heartwarming , but yet heartfelt . A comedy for the whole family . Gridiron star Joe Kingman ( Dwayne " The Rock " Johnson ) is ready to take his Boston team all the way to the Super Bowl . Known as " The King " and coincidently a huge admirer of Elvis Presley , Kingman no doubt has the largest ego in the NFL . The superstar on the threshold of reaching icon status is in for a big surprise when his 8-year-old daughter named Peyton ( Madison Pettis ) arrives at the door of his bachelor pad . She intends to stay a week and Kingman needs all the help he can get from his agent Stella ( Krya Sedwick ) to run " damage control " . Somewhere inside this self-centered not-so-family-friendly superstar is a big teddy bear . Situational comedy and pretty predictable . Also in the cast : Morris Chestnut , Brian J . White and Paige Turco . Impressed with the use of Elvis music .
Danny Ocean knows how to break a bank .	Danny Ocean ( George Clooney ) and his crew come to the aid of one of their own , Reuben ( Elliott Gould ) , who has been double-crossed out of a share of a new casino , The Bank , by the ruthless Willy Bank ( Al Pacino ) . And what is the best way to get back at someone who seems to have everything ? Hit him where it hurts . . . smack dab in the big fat wallet . It will take a very quick attack on the casino . Rigging slots , dice , cards and wheels to allow the betters to win . . . win big . The elaborate plan is bold , bit dangerous and very close to impossible . The Bank has been broken . Brisk colorful storyline with glitzy scenery ; after all it is Las Vegas . Also in this high dollar cast : Brad Pitt , Matt Damon , Don Cheadle , Ellen Barkin , Bernie Mac and Carl Reiner .
Unrest for the weary . No peace for the wicked .	Mike Mendez directs this bone chiller . Outstanding horror flick with old fashioned terror . Acting varies from strong to miserable ; but good story and even better effects . After the funeral for a close friend , a group of class mates get together for drinks . These three friends end up at the cemetery ; and after more all night drinking the drunken friends end up dancing on graves and really upsetting the dirt nap of three wicked spirits . These friends regain sobriety , but now are haunted by three hell raising ghosts seeking revenge . Kira ( Josie Maran ) already has a head start on freaking out . Sid ( Marcus Thomas ) is positive his life is in danger ; while Harris ( Dominic Purcell ) wants more hard evidence that the group's days are numbered . Some stark disturbing images with strong violence makes THE GRAVEDANCERS a film you don't want to miss . For real horror fans the unrest will be enjoyable . Others in the cast : Claire Kramer , Tcheky Karyo and Megahn Perry .
Italian horror that is actually scary .	Director / screenwriter Lucio Fulci provides splattering gore when a young couple move into a spacious house in New England that happens to be next to a cemetery and has a reputation the citizens refuse to talk about . Dr . Norman Boyle ( Paolo Malco ) relocates with his wife Lucy ( Catriona MacColl ) and young son Bob ( Giovanni Fezza ) in order to take up studies his former friend Dr . Jacob Freudstein ( Giovanni De Nava ) left behind before committing suicide . Young Bob talks to a strange little girl that warns of impending danger . That warning is ignored setting up some scary situations . The former home owner conducted some hellish human experiments made obvious by a bloody trail leading to the spooky house's basement . And by damn , there is something or someone living down there in the dark .
Raging rampage of revenge .	Sequel to KILL BILL Vol 1 : directed and written by Quentin Tarantino with input from Uma Thurman . Compared to its predecessor , this movie is more wordy and the action seems less urgent . . . but still violent . The explosive atmosphere is just not here this time . The Bride ( Thurman ) continues the dispensing of her former colleagues and her quest for justice is just a few swings of the Samari sword away . Bloodshed and maiming continues . Two remaining foes - - Budd ( Michael Madsen ) and Elle Driver ( Daryl Hannah ) are on her ' to do'list ; before reaching her goal . . . kill Bill ( David Carradine ) . The cast also features : Samuel L . Jackson , Chia Hui Liu and Perla Haney-Jardine . The action is glued together with another eclectic soundtrack featuring : Ennio Morricone , Charlie Feathers , Shivaree , Johnny Cash and Meiko Kaji . One thing for sure : watching both KILL BILL flicks back to back will leave your ass worn out . Beware of Uma Thurman taking over your dreams .
Ten dollars a day and expenses .	Striking camera work letting the viewer see through the eyes of hard-boiled detective Philip Marlowe ( Robert Montgomery ) . This is an intriguing Raymond Chandler tale that has the " private dick " solving a murder while seeking a missing socialite . Montgomery directs himself and is primarily only seen in a scene looking in a mirror . Novelty of the camera work is clever and makes YOU part of the movie . Its pretty cool finding the clues . Very apt cast featuring Audrey Totter , Lloyd Nolan , Leon Ames and Jane Meadows . Fun to watch .
You can always count on Agent 007 !	Not to be taken lightly , Pierce Brosnan in his debut as the British Agent with the license to kill . Bond has his work cut out for him this time as he tries stopping Russian rebels from destroying London's financial economy . More great sets , stunts , beautiful women and death defying situations . More than ample support from Famke Janssen , Sean Bean , Izabella Scorupco and Joe Don Baker .
Is this really the end of Godzilla ?	a . k . a . Godzilla vs The Destroyer brings the long running series to a close . Godzilla is on the verge of suffering a radioactive melt down as the monster's nuclear energy system begins failing . At this most vulnerable time Godzilla must face a ' morphing ' foe that delivers the fatal blow . It is sad to watch , but I am glad that in the end Godzilla's body just burns out in a radioactive glow instead of being ripped apart and slain by an evil creature . Special effects are some of the best ever in this finale and best of the series .
Don't mess with a clever Vietnam vet .	You might say this is a passionate action movie . Probably did not cost much to make , but is somewhat interesting . Tommy Lee Jones plays a veteran from the Vietnamese conflict and he wants to raise awareness to how veterans , the elderly and underprivileged are overlooked . He decides to take Central Park hostage . Then he is forced to defend his position with gunfire . Who said all is fair in love and war ? Also in the cast are Helen Shaver and Yaphet Kotto . Not too far fetched ; and this movie does grab your attention .
Can you ever go home again ?	Stephen King's novel gets adapted again for TV by play writer Peter Filardi . Same story line of course , but most of the original characters in the 1979 version have taken on different personalities . Ben Mears ( Rob Lowe ) is a troubled man hounded by his memories . Mears is a Pulitzer Prize winner that comes back home to Jerusalem's Lot to garner fodder for another novel . His main interest is buying the old house on the hill that spawned horrid happenings causing his childhood nightmares . The house has been sold to a mysterious antique dealer ( Donald Sutherland ) who is believed to be using the haunting house as a vampire haven for his partner Kurt Barlow ( Rutger Hauer ) . The top notch cast assembled includes : Andre Braugher , James Cromwell , Samantha Mathis and Robert Grubb . If King was not too fond of the earlier version starring David Soul ; I wonder how he feels about this one ? After all is said and done . . . the novel is a hell of a lot better than both TV adaptations .
Unhappy campers don't last very long .	A decent sequel to a very popular cult movie SLEEPAWAY CAMP . This installment of the franchise takes place 6 years after the horrifying murders in the original . Angela Johnson / Baker ( Pamela Springsteen ) , after years of therapy , electro-shock and a successful sex change operation , becomes a camp counselor and is not bashful when it comes to dealing discipline to unhappy campers . It does not pay to be naughty or go against Angela's wishes . Writer Fritz Gordon is some what daring and a bit imaginative with sometime swift and other times tedious death scenes . Plus there is the hilarious spoof aspect of this sequel . Springsteen plays this psychotic role extremely well . She's a hoot to watch , even without knowing she is the little sister of Bruce Springsteen . An unhappy camper with staying power is Molly played by Renee Estevez , little sister of Emilio Estevez and Charlie Sheen . Kudos to director Michael A . Simpson . Also in the cast : Brian Patrick Clarke , Valerie Hartman , Tony Higgins , Jill Murphy , Susan Marie Snyder and Walter Gotell .
Fasten your seat belts and hold on to your nuts .	Intense thriller . Kyle Pratt ( Jodie Foster ) already distraught from the recent loss of her husband , wakes up on a flight to the States from Berlin on the Aalto Air E-474 double-decker plane she helped design ; and her haunting nightmare begins . Flying at 40 , 000 feet in the state-of-the-art aircraft , she discovers her young daughter is missing . The captain of the plane ( Sean Bean ) and even the Air Marshall on board ( Peter Sarsgaard ) doubts the child ever boarded the plane . Too be exact the whole crew and staff do not recall seeing the little girl board with her mother . Bereaved and disheveled Kyle must depend on her own wits and determination to find her daughter . This suspense-filled thriller demands your attention and the intrigue builds to an explosive climax . Supporting cast includes Kate Beahan and Michael Irby . I was most impressed with the alluring Erika Christensen who plays the timid stewardess . Miss Foster with all her various emotions is still at the top of her game .
Have you ever had a book you couldn't put down ?	Joel Schumacher directs ; that's a big plus . Jim Carrey plays such a different character for him ; that's another big plus . Walter Sparrow ( Carrey ) is an exertion challenged dog catcher that falls deeply into a mysterious novel , The Number 21 . The writer is an unknown , but Walter feels a connection with what he is reading ; its like reading his life thus far . His uneventful life soon turns into a psychological whirlwind that is sustained by torment and mental torture . He is obsessed by the numerous similarities with the book's character and himself ; he finds himself forced to plunge into secrets of his past and face the fears of his future . Dark and twisted . The story line may have you spinning and wondering how true the truth is . Some very good support from Virginia Madsen and Lynn Collins . Others in the cast : Danny Huston , Rhona Mitra and Mark Pellegrino .
A crawling nightmare .	Not for the weak hearted . Legions of vermin infest a Manhattan department store and causes concern for the city as they escape their underground world . Some very good computer generated effects : watching rats fill up an empty swimming pool will make you squirm . An above average made-for-TV movie and worth watching . . . if you can stand watching violent rats in rage . The cast includes : Madchen Amick , Vincent Spano , Shawn Michael Howard and Daveigh Chase . Creepy .
A rookie cop learns to cross the line .	Not just another Clint Eastwood movie . Of course , Clint directs and stars as Nick Pulovski , a veteran cop assigned to the auto theft division . But his own agenda is to find the criminal that killed his partner . To his dismay , Pulovski is given a new partner . . . rookie cop David Ackerman ( Charlie Sheen ) . The former homicide cop is still marching to his own drummer and is perturbed that his young charge is reluctant to stray from the rules . When Pulovski is held hostage by a master criminal named Strom ( Raul Julia ) , who is demanding a ton of money . . . but would just be happy enough to torture and kill him ; Ackerman goes into super-cop mode and begins kicking some mean ass in his search for his partner . Strom and his right-hand woman Liesl ( Sconia Braga ) let bullets fly ( definitely an understatement ) before each meets that clichéd bullet between the eyes . Tom Skerritt plays Ackerman's estranged father , who on second thought provides ransom money that actually ends up whirling on the ground at the San Jose airport . Also in the cast are : Lara Flynn Boyle , Marco Rodrigues , Pepe Serna and Donna Mitchell . Most impressive is Sheen busting up the bar before setting it on fire .
Only in America . Name your price for fame .	Slick and sick . Rough and rowdy . The fetish is fame . This action packed crime / thriller from John Herzfeld starts a little slow and then becomes an inferno . A young Arson Investigator ( Edward Burns ) teams up with a savvy NY Detective ( Robert De Niro ) trying to catch a pair of Eastern European killers that are filming their outrageous crimes in order to make a fortune on selling their tape to the news media . The ruthless and somewhat dim-witted killers are played by Karel Roden and Oleg Taktarov . Kelsey Grammer is steadfast and egotistical in his role as a tabloid TV anchor . Melina Kanakaredes is De Niro's TV reporter girlfriend . David Alan Grier is a hapless mugger . Violence is heavier than the language and sexual content . De Niro fans will be more than satisfied . Although dark , this is a stunning movie .
Slow death of humanity . De-population .	This gripping thriller is based on a novel by British mystery writer P . D . James . In the year 2027 , the world seems bleak and the future of the human race is in question . It has been 18 years since the last baby entered the world , as complete global human infertility is now the norm . The populus slips into a chaotic state when that youngest person in the world dies . In Great Britian , a former activist named Theo ( Clive Owen ) reluctantly becomes champion of the human race when his former lover , rebel leader Julian ( Julianne Moore ) , persuades the disillusioned civil servant to obtain transit papers for Kee , a young black woman ( Clare-Hope Ashitey ) , who is with child and wants sanctuary with a secretive organization . Also in the cast : Michael Caine , Chiwetel Ejiofor , Oana Pella and Charlie Hunnam . A diverse soundtrack is featured with music by the likes of : Radiohead , King Crimson , Franco Battiato and John Lennon . This futuristic flick is directed by Alfonso Cuaron .
Thought provoking mystery . A Hitchcock classic .	The classic mistaken man caught up in the middle of high drama and intrigue . A man ( Robert Donat ) comes to the aid of a young woman ( Madeleine Carroll ) only to get involved in a cloak and dagger chase through London and Scotland . The mysterious spy activities culminates in a novel climax . Donat and Carroll are flawless . Their banter will influence movie dialog for decades to come . This mystery is not that easily unwound . A perfect example of the genius of Hitchcock's pre-war British period . Also in the movie are Godfrey Tearle and Frank Cellier . A small , but major role in the plot is played by Wylie Watson as Mr . Memory .
Not appreciated much . Not totally bad .	Ridiculed a bit and lampooned a lot ; THIS ISLAND EARTH from Universal Pictures International has undiscovered logic and more intelligence than most early 50's Sci-Fi . The sets were not exactly high dollar , but at least were interesting . Rex Reason plays Dr . Carl Meacham , a well noted scientist , who receives an unusual substitution for electronic condensers he ordered . He then receives a catalog's worth of materials to build a complex device for communications . He receives a strange message from a huge-domed scientist named Exeter ( Jeff Morrow ) , who invites him to a mysterious location to work further on future peace keeping devices . There he meets an old flame , Dr . Ruth Adams ( Faith Domergue ) , and finds this journey is just a ruse . Others in the cast : Lance Fuller , Karl Ludwig , Robert Nichols , Les Sparks and Richard Deacon .
Did someone call a cab ?	Funny man supreme Red Skelton plays ' Red ' Pirdy , a cab driver that also invents safety devices . When he invents elastic glass for unbreakable safety glasses criminals big and small come after him to force or trick him out of the formula . ' Red ' is very gullible and easily influenced . Some of his inventions are pretty wacky . The cab driver's relationship with the attractive Ellen ( Gloria DeHaven ) is odd at best . A rip roaring climax involves a chase through a futuristic revolving home show exposition . Skelton , one of the funniest ever on TV , seems to always be better than his movies . Silly movie with a strong cast featuring : Walter Slezak , Edward Arnold and James Gleason .
The clock is running . . . but she's not talking .	A top notch nail bitter . Thieves kidnap the daughter of a psychiatrist ( Michael Douglas ) to make him jog the memory of a mentally disturbed teen ( Brittany Murphy ) who holds the key to finding a multi-million dollar stolen jewel . Oliver Platt is another doctor that has trouble reaching the girl . Famke Janssen plays Douglas ' wife who is somewhat limited with her leg in a cast . ( And what a shame . . . would've liked to see more of her . ) And talk about a looker . . . Jennifer Esposito plays a detective with the tightest pants in law enforcement . She has acting skills as well . Rounding out the cast are Sean Bean , Guy Torry and Paul Shulze . Tension builds in spite of being predictable . It is safe to say that a movie starring Michael Douglas is always worth watching .
Have faith in your demon slayer .	This is a gritty and graphic horror-action picture loosely based on the pulp fiction novel " HELLBLAZER " . John Constatine ( Keanu Reeves ) is a doubtful and sometimes reluctant demon slayer that comes to the rescue of a beautiful young woman ( Rachel Weisz ) in her investigation of her twin sister's suicide . The chain-smoking anti-hero seems to find himself once again in the middle of a battle between good and evil . The artistic visuals bring about a dark and moody atmosphere . And smoking a cigarette in the pouring rain is just another luxury compared to a bad ass rumble in the bowels of Hell . For Weisz , I would also tippy-toe around the devil in red hot coals . Other cast members : Djimon Hounsou , Shia LaBeouf and Max Baker .
Vampires ! Werewolves ! Vicious and ravenous .	For centuries vampires and werewolves have engaged in nocturnal battles . Each generation of the races grow stronger and more determined to annihilate the other . Emotions and the will to live are tested when a beautiful female vampire named Selene ( Kate Beckinsale ) , who is famous and revered for her hunting prowess , falls in love with a peace-loving werewolf , Michael ( Scott Speedman ) . This underworld pair would love to see an abrupt end to the fighting-to-the-death battles . The special visual effects are stupendous . The whole mood is dark and dank . More than enough gore and violence to restrict younger viewers . Beckinsale is super fine as the vampire warrior . I wish she would have been this aggressive in VAN HELSING ( 2004 ) . Also in the cast are : Michael Sheen , Bill Nighy and Shane Brolly . My favorite scene is in the finale when a head is sliced off diagonally . This should be rated G for Gothic gore . A must see for vampire and werewolf fans .
Bank robbery made beautiful .	Action / comedy with eye candy . BANDIDAS is a fun to watch romp about a rough around-the-edges , but winsome , peasant Maria ( Penelope Cruz ) teaming up with a beautiful and sophisticated heiress Sara ( Salma Hayek ) , whose father has just been murdered by the vile , ruthless Tyler Jackson ( Dwight Yoakam ) . Jackson has swindled control of land and money with further plans to rob one bank after another to build his empire . The two beauties decide to seek revenge against the villainous baron Jackson , by robbing banks before he can get to them . The two lovelies prepare themselves with pointers from the expert bank robber Bill Buck ( Sam Shepard ) and are joined in the robbing spree by a trained criminal scientist ( Steve Zahn ) . Quite humorous in spots , but mainly it is the jiggle and wiggle that garners attention . The only thing I can think to make this movie better is to have Hayek and Cruz joined with Catherine Zeta-Jones and Cote de Pablo ( NCIS ) as saddle pals .
Nothing like going along for the ride .	Max ( Jamie Foxx ) is a mild mannered ambitious taxi driver who must endure the fare of his life . Vincent ( Tom Cruise ) is a professional hit man that pays Max six hundred dollars to drive him all over Los Angeles as he commits a series of commissioned hits . Reluctlantly Max complies with the gray haired and suave hit man ; and finally garners his sense of right and wrong to stop the killer from executing the final victim on his list . . . an attorney played by Jada Pinkett Smith . A night not too easy to forget . It is unusual to see Cruise playing this sort of character and with gray hair even . But I think he pulls it off very well . Foxx exercises his dramatic talents in this Michael Mann thriller . The cast is rounded out with Mark Ruffalo , Peter Berg and Bruce McGill . My favorite scene is early in the movie when Fox reacts to the first victim falling on the top of his taxi . COLLATERAL is worth your interest .
The luckiest girl in town is also the hottest .	Star-crossed romantic comedy . Lindsay Lohan is Ashley Albright , the luckiest girl in New York City . A great career and living the high life . Jake Hardin ( Chris Pine ) happens to be the unluckiest guy in all of Manhattan . Mishap and misfortune are his middle names . Their lives change when they meet at a swanky masquerade party and share a kiss . Just a kiss . . . Ashley turns into a bad luck magnet and Jake is soon headed for his fame and fortune guiding a young rock group McFly . Ashley desperately wants to change her fate , but must find Jake to steal her luck back . Also in the cast : Missi Pyle , Faizone Love , Samaire Armstrong , Bree Turner , Carlos Ponce and the band McFly . An upbeat soundtrack keeps the flick in the groove with tunes from Jo Boxers , Chantal Kreviazuk , Robert Palmer and of course McFly . This movie may seem a bit cutsie to most , but Miss Lohan and McFly make it worth watching .
Romantic comedy . Well written . Perfect cast .	Billy Wilder directs a well rounded cast into a masterpiece . Audrey Hepburn is Sabrina , a chauffeur's daughter that falls in love with her father's employer's playboy son ( William Holden ) . The playboy's older brother , played by Humphrey Bogart , pretends to woo the young and charming Sabrina ; only to actually fall in love with her . Also in the cast are Martha Hyer , John Williams and Francis X . Bushman . Remakes fail to capture the charm of this offbeat love story .
War and romance . Brothers compete for the same girl .	This is a war / romance drama like too many others ; but the star studded cast keeps your interest . Clark Gable and Robert Sterling are brothers and both are war correspondents that fall in love with the same girl ; and what a girl ( Lana Turner ) . Turner gets the brothers attention while evacuating children in Indochina during WWII . The love scenes between Gable and Turner sizzle and make you forget the flimsy story line . Patricia Dane is quite an eye full herself . Also in the cast are Van Johnson , Frank Faylen , Keye Luke and Reginald Owen . If you like this ; check out HOMECOMING ( 1948 ) , another Gable / Turner war drama with more substance .
How could they be bad for each other ?	A charming and funny movie about what people do for love . The shy sister ( Julia Roberts ) of a glamorous movie star ( Catherine Zeta-Jones ) falls in love with her estranged brother-in-law ( John Cusack ) . Billy Crystal is the movie publicist that must bring his two stars together for a publicity junket for their latest movie . Christopher Walken is great as the ' wigged out ' movie director . Hank Azaria plays an obnoxious , conceited lover . Most of the comedy is visual , although you have no trouble guessing that Crystal is a co-writer . This is a ' feel good ' kind of movie .
Southern-fried hoodoo voodoo .	Slow going , disturbing drama set outside New Orleans . Caroline ( Kate Hudson ) takes a $1 , 000 a week job as a hospice worker taking care of an elderly woman's ( Gena Rowland ) dying husband ( John Hurt ) . Being a live-in care giver , Caroline is given a skeleton key that opens every room in the rundown , remote delta mansion . It is odd that no mirrors are on the walls of the rambling homestead and Caroline's skeleton key will not open a hidden room she discovers in the attic . Rain and thunder make great accent for this supernatural themed flick . Be prepared to jump to the edge of your seat a couple of times . . . you are due . Rounding out the cast are : Peter Sarsgaard and Joy Bryant .
The Earth is under attack .	Low budget Sci-Fi directed by Edward L . Cahn . The Earth is being attacked by mysterious invisible invaders . Due to the Earth's atmosphere the attackers are invisible and must reanimate into bodies of the dead . Dr . Noymann ( John Carradine ) tries to warn of the impending attack , but is killed and his corpse will be used to urge his scientific partner Dr . Adam Penner ( Philip Tonge ) to forewarn the world of its doom . Major Bruce Jay ( John Agar ) is put in charge of shuttling a concerned group to a top secret research center , where an ultra-sonic gun is developed to combat the attacking aliens utilizing rotting corpses . This black & white feature only runs about 67 minutes , but is worth watching . The primitive special effects are part of the fun watching . Don't expect more than mediocre acting . Other players : Jean Bryon , Robert Hutton and Paul Langton .
The war needs more fliers .	William Wellman directs this movie evocative of the early 1940's . In Arizona desert land is the secluded Thunder Bird airbase . Young Americans , British and Chinese are fliers in training . A veteran WWI pilot , Steve Brit ( Preston Foster ) volunteers to train these young fliers to take their part in WWII . Peter Stackhouse ( John Sutton ) is one of the trainees that is full of determination , but has a problem with motion sickness every time he goes up . Plus Stackhouse is competing for the affections of a young woman ( Gene Tierney ) that is Brit's old flame . The in-flight photography is probably before its time . Also in the cast : Jack Holt , Dame May Witty , Reginald Denny , Ted North and Richard Haydin .
Black and white of Birmingham .	Powerful drama driven TV fare . A fact based story about the bombing of an Afro-American Baptist Church in Birmingham , Alabama in 1963 . The blast took the lives of four little girls . Tom Cherry ( Tom Sizemore ) battles with his own conscious and values when he has to decide to turn in his bigot father , Bobby Frank Cherry ( Richard Jenkins ) for involvement . The elder Cherry hid from his past dealings with Alabama Klansmen by moving to Texas . Tom , as a child was an eye witness to terror ; and just could not continue to hide his dark secret from the light of justice . His aging father was finally arrested with little resistance . Sizemore has played some quirky characters in the past , but this character is straight forward and riveting . Ving Rhames is steadfast in the role of best friend of Tom . Good wins in the end and justice is belated but done . This eye opener is good family watching and a fine teaching tool .
Bette is Queen Elizabeth .	A very impressive movie , almost majestic . The untouchable Bette Davis appears flawless as Queen Elizabeth I . A well intentioned , albeit conniving Sir Walter Raleigh ( Richard Todd ) petitions to see the Queen in hopes of getting funds to sail three ships and promising Her Highness the riches found . The Queen is not so quick with the idea , but she does want him as an assistant to flirt with . Beth Throgmorton ( Joan Collins ) is the lady-in-waiting and the secret object of Raleigh's true affections . I really got into the first half of the film ; then for some unexplainable reason my interest waned . Costumes , sets and scenery are super . Miss Collins is very pleasant to watch . Other players : Jay Robinson , Dan O'Herlihy , Robert Douglas , Leslie Parrish and Herbert Marshall .
Remembering can get you killed .	Crossing the border is like a trip to hell . Ed ( Brian Presley ) , Henry ( Jake Muxworthy ) and Phil ( Rider Strong ) are Texas students that take a road-trip into Mexico for a wild weekend of drinking and whatever ( getting layed ) . Without warning , they fall prey to a powerful drug dealing human-sacrifice cult . The recent Mexican locals of Manzinita were strong and didn't holler and scream in pain . Now the cult is looking for gringos in hopes they will howl in agony loud enough to please the worshiped Gnanga . Stark and emotion consuming . Emense grisly torture and violence sustain this horror flick from After Dark Films . The cast also includes : Martha Higareda , Sean Astin , Damian Alcazar , Beto Cuevas and Marco Bacuzzi .
The old cowboy rides off .	Director Wim Wenders ' homage to John Ford . This story and screenplay by Sam Shepard holds your interest with unanswered questions being answered . Shepard plays Howard Spense , a washed up actor that once was one of Hollywood's hottest . He rides off the set of his latest western movie in progress and decides to hide out for while at the home of his mother ( Eva Marie Saint ) . Seeing his mother for the first time in 30 years , Spense is told he may be the father of a grown son ( Gabriel Mann ) , who is living as a singer in a small town in Montana , where the much younger Spense once had a relationship with a winsome waitress ( Jessica Lange ) . Hot on Spense's trail is an insurance agent ( Tim Roth ) representing the film company . If this is not enough , a young woman ( Sarah Polley ) with her dead mother's ashes in tow also has a questionable interest in the former cowboy star that just wants to be left alone . DON'T COME KNOCKING garnered interest at the Sundance Film Festival as well at the Cannes Film Festival . Beautiful scenery featuring Monument Valley and wide open spaces of the west ( Utah , Nevada , California along with Montana ) . The very solemn soundtrack features : Bono , T-Bone Burnett , Cassandra Wilson and Garbiel Mann . Also with small roles are : James Gammon , Fairuza Balk and George Kennedy .
Explosive encounter near the end of WW2 .	This is a well-acted , fictionalized and familiar story line war drama . A group of Allies defend the last remaining bridge on the Rhine . For some reason the Nazis command wants to blow up the bridge trapping their own forces . Plenty of explosions highlight this decent depiction of WW2 . All-star cast includes : George Segal , Ben Gazzara , E . G . Marshall , Bradford Dillman , Bo Hopkins , Sonja Ziemann and Robert Vaughn .
There goes the neighborhood .	Jim Mickle directs and co-writes this low budget feature that is part of the latest series of After Dark Horrorfest : 8 Films To Die For . Mulberry Street finally has something in common with the more affluent areas of Manhattan when a deadly rat-borne virus spreads . Citizens of every creed and color become bloodthirsty rodent-like zombies . Six recently evicted tenants have only their crumbling apartment complex for protection . Baseball bats and prizefighting trained fists are as useless as karate lessons . You can tell there was no elaborate budget set aside for special effects , but the purpose is served . And there might be a couple moments that will have you flinch . Its really not that bad of a movie . The cast includes : Nick Damici , Kim Blair , Tim House , Bo Corre and Ron Brice .
Underground and in the air ! Bond fights a callus foe .	Roger Moore in his last performance as 007 . Agent Bond goes up against a very egotistical industrialist who goes to great lengths and expense trying to flood California's Silicon Valley . Cornering the market on computer chips will make a mad man more powerful . Christopher Walken is perfect as the ruthless villain . Walken's side kick is Grace Jones , who can not be ignored . Tanya Roberts proves to be more than eye candy in her role as Bond's able bodied distraction . The story line is no great shakes . But the action , gadgets and scenery could only mean James Bond is on the job . And get the job done , he does .
Candy coated story about a Hall of Fame pitcher .	This is the story of Jerome ' Dizzy ' Dean , Hall of Fame pitcher of the St . Louis Cardinals . An injury caused early retirement , a bout with drinking and gambling ; but his down home manner led to another career . . . baseball radio / tv announcing . Dan Dailey is kind of ho-hum in his attempts at Dean's hayseed mannerisms . Richard Crenna plays Paul Dean , Dizzy's brother , who also pitched for the Cardinals . Very little actual baseball action , but the movie is interesting and fun to watch . All little boys that have an interest in baseball should watch this along with PRIDE of THE YANKEES and the BABE RUTH STORY . Also in the cast are Richard Hylton , Joanne Dru , Stuart Randall and Hugh Sanders . Remember to take a good whack and don't forget to slud into second .
What really led to Nixon's resignation ?	Andrew Fleming presents a farcical comedy about the 1972 break-in at the Watergate Hotel . Two irresistible , but dim-witted teens ( played by Kirsten Dunst and Michelle Williams ) stumble across the Watergate break-in not knowing all its implications . The two wander from their White House tour and accidentally meet President Richard Nixon ( Dan Hedaya ) , who makes the two his official dog walkers for Checkers . Then the girls become " Secret Advisors " , before realizing Nixon is not the nice man they thought . Dunst is charming . Williams turns into a swan . Hedaya is a near perfect Nixon . And Saul Rubinek is hilarious as Henry Kissinger . Others of note in the cast : Teri Garr , Jim Breuer , Harry Shearer , Dave Foley and Will Ferrell . DICK also features a very diverse soundtrack that features the likes of Carly Simon , Harry Nilsson , Jackson 5 , Elton John , Redbone and David Essex .
Solemn , stressful and dark ; when do you turn your life around .	How long can your business be a success ? When do you try to change and upgrade your life ? Susan Sarandon is an upscale drug dealer with a list of elite clients . One of her better runners ( Willem Dafoe ) is burning out delivering the " goods " . He is fighting with his conscience and wants to give the job up and better his life . Sarandon also is planning to stop dealing drugs . Dafoe wonders if this will put an end to his loneliness and sad existence . Sarandon and Dafoe are absolutely great . Sarandon seems just as sexy and self assured as she was in BULL DURHAM . Dafoe puts a jagged edge on his intense persona . Also in the cast are Dana Delany and David Clennon . And quite comical is David Spade , who has a brief scene as a stoned " Cokehead " . Writer / director Paul Schrader presents a complex modern day story in an old fashioned way . At times you may think this film drags a little ; but this type story needs to simmer not boil .
Yikes ! This guy really bites .	What can you say about a Dracula flick ? There are so many : but this is from Hammer Productions with the right atmosphere , castle , ample bosomed women , creepy effects and Christopher Lee as the Prince of Darkness . Director Terence Fisher and writer Jimmy Sangster dared to recraft Bram Stoker's fable of the " man in black " , with the toothsome smile . All in blood curdling Hammer color . Lee takes the first stabs at becoming the master blood sucker . Also in the cast is that other stellar star for Hammer , Peter Cushing . Rounding out the players are : Michael Gough , John Van Eyssen , Melissa Stribling , Carol Marsh and Valerie Gaunt .
Nostalgia rules ! Hit makers of the mid 60s .	Great fun to look back at this film of headliner acts taking part in a musical review in a disco type setting . TV star David McCallum introduces acts like Ray Charles , Petula Clark , The Byrds , Ike & Tina Turner , Bo Diddley , James Brown , Roger Miller , The Ronettes and more . A very diverse collection of artists and musical styles . A time capsule showing the hair styles and clothing that went with the music . Relax , gear down and enjoy .
Confederates battle the supernatural .	Suspenseful horror . A group of Civil War soldiers rob a bank and seek refuge inside an abandoned plantation mansion . A cornfield serves warning of a creepy night ahead . While a raging thunderstorm begins to consume the night , each soldier begins to have supernatural visitations from the trapped souls that suffered atrocities within the mansion walls . Evil forces still plague this mansion that once housed a very troubled family . No longer is stolen gold a priority . . . sustaining life and sanity is . This fantastic horror flick stars : Henry Thomas , Michael Shannon , Patrick Fugit , Nicki Lynn Aycox , Isaiah Washington and Mark Boone Junior . Genuinely scary and highly recommended .
The gang is all here . Laughs . Thrills . Chills .	This is one of the very best Abbott & Costello flicks . Plenty of slapstick mixed with humorous horror . The comedy duo play bungling baggage handlers that end up close and personal with Dracula ( Bela Lugosi ) , the Wolfman ( Lon Chaney Jr . ) and Frankentstein's Monster ( Glenn Strange ) . A nice looking Dr . Monay ( Lenore Aubert ) tries to seduce Costello into donating his brain to put in the Monster . In support : Frank Ferguson and Jane Randolph . Harmless fun . Take time for a chuckle or two . The finale features Vincent Price as the voice of the Invisible Man . NOTE : Folklore has it that this movie was showing ( 1948 ) in Tupelo , MS when Elvis Presley was fourteen years old and is believed to be the first motion picture he ever saw . The story goes that Gladys Presley did not want her son going to the movies and Elvis ' dad , Vernon , helped him sneak to the theater and watched it with him .
Culture shock : welcome to the porno world .	A stark , frank look at the underbelly of the entertainment industry . George C . Scott plays a midwestern businessman that finds out his daughter is missing from church camp . His daughter , played by the ever so cute Season Hubley , heads to California for a change of lifestyle . Peter Boyle plays a slightly underhanded private detective that comes to the aid in search of the missing girl . Guess who is making porno movies ? Honest , disturbing and eye opening to say the least . Also in the cast are Gary Graham , Dick Sargent and Leslie Ackerman .
A good man goes down tough and hard .	Cottonwood Springs , Texas wants to go into the new century courting eastern bankers and investors . The only thing holding things back is the fear of the citizens of their town Marshall , Frank Patch ( Richard Widmark ) , who has a troubled past and an old way of dealing with justice and the law . No one can conjure the nerve to tell Patch he is no longer wanted ; but they do have the gumption to gang up on him . Lean Horne plays Widmark's love interest . This strong cast also features : Carroll O'Connor , Jaqueline Scott , John Saxon , Dub Taylor and Victor French . DEATH OF A GUNFIGHTER is the first crediting Alan Smithee as director . " Smithee " is credited when directors , for any reason , don't want their name associated with the movie . This particular film was originally directed by Robert Totten ; but when he met disapproval from Widmark , Don Siegel finished directing . Horne sings a lovely and haunting tune called " Sweet Apple Wine " .
Take the words from her mouth .	Kudos to director Richard Eyre of this 2001 bio-drama about Iris Murdoch , Irish-born novelist , philosopher and lover of the written word . This film is a passionate look at the melodramatic relationship between the free-spirited and sexual libertine Murdoch ( Judi Dench ) and the scholarly and timid , virtual virgin John Bayley ( Jim Broadstreet ) . Both acclaimed and well respected for their own accomplishments . Iris known for her novels that were usually sexual and ethical . Bayley , the Oxford scholar , sexually frustrated worshiper of Iris . The story line begins with the couple's meeting and attraction ; Kate Winslet playing the young Murdoch and Hugh Bonneville as Bayley . Early on , Iris is the dominate of the soul mates as Bayley lives in the shadow of his famous wife . Later in life it is Bayley that becomes the doting and devoted caretaker of the Alzheimer's ravaged Iris . Dementia robbing from her those words that made her world . Dench and Winslet are superb .
A missing teenager and S & M . . . attention grabber .	Dark , brooding and heavy . When you think you've seen it all . . . you haven't . Pretty intense movie until the " over-the-top " finale . Richard Gere turns in a strong performance . Hans Bauer and Craig Mitchell write a very intense story of a diligent Department of Safety employee Erroll Babbage ( Gere ) , who is being edged out of his job . He has spent his entire career tracking sex offenders , and his unorthodox operating procedure is almost as rough and brutal as the criminals he monitors . While Babbage is training his replacement Allison Lowry ( Claire Danes ) , he is convinced that a missing girl is linked to one of his " flock " , those deviants he monitors . Erroll and his naive female partner will make an unofficial investigation into the S & M underground in search of the missing local teen . High-octane , sensational and disturbing . Danes is not called upon to show her acting chops , but sure looks fine . Also in the cast : KaDee Stickland , Russell Sams , Ray Wise and singer Avril Lavigne .
A well rounded sagebrush saga .	Raoul Walsh directs this strong western . Brothers Ben Allison ( Clark Gable ) and Clint Allison ( Cameron Mitchell ) are Confederate army veterans that endure a cattle drive with cattle baron Nathan Stark ( Robert Ryan ) . The brothers do not trust their new boss . . . let alone like him . On the drive from Texas to Montana , there is harsh winter weather and Indian country to deal with . Along the drive they encounter a beautiful woman , Nella ( Jane Russell ) , who joins the drive for her own protection . And the brothers and the baron all want her , but her sights are set on Ben . Gable appears to be at the top of his game , as his career is nearing its end . He is strong and self assured . Russell is very flirtatious and more than an eye-full . It is very hard not to notice her . Other players on the bill : Juan Garcia , Emile Meyer and Mae Marsh .
Bullets and dynamite can't stop a giant tarantula !	An excellent example of early 50s horror . This is a black & white thriller that lets your imagination fill in the gory details . The aftermath is there to fuel the fear of the over grown tarantula . Leo G . Carroll plays a professor experimenting with a synthetic food stuff with intent to feed the crowded earth in 2000 . His experiments on animals cause them to mature in three to six days . A rat can grow to the size of a dog in about 12 days . Two assistants die after injecting themselves with the secret supplement . The professor is injected while fighting off one of his dying helpers that is setting fire to the lab . An oversized tarantula escapes the fire to terrorize the area . John Agar is the county doctor that leads in the destruction of the hairy legged menace . Mara Corday is the new assistant to the dying deformed professor . Character actors Nestor Paiva and Hank Patterson also star . And of note : very brief screen time for unknown Clint Eastwood as a jet fighter pilot and Bing Russell as a deputy . I remember seeing this at the Saturday Kiddie Double Feature . My Milk Duds and Cherry Root Beer didn't last very long . Besides both hands were needed to hold on to the seat . This was pretty darn scary back then . Not to say it wouldn't scare a few grade schoolers today . Catch it on AMC or SFN and relive those days when we were frightened by an over grown anything . Bigger the scarier .
Water is a priceless commodity in the desert .	Better than average western directed by Andre DeToth . Cavalry Sgt . Matt Trainor ( Broderick Crawford ) and his detail are helping a stagecoach across a hundred miles of sweltering desert following an Indian attack . Among the riders in the coach is Julia Lanning ( Barbara Hale ) , who is going to visit her brother , an officer at the military encampment a couple of days away . Not far behind is Chief Black Cloud ( John War Eagle ) and his Comanche warriors , who are also in need of water . Trainor and the group find water at an old abandoned mission , where they must fight for the water they found and their very lives . Among Sgt . Trainor's detail are Jim Starbuck ( Lloyd Bridges ) , Rusty Potter ( Mickey Shaughnessy ) , Billy Creel ( Martin Milner ) and Cpl . Floyd ( Jack Woody ) . A young Comanche boy Little Knife ( Johnny Stewart ) actually is sent to bring the cavalry to the rescue . A well written story and very interesting . It is easy to see that Crawford is wasting his talents in this role . Miss Hale is impressive in a movie that has mostly monotone dialog .
Terse and gripping story of desperation .	Jack Stanfield ( Harrison Ford ) is just a hard working family man that heads up the security for a Seattle bank . The bank is getting prepared for an important merger , but Stanfield has something else to think about . His wife ( Virginia Madsen ) and family has been kidnapped and he now must heist $100 million dollars from the ultra-secured system he designed . He is being watched every step of the way and then the script gets a little muddled . Plenty of techno-twists , but the suspense becomes pitiful . Its a race against time and a ruthless , calculated villain ( Paul Bettany ) . This cat-and-mouse chase is full of electronic gadgets , but flash becomes a glimmer . The finale is hackneyed leaving you with less than you expected . Supporting cast : Robert Patrick , Mary Lynn Rajskub , Robert Forster and Alan Arkin .
A must see . Elvis is an ex-outlaw trying to go straight .	Elvis Presley plays Jesse Wade who tries to leave a gang of thieves led by Victor French . Jesse's neck is branded in order to frame him for stealing a Mexican war cannon . Jesse becomes sheriff as one of the gang is arrested . The bad guys now threaten the town with cannon fire until the leaders little brother is released from jail . Elvis sings only the title song under the credits . This is a different Elvis , with beard and a hat hung low over his eyes . Well known critic , Leonard Maltin , calls this a BOMB ! Produced , directed and written by Charles Marquis Warren , this flick is better than the bad rap it has received . Also in the cast are Ina Balin , Solomom Sturgess , and Lynn Kellogg .
A black leopard causes terror .	One of RKO's low budget horror flicks directed by Jacques Tourneur and produced by Val Lewton . This thriller takes place in a small New Mexico village . A night club performer Kiki Walker ( Jean Brooks ) is persuaded by her publicity manager Jerry Manning ( Dennis O'Keefe ) to interrupt Clo-Clo's ( Margo ) act by strolling into the club with a leashed black leopard . Havoc and fear rules when the loose animal becomes a savage killer . My favorite scene is when the young girl Teresa ( Margaret Landry ) is sent to the store and she has to walk across town and back . Its the anxiety that makes that walk chilling . This may be one of the better Tourneur / Lewton collaborations . Also in the cast : Ben Bard , James Bell and Isabel Jewell .
Did you know about Santa's big brother ?	Hold off on calling this a holiday classic just yet . However there is more substance , albeit comedic , than those Tim Allen efforts . Very good photography and a brisk story about Nick ' Santa ' Claus ( Paul Giamatti ) and his estranged brother Fred ( Vince Vaughn ) , who ran away from home at an early age due to the favoritism shown Nick by mom and dad Claus ( Kathy Bates and Trevor Peacock ) . Nick of course went on to a very successful career , while Fred just never could catch a break . He needs to once again borrow money from his little brother and there is a stipulation that Fred fly to the North Pole for Christmas . At the same time the whole Santa toy delivery thing may be going out of business due to an efficiency expert ( Kevin Spacey ) , who is on the verge of shutting Santa down . Fred in spite of his carefree and slacker ideas gets the chance to save Christmas and bring back together the Claus family . Really did enjoy the use of the two Elvis songs " Santa Claus Is Back In Town " and " Rubberneckin ' " ; the latter being part of my favorite scene . Also starring are : Rachel Weisz , John Michael Higgins and the beautiful Elizabeth Banks .
Gripping , intelligent thriller .	Oscar winning director Sydney Pollack and Oscar winners Nicole Kidman and Sean Penn gang up to give us a thinking man's drama . Kidman plays Silvia Broome , an African-born U . N . interpreter , who happens to overhear a death threat against an African head of state scheduled to speak to a General Assembly at the U . N . Tobin Keller ( Sean Penn ) is a Fed agent assigned to protect Broome . Keller recently lost his wife in an auto accident and his mind is still a bit cloudy ; nonetheless he feels the interpreter is not telling the whole truth in her mincing words accusation . On the other hand , there is Dot Woods ( Catherine Keener ) a Secret Service agent that tends to believe Broome , based solely on her behavior . Is the interpreter a victim . . . or a suspect . Its a race against the clock to avoid a high profile assassination . The story is driven by the apt cast that also includes : Yvan Attal , George Harris , Earl Cameron , Jesper Christensen and Pollack .
May the best moves win !	Torrance Shipman ( Kirsten Dunst ) becomes the new captain of the high school cheer leading team that takes pride in winning competition championships year after year . She discovers that the cheers and routines for the last several years have been stolen from another school's squad . Torrance relies on a reluctant gymnast named Missy ( Eliza Dushku ) to convince the cheer team to learn new material to take to the next state competition . What a shame it is that the football team is so awful that the schools pride is in the cheerleaders . This is an interesting eyeful , but actually just another vehicle for the enticing Miss Dunst . Fine support from : Pua Kapiolani , Tsianina Joelson , Clare Kramer and Nicole Bilderback . If you have a cheerleader fetish , you will think this romp deserves an Oscar . Nonetheless enjoyable .
When you hear the chainsaw hummin ' . . . get your ass to runnin ' !	You can't tell this story too many times can you ? Almost on the same level of excitement as the 1974 Tobe Hooper original . . . Texas CHAINSAW MASSACRE will get your heart to pumping . Erin ( Jessica Biel ) and four friends are on the backside of a road trip to Mexico and are smuggling a sizable load of " pot " through 1973 Texas when their van almost hits a comatose girl walking down the middle of the road . No sooner than the mystery girl gets in the back of the van . . . she blows her brains out the back window . The teen travelers decide the right thing to do is report this messy suicide and get the hell out of Texas . No such luck . In short they meet a backward inbred family that gravitates around a huge hunk o ' horror . . . Leatherface ( Andrew Bryniarski ) that lets his chainsaw do the talking . . . and slicing . Then there is Sheriff Hoyt ( R . Lee Ermey ) who seems to keep on being Sheriff long after there was no need for one . The repulsive Sheriff cops a feel of the dead girl's breast and also checks out the condition of her nether region . Nonstop tension , gore and maiming somehow blends with the coughing of the smoking killing machine chainsaw . Jonathan Tucker , Erica Leerhsen , Mike Vogel and Eric Balfour are a source of fresh meat for Leatherface and family . Biel is absolutely HOT . The girl has a top notch scream and knows how to fill out a tank top . Ermey is an absolute hoot . For the weak of heart this is a must to avoid . For horror freaks . . . this is a strong must see .
Very funny black comedy . Being dead is not easy .	A very unusual Alfred Hitchcock film . A dead man is found in a beautiful Vermont meadow . The deceased is believed shot by a rabbit hunter ; discovered by a water gun carrying little boy ; sketched by an artist ; tripped over twice by the same hiking reader ; buried , unburied , buried and unburied . . . the subject of shallow remorse and weak guilt . This is laugh out loud funny . Very unlike the stable of Hitchcock masterpieces . John Forsythe and Edmund Gwenn star . You see Shirley MacLaine in her debut and a very young Jerry Mathers , before he became ' the Beaver ' .
From geek to lesser geek . Babe to Wow ! ! ! ! ! !	The Farrelly brothers have out done themselves with this witty , fast paced , sexy comedy . Ben Stiller is marvelous as the geek that wants a reunion with his almost Prom date . Cameron Diaz is Mary . And it seems everyone is in love with Mary . Comedy fits her like a glove . She has a quality that should shine in any role she chooses . Matt Dillon is excellent as a jerk and Chris Elliott is well . . . Chris Elliott . You will laugh and then laugh harder . This movie is pretty childish and sprinkled with adult situations . The combination makes one heck of a flick . Most of the credit goes to Ms . Diaz , who makes the whole thing click .
A small town doctor goes to war as an Army surgeon .	Clark Gable plays a self centered , over achieving physician that proves his worthiness as an Army surgeon . Anne Baxter is the dutiful and absorbing wife that finally realizes that her husband is romancing his nurse ( Lana Turner ) between bombings and marathon mending of WWII . This is not one of Gable's better performances ; but Miss Turner is stunning as ' Snapshot ' McCall , the nurse every soldier dreams of . Other cast members of note are : Ray Collins , John Hodiak , Marshall Thompson and Cameron Mitchell . Mervyn LeRoy directs this dreary drama . In spite of Gable's lack of effort , Turner more than makes this lengthy film memorable .
Oil . Land . And a woman or two .	Originally titled WAR OF THE WILDCATS . Rough and tough cowboy Dan Somers ( John Wayne ) battles a high and mighty land baron Jim Gardner ( Albert Dekker ) for not just land , but oil drilling rights around Sapulpa Oklahoma . Wayne as customary sides with the Native Americans in hopes of legally claiming , drilling and transporting the oil on their land . There is the obligatory romance to deal with thanks to Martha Scott . The eye popper is actually dance-hall girl Dale Evans . That's right ! This vision of Miss Evans is . . . well . . . entertaining . Other cast members of this fast paced western : ' Gabby ' Hayes , Paul Fix , Grant Withers and Sidney Blackmer as President Teddy Roosevelt . Real good black and white sagebrush tale . Pride , determination and fortitude . . . the Pioneer way .
East meets west . AKA The Cowboy and the Girl .	This is a funny and enjoyable movie . Jean Arthur plays Molly Truesdale , a young woman that needs a break from her job and the pursuit of three fellows wanting her companionship . She signs up for a fourteen day bus trip west . The vacation gets interesting when she meets a cowboy at a rodeo . That cowboy is Duke Hudkins ( John Wayne ) , who is smitten with her coy flirtations . There is a magical interaction between Arthur and Wayne that seems to make the black and white film glow . Phil Silvers plays the tour bus guide . The cowboy's side kick , Waco , is played by Charles Winninger . Also in the cast is Mary Field and Jean Stevens .
A stake to the heart is what it takes .	An above average horror film that blends adventure with fright . Captain Kronos ( Horst Janson ) a sword-wielding hero and his hunchback sidekick are a professional team of vampire killers . Story line is interesting enough . Special effects are par for this type of movie . I knew it had me for the duration as soon as I heard the wind blowing . . . creepy and foreboding . Plus some winsome lasses to keep you entertained . Another very good Hammer Production from the UK . The players include : John Cater , Caroline Munro , John Carson and Lois Daine .
Bone chilled shark bait .	This chiller is based on a true story . Susan ( Blanchard Ryan ) and Daniel ( Daniel Travis ) are a scuba-diving couple in need of a vacation . The two are accidentally left behind from their tour boat in open water . The couple not only need to tend to the dangers of shark invested water ; but also their own fears and imagination . It is so easy to care for the stranded characters treading dangerous waters hour upon hour . Your own fear sustains all the way through the choppy waves to the expectable unexpected anticlimax . Some very impressive cinematography considering it was filmed in hi-definition digital video . Not as riveting as JAWS , but nonetheless intense and sensually arousing . Kudos to director Chris Kentis for his creativity . And for Blanchard Ryan . . . I am smitten .
Follow that dream .	Wholesome determination makes for a film for the entire family to watch . A former minor league pitcher Jimmy Morris ( Dennis Quaid ) turns to teaching and coaching in Big Lake , Texas and bargains with his formerly hapless high school players that if they go to the state championships he will try out for the big leagues again . In 1999 , Morris becomes the " Oldest Rookie " when he lands a job with the Tampa Bay Devil Rays as a 98 mph throwing lefty from the bullpen . Morris ' dream is short , but sweet . And his story seems to have spawned from a Hollywood script . Although this is based on fact the movie could have been much better if filmed with a more " mature " approach . My favorite scene is where Morris is at the tryouts camp and he wipes his nose holding a soiled diaper . Also in the cast are Rachel Griffiths , Rick Gonzales , Russell Richardson and Blue Deckert .
The lights go out and a gem is missing .	In spite of a short 45 minute run time I really enjoyed THE MOONSTONE based on the book by Wilkie Collins . Reginald Baker directs a tight knit collection of performers in this mystery that takes place in a crowded house during a rain storm . Anne Verinder ( Phyllis Barry ) inherits a priceless gem the Moonstone necklace . Her fiancée Franklin Blake ( David Manners ) is bringing the precious diamond to England from India . He arrives at the Verinder's countryside home and finds a house full of guests that includes a notorious money lender Carl Von Lucker ( Gustav Von Seyffertitz ) . While everyone is assembled the storm causes the lights to go out and the necklace is snatched from Anne's neck . It was grabbed by a maid for " safe keeping " . Anne puts the stone under her pillow and when she awakes the necklace is gone . Scotland Yard Inspector Cuff ( Charles Irwin ) is to figure out which one of the guests is a jewel thief . The loud rain storm provides great atmosphere . Also in the cast are : Herbert Bunston , Evalyn Bostock , John Davidson and Jameson Thomas .
One man making his dreams worthwhile .	A very charming feel-good seasonal tale of a man with strong dreams and expectations . Jason Alexander plays Erector Set inventor , A . C . Gilbert , who is asked by the Government to urge citizens to cancel Christmas during the first world war and buy bonds instead of toys . Gilbert turns his toy manufacturing plant in a war supply plant making gas masks , bomb casings , chemical suits and bayonets among other things . Gilbert has a change of heart and goes with his deepest and long fostered dreams . He goes before the nation's Defense Counsel and gets permission to go back to making his toys . The toy maker still kept manufacturing war supplies , but also turned his own home into a producing center for more Erector Sets . After the war , Gilbert continued manufacturing Erector Sets , Chemistry Sets , Magician Trick Sets , trains and other toys for over forty years . Alexander is outstanding in this role and light-years away from his obnoxious role on TVs " Seinfeld " . Also in the cast are Kelly Rowan , Ari Cohen , Ed Asner and Jake Brockman . Entertaining for all ages .
Scary Sci-Fi . Survival can be a burden .	Abe Dale ( Nathan Fillion ) takes his family to a corner diner for breakfast where they are killed in front of him . The trauma results in his own momentary death on the operating table . He saw the white light and his life immediately changed . He realizes that he can identify those among the living who are about to die . He is almost obsessed with trying to save people from their destiny and it becomes apparent that his interference in fate has a price to pay . He picks up communication through cell phones , televisions and various electrical appliances . . . but his ability to save lives may not help him save his own . Also in the cast : Katee Sackoff , Teryl Rothery , Craig Fairbrass , Adrian Holmes and William MacDonald . Interesting F / X , but no great shakes .
Unstoppable voodoo .	Thought-provoking , literate horror from RKO Radio Pictures . This ' Jane Eyre'-like story is probably the most memorable Val Lewton / Jacques Tourneur collaboration . This eerie film still holds firm after all these years . The story's menacing fear is not what appears on screen , but what hovers in the minds of the characters on screen . A young American nurse ( Frances Dee ) comes to Haiti to care for a rich plantation owner's ( Paul Holland ) catatonic wife ( Christine Gordon ) , who appears to be burnt out by a tropical disease . Of course the locals believe she is a zombie . . . victimized by rampant voodoo . The nurse falls in love with her employer and is desperate to find a cure for his wife and seeks a cure at a voodoo ritual . Creepy enough with great eerie atmosphere . Rounding out the cast are : James Ellison , Edith Barrett and the beach strolling zombie . . . Darby Jones .
Laugh riot . Not the way the west was won .	Mel Brooks directs , writes and stars in this western spoof . Sight gags and quick quips galore . One belly laugh after another . When released in 1974 , this was pushing the line on offensive rudeness . Today it may still be funny ; but the shock value is gone . A crooked political boss ( Harvey Korman ) wants to run everyone out of a little town , so he can claim the land to sell to the railroad . He appoints a black sheriff ( Cleavon Little ) in hopes of offending the townsfolk . The sheriff , with the help of a former gunslinger ( Gene Wilder ) , rallies the town in defending itself against corruption . Situational humor will have you laughing your butt off . This movie compels you to urge your friends to watch it . I am not a Mel Brooks fan , but think this is the best project of his whole career . Also appearing in this fun filled romp are : Slim Pickens , Madeline Kahn and Alex Karras . Sharing writing credits on this comedy classic is Richard Pryor .
Those ' little rascals ' put on a show .	Hal Roach still cranking them out ; Gordon Douglas directs as the Our Gang comedies get a little longer in length . Remember during the depression era kids with character and talent were highly entertaining . Spanky ( George ' Spanky ' McFarland ) and the gang decide to put on a song and dance show with the headliner being of course Alfalfa ( Carl ' Alfalfa ' Switzer ) billed as " King of the Crooners " , but as the abrasive voiced star arrives late , he proclaims giving up crooning for the opera . His daydream ends up an elaborate nightclub sequence . The cast will also feature Billie ' Buckwheat ' Thomas , Joe Geil , Betsy Gay , Gino Corrado and every young boy's sweetheart Darla Hood .
The gruesome puzzles continue .	Jigsaw ( Tobin Bell ) lays on the cold slab and the autopsy reveals a clue that his ingenious intricate trap filled games continue . SWAT Commander Rigg ( Lyriq Bent ) , the last office untouched by Jigsaw , is abducted and pushed into the latest of the madman's demented maze-like trap laden game and has a time limit of ninety minutes to endure the interconnected traps to save an old friend . . . or become victim of assured grotesque consequences . Suspense , intrigue , gore and graphic images keeps the franchise alive . If you get past the autopsy scene , you've got it made . Not for the faint-of-heart . Rounding out the cast : Scott Patterson , Costas Mandylor , Betsy Russell , Donnie Wahlberg and Dina Meyer .
Being in a gang is the name of the game .	John Frankenheimer directs this intense story of three teenage killers in New York City's Spanish Harlem and the idealistic DA ( Burt Lancaster ) given the job to prosecute them . Young gang members trying to protect their turf see no use in cooperating with the law . Lancaster plays the part as if he were Jack Webb . ( That is meant to be a compliment ) . This movie also gives Lancaster the chance to work with Shelley Winters . ( Wink , wink ) Also in the cast are Dina Merrill , Chris Robinson , Edward Andrews and the debut of Telly Savalas . Very little actual violence , but some pretty good drama .
Stark discovery in the Spanish woods .	A bit strange , but THE BACKWOODS will grow on you . If you are a Gary Oldman fan , you will be pleased . An English couple played by Oldman and Aitana Sanchez-Gijon ) decide to holiday in Spain . To be exact , to check out the family property he bought in desolate woods . Invited along are a bickering couple ( Virginie Ledoyen and Paddy Considine ) , who are reluctant to be there in the first place . As the men are out hunting they discovery an abandoned home , where they find a young animalistic girl chained inside . They take her back to their cabin with intentions to take her to the authorities . Tension builds when a group of rural locals arrive armed with shotguns looking for the frightened child . A powerful performance turned in by Oldman . And Ledoyen I found striking and very easy to watch . Also in the cast : Lluis Homar , Kandido Urganga and Andres Gertrudix .
Spectacular effects . Predictable script . Great view .	Far from ridicule of director Brian De Palma , this is a new breed of sci-fi . Marvelous and different views of the angry red planet . Special effects , sound and cinematography are pretty awesome . Talented cast with predictable script and reactions . A rescue mission is to investigate the ill fated first manned mission to Mars . Great acting turned in by Don Cheadle as Luc . Along for the ride are Gary Sinise , Tim Robbins and Jerry O'Connell . Connie Nielsen catches your imagination with or without limp script . The bigger the screen the better . Sit back and WOW !
Japan is terrorized by a giant monster .	This is classic sci-fi . This American version has Raymond Burr's character as world news reporter spliced into the original version . Special effects of the 1950s may be crude today , but is still the star of this thriller . An atomic blast awakens a giant Tyrannosaurus Rex from his hibernation in the Pacific . The monster is determined to destroy Tokyo . Godzilla is the monster of all monsters . Japanese stars include : Takashi Shimura , Momoko Kochi and Akira Takarada .
Uplifting war drama .	Ray Enright directs this Black & White patriotic war film that of course is definitely dated ; but highly entertaining . . . with no apologies for propaganda . This movie without a doubt lifted spirits of wartime Americans . GUNG HO ! is based on a true story of World WarII Marines on Makin Island . Some very realistic scenes even though some dialog is genuinely hokey . Talk about an All-Star cast : Randolph Scott gives up his horse and saddle for military garb in the role of Colonel Thorwald . There is a young Robert Mitchum on the brink of stardom . Others featured are : Noah Berry Jr . , Rod Cameron , Alan Curtis , J . Carrol Naish , Sam Levene , David Bruce and Milburn Stone . Not much can bust up these commandos . . . except war .
No one deserves to be lonely .	This is one of the most accurate movies inspired by the cannibalistic activities of a deranged farmer named Ed Gein . Ezra Cobb ( Roberts Blossom ) becomes a grave robber after the death of his domineering mother ( Cosette Lee ) . He had lived just for her and after a year in the grave , Ezra dug up his mother and brought her home . He robbed other graves to use ' parts ' to reconstruct his beloved mother ; and then he proceeded to bring home corpses just for the companionship . Cobb ended up stalking women to kill and bring to his rotting farmhouse . Blosson is amazingly believable in his portrayal of the necrophile . Others in the cast : Robert McHeady , Marian Waldman , Robert Warner , Micki Moore and Pat Orr .
Pull the switch , Igor !	Director Tony Leondis comes forth with an animated feature that resembles something from Tim Burton's file 13 . King Malbert ( Jay Leno ) governs a world of evil scientists and perpetual cloudy skies . The kingdom of Maleria knows nothing else . If you are born with a hunchback like Igor ( John Cusack ) you know your lot in life . Every evil scientist has an Igor as an assistant ; this is a fable of an Igor that has big dreams of becoming an Evil Scientist himself and winning the upcoming annual Evil Science Fair . Igor's master blows himself up while creating his fair entry . This particular lab-coated Igor with the help of his own assistants Scamper ( Steve Buscemi ) and Brain ( Sean Hayes ) , creates a creature called Life / Eva ( Molly Shannon ) as a substitute entry . The whole community of scientists is very displeased , but watch collectively in awe what Eva can do . Igor in stride of winning the competition of evil inventions also prepares to expose King Malbert of purposely making the cloud cover over Maleria and not letting the sunshine in . Cheers for Igor . Clever and imaginative animation . Other voices you may or may not recognize : John Cleese , Eddie Izzard , James Lipton , Arsenio Hall , Christian Slater and Jennifer Coolidge .
Over-hyped musical . Not as great as touted .	A Tony Award Broadway musical comes to life in Bill Condon's movie . I just didn't find this film the hottest thing since The Supremes . Interesting enough to watch though . Curtis Taylor , Jr . ( Jamie Foxx ) is a car salesman that needs to find the right product to sell in order to make his mark in the music world . Enter three friends from Chicago that call themselves The Dreamettes . Lorrell Robinson ( Anika Noni Rose ) , Deena Jones ( Beyonce Knowles ) and arrogant lead singer Effie White ( Jennifer Hudson ) . In tow is Effie's brother C . C . ( Keith Robinson ) , who dreams to be a big songwriter . He , like The Dreamettes , just needs a break . By hook or crook , the trio gets a gig singing backup for James " Thunder " Early ( Eddie Murphy ) , a pioneer in a new sound out of Detroit . . . his explosive blend of soul and rock ' n ' roll . Curtis finally is able to launch the Dreamettes into a solo career as The Dreams . To make the group more palatable to the " white " market , he moves the ravishing Deena to lead singer . This throws the plump Effie into a jealous tirade and she eventually is replaced in the group . The Dreams rise to international fame ; however the adulation , money and stardom just doesn't measure up to what they dreamed of . I was most impressed with Murphy and most irritated with Hudson . She may have talent . . . I just don't like her . The outstanding soundtrack should get star credit itself . Also in the cast : Danny Glover , Michael-Leon Wooley , Loretta Devine and Yvette Cason .
Bogart and Davis . Very good gangster flick .	Hard working prosecutor ( Humphrey Bogart ) needs the help of a night club hostess ( Bette Davis ) to convict a gangland boss ( Eduardo Ciannelli ) that takes over ownership of a not too successful night spot . Bogart is terrific as a good guy . Miss Davis is her typical superb self , brass balls and all . Ciannelli seems to always land the ruthless bad guy part , because he is so believable in that type role . Nothing real surprising in this crime drama . Story is supposedly based on the life of Lucky Luciano . Also in the cast are : Jane Bryan , Mayo Methot and Lola Lane .
This is a howl and a hoot ! !	The Wolf Man ( Lon Chaney Jr . ) is awakened by grave robbers . After a four years peaceful sleep , he is once again haunted by his curse . He seeks the help of the old gypsy woman , Maleva ( Maria Ouspenskaya ) , who leads him to the ruins of the Frankenstein castle . The Frankenstein monster ( Bela Lugosi ) is freed from a block of ice and befriends the Wolf Man . Soon even pals will have a disagreement . The fight does not last long , for both combatants are washed away in a dam bursting flood . Ilona Massey plays the Baroness Elsa Frankenstein and Patric Knowles is the young doctor trying to cure the Wolf Man .
Some secrets need to stay buried .	A derelict Army base is scheduled for demolition ; buried beneath is a terrifying secret . Enclosed in a subterranean vault is what is left of a top-secret Cold War biological experiment . A mild mannered biology teacher Frank Sears ( Jonathan Schaech ) drives 36 hours to warn the Army that destroying the base may awaken an unsuspected dangerous entity . Army hazmat specialist Carrie Freeborn ( Erica Leerhsen ) witnesses the unleashing of an organizm that absorbs light and energy and to sustain itself feeds on anything living . It is a race against the clock to figure out the entity's genetics to save mankind . Freeborn and Sears seems to know more than the military experts . Writer / director Richard Jefferies is to be commended for giving us a Science Fiction flick that actually seems to cause us concern without the use of zombies or vampires . To be exact I'm not too sure that this story line wasn't inspired by Stephen King . Special effects are simple , but better than average and pretty cool to watch . Also starring is James McDaniel of NYPD Blue fame . At times I think Leerhsen is just too attractive for this role . Other players : Dylan Kenin , Vic Chao and Jason Wiles .
Good old boys and petty crimes .	Canadian comedy based on a popular TV series . Julian ( John Paul Tremblay ) and Ricky ( Robb Wells ) are released from incarceration a few days early and are anxious about returning to the Sunnyvale trailer park . Counting the days is running buddy Bubbles ( Mike Smith ) , who lives in a little shack with his cats . Ricky is eager to see his girlfriend Lucy ( Lucy Decoutere ) only to find that she won't let him in the trailer and he has to live out of his car . Nothing new for Ricky . Lucy is not in a hurry to tell Ricky that in the 18 months he was gone , she had a $6 , 000 boob job done and she works stripping in a " gentlemen's club " . Julian , Bubbles and Ricky finally agree on planning " The Big Dirty " , a crime that will enable them to retire from their lives of petty crime . Ricky's share of the haul will afford him the means to marry Lucy and start living " the life " , drinking three or four days a week , smoking weed maybe five or six days a week , support his family by growing dope and keeping his wife satisfied . . . and you know what I mean . Stupid jokes , silly situations , pervasive language and some nudity earns an R rating . Also in the cast : John Dunsworth , Nichole Hiltz , Patrick Roach , Barry Dunn and Hugh Dillon .
Flirty young girl has a moody vacation on the French Riviera .	BONJOUR TRISTESSE , translated into English , HELLO , SADNESS . this movie caused two immediate sensations . The novel was written by eighteen year old Francoise Sagan . And twenty year old Jean Seberg , in only her second movie , had men of all ages panting . Otto Preminger directs this enjoyable film . Seventeen-year-old and decadent Cecile ( Seberg ) is spending her summer with playboy father Raymond ( David Niven ) on the French Riviera . Raymond is sharing part of the summer with a girlfriend Elsa ( Mylene Demongeot ) . Cecile is a tad naive , but hides this well by attempting to attract men the same age as her father . The quiet summer suddenly becomes a little rocky when another of Raymond's girlfriends arrives by a previous invitation . Anne Larsen ( Deborah Kerr ) is so different from the parade of Raymond's other beauties . Anne is cultured , intelligent and classy . When Raymond announces his desire to marry her , the jealous Cecile plans on ways to eliminate her . And the seventeen-year-old beauty realizes that she will always be daddy's little girl ; but she doesn't foresee a wonderful life for herself . She must come to grips with the funk of stepping into a desolate future . Also in the cast : Geoffrey Horne , Jeremy Burnham , Elga Anderson and Juliette Greco .
No one man is judge and jury .	Henry King directs this intense western drama that proves to be entertaining as it is provocative . Gregory Peck is a rancher that seeks revenge pursuing the four men that raped and murdered his wife . At times the stoic Peck even appears compassionate . Great scenery and well paced script . The story line has small flaws concerning time , space and distance . . . but other wise this is one of the better westerns around at its release date . Exceptional cast including : Albert Salmi , Henry Silva , Lee Van Cleef and the ever alluring Joan Collins . Well worth your time .
A good cop doesn't quit . Even an innocent man will run .	Tommy Lee Jones repeats his role as now Chief Deputy Marshal Sam Gerard in this sequel . And again he is on the trail of another wrongly accused man ( Wesley Snipes ) , who won't give up to prove his innocence . Good story line . Some real good action scenes . Not only are Jones and Snipes excellent . Very good performances from Kate Nelligan and Robert Downey Jr . Nelligan his boss and Downey Jr is the special agent who gives his unsolicited aid . Very worthwhile .
A touching and somber look at romance .	Andrew McCarthy plays a college student that falls in love with a less educated and less cultured young girl ( Molly Ringwald ) . Two immediate problems are : McCarthy needs to break off an engagement to his well to do girlfriend ; only to find out that Ringwald is younger than he thinks and needs an annulment from an abusive husband . Dark , moody and almost full blown depressing . If you liked PRETTY IN PINK , this is the more grown up version . I always seem to find McCarthy a sympathetic character , but I really like his cool attitude he brings to the part . Miss Ringwald is simply great in this role . Rounding out the cast are : Ben Stiller , Patti D'Arbanville , Viggo Mortensen and Molly Hagan . Stay with this one , don't jump off in midstream . This is very under rated and deserves your attention .
A legacy continues .	A whole lot better than most made-for-TV projects . This bio-pic focuses on the life of Robert Kennedy as Senator and Presidential candidate . The story line covers a time span from the 1963 assassination of brother President John F . Kennedy to RFK's own assassination by a mad gunman on the 1968 Presidential campaign trail . The old newsreel footage and current footage could have been blended a lot better . The whole presentation is pretty bland compared to the high energy JFK by Oliver Stone . Linus Roache worked hard on getting down Bobby's mannerisms , but falls short on duplicating that Kennedy accent . James Cromwell does a remarkable portrayal of Lyndon B . Johnson . Also in the cast are : Ving Rhames , Sergio Di Zio and Marnie McPhail . Not so impressive is the numberous scenes of Robert talking to the ghost of his dead brother John played poorly by Martin Donovan . The essence of RFK's vision for a new and better America is there . Politically inclined or not , it is worth your while to watch this version of history .
Cute , funny and romantic .	Michael Patrick Carter plays Frank , a pre-teen living with his widowed father ( Ed Harris ) . Frank and his little buddies save up their milk money and allowances to see what a naked lady looks like . They decide to go into the city and rent a hooker . The trip for the boys turns into a mess . A sympathetic call girl , played by Melanie Griffith , ends up escaping to the suburbs and hiding in Frank's tree house . She is trying to break away from her boss and the business . Frank's lonely father is given the impression the call girl is one of his son's school teachers . Being a thoughtful son , Frank tries to hook up the hooker with his dad . Harris doesn't get a good chance to expand in this role . On the other hand , Griffith seemed to be at her best . Also in this pleasant movie are Malcolm McDowell and Anne Heche . Situational humor .
A young buck out hustles the hustler .	Talk about a rush and new found vitality . It has been awhile since Fast Eddie Felson seriously picked up a pool cue . The clever hustler takes a young , flashy shooter under his wing . The not well hidden agenda is to get back into the action on the coattails of his young protege . Great sequel . Martin Scorsese's camera work makes shooting pool a form of artistic expression . Paul Newman is in top form in his reprise role of Eddie Felson . Tom Cruise is super as the talented , cocky and fearless Vincent Lauria . Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio is the alluring girlfriend of Vincent . She partners with Fast Eddie to propel the protege to his finest hour . John Turturro , Bill Cobbs and Helen Shaver also appear . The film grabs a hold and won't let go .
A hunting cabin is the haven of an alien life form .	I did not expect to be let down like this . The thrilling Stephen King novel shows up on the screen a bit haphazard . When the story line strays from the novel , so does the interest in the movie . The special effects are very good and overall photography excellent with awesome scenery . Four telepathic buddies make their annual trip to their favorite hunting cabin in the dense woods of Maine . A troubled stranger is brought into the cabin and then a hellish string of events begin . We are introduced to a strange virus named Rigley ; gruesome sweasels that incubate in a host stomach and are then released by way of the anus ; stranded aliens known as " Blue Boys " and a power hungry Colonel wanting to destroy all aliens and cover up this whole incident . If you have not read the book you are wondering what and why in the hell the second half of the movie becomes so unexplainable . If you like gore and suspense you will like this movie in spite of itself . Most Stephen King novels relate well on the screen , but this is not a good example . It is real fun to watch , just don't get involved in the who , what and why . The able cast includes : Thomas Jane , Damian Lewis , Jason Lee , Tom Sizemore , Donnie Wahlberg and a miscast Morgan Freeman as Colonel Kurtz . Note : this was King's first novel after being a victim of a hit and run driver near his home in Maine .
How cold can one war be ? Can you spare a friend ?	Authentic backgrounds and based on a true story . William Holden plays a very influential Swedish oil executive blackmailed into becoming a double agent running info between the Allies and Nazi headquarters . Holden falls in love with one of his contacts Lilli Palmer in between dangerous missions . Holden in one of his finest performances . Other notable cast members are : Hugh Griffith , Ernst Schroder and Klaus Kinski . Running time is a little over two hours , but the realism and locales make for a time worth spent .
A family tears itself apart .	An Irish family in Boston is far from tight . Cole McKay ( Michael Angarano ) is a young Catholic mid-teen who has ambitions of being a pro baseball player . His father ( Brendan Gleeson ) has trouble keeping a job and putting food on the table . Mrs . McKay ( Melissa Leo ) is deep in her faith and depends on it to take care of her family . But trouble definitely brews in this family . Cole's sister Kathleen ( Emily VanCamp ) is pregnant and leaves the house . Big brother Terry ( Tom Guidry ) is the bad seed and detrimental to the family as a whole , as if it were whole . Drastic circumstances pit brother against brother and Cole must make a decision that suites his advantage to move forward . Not exactly good versus evil here , but it does show the two don't mix well . Predictable at best . Interest does build toward the last twenty minutes of the movie . . . at least to the extent you care about the characters . This family takes a body blow ; but beats the count . . . barely .
If it is worth fighting for . . . fight .	John Wayne is the boss of a civilian construction company building for the Navy in WW2 . While working on a remote Pacific island the attacking Japanese forces interrupt construction and Wayne must convince the Government to let his men help the Navy fight back ; thus the world renowned ' fighting Seabees ' . This is a very good war drama and a fine cast that also features Susan Hayward , Dennis O'Keefe and William Frawley .
A mastermind and a plan . The plan comes undone .	Those wild men Joel and Ethen Coen remake a 1955 classic ( The LadyKillers ) starring Alec Guiness and Peter Sellers . If this was candy it would be double dark chocolate with nuts . This is a slow starting dark comedy that turns into a knee slapper . Tom Hanks plays Professor G . H . Dorr who's criminal mind develops a clever crime . The professor rents a room from a nice church-going Marva Munson ( Irma P . Hall ) . He gathers a motley crew in the basement with every intent to dig a tunnel in order to rob a New Orlean's riverboat casino . Things are almost perfect until the once unsuspecting landlady discovers what has taken place . Things really get funny , or course in a dark way , when each of the crew attempts to kill the landlady . And each to the man in turn lose their own life trying . Prankish comedy at its best . Also in the cast are : J . K . Simmons , Marlon Wayans , Ryan Hurst and Tzi Ma . George Wallace as Sheriff Wyner is a hoot . This a very different Hanks role to say the least . Certainly it is Hanks that draws attention to the movie . . . even if this isn't even close to his best work .
Disney animates the boy raised in the jungle .	Disney's Buena Vista Pictures presents a genuine animated classic tale of the orphaned infant raised by a family of gorillas . Unconditionaly accepted as one of their own , the young boy called Tarzan garners the instincts of a jungle animal and physically grows into a young man with skills more than the ordinary jungle dweller . His life will change forever when he finally meets other humans and his future life-mate Jane Porter . He realizes there is a new irresistible bond and discovers he is human ; but his gorilla family will not forsake him . Entertainment for the entire family . Lending voices to the characters are : Alex D . Linz , Tony Goldwyn , Minnie Driver , Glenn Close , Lance Henriksen , Wayne Knight and Jason Marsden .
You have to fall down in order to get back up .	A very watchable impression of Frank DeFord's novel . The bigger they come the harder they fall . This story follows most of the life of Louisiana football legend Gavin Grey ( Dennis Quaid ) . The " Grey Ghost " lived big with a life sustained by adoring football fans for his exploits on and off the football field . He married his number one fan and cheerleader Babs ( Jessica Lange ) who shared his glory , heartaches and tragedies . His brother Donnie ( Timothy Hutton ) and best friend Lawrence ( John Goodman ) tried to keep Grey grounded and at the same time kept him high on admiration . Carl Lumbly plays Narvel Blue who's competitive nature like Grey's built a strong friendship . As years passed , so did the glory wane . . . the football hero just had trouble realizing it . Like Elvis Presley once said " The image is one thing and the man is another . It's often hard for the man to live up to the image . " I've always liked Dennis Quaid and thought his cockiness made the role of a self-centered football player come easy . Impressing is the fact he did some of his own stunts and separated a collar bone taking a solid hit on the field . He looked like a natural . For the stunning Lange , she seemed flawless as the cheerleader with only one thing on her mind . . . her idol the " Grey Ghost " . Marriage matured her , but at fault lived sharing the glory surrounding a Louisiana favorite son . Goodman deserves more credit than he usually gets . How can you not like his bosom buddy character ? Retired pro , semi-pro and top college athletes provided the realism on the playing field . You don't have to be a football fan to enjoy EVERYBODY'S ALL-American .
Great battles at sea .	When I first saw this film , I was still a school boy and the title was DAMN the DEFIANT ! Of course I didn't realize how close the action fit to actual history . The battleships were beautiful and the battles they fought were loud and exciting . I now realize and understand the dislike shared between Captain Crawford ( Alec Guinness ) and Lieutenant Scott-Padget played by Dirk Bogarde . At that young age , the two things I remembered the most was the scene where sailors were given maggot infested bread to eat and the ' cod pieces ' the officers wore . Other notable performances were turned in by Nigel Stock , Peter Gill , Anthony Quayle and Maurice Denham . This will always remain a colorful and exciting sea drama .
Energetic horror fantasy .	Directed masterfully by Don Coscarelli , who also wrote and produced this off-the-wall nightmare . Two parentless brothers discover strange goings on at the Morningside Cemetery and with the help of a group of friends go about investigating . An undertaker with superhuman strength is witnessed robbing a grave . The creepy funeral home is visited by the boys and they have encounters with cloaked mini-monsters , a speedy brain devouring chrome ball and the infamous " Tall Man " ( Angus Scrimm ) . This low budget project is now a cult classic spawning a couple of sequels . This hallucinatory horror fantasy stuns the senses and turns your knuckles white . Cast members include : A . Michael Baldwin , Reggie Bannister , Kathy Lester , Bill Thornbury and Kenneth V . Jones .
The twistin ' is fine , but the movie comes up a little lame .	You can tell right away that this is a quickie to join the parade of " twist " theme movies . A TV executive ( Lang Jeffries ) is trying to put together a TV special a couple weeks ahead of a competing station . He just happens to call on Chubby Checker to come to his rescue . Chubby wrangles Gene Chandler , Vic Dana , Linda Scott and the Dovells to appear . The spotlight ends up on a young dancer ( Georgine Darcy ) . Plenty of shimmy shakin ' goin ' on . Of course the talent , excluding Checker of course , are barely one hit wonders . Very little depth to the plot , but watching again will bring back some memories . Also in the cast are Mari Blanchard , Stephen Preston and Nydia Westman .
Can a writer change his playboy ways ?	Charles Martin directs this charming and entertaining , but trivial comedy . The all-star cast is the redemption of MY DEAR SECRETARY . Best-selling novelist Owen Waterbury ( Kirk Douglas ) proves himself to be a die-hard skirt-chaser . When an aspiring novelist Stephanie Gaylord ( Laraine Day ) becomes his secretary , he decides to give up squiring the ladies and puts all of his attention toward her . No sooner than they marry , Stephanie finds out that Owen's new secretary is not only intelligent , but very beautiful as well . Let the fun begin . Evocative of the 40's , this movie is pretty straight-laced . At times Douglas seems too earnest to be so tempted by women . Day exudes natural beauty . Rounding out the cast : Keenan Wynn , Rudy Vallee and Irene Ryan .
Spider-Man is back and this time just a little different .	Peter Parker ( Toby McGuire ) has the girl of his dreams , Mary Jane Watson ( Kirsten Dunst ) , and he is balancing his love life , Puritan as it is , with his duties as a superhero . . . NYC is in the middle of Spider-mania . Things get real interesting when a strange alien entity suddenly changes Spider-Man's suit jet-black . The beloved hero's personality changes bringing out a dark side showing anger and vengeance . Peter even begins to strut around neglecting those who care for him the most . The new black-suited Spider-Man is forced to take on a high octane mix of villains . . . the Sandman ( Thomas Haden Church ) , Venom ( Toper Grace ) and the New Goblin , who in actuality is his long time acquaintance Harry Osborn ( James Franco ) . Spider-Man also needs to overcome the evil that recently invaded him . I wish there was more screen time for Dunst . Also in the cast : J . K . Simmons , Theresa Russell and James Cromwell . Will there be a fourth in the franchise ? Can we even take another ?
Where does one begin . . . at the beginning .	George Lucas may or may not have exploited his own fame and the STAR WARS fantasy . Definitely not sluggish and sometimes taxing the viewers intelligence . Some scenes seem like Lucas himself ran out of imagination . All this said . . . this prequel of the original STAR WARS trilogy does have enough merit to stand on its own and is no less visually stunning . A Jedi master Qui-Gon Jinn ( Liam Neeson ) and his young apprentice Obi-Wan Kenobi ( Ewan McGregor ) travel to the small peaceful planet of Naboo to assist the beautiful Queen Amidala ( Natalie Portman ) in her efforts to bypass any disputed control by the Trade Federation on the ready to blockade her planet . After a battle the Jedis and popular Queen Amidala make their way to the planet of Tattooine where they come across a young slave boy named Anakin Skywalker ( Jake Lloyd ) who appears to be empowered with the FORCE and possibly the holder of enough information to thwart the evil influence of a challenging pursuit by the Federation and evil Dark Lord , Darth Maul ( Ray Park ) . I really enjoyed the final saber duel . Really the one and only thing I disliked is the stupid character Jar Jar Binks . Just continue forward . . . an may the FORCE be with you . Rounding out the cast are : Pernilla August , Terence Stamp , Samuel L . Jackson , Ian McDiarmid , Andrew Secombe , Kenny Baker as R2-D2 , Anthony Daniels as C-3PO , Frank Oz as the voice of Yoda , Sofia Coppola and Ahmed Best as the voice of Jar Jar Binks . A star studded cast that over flows with talent and loaded with charm and intensity .
A chronicle of sacrifice and courage .	This critically acclaimed war epic is subtitled , but don't let that scare you away . This movie does start dragging its feet midway , but I found the last have better than the first . Four friends from North Africa enlist in the French Army along with 130 , 000 other " indigenous " soldiers . Said , Messoud , Yassir and Abdelkader have never set foot on French soil , but are willing to help fight the Nazi oppressors to liberate the French " fatherland " . A band of these " indigenous " soldiers fight their way across Europe and end up fighting discrimination within their own ranks in a country they've never seen . The four friends find themselves defending an Alsatian village against a battalion of Germans . Outstanding performances from Jamel Debbouze , Roschdy Zem , Sami Bouajila , Samy Naceri , Bernard Blancan , Melanie Laurent and Mathieu Simonet . Sometimes this 2 hr movie feels like it ; but very well worth your time .
Gene Autry rescues a young man from trouble .	This is an action-packed Autry movie that lets Gene ride , rescue , sing and romance . Gene is more than ready to clear a young hothead , Larry Evans ( Russell Arms ) , of charges of murder and find the real killer . Of course there is time romance Larry's pretty sister , Mary ( Barbara Britton ) . Gene helps the young man hide in the cabin of an old prospector ( Clem Bevans ) , while he uncovers who did the dastardly deed . There's loads of action and an array of music , with Gene crooning with the Cass County Boys : " When the Bloom is on the Sage " , " Pretty Mary " and the title song being the best . The cast also features : Jack Holt , Robert Shayne , Leon Weaver and a real good performance from Chill Wills .
When does a champ become the challenger ?	Outstanding movie with prison combined with boxing . A heavyweight title holder ( Ving Rhames ) is sent to Sweetwater Prison on a rape charge . It doesn't take long for the movers and shakers to set up a match with the champ and the prison champ ( Wesley Snipes ) . A battle of undisputed undefeated . Very good fight scenes and you almost feel the sweat . A little slow at times , but the big showdown is all worth it . It is obvious Snipes and Rhames worked hard to pull this off . Peter Falk plays a vulgar mouthed resident gangster that thinks he rules the prison . Also in the cast are : Fisher Stevens , Wes Studi and Michael Rooker . This one goes the distance .
Delivers the scares .	If you are looking for something to scare the " bejeebers " and " pee-wadden " out of you . . . THE MESSENGERS delivers . Hard times in Chicago forces a family to move into a run-down two story home on a sunflower farm in North Dakota . Roy ( Dylan McDermott ) and his wife ( Penelope Ann Miller ) just want a fresh start to keep their family together . Sixteen year old Jess ( Kristen Stewart ) and her 3-year-old brother Ben ( Evan Turner ) begin to see nightmarish visions throughout the house and basement in particular . Jess ' parents begin to question her sanity . The teen will be forced to find the way to protect the family from the paranormal apparitions . John Corbett plays a very important role in support . Be prepared to jump back a few times .
If it is the last thing you ever do .	Don McKellar writes , directs and stars in this dry humored drama dealing with the end of the world . Citizens of Toronto deal with the world's coming to an end at the stroke of midnight and new millennium . Some celebrate with violence , some vandalism ; Patrick Wheeler ( McKellar ) suffers through a faux Christmas reunion . But he wants to spend that last moment alone in his apartment . Sandra ( Sandra Oh ) tries to get across town to commit suicide with her husband . A gas company employee ( David Cronenberg ) spends his time making courtesy calls . Craig ( Calllum Keith Rennie ) hopes to achieve sexual satisfaction with a special list of women . . . a black woman , a virgin and his favorite old teacher ( Genevieve Bujold ) . Patrick finds Sandra at his doorstep wanting to use the phone . He tries to help her home , but as the final moments of time ticks , the two are pointing pistols at each other's head . I almost gave up on this film twice ; but there was still something about it that kept me watching . Like a bottle of Scotch , LAST NIGHT requires an acquired taste .
You gotta go sometime .	After embarking on a class trip to Paris , one student ( Devon Sawa ) has a premonition of the plane crashing . He and a few other students and a teacher end up not taking the flight , but watch Flight 180 explode into a catastrophic fireball . After feeling that death has been cheated the survivors start meeting the grim reaper one by one . Thrills and chills with vivid violence . Also in the cast are : Tony Todd , Chad Donella , Kristen Cloke and Seann William Scott . Excellent horror flick .
A working vacation in Bosnia . Journalists in danger .	Suspense . Action . Violence . Even some thrills . Richard Gere plays a one-time top news reporter that has suffered a meltdown . . . the bad thing is it happened live on the air . His cameraman Terrence Howard in turn gets a promotion and samples the high life of the news biz . While in Serbia , the two meet up and decide to try and track down a missing war criminal ( Ljubomir Kerekes ) , one of the most ruthless in Eastern Europe . Hostile locals and underworld figures mistake them for C . I . A . and the s @ ^ t begins to hit the fan . Dodging bullets and bombs to get a scoop is one thing . . . escaping alive is another . I think the " F " word was used so many times in order to get an R rating . I wouldn't go out of my way to watch again . Others in the cast : James Brolin , Jesse Eisenberg , Damir Saban and Scott Anderson .
Depravity on a Pacific island .	Cult following fare from director Marino Girolami that begins with strange body parts missing from corpses in a teaching hospital in New York City . This activity is believed to be tied to a cannibal cult that is faithful to Kito , a god of cannibalism . This all leads to an expedition of doctors , students and reporters to a remote island in the Pacific . A trail of pilfered corpses lead to a jungle laboratory of the mad Doctor Obrero ( Donald O'Brien ) , who is conducting bizarre and tortuous experiments on living and dead specimens . As if someone really desires to add another hundred years to their life expectancy . Some brutal and graphic scenes for the zombie lover . Predictable , but fun . The cast includes : Ian McCulloch , Alexandra Delli Colli , Peter O'Neal , Sherry Buchanan and Franco Ukmar .
A ship load of political pawns .	Based on a true story . In 1939 , 1937 German-Jewish refugees fleeing Nazi Germany are bound for Cuba and asylum . Before reaching Cuba the ship is refused permission to dock and all visas revoked . After being told they could not dock anywhere else , the S . S . St . Louis must turn around and head back to Germany and certain death for its passengers . The captain ( Max von Sydow ) wants to fake a shipwreck off the coast of England , but another solution arises . A tremendous all-star cast features : Faye Dunaway , Oskar Werner , Lee Grant , Jose Ferrer , Katherine Ross , Orson Welles , Lynne Frederick , Ben Gazzara , James Mason , Victor Spinetti and Malcolm McDowell . I was most impressed with Ross and Frederick . This film can bring on mild depression , but hope does win out in the end . I liked the finale showing important characters and their fate .
Famous actor's daughter becomes a bounty hunter .	Tony Scott is director and producer of this rapid paced and frantic dramatic action flick . This is a selective biopic of Domino Harvey ( Keira Knightly ) , the daughter of actor Laurence Harvey . Domino spit out the proverbial silver spoon and after following in her mother's footsteps in the world of modeling , turned her back on the ways of Beverly Hills and became a bounty hunter . Nothing seemed to dampen her rebellious and fiery personality . . . boarding school , friendships , high school and especially her socialite mother's wishes . Neither genteel or homely , Domino could go places and accomplish things quicker than her fellow bounty hunters that she called family . The violence could be no more brutal . The action could not be more intense . Point of contention : does the story on screen actually depict the one off the screen . . . well , this IS a movie and very interesting to boot . My real reason for watching is the alluring Miss Knightley . The cast resembles a name dropper's contest : Mickey Rourke , Christopher Walken , Jacqueline Bisset , Ian Ziering , Brian Austin Green , Mena Suvari and Edgar Ramirez .
A strong frontiersman bucks the odds .	Burt Lancaster directs and stars in this action packed western . Its the 1820's and rugged frontiersman Big Eli Wakefield ( Lancaster ) finds his old Kentucky stomping grounds are becoming too tame ; so he heads to wide open Texas with his young son Little Eli ( Donald MacDonald ) . A new beginning and new lifestyle does not come easy for the the Kentuckian . Adventure , history and romance mixed with some humor makes for a very entertaining family film . Beautiful scenery ; and my favorite sequence is the brutal fight between Lancaster and a whip-wielding Walter Matthau . THE KENTUCKIAN is based on a novel by Felix Holt and is briskly paced making it so easy to watch . Others featured in the cast : Dianne Foster , John McIntire , Una Merkel and John Carradine .
Ian Fleming's 007 with NATO watching goes up against SPECTRE again .	Can a Bond flick be typical ? James Bond ( Sean Connery ) finds himself in the beautiful Bahamas to squelch SPECTRE's threat to detonate two stolen atom bombs part of a major extortion scheme . Oscar winning special effects . Plenty of explosions , chases , bikinis ; even a furniture fight and Miss Moneypenny ( Lois Maxwell ) even gets a little slap on her well rounded bottom from our man Bond . Also in the cast are the beautiful Claudine Auger , Adolfo Celi , Martine Beswick , Rik Van Nutter and Guy Doleman . Fun entertainment and a great way to escape a hum drum routine . And what a powerful theme song wailed by Tom Jones . 007 always comes through .
Mysterious creature lurks beneath the sea .	Super 50s style Sci-Fi directed by Robert Gordon . A nuclear submarine comes under attack with radiation levels extremely high . The sub pulls in at Pear Harbor for needed repairs and an investigation into a rubbery material thought to be related to the mystery attacker . Submarine commander Pete Mathews ( Kenneth Tobey ) joins top notch scientists John Carter ( Donald Curtis ) and Lesley Joyce ( Faith Domergue ) in the discovery that the strange material is a piece of a giant octopus spawned by radiation . The Navy blocks off the North Pacific planting mines and setting up around the clock surveillance . The creature surfaces near San Francisco and attaches itself to the Golden Gate Bridge . Flame throwers actually diverts the attack . The Navy sub once again confronts the sea monster and fires a torpedo in hopes of killing the octopus . . . but the sub is now in the clutches of the powerful tentacles . Commander Mathews dives into the sea to try and free his submarine before the bomb explodes , but is knocked unconscious by the sea monster . Then comes the unlikely heroic efforts of Dr . Carter to the rescue . Well . . . you can easily guess who wins the heart of the young scientist Miss Joyce and the fate of the octopus that dared to rise from the depths of the sea . Most redeeming is the special effects of Ray Harryhausen .
Stock car driver almost outruns the IRS !	Elvis Presley plays a race car driver that gives away money as quick as he wins it . His manager played by Bill Bixby loses race winnings by making bad bets on the ponies . Elvis now owes back taxes to the IRS and agent Nancy Sinatra is sent to collect or make arrangement for payment . The Charlotte 500 speed race is the answer to the problem . Win the race and win the girl . William Schallart and Carl Ballantine are also featured . Below par soundtrack does feature the gems " Let Yourself Go " and " Speedway " . Even Miss Sinatra sings , regrettably . Sparks do fly on and off the screen between the racer and tax lady . Interesting , but no great shakes .
Early Stephen King success . Reason to believe in haunted houses .	Above average vampire tale based on Stephen King's novel of the same name . David Soul plays a novelist that returns to his small hillside home town to gather more info for his next project . The writer still holds curiosity about the old haunted house that caused fear in his childhood . A mysterious antique dealer ( James Mason ) takes up residence in the forbidding house and it is soon expected of being a vampire haven . Some pretty good special effects . Eerie atmosphere and multiple interwoven story lines . Soul is pretty pedestrian for a lead actor ; but then this is a little heavier than STARSKY & HUTCH . Mason is cool and ' stuff shirted ' enough to play his role quite natural . Talented , diverse cast includes : Bonnie Bedelia , Lew Ayres , Kenneth McMillan , Lance Kerwin , Bonnie Bartlett , Reggie Nalder and Fred Willard .
Just break the code : there is government money to be had .	Action . . . explosive action . Clever script . Eye popping special effects . A strong cast , but too much confusion in following the story line . A highly successful computer hacker ( Hugh Jackman ) is coerced to help a ruthless spy ( John Travolta ) steal billions of unused government monies obtained in an old DEA drug operation . Don Cheadle is the run ragged FBI agent trying to spoil the by-computer hijacking . Sam Shepard has a small role as a corrupt Senator . The alluring Halle Berry is supposedly an undercover DEA agent whose purpose in the whole procedure is not clear cut . If you are looking for a good escape from reality ; this flick will give you several big bangs for your buck . It is good to see Travolta play a clever , bad ass thug . Some of his best work in a long time . And for the first time , Miss Berry appears topless on screen ; and in other various degrees of undress . . . so nice my eyes hurt . Vinnie Jones is impressive as a strong arm enforcer . Rough and ready entertainment worth your time .
Jesse Stone delves into trouble in Paradise .	This is the fourth movie based on Robert B . Parker's best selling series of Jesse Stone books . Tom Selleck is once again Stone , the over qualified police chief of the tiny community of Paradise , Massachuesetts . Jesse , with his past and present demons . . . thoughts of his ex-wife and a bottle of Scotch needing to be emptied , realizes an understandable nightmare coming true : writing parking tickets is just not enough . His current small staff is taxed with one of his officers on maternity leave and one recovering from a near fatal wound . The restless chief immerses himself in the investigation of a case that went cold a dozen years ago . He is certain there is more to the robbery and murder of a bank teller that wasn't investigated very well . But there is a current case that needs attention ; a young woman claims that she was raped aboard a yacht . Some things are important , while some things are made to be important . Chief Stone gets the action he needs for his own peace of mind . This CBS Television movie has a talented cast that includes : Sean Young , William Devane , Mika Boorem , Saul Rubinek , Kathy Baker , James Gammon and Joe the Dog .
Andy Hardy is his father's son .	Girls . . . trouble . . . Andy Hardy . . . duh ! After a man-to-man talk , Judge Hardy ( Lewis Stone ) sends young Andrew off to the Judge's alma mater , Wainwright College . Andy wants to stand on his own two feet , but its a little hard to get started . On the train he meets and is infatuated with a pretty young woman , Kay Wilson ( Bonita Granville ) and his soon to be college adviser Dr . Standish ( Herbert Marshall ) . Trouble begins when Andy finds that his father still has his train ticket ; and it multiplies when he meets a young blonde that is also on her way to Wainwright . Hardy is confused with the blonde's hot and cold attitudes not knowing he's dealing with not one , but two blondes ( Lyn and Lee Walker ) . Soon the new freshman realizes it is twins that collectively owe him $37 . 95 . Another situation bothering Andy Hardy is the suspicion that there is a romantic situation with Kay and Dr . Standish . All is well that ends well ; the twins arrive at the Hardy home to tell Andrew that their problems have been solved thanks to him . . . now Mrs . Hardy ( Fay Holden ) has a problem as she stares at not one but two plucked turkeys for Thanksgiving dinner .
A heavyweight . . . tired , tried and true .	Written by Rod ( Twilight Zone ) Serling and directed by Ralph Nelson . REQUIEM FOR A HEAVYWEIGHT is a genuine classic . Mountain Rivera ( Anthony Quinn ) is a tired and worn out heavyweight that was once ranked Number 5 . He's come to the end of his career after being knocked out by Cassius Clay . His manager Maish Rennick ( Jackie Gleason ) is waist deep in debt to the mob and tries his best to use Mountain to garner fast money . Julie Harris befriends the not exactly handsome fighter and tries to help with a career change . Mickey Rooney is his ' corner man ' and just wants to see the fighter survive with dignity . This heartfelt flick has an interesting supporting cast that features : Stanley Adams , Madame Spivy , Rory Calhoun , and two champs Jack Dempsey and Muhammad Ali .
Fighting men fall from the sky .	Director Randall Wallace gives us the riveting story of courage and sacrifice as Mel Gibson leads the 7th Cavalry into the first major battle of the Viet Nam War in November 1965 . A harrowing event in the Valley of Death , where 400 American troops face 2 , 000 North Vietnamese soldiers . The fighting is relentless as both sides try to out maneuver the other . The combat scenes are gory and realistic . A strong cast supports Gibson in one of his better roles . Featured are : Greg Kinnear , Sam Elliot , Madeleine Stowe , Barry Pepper , Don Duong and Kerri Russell . This war drama is well produced and memorable . Worth your attention for a little over two hours .
A true classic . Appealing Dickens tale .	This is possibly the keenest adaptation of a Dickens classic . Young David Copperfield ( Freddie Bartholomew ) survives a difficult childhood and we share his trials and tribulations on the way to manhood . Actually a coming-of-age tale that tugs at the heartstrings . Excellently photographed and an all-star cast that brings forth unforgettable characterizations . You don't have to be a Dickens fan to enjoy this version of David COPPERFIELD . Frank Lawton plays Copperfield as a man . Just a few of the other stars making up this outstanding cast : Basil Rathbone , Lionel Barrymore , W . C . Fields , Lewis Stone , Jessie Ralph , Maureen O'Sullivan and Edna May Oliver . This fine 1935 film still can hold your interest .
Is there a code that will change the face of religion ?	This Ron Howard does not live up to all the hype ; but do not get me wrong . This a very good film . . . a thinking man's film . Well-known symbologist Robert Langdon ( Tom Hanks ) , upon arriving at the Louvre museum , finds the curator murdered : and left behind are clues and a mysterious set of symbols and clues . Joining Langdon is the beautiful cryptologist Sophie Neveu ( Audrey Tautou ) ; together knowing their lives are in danger , a heart-pounding journey begins that unveils secrets hidden in the works of Leonardo Da Vinci . These clues lead to a covert society dedicated to guarding a secret since the time of Jesus Christ . A secret that may change the face of Christianity . An intriguing and a bit bizarre quest to discover a disputed revelation concerning the ancestry of Christ . THE DA Vinci Code is based on a critically acclaimed Dan Brown novel . The supporting cast includes : Ian McKellen , Jean Reno , Paul Bettany and Alfred Molina .
Who really wants to be a hero ?	Director Sam Raimi brings back the Marvel comic book hero , your friendly neighborhood Spider-Man . Peter Parker ( Tobey Maguire ) is still coming to terms with his dual identity . He's now going to college , delivering pizza and taking photos of . . . Spider-Man in order to pay his bills . His world is tumbling down around him ; he's having trouble at college , his friendship with Harry Osborn ( James Franco ) is strained , his Aunt May ( Rosemary Harris ) is being pressured by the bank , and most of all wrestles with the thought of telling Mary Jane ( Kirsten Dunst ) of his secret identity . The web-slinging Spider-Man has recently been bashed in the press ; but NYC needs their hero for the city is threatened by Dr . Octo Octavius ( Alfred Monlina ) who has turned himself into Doc Ock , a multiple metal armed villain . CGI perfection . Danny Elfman's score meets his genius standards . The story is actually good for an action flick . I could do without the " Raindrops Keep Falling on My Head " sequence , but I realize it is needed to show how the weight of the world has been lifted from Parker as he temporarily tries to disown his work as Spider-Man . The pizza delivery is pretty cool ; and the train fight is pulse pounding . Of course , the close-ups of Dunst also do something for me . Also in the cast are : J . K . Simmons , Daniel Gillies and the hot Venessa Ferlito . And for continuity there are the cameos of Willem Dafoe and Cliff Robertson . Spider-Man 2 should please children of all ages . . . from six to ninety-six .
What a dynamic duo . . . Elvis and JFK !	A couple of things may happen . You could be a closed-minded Elvis fan and royally get pid off or just sit back and enjoy the weirdness while splitting your ribs . Funny in a sick way . . but this is hilarious . Elvis ( Bruce Campbell ) switches places with an Elvis impersonator and while on tour breaks a hip . With the onset of advanced age Elvis takes up residence in an East Texas retirement home where he makes friends with an elderly black man ( Ossie Davis ) who believes that he is JFK in hiding . An ancient mummy respectfully called Bubba Ho-Tep escapes from a traveling carnival and begins sucking the life out of residents of the " old folks " home . Elvis and JFK team up to destroy the not so tightly wrapped menace . Campbell is enjoyable as elderly Elvis . The overly descriptive banter between Elvis and the former President is better than an overly crowded script . Plus Elvis has a problem of personal nature that sets the tone of this certain cult classic to-be .
# @ " ! Homer you idiot ! Very funny .	Have no fear . Yellow power is here . The Simpson family makes good on their venture to the big screen . Outragiously funny ! Guaranteed irreverent and hilarious enough to make you slap your granny . Lisa Simpson ( Yeardly Smith ) takes her concern door to door trying to bring more awareness in protecting the environment . Homer ( Dan Castellaneta ) , the dim wit he is , puts Springfield on the brink of disaster by dumping a silo of pig poop in the lake . The contamination is brought to the attention of President Arnold Schwarzenegger and he has the EPA place a massive thick dome over Springfield . Little Maggie discovers a " sink-hole " that allows the family to escape before the community has their way with Homer . The Simpsons make their way to Alaska ; before Marge ( Julie Kavner ) and the kids leave Homer behind to return and save Springfield from being blown to kingdom come . Bart ( Nancy Cartwright ) wishes he has a better relationship with his father . Homer returns to go from goat to hero as he cracks the dome to let Springfield thrive again . And Bart gets to attempt to bond with his dad . Surprisingly worthwhile . Other stars lending voices to THE SIMPSONS MOVIE : Harry Shearer , Hank Azaria , Joe Mantegna , Pamela Hayden and a Tom Hanks cameo .
Deep rooted anger causes a man to unravel .	Nick Nolte plays a small town peace officer in a snow bound New England town . A town so small , corruption is no secret . Underhanded people are allowed to rule . Nolte's character starts to mentally breakdown when trying to get custody of his estranged daughter and being forced to not investigate too deeply a hunting accident . Memories of the childhood abuse inflicted by his father soon overrides his thoughts . Nolte is at his best . It is very easy to dislike James Coburn as the tyrant father . Sissy Spacek and Jim True round out the cast . A gritty and grueling story to watch . Location scenery makes you feel the exposed emotions .
Need be . . . Mr . President can get tough .	Wolfgang Peterson directs highly talented Harrison Ford as the President of the United States . Pres . James Marshall continues America's stance to not negotiate or honor any terrorists demands . The President with the First Lady and their daughter are aboard Air Force One when it is high-jacked by Russian operatives . Cold as ice , Ivan Korshunov ( Gary Oldman ) , posing as the leader of a TV crew , begins taking control of the plane with his Commie comrades . A worrisome Vice President Kathryn Bennett ( Glenn Close ) in D . C . tries to cope with the situation . Tension mounts , nails are bitten , hearts start thumping as riveting action escalates . A banged and bruised President proves to hang with the toughest and heroically regains charge of the plane . A finale that will keep you on the edge of your seat . This strong cast also features : William H . Macey , Wendy Crewson , Paul Guilfoyle , Dean Stockwell , Liesel Matthews , Donna Bullock , Michael Ray Miller and Xander Berkeley .
A traveling tent show causes excitement in a college town .	Walter Hale ( Elvis Presley ) is the manager of a traveling show , a Chautauqua , in the 1920's . Amongst the entertainment , trouble starts to develop . Hale is troubled by a Worker's Union rep , played by the gorgeous Marlyn Mason . A college girl played by Nicole Jaffe , wants to go on the road with the show . And a female citizen kills a man in self defense only to become the highlight of the Chautauqua . A cigar smoking Elvis , dressed in white sings a few novelty tunes and the hit song , " Clean Up Your Own Backyard " . This comedy / drama also stars Sheree North , Joyce Van Patton and Vincent Price . A fun movie and a whole lot better than the bad rap it has received .
Desperate times call for desperate deeds .	This is an outstanding A & E production with kudos for director Mikael Salomon . A very well written drama chronicling the fall of the infamous Benedict Arnold ( Aidan Quinn ) from distinguished Revolutionary War general and respected advisor to General George Washington ( Kelsey Grammer ) to reluctant traitor . Action packed insight to incidents of the American Revolution . Quinn and Grammer are to be commended . History buffs may want to pick this one apart , but it is well worth watching .
Being friends is sometimes dangerous .	Not only is being former friends dangerous , but also pretty damn deadly . The legendary Sam Peckinpah directs this story of Pat Garrett and Billy the Kid . You can taste the dust ; feel the spurious flying bullets and smell the free flowing essence of non-prejudiced manhood . Garrett ( James Coburn ) is hired by a group of Santa Fe businessmen to take on the job of sheriff and dedicating his time to tracking down and killing his former riding partner William ' Billy the Kid ' Bonney ( Kris Kristofferson ) . Peckinpah makes you feel as if you rode to Mexico and back . The gunfights are so violent and real . And this rendition of the saga of the Kid's relationship with Garrett is very debatable at least . But the characters , the scenery and dialogue keep you involved . The soundtrack by Bob Dylan , who also plays an active small role as " Alias " , is sometimes monotonous , but produces the legendary tune " Knockin ' on Heaven's Door " . The director's cut was released on video fleshing out and filling gaps of the original release . The supporting cast reads like a who's who featuring : Slim Pickens , Chill Wills , L . Q . Jones , Jack Elam , Harry Dean Stanton , Katy Jurado , R . G . Armstrong , Jason Robards and Rita Coolidge aka Mrs . Kristofferson .
The end has come . Or has it ?	Ray Milland directs and stars in this over looked Sci-Fi flick . What will normal people do in desperation ? What will people do when they fear the end of civilization ? Harry Baldwin ( Milland ) and his family have left Los Angeles on a fishing trip moments before nuclear bombs land on several cities , including L . A . The family continues to battle the panic filled highways to reach their destination wilderness to begin a plan for survival . Frankie Avalon plays son Rick . This end of the world film is better than the budget afforded it ; and considered the best of Milland's directorial efforts . Also in the cast : Jean Hagen , Mary Mitchel , Joan Freeman and Richard Bakalyan .
" Gung Ho " submarine commander takes on the Japanese Navy .	A very good WW2 movie . John Wayne is ' Duke ' Gifford , an ultra devoted commander that leads his submarine crew up against the best the Japanese can put in the water or in the air . Ward Bond plays ' Pop ' Perry , Gifford's mentor and growing naval legend . A young Patricia Neal portrays the love interest . Fleshing out the cast is Cliff Clark , Philip Carey , Martin Milner and Jack Pennick . If you love submarine movies , this is one of the better ones .
The past doesn't forgive or forget . The future is a small world .	A study of guilt , anxiety , failure , anger and pain . Writer-director Paul Thomas Anderson gives us a three hour look at several unique individuals and how their lives unwind , but weave back into the same small world . This may have been an hour too long . Stellar performances by Julianne Moore , William Macy , Jason Robards and Tom Cruise at his mesmerizing best . A haunting soundtrack featuring Fiona Apple and Aimee Mann somewhat holds meandering stories together . I don't know what the rainstorm of frogs purpose was : but it was entertaining . Foul language is prevalent ; but makes the whole thing more believable . Watch and wear yourself out ! ! !
A young man wins the hearts of a small town .	The township of Anderson , South Carolina lives and breaths with their Hanna High School football team . Coach Harold Jones ( Ed Harris ) may just be the most respected man in town ; his only fault is putting the pigskin players and team ahead of his wife ( Debra Winger ) and teenage daughter . Coach Jones finds compassion for a mentally challenged young man given the moniker " Radio " ( Cuba Gooding Jr . ) . Of course not everyone is pleased with the attention shown the young man given chores to help the team . The school principal ( Alfre Woodard ) has issues with the situation and comes under fire of the school board as well as the school's biggest booster , Frank Clay ( Chris Mulkey ) , the local banker , frustrated with the idea that " Radio " is a distraction for the team and his star athlete son ( Riley Smith ) . Being the butt of cruel minded pranks and the death of his beloved mother ( S . Epatha Merkerson ) does not deter the good nature of the trusting young man . Attitudes lead to the resignation of the coach and " Radio " finally wins over the hearts of the town . The finale shows the real life James " Radio " Kennedy still cheering on the team 26 years later . Gooding is as excellent as Harris is passionate in this heart warming drama held together with some pretty darn good football scenes . Winger almost goes by unnoticed . And Merkerson of TV's LAW & ORDER fame is solid in her role . Not to be overlooked is the superior soundtrack that features the likes of Stevie Wonder , the Doobie Brothers , the Spinners and Al Green . This is touching family fare .
Star-studded B western .	Feels just like Saturday afternoon at the movies . The ever popular Rory Calhoun plays Adam Reed , a Wyoming Indian scout , who has a strong bond with Fireknife ( Lee Van Cleef ) , a Cheyenne warrior . Against a treaty with the Indians , the army decides to build a fort on their land . Reed is caught between both sides , but as predicted ends up in a vicious fight to the finish with Fireknife . The fetching Peggie Castle plays Calhoun's love interest . On the lighter side Noah Berry Jr . plays a Mexican that scouts for the army and falls in love with a beautiful Indian girl Honey Bear ( Rita Moreno ) . This almost forgotten B western features a star-studded supporting cast : Peter Graves , Warner Anderson , James Best , Ned Glass and Robert Bray . Thank you Encore Westerns channel .
The monster lives ! And he wants a companion .	Universal strikes gain . Dr . Frankenstein and his monster survive their presumed demise . The doctor is urged to provide his lonely monster with a mate . Cast members : Boris Karloff , Colin Clive , Ernest Thesiger , Valerie Hobson and Una O'Connor are joined by Elsa Lancaster , the unforgettable bride of the monster . Witty and improved script with slivers of humor pace this sequel . Belongs along side the original and SON OF FRANKENSTEIN in importance to the horror genre .
Next time will not just be a short visit .	Excellent in respect to keeping me attentive . M . Night Shyamalan's clever Sci-Fi thriller falls short in regards to the promos giving you some false hopes of a really scary story . There are a couple of scenes that come close to making you # ^ S your pants . Mel Gibson plays a widowed farmer and former man of the cloth . When crop circles show up in his corn fields as well as multiple sites around the world , shattered faith is put to the test . His brother ( Joaquin Phoenix ) a down on his luck minor league home run champion comes to live with his recently widowed brother and two children . There is the little boy with asthma and a daughter that has a phobia concerning drinking water . Screen time for the alien visitor is not much , but down right creepy . The budget must have been spent on Gibson because the E . T . was mainly in the shadows and looking like a Halloween costume contestant . Tension is high and yes you do have to wait and wait for the suspense to flop out at you . All in all , I really liked this as compared to say . . . " SPIDER-MAN " . Watch the skies ! They will be back !
Shocking and memorable . A very special girl .	If you want something out of the ordinary . Something down right scary even to think about ; and you're not exactly straddling that high moral ground . . . this movie just might be for you . Genital gore . High school student Dawn O'Keefe ( Jess Weixler ) is typical in concerns of suppressing her awakening sexuality . She is proud to be a virgin and leads a local chastity group . Dawn knows of her bodily purpose " down there " , but a stranger to its function . Even more puzzling , she discovers she suffers from a mythical and cultural condition called Vagina Dentata , meaning a " toothed vagina " . Troubled comprehending her anatomical uniqueness and trying to resist the overwhelming thoughts of the pleasure of the flesh . . . Dawn is more-or-less date raped and discovers the powerful and violent pitfalls of using her sexuality . There are several scenes that will make any conscious male to have second thoughts of where he " sticks it " . Dark comedy , OK . Creepy , damn straight . Others in the cast : John Hensley , Josh Pais , Mike Yeager , Hale Appleman and Vivenne Benesch .
Chilling , thriller diller about a serial killer !	Sigourney Weaver plays Dr . Helen Hudson , a retired psychiatrist that specializes in serial killers . Hudson is agoraphobic and suffers with different degrees of stress and depression . Holly Hunter and Dermot Mulroney are detectives trying to catch a serial killer . Harry Connick , Jr . plays a serial killer behind bars and taunts Hudson as she tries to help the investigators . The killer wants his own fame for duplicating famous murders . The background score will help your nerves jitter . Hunter is not convincing as a police officer . Mulroney's character is as bold as cardboard . Connick , Jr . is quite funny in a cynical way . Weaver conveyed her character's fear and anxiety . And without a change of expression , was bribed out of a pair of her frilly panties in exchange for information about the killer's identity . Dim the lights and enjoy .
Genuine horror classic .	This movie has thrilled and chilled viewers for generations and also serves as a standard for vampire flicks . This is the role that Bela Lugosi was born to play , Count Dracula . His mannerisms and looks make the character masterful and commanding . Based on Bram Stoker's novel , a vampire terrorizes the English countryside searching for sustenance , human blood . Glorious black and white . The lighting , scenery and mood music should share equal billing with the great direction of Tod Browning . This movie leaves an impression that lasts a lifetime . Wonderful supporting cast includes : David Manners , Edward Van Sloan , Helen Chandler and Dwight Frye .
An unlikely duo that packs a punch for the bad guy ; and each other .	Laugh out loud funny . A rough around the edges cop ( Nick Nolte ) arranges a temporary parole for a cocky convict ( Eddie Murphy ) in order to help in tracking down a couple of killers . Whiskey throated Nolte is perfect as the laid back , hard hitting cop . Murphy's big screen debut is a delight . The Nolte / Murphy team is like a match along side a twenty gallon drum of gasoline . Crude and absolutely believable . No big special effects needed to keep you satisfied . Rib cracking funny . Also featured are : Annette O'Toole , Frank McRae and James Remar .
Can't a guy just change his mind ?	Quirky describes both Jim Carey and ETERNAL SUNSHINE OF THE SPOTLESS MIND . Michael Gondry directs this exercise in futile love and heartbreak . Joel ( Carey ) and Clementine ( Kate Winslet ) are a couple who's relationship has ran its course . Experimental technology allows Clementine to have any and all memories of Joel erased from her mind . Joel reluctantly decides to do the same , but in the middle of the procedure he changes his mind and struggles to keep those memories he wishes to cherish . This romantic Sci-Fi is clever , humorous , heartbreaking and very entertaining . Rounding out the cast : Kirsten Dunst , Mark Ruffalo , Tom Wilkinson and Elijah Wood . The story is a definite head spinner . I was most impressed with Winslet and her various hair colors . . . tangerine being my favorite . And if nothing else ; how can a movie with Dunst dancing in her panties be bad ? A decent soundtrack keeps the flick changing gears . Listen for ELO , Beck and The Willowz .
An innocent yule tide talent tale .	Legendary Michael Curtiz directs this showcase of talent in an attempt to capitalize on the song " White Christmas " that first appeared in the 1942 classic HOLIDAY INN . Quite innocent and evocative of the early 50's mindset . One of those let's save the day by putting on a show . A song and dance team will help keep their former commanding officer's ( Dean Jagger ) Vermont inn alive . A real talented cast that includes Bing Crosby , Danny Kaye , Rosemary Clooney , Vera-Ellen , John Brascia and Anne Whitefield . How can you have Bing Crosby and not hear his " White Christmas " ? Other memorable tunes : " The Best Things Happen When You're Dancing " , " Count Your Blessing Instead of Sheep " and " Snow " . Note : Curtiz four years later would direct Jagger in the Elvis Presley classic KING CREOLE .
A drama that packs a punch .	Erik Kernan ( Josh Hartnett ) living in his father's shadow is rough . He is separated from his successful wife ( Kathryn Morris ) and his job is on the ropes . Erik is a sportswriter assigned to boxing events and his editor ( Alan Alda ) thinks his work is forgettable . By chance Erik comes to the rescue of a homeless man that calls himself the Champ ( Samuel L . Jackson ) . The Champ is living in an alley and professes to be fabled boxer Robert Satterfield . Kernan sees this as a way help each others situations by writing the Champ's story . When some glory is in sight , the lights go out . The Champ is not the man he claims to be . Jackson gives possibly his best performance since PULP FICTION . Also in the cast : Teri Hatcher , Peter Coyote , Nick Sandow and Harry J . Lennix .
On the high seas ; big ships come . . . big ships go .	Not just a routine trip from Hong Kong to Singapore for Captain Alan Gaskell ( Clark Gable ) . There is a treasure trove of gold hidden on board . Among the passengers are two women of the captain's past : Dolly ( Jean Harlow ) , the brash blonde bombshell and Lady Sybil ( Rosalind Russell ) , the prim and proper socialite from England . Wallace Beery is a ' blow hard ' gambler that is not to be trusted . Also in the cast are Lewis Stone and Hattie McDaniel . Raiding pirates , one hell of a typhoon plus love on the high seas . . . a very good adventure film with tense action . Gable and Harlow are dynamic together . Tight direction from Tay Garnett . Special effects are superb .
Tragedy aboard the USS Iowa . Someone must defend the truth .	This is a morality tale of investigating a military cover up . An explosion aboard an aging battleship is covered up to save face for the Navy . Captain Fred Moosally ( James Caan ) agrees with his superiors that the fatal explosion that killed 47 is to be blamed on a homosexual rift between two sailors . LTJG Dan Meyer ( Robert Sean Leonard ) struggles to convince his captain that faulty equipment an gunpowder on board was the real cause of the tragedy . Meyer was considered disloyal until a congressional hearing forced the Navy to revise its findings . Well scripted and kudos to director Mikael Salomon . This true life drama packs a punch . Special effects were a bit gruesome , but very essential focal point for the story . Also in the cast are : Andrew MacVicar , James Bulliard and Jamie Harrold .
Don't underestimate Capote . Superb drama .	Not to take anything away from Philip Seymour Hoffman's Capote , INFAMOUS is a little rawer ; less candy-coated . The life of many a party ; the openly gay writer Truman Capote ( Toby Jones ) , has a life enhancing journey far from his champagne sipping friends in New York . It is high brow meets middle-class , when the unflappable Capote travels to Kansas . . . with his childhood friend Harper Lee ( Sandra Bullock ) . . . to gather facts about the tragic slaying of a farm family , after a burglary goes bad . The writer would enter an odd working relationship with one of the incarcerated killers , Perry Smith ( Daniel Craig ) . The intense research would become Capote's most famous work . . . the novel " In Cold Blood " . Also in the impressive cast : Peter Bogdanovich , Jeff Daniels , Sigourney Weaver and Gwyneth Paltrow .
Are you really Santa ?	Absolutely dark . Side splitting funny in a twisted way . Two criminals join up for the holidays and disguise themselves as Santa ( Billy Bob Thornton ) and his elf ( Tony Cox ) , traveling across the country to major malls and robbing the stores blind . This year the foul mouthed Santa takes advantage of the passive hospitality of an introverted 8-year old boy ( Brett Kelly ) who believes he is giving shelter to the real Santa . The boy's father is on a hunting adventure ( in prison ) so the chubby lad stays with his grandmother ( Cloris Leachman ) who is in a constant medicated stupor . The mall director ( John Ritter ) has many complaints on the drunken Santa , but trusts his head of security ( Bernie Mac ) can keep dirty Santa on the up and up and hopefully from insulting too many parents of the kids that come to convey their wish list . Knee slapping hilarious situations with strong language and sexual content . This is a strong " R " movie and small children should really not be in the audience . If so , their idea of jolly old Saint Nick will never be the same . Also in the cast are Lauren Graham and Lauren Tom . Billy Bob is super and I could watch this for many more Christmas seasons .
Soap opera deluxe .	This Sam Wood drama ages well . An ensemble of stars and a story line meant for gossips from every social class . Probably most remembered for Ronald Reagan's " Where is the rest of me ? " Small town murder , insanity , sadism , selfishness and greed are a few of the things whispered about . Relationships are hard to come by let alone keep . Big name stars , but hardly any roles worth remembering . Stars along with Reagan are : Ann Sheridan , Robert Cummings , Betty Field , Charles Coburn , Claude Rains and Ernest Cossart .
Beware of a determined submarine commander .	A fair war movie , but better than average submarine flick . Lt . Commander Barney Doyle ( Glenn Ford ) is forced to conduct war with a Japanese prison ship carrying his family . The ship is used as a blind for a notorious battleship that the whole U . S . Navy is searching for . Others in this fine cast : Ernest Borgnine , Dean Jones , Diane Brewster and L . Q . Jones .
How many wrongs make a right ?	Intense , crime thriller in glorious black & white . Top notch Film-Noir and " Bogie " . Convicted of murdering his wife , Humphrey Bogart escapes prison and endures plastic surgery to obtain proof of his innocence . Lauren Bacall harbors the man with the plan while his face heals . Desperation and romance filters throughout this old fashion thriller . Other cast notables : Agnes Moorehead and Douglas Kennedy . Bogart and Bacall are enough reason to watch .
For the thrill . For the ' pay off ' . For the Hell of it !	Expertly directed by one of the masters , Steven Soderbergh . Less a remake than an energetic adaptation of the 1960 Rat Pack story . A ' who's who ' ensemble cast takes a clever story and turns it into real entertainment . Thrills , spills and witty humor paced with the trappings of Vegas . Fresh out of prison , Danny Ocean ( George Clooney ) gathers some very clever criminals to pull off the robbery of three casinos owned by the man squiring his ex-wife . Clooney is solid as is Brad Pitt . Very notable is Julia Roberts , Andy Garcia , Matt Damon and Bernie Mac . Also adding talent is Don Cheadle , Carl Reiner , Elliott Gould and Casey Affleck . A very diverse and enjoyable soundtrack keeps pace with the action . Original music from David Holmes and cool sounds from the likes of Perry Como , Percy Faith , Quincy Jones and even a remixed obscure Elvis Presley tune . A not so complex story with big name stars gives the audience what they want . This is really a fun one to watch .
Something as exciting as Santa . . . the Polar Expess !	THE POLAR EXPRESS is a delightful holiday film that is a sight to behold . Robert Zemeckis directs and Tom Hanks stars in this sure-to-be-classic filmed in a technique called performance-capture animation based on real actors . A young boy finds it hard to sleep on Christmas Eve for he doesn't want to miss hearing the bells on Santa's sleigh . Right before midnight there is a thunderous roar . The sound is coming from a magnificent , magical train that is bound for the North Pole and Santa's house . Dancing waiters serving hot chocolate and a conductor ( Tom Hanks ) , who wants the children on board to enjoy themselves , but also wants the Polar Express to stay on time . My favorite scene is the sequence where the big yellow ticket flies out of the train and returns . Hanks plays six characters and even sings . Others of note in the cast : Eddie Deezen , Peter Scolari , Nora Gaye and Leslie Zemeckis . Besides Hanks , the soundtrack features holiday tunes by Frank Sinatra , Bing Crosby , Kate Smith and the Andrews Sisters . This movie will be one of those you'll want to watch every Christmas .
This hitch-hiker is bad news .	Not the best film noir , but the story does have a grip that lasts to the fadeout . Bad boy Lawrence Tierney plays Steve Morgan , a charming criminal who has just robbed and killed a cashier at a movie theater . Jimmy Ferguson ( Ted North ) is a little tipsy returning home from a convention and picks up a hitch-hiker . . . Morgan . Along the way he convinces ' Fergie ' to pick up a couple of women ( Nan Leslie and Betty Lawford ) and proceed to a friend's beach house to dodge roadblocks and hide from the law in hot pursuit . This melodrama turns very predictable very fast . Glen Vernon plays a gas station attendant that alerts the law to Morgan's whereabouts . Others in the cast : Marian Carr , Harry Shannon and William Gould . Running time is a mere 63 minutes , but is a worthwhile watch . THE DEVIL THUMBS A RIDE makes rare appearances on TCM .
Out of isolation comes El Mariachi .	A playfully dangerous and psychotic CIA agent Sands ( Johnny Depp ) is involved in international espionage and recruits a mythical guitar-swinging hit-man El Mariachi ( Antonio Banderas ) to foil an assassination . The dashing hit-man is to stop a drug cartel from killing Mexico's El Presidente . The reluctant hero is haunted by the slaughter of his wife ( Salma Hayek ) and young daughter . Revenge has motivated El Mariachi and he is out for blood . Welcome to the blood bath full of explosive action . Depp could easily be considered the star of the movie . The handsome Banderas is complimented by Hayek . . . smoldering romance . A very strong cast also features : Cheech Marin , Mickey Rourke , Danny Trejo , Eva Mendes , Willem Dafoe and Ruben Blades . A story line that gets a little confusing is all but forgotten with the exciting gun play and explosions . Just the few scenes of Banderas with Hayek are worth the price of admission .
Riveting fictitious focus on the killing of Bobby Kennedy .	Written and directed by Emilio Estevez , BOBBY is a fictionalized look at 22 individuals whose lives intersect in the hours leading up to the assassination of Robert F . Kennedy at the Ambassador Hotel in Los Angeles . These various people have different reasons for being at the hotel , but do share the anticipation of Bobby's arrival to his primary election party . Bobby died in the early hours of June 6 , 1968 after being shot on his exit through the hotel's kitchen . The few other people shot during the excitement survived . The movie takes a glimpse at relationships between men and women ; and the social divisions between races . Kennedy is only seen through newsreel footage ; taped TV broadcasts with the audio of some of his memorable speeches . Bobby was bringing an excitement to America ; there was a hopeful promise to a welcomed change that excited the young and old , the rich and the poor and the black and white citizens of a nation disappointed in the political climate and an unpopular war in Viet Nam . This movie is held together with the help of a soundtrack of sounds of the times featuring : " Ain't That Peculiar " by Marvin Gaye , " The Sound of Silence " by Simon and Garfunkel , " Tuesday Afternoon " by the Moody Blues , " Spoonful " by Cream , " Grazing in the Grass " by Hugh Masekela , " Black is Black " by Los Bravos and recorded especially for the movie , " Louie Louie " by Demi Moore . BOBBY stars a diverse ensemble featuring : Anthony Hopkins , William H . Macy , Sharon Stone , Freddy Rodriguez , Helen Hunt , Lindsay Lohan , Harry Belafonte , Heather Graham , Christian Slater , Mary Elizabeth Winstead , Martin Sheen , Laurence Fishburne , Nick Cannon , Elijah Wood and Emilio Estevez .
Entertaining expose on a successful TV institution .	To expound or pontificate without just and moral actuality sustained with guarded malice and remorse would be an injustice , disservice and undeniable shame . This is a very good TNT production that is not afraid to show the back stabbing , bitching , pompous ego clashing and ' money talking ' maneuvers that made Monday Night Football a revered TV institution . Putting three men in a booth to call a football game was thought to be foolish , haphazard and ratings suicide . Just getting the right trio was not the easiest thing to do , let alone an event that would flourish without its own inherit complications on , off and behind the camera . The focal character from which this story radiates is that of Howard Cosell , portrayed excellently by John Turturro , who never played football , but could make you believe he invented the game . Cosell with his talented brand of commentary seemed well versed and articulate of any and every topic one wanted to entertain . There are other notable characters that have major parts in this mayhem that began in 1970 . There is football heroes Frank Gifford ( played by Kevin Anderson ) and ' Dandy ' Don Meredith ( Brad Beyer ) . John Heard seems flawless as major contributor good and bad , producer Roone Arledge . Outstanding is Nicholas Turturro as director Chet Forte . Forte's story alone is like opening a can of worms . In smaller rolls , but not taking away from their actual importance to Monday Night Football are Shuler Hensley playing a disgruntled Keith Jackson ; Michael McGrath as the stoic Jim McKay ; Zak Orth portraying Don Ohlmeyer ; and Chad Coleman as O . J . Simpson . High fives to director Ernest R . Dickerson and of course the Turturro brothers . Even if you were not a faithful follower of Monday Night Football or even a sports fan in general you should still find this interesting . Hardcore fans and armchair quarterbacks can use this as entertaining fodder to sustain the memory of the beast . Monday Night Football was mayhem .
Powerful cast . Powerful action . Powerful story .	A very interesting movie directed by Raoul Walsh . Filmed in black and white is a plus especially for the scenes in the rain . Stormy atmosphere sets the mood for this story of competition , lust and love . Edward G . Robinson and George Raft work on a road crew for the power company . When they aren't trying to repair downed lines , they are vying for the attention of Marlene Dietrich . Robinson and Raft put their acting skills to the test . There is a very strong supporting cast that includes : Ward Bond , Frank McHugh and Alan Hale . Note : During the filming of MANPOWER , Robinson and Raft had to be pulled apart several times scuffling over Dietrich .
Justice does not come easy .	I haven't been impressed with a western in along time as I have with JACK BULL . Terrific acting , great script and tremendous cinematography . The setting is 19th-century , wide open pre-statehood Wyoming . A powerful tale of a horse trader ( John Cusack ) seeking justice for a rival rancher ( L . Q . Jones ) abusing two of his horses . Before finding a judge ( John Goodman ) to hear his complaint , Cusack gives notice he wants restitution within seven days . This inturn causes some havoc at the same time the justice system is trying to make a good impression as the territory is awaiting statehood . You will not like the ending , but you will agree that this is a great HBO project . Cusack really proves to be an all around actor with JACK BULL . His acting abilities seems to be improving movie by movie . What I like about this role is that he wears his hat like Elvis Presley did in CHARRO ! ( 1969 ) . Needless to recognize the similar beginnings of a beard . Was John impressed with Elvis or what ? L . Q . Jones has always been one of my favorites even if he does play a dirty s . o . b . in this movie . Jones of course as you might remember had small parts in numerous Elvis flicks . John Goodman is tight and in control of his role as Judge Tolliver . Also in the cast are : Rodney A . Grant , John C . McGinley and John Savage . Note : Script was written by Dick Cusack , John's father .
Not your typical God fearing man .	A very promising directorial debut for Bill Paxton . A very dark thriller / who-really-done-it recommended by Stephen King . This is a strong , well-conceived horror tale about a devout , but demented man in Thurman , Texas that goes on a murdering spree after getting orders from God to eliminate demons trying to control mankind . A couple of plot twists and an eerie finale makes for your moneys worth . Most of the violence you don't really see , but still enough to double up your stomach . Director Paxton plays the twisted man to be known as the Hand of God Killer . Matthew McConaughey is equally impressive as the demented man's eldest son that ends up telling this story to a Dallas FBI Agent ( Powers Boothe ) . Boothe , as always , is solid and flawless . Suspenseful white knuckler ! Highly recommended .
A gentleman in a world that no longer needs gentlemen .	Gary Cooper plays Joe Chapin , a very successful man turning fifty years old , prodded into state politics by his nagging wife , played by Geraldine Fitzgerald . Chapin shuns the political scene when he finds it going against the standards and principles he lives by . His wife soon makes him feel a loser and he finds solace in the arms of his daughter's roommate , half his age . Romantic and consuming ; from the pen of Philip Dunne . This is an over looked drama shot in black and white . Daughter Ann is played by Diane Varsi and her roommate Kate is played by the lovely Suzy Parker . Also in the cast are Stuart Whitman and Ray Sticklyn .
A change of identity leads to mystery and intrigue .	At the end of WWII , Victoria Kowelska ( Valentina Cortese ) survives a Nazi death camp and assumes the identity of her friend Karin , who died with her papers and picture of her young son clutched in her hand . Victoria's new identity will have her going to a family estate in San Francisco to be with her ' new ' son Christopher ( Gordon Gebert ) and being romanced by his guardian Alan Spender ( Richard Basehart ) . Alan and Karin / Victoria will be wed , but soon the newlywed bride will get the idea that she and her son are the victims of murder plots . Alan and his housekeeper / lover Margaret ( Fay Baker ) want full control of the entire estate . A friend of the family ( William Lundigan ) will come to the rescue . Director Robert Wise will aptly make the best of what he has to work with . This 20th Century Fox Film-Noir leaves much to be desired .
You are who you are ; you are what you are .	This is a feel good movie starring John Cusack as David , a recently widowed science-fiction / fantasy novelist . David feels he needs to to do more with his life and decides to adopt a child . After a lot of thought and some manipulation , he talks a six year old boy named Dennis ( Bobby Coleman ) to come live with him on a trial basis . Dennis has been abandoned and all but rejected by the other kids at the orphanage . Dennis likes to stay hid from the sun in a box . He also is very adamant about coming from the planet Mars and someone would be coming for him soon . David and Dennis will learn a lot from each other . One important thing seemed to come out of the new relationship . . . happiness is being allowed to be who you are instead of what other people want you to be . David had doubts of being able to be a good father ; Dennis helped to make it an actuality . It helps to be a Cusack fan to really like this movie . Others in the cast : Amanda Peet , Sophie Okonedo , Oliver Platt and Joan Cusack .
Powerful ! Dynamic ! Realism ! Tora ! Tora ! Tora !	It takes three directors and almost two and a half hours to present one of if not the best film concerning the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor thus causing the U . S . to enter WWII . Taut , tense and unbelievable depiction of the dramatic attack on that fateful December morning in 1941 . This movie leaves a lot to be desired as far as a strong story line goes ; but the whole focal point is the Oscar winning special effects . An all-star ensemble cast features : Jason Robards Jr , Martin Balsam , So Yamamura , Joseph Cotten , E . G . Marshall and James Whitmore . Forget the rest . . . this is really the best .
Once bitten . . . not a damn bit shy .	A gory coming-of-age flick with a stark turn of life caused by thoughts of suicide , ovulation and uh . . . werewolves . Ginger Fitzgerald ( Katherine Isabelle ) and her doormat younger sister Brigitte ( Emily Perkins ) share a fixation on suicide and sustain the thought by posing for their own ' phony ' suicide photos . The girls are no doubt outcasts without concern of acceptance of their peers . Both girls are years late menstruating . . . keeping boys at a distance with major dislike . On the night of Ginger's first visit from the ' curse ' her body's changes are escalated by being attacked by a werewolf . You might say , Ginger snaps . . . with a new voracious sexual appetite and finding pleasure in biting into anything that bleeds . Bridgitte rapidly becomes more bitter and agitated with the fact she has actually become her sister's keeper . Mimi Rogers plays the clueless , well-meaning mother . She finally realizes what is happening with her daughters ; but is it too late to offer anything to change their fate ? Also in the cast are : Jesse Moss , Kris Lemche , Danielle Hampton and Christopher Redman . GINGER SNAPS totters from frustrating to fascinating ; but still having what it takes to be a dark , bizarre horror movie not to be missed . Kudos to director John Fawcett , who also shares in writing the story . I also found humor . . . albeit sick humor blending in the darkness .
Interesting and touching . Story of courage and devotion .	This is the story of Linda Eastman McCartney . Her early life as a music magazine photographer . Her meeting and 30-year marriage to Beatle Paul McCartney . Her becoming a member of her husband's band , Wings ; her publishing cookbooks as well as books of her photos . Linda's rich and famous , but simple life ends with her losing battle with breast cancer . It is odd that most of the music is non Beatle / McCartney fare . The story is not too candy coated : and there is just enough spice to keep the story rolling . Elizabeth Mitchell plays Linda . Paul McCartney is aptly played by Gary Bakewell . Tim Piper portrays John Lennon . Chris Cound is cast as George Harrison . Ringo Starr is played by Michael McMurty . Veteran actor George Segal stars as Linda's father , Lee Eastman .
To escape a life of pity ; a sisterly push .	This movie is highly under rated . At the time of production , director Vincent Sherman agreed with his star , Ida Lupino ; will this project hold up ? The answer is . . . yes . The finale could be reworked a bit , but this film is appreciated more now with age . Joan Leslie plays a young woman that has suffered a dismal life until it is discovered that she has enough talent to try the stage . Lupino is the overbearing , older sister that pushes her little sister to stardom . Soon the two woman are competing for the glory . Good song and dance movie , evocative of the times . Also features ; Dennis Morgan , Jack Carson and Paul Cavanagh .
Live the fantasy that others only dream about .	This movie is a lot better than you imagine . Chris Cole is the lead singer of a tribute band that is swept off his feet when he is asked to join the real group and then drowns in the world of sex , drugs and heavy metal . Mark Wahlberg plays the part of Cole and eases into the role excellently probably due to his own musical background . Jennifer Aniston plays Emily , Cole's love interest and manager . She can only stand so much of watching Cole sink lower and deeper into the decadent world associated with the band . Emily leaves to start a new life in Seattle and later Cole comes to his senses when he realizes that the Steel Dragon does not want his input more than his sexually willing body and voice to sustain the group . Cole hands over the mic to an eager wannabe and trades in his heavy metal wardrobe for jeans and sweaters and singing his own songs in front of half-filled coffee houses in Seattle . Like I said , Wahlberg is excellent in the role . I've never been an Aniston fan , but she really is impressive in this movie . Timothy Spall is moderately funny in the role as the Steel Dragon's road manager . Lending their individual talents to make the film more believable are : Jason Bonham , Timothy Olyphant , Brian Van Ark , Jeff Pilson , Jason Flemyng and Dominic West . Besides the music of Steel Dragon and their tribute band Blood Pollution there is original music from the likes of Kiss , Ted Nugent , Bon Jovi , Everclear and Motley Crue . Note : This story is reportedly roughly based on the story of Judas Priest's Tim " Ripper " Owens .
Do you want fries with that ?	Morgan Spurlock directs , writes and stars in this documentary feature that takes a stark look at obesity and the evils of fast foods . Spurlock pledges to eat three meals a day at McDonald's for one month . His plan is to eat every item on the menu at least once . . . and SUPER SIZE every time it is offered by the McDonald's employee . Spurlock and his team of doctors and advisers keep records of the physical and psychological repercussions of this dietary disaster . It was not even a week before Spurlock began to feel ill . . . albeit the McDonald's fare still tasted like a comfort food . The once moderately healthy filmmaker rapidly becomes more lethargic and depressed . . . and his sex life is close to nonexistent . His girlfriend Alexandra is a vegan chef and constantly urges him to abort this unhealthy regime . Spurlock manages to complete his eating experiment . . . but it takes many weeks for him to detox . One viewing will suffice and eating at McDonald's will make you think twice . Starve out obesity .
Hey , you ain't just a copper . . . you're a " G " man !	If you like watching the old cops and robbers battle in old black and white . . . you'll like " G " Men . Plus James Cagney helps put realism in this drama concerning the infancy of the F . B . I . A young man raised and educated by a gangland kingpin switches to the side of the law and becomes entangled with the government's battle with organized crime . Tough and realist chase and gun play . Cagney is Cagney and leads a pretty good list of stars in this tense classic . Cast includes : Margaret Lindsay , Lloyd Nolan , William Harrigan , Ann Dvorak and Regis Toomey .
A high octane mini-series .	Robert Wise directed the original ANDROMEDA STRAIN starring Arthur Hill and David Wayne in 1971 . Being slightly outdated , A & E has Mikael Salomon direct this new tense mini-series based on the popular novel by Michael Crighton . A downed satellite carrying a mysterious and highly-deadly infection crashes near Piedmont , Utah . The plague-like entity dubbed " Andromeda " wastes no time in running up a body count . General Mancheck ( Andre Braugher ) and the Army go in search of the satellite . Citizens and soldiers alike almost immediately fall dead . Dr . Jeremy Stone ( Benjamin Bratt ) heads a team of who's who scientists played by Daniel Dae Kim , Viola Davis , Ricky Shroeder and Christa Miller trying to figure out exactly what Andromeda is and how to stop it . Some very disturbing images are needed to show the full impact and the seriousness of the situation . Photography and F / X are very good ; and your attention will easily be captured . Others in the cast : Eric McCormack , Chris Bradford , Nick Dash , Shaine Jones , Douglas O'Keeffe and Ted Whittall as President Scott .
Very good animation fun from Disney .	Fun filled comedy featuring a time-traveling machine . A brilliant young inventor named Lewis meets a boy from the future named Wilbur Robinson . The two travel forward in time while Lewis learns more about the remarkable Robinson family . The clever Lewis has a number of fantastic inventions ; and the most ambitious is a Memory Scanner , which he puts faith in to retrieve early memories of his mother and answers to why she gave him up for adoption . But oh no . . . his invention is stolen by the mean Bowler Hat Guy . Wilbur whisks his new friend the inventor away in his time machine ; they find the villainous Bowler Hat Guy , save the future , and finally uncover the secret of Lewis ' family . Animation and color are exceptional . The characters are " voiced " by : Angela Bassett , Jordan Fry , Daniel Hansen , Wesley Singerman , Stephen J . Anderson and Don Hall .
Friends come in different shapes and sizes .	A wonderful animated movie that deserves all the praise it garners . A simple story that comes across big and triumphant . Prehistoric animals rescue a human baby . Lending their voices to this beautiful project are : Ray Romano , Denis Leary , John Leguizamo , Diedrich Bader , Jack Black and Jan Krakowski . Don't miss the chance to see this family fare .
A very good holiday film with great cast .	Its a joy to watch a movie like this right when you need a break . Bishop Henry Brougham ( David Niven ) is feeling the pressure of building a new cathedral . He prays for guidance and an angel named Dudley ( Cary Grant ) comes to earth to help him , his wife Julia ( Loretta Young ) and his parishioners . Dudley's good deeds brings hope and good will and even puts thoughts of jealousy in the bishop's head . Julia feeling neglected by her busy husband finds joy in spending time with the angelic Dudley . A very good mix of drama , comedy and fantasy . Other players include : Monty Woolley , James Gleason , Regis Toomey and Elsa Lanchester . Worth watching every Christmas season .
Personable and straight forward WWII drama .	Director / writer Robert Pirosh brings a provocative and enlightening war story to the screen . Based on true events , this action drama filters in light comedy and is very interesting from beginning to end . The story line has a unique twist to it . Van Johnson plays the commander of a special unit made up of American-Japanese soldiers defending American freedom in Europe . Their patriotism is admirable ; they are modest heros while their families back home are suffering racism . Johnson has turned in stronger work , but is very natural in this role . Also turning in very good performances are Lane Nakano , Henry Nakamura and Don Haggerty . This is a WWII flick fan's delight .
How many times can she do her man wrong ?	William Wyler directs this first rate costume drama and Ms . Bette Davis picks up her second Academy Award playing an Antebellum Dixie vixen that goes a little too far to make her fiance ( Henry Fonda ) jealous . Fonda returns to New Orleans from New York with a lovely wife ( Margret Lindsay ) only to put Davis in a jealous rage and desperate for revenge . A superb cast that also features Donald Crisp , George Brent and Fay Bainter . Ms . Davis is vibrant in one of her best roles .
Underwater bravery .	Lloyd Bacon directs this World War II drama with Richard Widmark in the lead role as Lt . Commander John Lawrence , who must earn the respect of a group of underwater demolition divers . The strict hard nosed Lawrence is replacing a popular senior officer that was very close to his men . He does manage to tighten up the already tight , but independently brave underwater warriors . Exceptional photography with a well rounded cast to support Widmark . Also featured are veterans and fresh faces like : Gary Merrill , Jeffrey Hunter , Dana Andrews , JackWarden , Robert Wagner , James Gregory and Harvey Lembeck .
Life has its boundaries .	Stark and compelling . The subject is found to be dark and disgusting . Walter ( Kevin Bacon ) is a convicted pedophile who tries to start his life anew and re-enter society after serving 12 years in prison . The quiet and somber Walter does his best to stay anonymous as he finds work and an apartment . One drawback is that temptation is just a glance out the window for Walter lives right across from an elementary school . He becomes close with a co-worker Vickie ( Kyra Sedgwick ) , who plans on not judging Walter . But despite his best attempts , Walter is forced to fight off his temptations when he makes friends with a young girl in the park who has been abused by her father . Walter does beat the crap out of a child stalker lingering near the school . Detective Sgt . Lucas ( Mos Def ) is uncertain about Walter's involvement in the beating . No matter how soft the pedophile treads . . . he can't out run his past .
Suspenseful murder mystery .	Director Paul Haggis also writes the screenplay of a tightly woven cover-up . Mike Deerfield ( Jonathan Tucker ) returns home after his stint in Iraq and immediately turns up missing . Mike was a pretty gung-ho soldier and his disappearance doesn't sit easy with his father Hank ( Tommy Lee Jones ) , a by-the-book ex-Army MP from the Viet Nam era . When the Army seems to be dragging their feet , Hank convinces a pretty police detective Emily Sanders ( Charlize Theron ) to help in investigating what appears to be the young soldiers murder by his own comrades . Mrs . Deerfield ( Susan Sarandon ) has trouble believing the revelation of the profound and tangled cover-up of her son's death . Rounding out the cast : Jason Patric , Jake McLaughlin , James Franco , Josh Brolin and Wes Chatham . Very apt cast and a story line that holds interest . Three Academy Award Winners helps .
The old town is not the same anymore .	Dedicated to the memory of Sheriff Buford Pusser , but this is a far cry from the original WALKING TALL ( 1973 ) starring Joe Don Baker . Retired U . S . Special Forces Sgt . Chris Vaughn ( The Rock ) returns to his small hometown and finds out the old lumber mill has been replaced with a big gambling Casino ran by an old high school rival Jay Hamilton ( Neal McDonough ) . The innocence of his boyhood town has been tainted by a XXX video shop , thugs and drugs . Vaughn finds himself the victim of a brutal beating and sets out to avenge the mistreatment and clean house starting with the Sheriff's office . Vaughn DOES walk tall with a big hunk of lumber and there is plenty of ass-whippings dealt out . Intense violence scoots by with a PG-13 rating . For someone with limited acting ability , The Rock is dynamic and dominating ; possibly his best performance . Other cast members of note : Johnny Knoxville , Ashley Scott , Kristen Wilson and Michael Bowen . This action drama also packs a punch with a heavy soundtrack featuring : Gregg Allman , Dr . John , Red Hot Chili Peppers , Ohio Players , Johnny Cash and Joe Cocker .
Hide and seek begins with our Founding Fathers .	Director Jon Turtelaub and the usually entertaining Nicolas Cage make a good combination and a darn good movie . Cage plays Ben Gates , an archaeologist-historian on a present-day quest for an ancient treasure of the Knights Templar . This treasure has been kept secret for what seems forever by a long line of Freemasons dating back to the Declaration of Independence . According to generations of folklore , there is a clue on the back of the Declaration that will sustain the procession of clues leading to the treasure . Thus the Icon of all historical documents , the Declaration of Independence , must be borrowed / stolen . Now Gates must out race his former employer Ian Howe ( Sean Bean ) to the mythical treasure . Gates has the aid of one of his believers Riley Poole ( Justin Bartha ) and new convert Dr . Abigail Chase ( Diane Kruger ) , who happens to be an employee of the Smithsonian Museum . This contrived tale is infectious as Cage's determination to be a hero among mortal men . This caper is held together with shards of comedy and a healthy helping of adventure . Bean seems flawless as the crafty villain . Rounding out the cast are : Jon Voight , Harvey Keitel , Mark Pellegrino and Christopher Plummer . This poor man's Indiana Jones romp proves harmless fun for all ages .
A man battles himself in the Korean War .	Veteran filmmaker Samuel Fuller writes and directs this war drama about conscience and survival . It is kill or be killed . Richard Basehart plays Corporal Denno , who is intellectual and refined hiding his fear of assuming responsibility as he is part of platoon forming a rear guard against the enemy while the rest of the regiment retreats to regroup . Denno feels he is in a near-perilous situation as he watches three superiors get picked off one by one . Physically Denno is a good soldier ; but mentally he fears taking command and being responsible for the men who serve under him . FIXED BAYONETS ! was filmed and released during the Korean War Kudos to cinematographers , art directors and set designers for making a Fox Studio sound stage look like mountainous and snowy Korea . The cast also includes : Michael O'Shea , Gene Evans , Craig Hill , John Douchette , Henry Kulky and Glenn Corbett .
A fleeting moment of humanity in the trenches .	This is an unbelievable true-life story of a spontaneous truce on Christmas Eve during WWI . The Scottish , French and German troops in the trenches stop their fighting each other to celebrate Christmas together . This holiday cease-fire allows these warriors of war a few fleeting moments to redeem themselves and prove there is some humanity amid battle . The co-mingled troops celebrate the birth of Christ , as well as taking care to bury their dead comrades . Peace and goodwill abruptly fade behind the sounds of rifle fire and bombs . Credit Christian Carion for writing and directing this uplifting must-see film . Visually sweeping . The cast features : Diane Kruger , Benno Furmann , Gullaume Canet , Bernard Le Coq , Daniel Bruhl and Gary Lewis .
Disturbing vacation goes from bad to worse .	Gut-wrenching and not for the faint of heart or weak of stomach . OK , maybe not that horrific ; but you will immediately check for any opened wounds . A group of college friends are on vacation in Mexico and they meet a German traveler who is going to meet up with his girlfriend that is an archaeologist on a " dig " near a Mayhan ruin . He talks the tight-knit group of Americans into tromping through the jungle ; and away they go and stop on finding the grounds of a former Mayan temple . What they discover is that the ruins play host to a diabolical plant life that feeds on human flesh and invades its host by way of cuts , abrasions and opened wounds . Some scenes are definitely disturbing and will make your skin crawl . Special effects are pretty realistic . The cast includes : Jonathan Tucker , Jena Malone , Dimitri Baveras , Laura Ramsey and Shawn Asmore .
Politics and murder make for strange bedmates .	Robby Henson writes and directs this provocative realistic tale of a homophobic sheriff ( Billy Bob Thornton ) investigating the murder of a transsexual in Louisiana's LaSalle Parish . He must battle political interference as well as his own prejudice . Thornton is absolutely the right actor for the role . At this point in his career , Thornton could do Hamlet in a phone booth to ovations . The story meanders a bit , but this noirish crime drama seems to keep the viewer baited for a sufficient and believable finale . A trans-gendered gunshot victim floating in a swamp is definitely something to be curious of . A very diverse cast supports Thornton , notably : Patricia Arquette , William Devane , Sela Ward and Thomas Haden Church . This is a must for Thornton fans .
The sleeping giant awakens . Awesome blockbuster !	Even before this movie's release it was hard to hide from . The trailers only hint at the visual spectacle it is . Expertly directed by Michael Bay and written by Randall Wallace , this truly qualifies for epic status with its nearly three and a half hours running time . Outstanding visual effects ; the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor is ruthless , relentless and totally chaotic . Hans Zimmer's musical score is grand as it is haunting . The story is a reenactment of one of the most tragic days in America's history , but a lot of the facts are very loosely interpreted . Albeit few can walk away from this movie with total disappointment or a dry eye . Two childhood friends ( Ben Affleck and Josh Hartnett ) learn to fly and go off to join the war and end up falling in love with the same Navy nurse ( Kate Beckinsale ) . The three lead characters are out acted by the brilliant performance of John Voight as President Franklin D . Roosevelt . Alec Baldwin succeeds in making Lt . Col . Jimmy Doolittle look smug and arrogant . In smaller roles , but notable work in support comes from Cuba Gooding Jr . , James King , Mako and Tom Sizemore . Kudos to producer Jerry Bruckheimer for a project well done . Romance , drama , and dynamic war action . . . PEARL is interesting and enjoyable ; a must see .
Murder by way of the " personal " ads .	Much surprising and over-looked crime drama . Lucille Ball in Film-Noir . Miss Ball , fresh , leggy and lovely , plays Sandra Carpenter , an American living in London and working as a taxi-dancer . Her friend Lucy ( Taris Chandler ) goes missing after answering a job offer in the " personal " column ; just like several others who've vanished without a trace . After being questioned by Scotland Yard , Sandra is talked into being a decoy undercover cop by Chief Inspector Temple ( Charles Coburn ) . Not knowing that Sandra left her dancing job , she is squired by a mysterious and wealthy Mr . Fleming ( George Sanders ) . Miss Carpenter hopes to lure the killer by answering personals herself . Very nice Black & White photography with a brisk moving story and strong supporting cast that includes : Boris Karloff , Sir Cedric Hardwicke , George Zucco and Alan Napier . Ball is very impressive and strong in this roll ; almost a shame she had to turn to comedy .
Spell binding remake of a horror classic !	Director Terence Fisher and crew at Hammer Films revives life in the MUMMY . Horrific color and a much livelier and threatening wrapped menace is the modern slant on the 1930's original . Boris Karloff was almost mystic in the title role decades ago . Stealing some of his thunder is Christopher Lee . Lee is down right wicked and relentless . And in his own way , just as scary as Karloff . Peter Cushing brings a double whammy to this movie . More shakes and shivers . Also in the cast are Yvonne Furneaux , George Pastell , Raymond Huntley , David Browning and Michael Ripper . What a way to spend a rainy night . Curl up with this and the original . Yikes !
Fantastic family fare .	The people at Disney keep out doing themselves . This a wonderfully computerized animated movie about the life , struggles and triumphs of a dinosaur named Aladar . Some of the scenes may be too intense for younger children , but on a whole this is a very enjoyable and safe movie for the entire family . Lending voices to the animation are D . B . Sweeney , Julianna Margulies , Ossie Davis , Alfrie Woodard , Samuel E . Wright , Matt Adler and Della Reese .
Gripping intelligent thriller .	Director Pete Travis gives us a pulse-pounding , quick-cut action movie . U . S . President Ashton ( William Hurt ) is in Spain to address a global summit on terrorism . Just after stepping to the podium in the crowded town square , he is hit by an assassin's bullet and almost immediately the crowd is rocked by a bomb . In the confusion the leader of the " Free World " is kidnapped . Secret Service agent Thomas Barnes ( Dennis Quaid ) , previously wounded taking a bullet for the president , back on duty quickly takes a look at a tourist's ( Forest Whitaker ) camcorder thinking the shooter can be identified . Sigourney Weaver is a CNN producer , who also has a point of view of the event . The movie you may say unfolds as it " rewinds " the same chaotic minutes from the view of several involved characters . The most exciting sequence happens when Agent Barnes ends up in a thrilling car chase after one of his own , Agent Kent Taylor ( Matthew Fox ) . Quite an amusement park ride of a movie . Others in the cast : Bruce McGill , Ayelet Zurer , Edgar Ramirez , Zoe Saldana and Eduardo Noriega .
A traveler's worst nightmare .	Asking for directions is not always helpful . Jessie ( Eliza Dushku ) and four of her friends are on their way for a weekend of camping , when their vehicle blows a tire . Chris ( Desmond Harrington ) happens to be using the same West Virginia back-road , when he swerves to miss road-kill and smashes into the camper's SUV . The accident leaves the group lost and desperate and soon they become prey of cannibalistic , disfigured , in-bred mountain men . The six stranded people split up in hopes of getting out of the woods alive . The discovery of a dilapidated old house is no safe haven . . . but a waiting room to hell . Gruesome gore and very graphic violence may just turn your stomach and take your breath away . Dushku is impressive that she is not the typical " girlie-girl " , when it comes to crisis and a deadly chase . She doesn't fall down crying and submitting . She proves able to kick some ass . Oh yes . . . she is more than an eyeful . Also in the cast are : Kevin Zegers , Lindy Booth , Jeremy Sisto , Ted Clark and Emmanuelle Chriqui . WRONG TURN is not a wrong move .
A whole new meaning to " weekend warriors " .	In 1973 , a squad of Louisiana National Guard gets lost while on an exercise and decides to borrow some canoes from unsuspecting Cajun trappers . The trappers declare their own bayou brand of war on the soldiers that are mostly armed with blank ammunition . Real rugged cast that includes : Keith Carradine , Powers Boothe , Fred Ward , Peter Coyote , Les Lannon and Alan Autry . Filmed on location in Louisiana and Texas .
A government project gets in the blood .	William Friedkin , of THE EXORCIST fame , directs BUG . . . a creepy psychological thriller that will make your skin crawl . Lonely waitress Agnes ( Ashley Judd ) holds up in a cheap , run-down Oklahoma motel . She looks fine in her " daisy-dukes " and T-shirt : but she lives in fear of her abusive ex-husband Jerry ( Harry Connick Jr . ) , who is recently paroled from prison . Her girlfriend R . C . ( Lynn Collins ) introduces her to a strange eccentric drifter named Peter ( Michael Shannon ) . Agnes begins a romance with this nervous stranger who claims he's a victim of a government experiment that has left him with aphids under his skin and entering his bloodstream . The lonely Agnes is really hopeful about maybe a new life beginning . . . things definitely change when the first bugs arrive . Nudity , language , sexual situations and drug use earns the R rating .
Fearless . Relentless . Public Enemy # 1 .	Director John Milius also takes writing credit for this very colorful look at the most famous bank robber John Dillinger ( Warren Oates ) . This story begins in the middle of his criminal career ending in his death at the Biograph Theater . This is a very romanticized tale complete with Baby Face Nelson ( Richard Dreyfuss ) and Pretty Boy Floyd ( Steve Kanaly ) . Ben Johnson plays FBI agent Melvin Purvis who has an ego to match Dillinger's . Cloris Leachman plays Anna Sage , the infamous Woman in Red . Throw in Michelle Phillips as a girlfriend and Harry Dean Stanton as minion Homer Van Meter and you have the key players in this very colorful and violent movie . Liberty is taken with history for entertainment sake and besides the profanity filled script is not the selling point . . . the manic gun battles get most of the attention . The gun play is bloody and frequent ; some of the roughest ever filmed . For a less colorful , but very interesting version check out DILLINGER ( 1945 ) starring Lawrence Tierney .
Ride tall and forget about leaving a trail .	A rather short , but complete western drama . Great sets , script and photography . A simple and to the point story line . Randolph Scott is an ex-sheriff who plans on taking an outlaw ( James Best ) to Santa Cruz to be hanged . The slow talking Scott rides tall and seems to always be in command . The all-star cast includes : Pernell Roberts , Lee Van Cleef , James Coburn and the handsomely beautiful Karen Steele . Evocative of a classic .
Acclaimed documentary of Elvis in Vegas .	Denis Sanders garnered high honors for directing this somewhat candid view of Elvis Presley at work and play , preparing for his summer 1970 stint in Las Vegas . Elvis at this time was still in his return to splendor . Looking fit and a fine specimen of singing , sex machine . Not yet feeling the passion for the real gaudy , sparkling costumes . Relaxed , but nervous ; Presley plays and clowns for the camera . A lot of hard work and rehearsing culminates into a high energy performance on stage . Captured on film is just a portion of what made Elvis one of the world's most admired and beloved entertainers .
Just how important is it to take a stand ?	Alan Parker directs this moody crime drama featuring Kevin Spacey as David Gale , a brilliant opinionated crusader taking his stand against the death penalty . His hard drinking almost equals his commitment . Gale finds himself on death row accused of raping and murdering a close friend and anti-death colleague Constance Harraway ( Laura Linney ) . Gale bitterly argues that he has been set up to shine discredit on his cause . Journalist Bitsey Bloom ( Kate Winslet ) is allowed private and exclusive interviews hoping to figure out Gale's whole passionate and sympathetic story . If you are not in the right mood this film gets old in a hurry . Rounding out the cast are : Rhona Mitra , Gabriel Mann , Matt Craven and Elizabeth Gast . Spacey is short of excellent .
Istanbul is a rough town . Bond stays on the move .	This is the second James Bond film and starts setting the template for the future 007 flicks that follow . Bond ( Sean Connery ) is assigned to pilfer a secret encryption machine and weaves in and out of a trap set by the evil organization SPECTRE . He also encounters a ruthless assassin ( Robert Shaw ) ; a soviet spy turned defector ( Daniela Bianchi ) ; meyhem on the Orient Express and later a kick / chair fight with a sinister villainess ( Lotte Lenya ) . Plenty of gadgets , great scenery , suspense and action to go around . This is only a glimpse of things to come . Also in the cast are : Pedro Armendariz , Walter Gotell and Eunice Gayson .
A British sleuth goes undercover for maybe the last time .	This is a real good spy yarn . Well written and well acted . The versatile Robert Donat is Captain Terrence Stevenson a . k . a . Jan Tartu , a British spy well versed in Russian and Rumanian that is assigned to aid Czech partisans in destroying a poison gas factory operated by Nazis . Donat is excellent as the calm and cool spy . Notable work also turned in by Glynis Johns , Friedrich Richter , Walter Rilla and Valerie Hobson . The version I watched was SABOTAGE AGENT ; this movie was also released as ADVENTURES OF TARTU . Very interesting atmospheric black and white . Catch this on Turner Movie Classics .
A story of true love that survives the sands of time .	This is a wonderful , romantic drama . A navy pilot played by Van Johnson crashes in the Pacific not far from a make believe island named High Barbaree . June Allyson plays the childhood sweetheart . While the downed flier drifts in his crashed plane , he recounts his life story to his injured buddy . The cast is fleshed out by Thomas Mitchell , Marilyn Maxwell and Cameron Mitchell . A tale of true romance and love never ending . Just super !
Hide and Seek takes on a twisted concept .	This is not your average childhood game . Pure knuckle cracker and mind bender . David Callaway ( Robert De Niro ) is an established psychologist who awakens in the wee hours of the morning and finds his wife dead in a bathtub full of blood . At the door watching this discovery is daughter Emily ( Dakota Fanning ) . In order to cope with Emily's trauma , David moves to a reclusive wooded community where Emily creates an imaginary friend named Charlie . Some real strange and horrific events begin happening throwing doubt on Charlie being imaginary . Great nail biting twist ending . ( The DVD includes four alternate endings . ) The cast is filled out with Amy Irving playing David's wife Alison , Famke Janssen as co-worker Katherine ; and a new friend Elisabeth Shue . De Niro is in top form and Miss Fanning is superb . HIDE AND SEEK is good enough to tell your friends about and watch again .
Queer private eye and a straight guy .	Flippant , smug and a times pretty hilarious . If you like satire and slapstick comedy with your reckless gun play . . . KISS KISS BANG BANG is the film for you . A convoluted murder mystery that holds interest . Harry Lockhart ( Robert Downey Jr . ) is a bad actor / petty thief that thinks he's going to be in a movie playing a private eye . He gets some lessons from ' Gay Perry ' ( Val Kilmer ) , the tough acting gay private dick . In a chance meeting , Harry reunites with his childhood sweetheart and struggling actress Harmony Faith ( Michelle Monaghan ) . The three get involved with a bizarre murder investigation ; all the while dodging bullets and death threats . My favorite scenes involve Harry : one where he looks up a dead girls dress ; and when a dog eats his already dismembered finger . Unpredictably funny Downey also serves as the movie's narrator . Also sharing screen time : Shannyn Sossamon , Corbin Bersen , Larry Miller and Angela Lindvall .
Gangster classic !	James Cagney made his first big mark in Hollywood with his memorable portrayal of a small-time hood who becomes a powerful Prohibition gangster . The bigger they come , the harder they fall . This is the movie where Cagney puts a grapefruit in the face of Mae Clarke . Edward Woods originally had the lead role until director William A . Wellman made the switch . Evocative of the great black and white gangster movies of days gone by . Two beautiful women , Jean Harlow and Joan Blondell , help illuminate the screen . Also in the cast are : Donald Cook , Beryl Mercer and Leslie Fenton . For a fun Cagney double feature follow with EACH DAWN I DIE ( 1939 ) .
Not krypton , but a speeding bullet takes out Superman !	Allen Coulter directs this story based on one of the most intriguing unsolved murders in Los Angeles . This is a time , the 1950's , when Hollywood is beautiful , scandalous , corrupt and ran by the major movie studios . Star of TV's Adventures of Superman , George Reeves ( Ben Affleck ) , is found dead in his Hollywood home . The LAPD , influenced by the studio bosses , want the case closed as a suicide . Rumors overwhelmingly say otherwise and the struggling private investigator Louis Simo ( Adrien Brody ) is more than eager to gather enough buried information to piece together the last days of Reeve's despondent life . Did Superman really shoot himself in the head or his spurned lover Toni Mannix ( Diane Lane ) or even her husband ( Bob Hoskins ) , a power player in tinsel town ? Affleck is . . . well , superb . Lane makes class sexy . Brody is pathetic and not very entertaining to watch . Others in the cast : Joe Spano , Dash Mihok and the very alluring Robin Tunney .
A handful of American soldiers against uneven odds .	BATAAN is one of my very favorite war movies and is based on an actual endeavor in the Phillipines . Sgt . Bill Dane ( Robert Taylor ) leads a small platoon of thirteen devoted men in the mission of blowing up a pivotal bridge , the Japanese need to prolong their war efforts . The Japanese do not take their bridge being blown up lightly . Realistic WW2 combat scenes as a few brave men fight for survival in the South Pacific . Great ensemble cast featuring : George Murphy , Lloyd Nolan , Thomas Mitchell , Robert Walker , Desi Arnaz , Barry Nelson , Phillip Terry and Tom Dugan . One of my favorite scenes is when the enemy invades as a group of ' walking shrubs ' . Plus the energy of Arnaz as he finds Tommy Dorsey on the radio . The finale is memorable as Taylor is berserk with desire to defend himself surrounded by the enemy . Thanks to AMC and TCM for showing this classic as much as they do .
Futuristic fantasy of robot love .	A very likable animated film ; the brainchild of writer / director Andrew Stanton . The star of this cosmic comedy is Wall-E ( voiced by Ben Burtt ) , who is a clean-up robot that has been working for hundreds of years picking up and compacting trash left over after the human race has destroyed earth . Somehow the determined and dutiful Wall-E is left alone on this futuristic world . Monotony in his routine is broken when a sleek search robot named Eve ( voiced by Elissa Knight ) has Wall-E falling in love and joining her on a brisk journey across the universe . Fantastic animation sustained by a strong score of original music from Thomas Newman . The cast also includes the voices of familiar stars like : John Ratzenberger , Sigourney Weaver , Kathy Najimy and Jeff Garlin . WALL-E is fun for all ages .
Hillbilly hi-jinks . Bluegrass music . Laugh out loud funny !	The Coen Brothers have done it again . Three depression era convicts ( George Clooney , John Turturro and Tim Blake Nelson ) escape a Mississippi chain gang and head off in search of buried treasure that will fund their new lives . Along the way , they sing on the radio and become much sought after stars as well as escapees . Great laughs and a soundtrack that is a lesson / introduction to bluegrass music . Clooney is outstanding as the fast talking , quick witted Ulysses Everett McGill . Holly Hunter plays his estranged wife . Turturro and Nelson are flawless stumblebums . Also in the cast are John Goodman and Charles Durning . Dan Tyminksi provides the singing voice for George Clooney on " I Am A Man of Constant Sorrow " , the Soggy Bottom Boys song that serves as a template for the bluegrass laden soundtrack that also features Alison Krauss , Ralph Stanley , The Whites , John Hartford , The Cox Family and Gillian Welch . Toe tapping , knee slapping fun for the whole family . You'll be surprised with how relaxed and funny this movie is .
One of Elvis ' first loves .	My rating is not based on quality ; it is based on being an Elvis fan and the interesting story and rarely seen 8mm film footage and still photos . In July 1956 , Elvis is taking giant steps in becoming the King of Rock ' n ' Roll . The world is about to become his oyster . Elvis plays a show in Biloxi , Mississippi and meets a pretty young girl named June Jaunico . The previous year she was Miss Biloxi . Shortly after Elvis tells the press he is going to Florida for some peace and relaxation . In actuality , he returns to Biloxi to spend time with June and enjoy fishing trips arranged by June's mother's boyfriend Eddie Bellman . Eddie filmed Elvis with a new 8mm camera never knowing the interest it would bring in the future . Elvis and June would grow to be very close , with Elvis racing down two-lane highway 49 making it to Biloxi from Memphis in just three hours . Once even getting a speeding ticket in Hattiesburg . June was patient reading of Elvis ' infatuation with Debra Paget , who played his wife in his movie debut LOVE ME TENDER . There was also the item of actress Natalie Wood willing to date Elvis and a brief stay at Graceland . By Christmas time 1957 , June knew that her and Elvis ' world were not the same ; so their whirlwind romance would end and become a lifelong memory . I can't imagine any Elvis fan not being impressed with this little documentary . Even curious minds should find it enjoyable .
Is it all that hard to keep your head ?	From United Artists , a very interesting black & white horror flick . Somewhat predictable , but atmospheric and haunting . . . you really want to take the invitation to be chilled . Jonathan Drake ( Eduard Franz ) , a professor specializing in the occult and the eldest male descendant of the cursed Drake family , arrives for his last living brother's funeral and it is discovered he has been decapitated right before the services . This continues the curse , and its a doozy that has lasted 200 years ; the curse is the work of angry head-shrinker Dr . Emil Zurich ( Henry Daniell ) , who survived a South American jungle massacre led by one of Jonathan's ancestors . Kudos to director Edward L . Cahn for making writer Oville H . Hampton's story put a little chill down our spine and satisfy that thing inside us that draws us to horror films . Sometimes you just can't turn away . And especially those oldies in beautiful black & white . The rest of the cast features other B-film stars you'll recognize ; Paul Cavanagh , Grant Richards , Valerie French and Howard Wendell .
Mutant ants go on the attack .	This movie builds your anxiety to a minor frenzy . I think the old black and white did not hinder this sci-fi drama that still holds up well today . The creepy sound of the desert wind really sets the mood . The other effects seemed pretty darn good to be in a mid 50s movie . Of course the giant mutant ants don't look as scary as they did when I was a kid ; but they still provide something to cause a squirm or two . Mutant ants crawl up from their burrows in the desert of New Mexico . Another product of nuclear testing . They are hungry and are attacking humans as they search out food . Sounds like a movie that would be full of stupid dialog and over acting . Guess again . Understandable , but predictable script with some decent acting . Great example of early sci-fi and can be enjoyed by young and old alike . The cast includes James Whitmore , Edmund Gwenn , James Arness , Joan Weldon and a smaller part for Fess Parker .
Cyberspace killings monitored by the FBI .	Creepy and tension-filled to the hilt . Special Agent Jennifer Marsh ( Diane Lane ) works for an elite division of the FBI . This group is dedicated to fighting cybercrime . A tech-savvy internet predator is posting live feeds on his website killwithme . com and the more hits his site gets , the faster the victim dies a grisly death . Things really get personal when Jennifer's partner Griffin Dowd ( Colin Hanks ) falls victim to this elusive killer . Agent Marsh is told to take some time off ; that won't happen . Marsh herself is abducted and set for certain death for all to witness on the website . Billy Burke will lead the FBI in the race against the clock to track down the sadistic technical mastermind ( Joseph Cross ) that has for so long been virtually untraceable . I really liked the atmospheric setting of rainy Portland , Oregon . Beware of scenes of graphic torture .
There went the neighborhood .	Kid you not , this sucker gets a bit grisly . Bob and Wendi ( Jack Huston and Pell James ) move to their new home in what they thought would be like paradise , but low and behold this suburban neighborhood is more like a dead zone . What neighbors left seem pretty strange , but none stranger than the former mayor's son Adrien ( Nick Searcy ) . He delivers a bouquet of poison oak that makes a mess of Wendi . Then the psychopathic Adrien delivers poisoned candy that leaves both Bob and Wendi with debilitating diarrhea . Now things progress to weirdness . Adrien performs an amateur surgery on Wendi then operates on himself . As if playing with his own guts is not enough ; the neighborhood nut job pulls off the strangest masturbation scene you'll ever see . He fingers a busted stitched hole in his belly as he repeatedly stabs his testicles with a hypodermic needle . I don't feel I've spoiled this one that much since seeing it for yourself is more entertaining than hearing about it . Also in the cast : Anina Lincoln , Meredith Morton and John Ennis .
Music is a harsh mistress .	The legendary director Michael Curtiz presents a glimpse into the world of jazz and a story loosely based on the life of immortal jazz trumpeter Bix Beiderbecke . Kirk Douglas is a guilt-ridden trumpeter that has trouble hitting that elusive " high note " . Doris Day , Lauren Bacall and Jerome Cowan also star ; but the movie belongs to Douglas . Wonderful music like : " I Only Have Eyes For You " , " Limehouse Blues " and " The Very Thought of You " . It is odd watching Douglas handle the trumpet . Its only a movie ; but well worth watching again and again .
Treasury Agents expose counterfeiters .	Anthony Mann directs this docudrama based on true events . Dennis O'Keefe stars as treasury agent Dennis O'Brien helping bring a counterfeiting ring to justice . Agent O'Brien teams with Tony Genaro ( Alfred Ryder ) going undercover to be accepted by a Detroit crime mob in order to crack down on counterfeiters in Los Angeles . A two-bit character named The Schemer ( Wallace Ford ) is used by both the undercover T-Men and crooks before his demise in a steam bath . Charles McGraw is flawless as the moody thug Moxie . This is a fine example of film noir and I would imagine educational as well as entertaining in the mid 40's . This crime drama also stars : June Lockhart , Janie Randolph , Jim Bannon , Art Smith and is narrated by Reed Hadley .
A sweeping tale of honor , devotion and conscience .	Ridley Scott directs this epic sage set during the Crusades of the 12th century . Balian ( Orlando Bloom ) is a French blacksmith , who is grieving the loss of his wife and young child . Balian is approached by his estranged father Godfrey ( Liam Neeson ) , who is a Baron of the king of Jerusalem . After murdering the priest ( Michael Sheen ) responsible for the beheading of his wife , Balian joins his father and thus is thrust into a decades-long war . Balian will serve and obey a doomed king , rise from common man to knighthood and fall in love with the king's sister , the lovely Sibylla ( Eva Green ) . In time , Balian must protect the people of Jerusalem from overwhelming fighting forces while striving to maintain a fragile peace . KINGDOM OF HEAVEN features graphic , brutal scenes of battle . The running time of 2 hrs 25 minutes does not take anything away from enjoying this film . Awesome scenery and the untapped energy between Bloom and Green cause interest . Other cast members : Brendan Gleeson , Jeremy Irons , Edward Norton , Ghassan Massoud and Nasser Memarzia .
There is only ONE Elvis !	Often imitated , but never duplicated . . . the most impersonated person in the world . . . Elvis Presley . His legacy lives on through his records and his movies . . . and even digging through the myth is no easy chore . But no doubt his legion of fans come in every shape and color ; as does that breed of fan who's devotion is tangible through impersonation . There is no comparison of generations that won't let Elvis die . Impersonators give some those fleeting moments of the image of Elvis . This documentary follows a few of these pretenders in their quest of winning a competition in Memphis . These people spend an almost unbelievable amount of time , money and effort to be . . . almost Elvis . This documentary is at times very comical ; for it is proof that there are mothers out there that have told their sons that they sing like Elvis and almost look like Elvis . I am a died-in-the-wool Elvis fan and hate to admit I have never revered impersonators ; but some of these guys are good . . . but most are down right an embarrassment . I at first did not want to watch this , but am glad that I chose to . Some fans will be amused and the others just plain pi^^d off . ALMOST ELVIS is a very good insight and worth viewing . A few of the impersonators featured are : Irv Cass , Quentin Flagg , Robert Washington , Doug Church and Steve Sogura . These guys have followings and most deservedly .
Friends to the end . . . not this time .	If not for Lou Diamond Phillips this would be a mediocre made for TV western . Phillips plays Bobby Hattaway , a decorated soldier on his way home to the family business and his long time sweetheart . Bobby finds that his childhood friend Stu Croker ( Vincent Spano ) has pretty well taken control of every business in town and holds mortgage on Bobby's dad's homestead and mercantile . Plus he has wed Bobby's sweetheart Connie ( Cynthia Preston ) and treats her like trash . There is hell to pay when the elder Hattaway ( Stacy Keach ) is murdered . Bobby's army buddy ( Tom Schanley ) arrives in time to help take the town back from Croker . Also in the cast : Angela Alvarado , Terry Maratos and Mike Starr .
Only The Dead Have Been The End Of War .	Ridley Scott directs this excellent war drama . America Elite soldiers , Delta Force , Army Rangers and the 160th SOAR are sent into Mogadishu to remove the warlord Aidid and his lieutenants hopefully to restore some order in Somalia . A Black Hawk is shot down in the middle of the combat zone , and now it is a rescue and extraction mission full of confused misdirection . The viewer is up close and personal and F / X are superior . This movie is hardly emotion free and is not easy to forget . John Hartnett leads a notable cast that includes : Tom Sizemore , Sam Shepard , Ewan McGregor , Eric Bana and Jason Isaacs . I especially got a kick out of Elvis ' " Suspicious Minds " as the mission took flight . There is not a lack of action or drama . BLACK HAWK DOWN will reinforce pride in those that put their lives on the line for freedom .
Why can't a guy do a little bit wrong ?	This seems to be a little noticed military dramatic comedy that deserves being looked at . Joaquin Phoenix is at his best as Ray Elwood a supply unit clerk in West Germany . Due to lack of combat and lax rules and regs Elwood finds himself the mastermind of a very profitable bootlegging operation . Col . Berman ( Ed Harris ) has no idea that his clerk is stealing everything not nailed down and padding invoices to help his little business prosper . When Berman falls out of good graces his command is handed over to tight ass by-the-book Sgt . Lee ( Scott Glenn ) who is suspect of Elwood's black market dealings . Lee orders Elwood to clean up his act and in return the clerk decides to piss off Lee by dating his beautiful daughter ( Anna Paquin ) . This is Phoenix's second best role behind GLADIATOR . Harris is funny as the man without-a-clue . Also in the cast are : Elizabeth McGovern , Leon Robinson , Dean Stockwell and Gabriel Mann .
Prisoners of the Sun . Post traumatic .	This 1990 Aurstralian feature is based on the real-life tribunal in 1945 held to investigate atrocities committed during WWII . At an interment camp , the Japanese tortured and slaughtered 1100 Australian soldiers . Three hundred survived , nearly most scarred , suicidal and suffering post traumatic disorder . This horrific event went relatively unknown until a mass grave of decapitated corpses was found . Captain Cooper ( Bryan Brown ) is chosen to prosecute Vice-Admiral Baron Takahashi ( George Takei ) commander of the Japanese on the island of Ambon . Who ordered who to do what ? Dark story with graphic images . The strong cast includes : Terry O'Quinn , Toshi Shioya , Deborah Unger , Jason Donovan , Kazuhiro Muroyama and a young Russell Crowe .
A computer world Alice in Wonderland . Sci-fi greatness !	A computer cowboy rides into a new realm of reality . Not to learn right from wrong ; reality from the surreal . What is it like going too far into the looking glass ? This movie sets new standards for science fiction and making movies period . Don't worry about trying to understand what you see . Just buckle up and endure . The special effects and sound are beyond compare . Keanu Reeves is really good . Laurence Fishburne , Carrie-Anne Moss and Joe Pantoliano are equally important to watch . A bucket of popcorn , a Payday and two Pepsi Colas . . . . and nerves of steel . What a flick ! ! !
Baseball melodrama .	There's no crying in baseball . That's not exactly etched in stone in Cooperstown . John Hancock directs this tear-jerker based on a novel by Mark Harris . Pro pitcher Henry Wiggen ( Michael Moriarty ) and catcher Bruce Pearson ( Robert De Niro ) are as different as night and day . No real chemistry between the two . To be exact , Pearson is a little slow in the brains department and is not much appreciated by any of his fellow teammates . But when Henry finds out that Bruce is suffering from the beginnings of Hodgkin's disease , the red-hot pitcher becomes more helpful and concerned enough to look after Bruce , not knowing how much time is left . As expected once the information is leaked , the whole team ends up knowing of Pearson's plight . I really wish there was more action on the field , but this is written as a drama focusing on a ballplayer . A young De Niro draws all the sympathy possible . Character actor Danny Aiello makes his movie debut as Horse . Tom Ligon plays the flamboyant Piney Woods ; and Tom Signorelli plays Goose . Vincent Gardenia as Dutch Schnell is irritating as hell . Also in the cast : Phil Foster , Barbara Babcock , Ann Wedgeworth , Maurice Rosenfield and the chatty Selma Diamond . Nothing wrong with that occasional tear on your sleeve .
Don't venture the moors alone .	Hammer House . Peter Cushing . Christopher Lee . Not exactly strong horror , but enough suspense and atmosphere to satisfy that urge to be frightened . One of the better treatments of A . Conan Doyle's gripping novel . Sherlock Holmes ( Cushing ) and Dr . Watson ( Andre Morell ) are called upon to help protect Sir Henry Baskerville ( Lee ) from a curse that comes with the family estate . Holmes investigates the legend of a hound from hell that roams the moors at night and favors the blood of a Baskerville . Dark , deliberate and gloomy with spooky cinematography . Kudos to director Terence Fisher . Eerie soundtrack from James Bernard . Also among the players : Marla Landi , Miles Maileson , John Le Mesurier and Ewen Solon .
A world of change .	As a lecture . . . evocative , resourceful and alarming . AN INCONVENIENT TRUTH as a movie may be less interesting . Based on his book , former Vice President Al Gore raises the thoughts of the challenge for the future of our planet to change attitudes , climate and man-made pollutants in order for survival . Eye-opening and compelling dialog by Gore brings the wake-up call that global warming is a clear and present danger . Gore has developed this documentary over many years , as a way of educating civilization of the destiny of the world if global warming is not taken seriously . Political change can not be expected to be the solution . . . each and every life is to be part of the solution .
Still great after all these years . A classic full of suspense !	Director Billy Wilder probably at his best . Shot in black , white and shades of gray ; the screen sparkles with the brilliance of the script and very good acting . William Holden plays a once successful script writer down on his luck . He finds himself at the mansion of an aging silent movie star played by Gloria Swanson . She was kind of spooky and a whole lot crazy . Her butler and former husband is played by Erich von Stroheim . A true classic worth watching again .
Marry who ? Hope and Crosby stow away to Rio .	Fifth of the Hope and Crosby ' road shows ' . Not wacky , just straight comedy as Hot Lips Barton ( Hope ) and Scat Sweeney ( Crosby ) flee from Oklahoma and Texas avoiding matrimony . After burning down a tent show , the boys stow away on a ocean liner headed to Rio . Aboard ship , the song and dance duo fall for the luscious Lucia ( Dorothy Lamour ) , who runs hot and cold , because she is being hypnotized by her evil aunt ( Gale Sondergard ) trying to force her into an arranged marriage . Songs written by the team of Johnny Burke-Jimmy Van Heusen are entertaining ; the best being " But Beautiful " by Crosby and " Experience " by Miss Lamour along with Hope's bubble blowing trumpet . The cast also features : Frank Faylen , George Meeker and the Andrews Sisters .
A portrait of # 43 . . . George W . Bush .	Oscar winner Oliver Stone directs an all-star cast in a retrospective of some trials and tribulations in the life and career of George W . Bush . Whether you like Mr . Bush or not this satiric glimpse of a man who became President is fascinating . We see Bush ( Josh Brolin ) , from his troubles in college , Texas oilfields , governorship of Texas all the way to the same Oval Office his father George H . W . Bush ( James Cromwell ) occupied . There is also his struggles and triumphs in finding wife Laura ( Elizabeth Banks ) , his faith , bouts with the bottle and the critical days as the nation's leader dealing with invading Iraq . Brolin is uncanny picking up Bush's mannerisms , speech and posturing . Richard Dreyfuss is strong as Dick Cheney and Thandie Newton is an apt Condoleezza Rice . Also in the cast : Ellen Burstyn , Scott Glenn , Toby Jones , Jeffrey Wright , Noah Wyle , Colin Hanks and Jason Ritter . I am still wondering why Stone didn't chew Bush up and spit him out . So much for the director's bulldog image . If you're expecting a Bush bash . . . this really isn't it .
When a phone rings . . .	Director Joel Schumacher preserves his reputation with a script by Larry Cohen about personal morals and hopefully the truth providing some kind of redemption . This is a white knuckle nerve wrecker about a self-serving publicist ( Colin Farrell ) making the mistake of his life by answering a public telephone . On the other end of the phone is a self empowered mad man ( Kiefer Sutherland ) inflicting demands on the fast talking , fast thinking publicity dealer who just happened to be walking by the phone booth he passes every day . The mystery voice on the phone demands the publicist to stay in the phone booth until he tells his wife ( Radha Mitchell ) and the TV watching public of his cheating , lying and making use of others . Of course behind the demanding voice is a sharpshooter that is not afraid to pull the trigger . The senior officer on the scene ( Forest Whitaker ) tries to make sense of the situation while fighting back thoughts of his own past personal problems . At least 90 % of this thriller is made up of witty , threatening and revealing banter between Farrell and Sutherland . And talk about a clever twist to end this flick . Also of note in the cast are : Katie Holmes , Richard T . Jones and Paula Jai Parker . Think twice about answering that ringing phone .
Very interesting war reenactment .	Guy Hamilton directs this M-G-M well photographed battle of Britain . It is inevitable that Hitler's Luftwaffe under Goering's blueprint will attempt destroying British air power . The RAF recovers from attacks in southern England and Air Chief Marshall Hugh Dowling ( Laurence Olivier ) nears desperation in maintaining rosters of experienced pilots and the German air attacks puts strain on the RAF . When a German plane accidentally bombs London , the British shows their might by shelling Berlin . Major cities in England are targeted for destruction , but with the aid of Polish and Czech pilots the Royal Air Force has regrouped and puts up strong enough resistance that the order to invade England is canceled . Technicolor adds to the late 60s F / X and makes for a interesting enough movie to overlook roller-coaster tempo . Outstanding cast almost makes you forget you've been watching for over 2 hours . The great Olivier shares the screen with Michael Cain , Curt Jurgens , Trevor Howard , Christopher Plummer , Robert Shaw , Michael Redgrave , Ralph Richardson and the lovely Susannah York .
A good tip is not always good advice .	Entertaining romantic comedy . Ryan Turner ( Charlie Sheen ) is a suave stockbroker that loses his job for accusations of insider trading . His lovely girlfriend Cindy ( Denise Richards ) leaves him for free flowing money . She also walks out on her job as an advice columnist for a small , near-broke newspaper ran by the alluring Angie Harmon . In desperation Ryan secretly takes over Cindy's column . By the time Cindy returns hopefully to make up with Ryan ; he has already fallen in love with her former boss . The supporting cast includes : Jon Lovitz , Barry Newman , Estelle Harris and Rosanna Arquette . Sheen is quite charming ; Richards and Harmon are very easy on the eyes . Arquette to me was irritating . My advice is to invest some time watching this funny romantic comedy . NOTE : this movie led to the marriage of Sheen and Richards .
Happy fantasy based on a Legend .	Jay Russell directs this fantasy a whole family can enjoy . Very good special effects and interesting story line . A young boy named Angus ( Alex Etel ) living in 1940s Scotland has been told his sailor father has been lost at sea . In spite of his own fear of the sea , Angus loves to spend his time on the shore of the lake . One day he discovers a mysterious egg and takes good care of it until it hatches into a ' water horse ' . He names the little creature Crusoe , who seems to grow larger everyday until he becomes so large he has to be put in the lake ; thus becoming the legendary Lock Ness Monster . When German U-boats start to enter the lake , Crusoe's life is put in danger . . . even if he has grown to monumental size . Exciting , heartwarming story and really a joy to watch . Also in the cast : Emily Watson , David Morrissey , Ben Chaplin , Brian Cox and Priyanka Xi .
Unsolved mysteries challenge Holmes .	Roy William Neil directs this intriguing tale of the famed detective Sherlock Holmes ( Basil Rathbone ) and his partner Dr . Watson ( Nigel Bruce ) during WWII . Dead bodies grow in number as mysteries challenge the detecting duo in a mansion where they are staying . Underground tunnels , secret passages and baffling clues gives Arthur Conan Doyle's detective a workout . Scotland Yard Inspector Lestrade ( Dennis Hoey ) bungles things as much as Dr . Watson . I really like the dark gray to black shades and camera angles used in this very atmospheric drama . Rathbone is such a master at what he does ; he makes any movie worth watching . Also in the cast : Hillary Brooke , Arthur Margetson , Gavin Muir , Minna Phillips and Milburn Stone .
Why should you split the bounty ? Can you get the money and the girl ?	Anthony Mann directs one of the best filmed westerns ever . A bounty hunter ( James Stewart ) is on the trail of a murderer ( Robert Ryan ) who is headed toward California with a lovely younger woman ( Janet Leigh ) . Along the way Stewart picks up the aid of an old prospector ( Millard Mitchell ) and a former soldier ( Ralph Meeker ) . The prey is captured and bound and his cockiness causes the trio of bounty seekers to start turning on each other . A lot can happen on the way back to Kansas . Filmed in the Rocky Mountains , NAKED SPUR is one of the best cinematic westerns of its time . Stewart is pretty much Stewart , but I am more impressed with Ryans ' attitude that almost steals the show . Very good story line , great scenery and expected thrills filmed in beautiful Technicolor .
Sometimes people are not what they seem .	One of my favorites from the master , Alfred Hitchcock . The sleepy little town of Santa Rosa is charmed by a dashing personality . A young woman ( Teresa Wright ) is looking forward to a visit from her favorite uncle . Uncle Charlie ( Joseph Cotten ) impresses everyone in town he comes in contact with . But his niece is trying to put some pieces together about blank spots in her Uncle's stories of his past . Some amateur detective work convinces the niece that her once favorite relative is a serial killer , preying on rich widow women . Cotten and Wright put in stellar performances . Other outstanding cast members are Hume Cronyn and Henry Travers .
A strange oceanographer hunts down a killer fish .	Different and refreshing . Wes Anderson writes and directs and Bill Murray is at his best . Murray plays Steve Zissou , an internationally known oceanographer and eccentric . . . to say the least . Zissou gathers a crew to track down the mysterious " jaguar shark " that ate his long time partner while filming a documentary . On this expedition , to be filmed as a sequel , are Zissou's estranged wife ( Anjelica Huston ) , an inquisitive journalist ( Cate Blanchett ) and a young man ( Owen Wilson ) , who could or could not be Zissou's long lost son . Co-starring are Willem Dafoe and Jeff Goldblum . The movie is shot as a visual journal and the use of coloring of the aquatic creatures is outstanding . The music used is eclectic itself featuring the talents of Ennio Morricone , David Bowie , Scott Walker , Robert Mothersbaugh , Rod Argent and Iggy Pop . The well written script using an overly serious approach is where the humor shines .
Merry old England has a mummy amuck .	This time out I am less critical , because this runs circles around the first entry in ' 99 . Brendan Fraser is much easier to take as the ultimate reluctant hero . Of course he is very " whipped " and who wouldn't be partnered with Rachel Weisz ? She impresses me more than ever . What a stunning looker and a very athletic actress . The couple's son played by Freddie Boath can at times be a pain in the butt . The story line plays a back row seat to the special effects and almost non-stop action . Rick and ' Evie ' O'Connell not only have to control the awakened mummy of High Priest Imhotep ( Arnold Vosloo ) ; they also have to fend off the likes of ' sand soldiers ' , pygmies , scorpions and the Scorpion King himself played by professional wrestler Dwayne ( The Rock ) Johnson . Also appearing in this fun time summer thriller are Oded Fehr , John Hannah and Shaun Parkes . Worthwhile fantasy flick . Can you dig it ?
Cop classic . " Popeye " Doyle becomes legendary .	This crime drama became a cult classic quickly . Director William Friedkin presents New York City's underbelly with brilliance . " Popeye " Doyle ( Gene Hackman ) is a colorful NYC Narcotics cop to say the least . He is bold , brash , vulgar and seems to fear nothing . When he plays a hunch it is not always right , but eventful . The tough-talking cop and his partner , and probably only real friend , Buddy Russo ( Roy Scheider ) are on to an international smuggling ring that actually begins in France . Doyle is like a bulldog on a bone , relentless in his pursuit of each and every suspect . One of my favorite scenes is when Doyle is tossing out a lousy cup of coffee as he watches a suspect in a fine restaurant drinking high class coffee . The pursuits on foot and even better the car chases make THE FRENCH CONNECTION a memorable flick . Also starring are : Fernando Rey , Tony Lo Bianco , Harold Gray , Arlene Farber and Frederic de Pasquale .
Riveting and powerful drama . Four brothers ARE one !	John Singleton directs this hard edged urban drama about four adopted brothers searching for who killed their mother ( Fionnula Flanagan ) . The Mercer boys , two white and two black , Bobby ( Mark Wahlberg ) , street-tough Angel ( Tyrese Gibson ) , the business man Jeremiah ( Andre Benjamin ) and the struggling musician Jack ( Garrett Hedlund ) ; after their mother's funeral decide to band together , as they did when orphans , and ferret out the mastermind that killed their mother . Police Lt . Green ( Terrence Howard ) advises against taking matters in their own hands . Crime lord Victor Sweet ( Chiwetel Ejiofor ) and a dirty cop ( Josh Charles ) figure heavily in the atrocious and needless crime . Rounding out the cast : Sofia Vergara , Taraji P . Henson and Barry Shabaka Henley . Violence is strong , language is rough , bullets fly recklessly and there is a good time to be had by all .
He wants so much to belong .	Sy Parrish ( Robin Williams ) is pathetic , sympathetic , apathetic , obsessive and just lonely enough to be dangerous . Sy is a middle-aged manager of a photo-printing department that prides himself in perfection and service . Sy hides away a secret fantasy . He has developed pictures for the Yorkin family for so many years , he sees himself as part of that family he has admired as the All-American family for so many years . He looks forward to processing prints of those memorable moments of the family and always keeps a print for himself to enjoy either on the floor at work or in his lonely apartment . When Sy loses his job he also realizes his fantasy world is in danger . Beware of Sy . . . he does not handle reality well . Mark Romanek writes and directs . Also in the cast are : Connie Nielson , Michael Vartan , Dylan Smith and Paul H . Kim .
Mayhem . Snakes on an airliner .	After witnessing a brutal crime , a young man is escorted to safety from Los Angeles to Hawaii by FBI agent Flynn ( Samuel L . Jackson ) . A notorious crime figure wants the witness dead and has a crate load of poisonous snakes to be time released on the flight over the Pacific Ocean . Hundreds of deadly snakes attack all in their way and it is chaos in flight . Agent Flynn is aided by his witness ( Nathan Phillips ) and an attractive stewardess ( Julianna Marguliles ) . Although painful to watch , it is almost comical the various body parts the snakes sink their fangs into . Not exactly scary , but there is some suspense with the tense action in this thriller . Some of the snake scenes are CGI , but cleverly utilized . Others of note in the cast : Tiffany Englehard , Rachel Blanchard , Flex Alexander and Kenan Thompson . Maybe not the best film of the season , but deserving of the hype and word of mouth .
Top notch , scary slasher thriller ! !	Wes Craven has the talent to scare your pants off and proves it with this well done blood letting . The script is refreshing and the story moves along at a pace that keeps you jumping . The cast is very energetic and interesting . Featured in this crisp chilling tale are Neve Campbell , Courtney Cox , Skeet Ulrich , Drew Barrymore and David Arquette . Give a big round of applause to Roger L . Jackson , the eerie voice on the phone . This one is a supreme nail bitter .
Fantastic ! Fantastic ! Fantastic !	This sci-fi adventure is unlike all that came before it . A great visual movie takes your mind off of the script . The special effects will keep you more than interested . A vanilla coke and large popcorn doesn't last long during this adventure . A precision medical team is reduced to microscopic size to journey through a dying man's blood stream to repair brain damage . The special effects take top billing , but some pretty fine stars are featured : Donald Pleasence , Arthur O'Connell , Edmond O'Brien , Arthur Kennedy , Stephen Boyd and a vivacious Raquel Welch , with the obligatory strip down to wet suit scene . Look for a small role played by James Brolin .
Prisoners become zombies .	Get ready and hold on . This horror entry starts a bit slow , but then the pace picks up and all hell breaks loose . A prisoner with a viral infection is transfered to a maximum security prison and soon prisoners and guards alike are infected and become hyper-violent zombies . A CDC rep ( Bay Bruner ) does not even get the chance to isolate a sample of the virus . The flesh eating zombies feed on each other . The survivors barely have a prayer to avoid being victim of the hellacious slaughter . Special effects are pretty gory . Some scenes are way over the line from being mildly disturbing . Some camera angles seem voyeouristic . Buckets of blood . Gallons or gore . Blood oozing like a dirty petroleum leak . Vomit projectiles both thick and chunky . Human limbs are chewed off and miles of guts are strung out . DEAD MEN WALKING is damn sure not for the weak of heart . I actually liked this wild ride and don't know who to thank first . . . writer Mike Watt or director Peter Mervis . Some of the other cast members : Griff Furst , Brandon Stacy , Chriss Anglin and James Ferris . So profoundly perverse . . . may be better to watch on an empty stomach . Enjoy .
Star studded prison flick .	One of the better early prison movies is SAN QUENTIN directed by Lloyd Bacon for Warner Brothers . A fast paced drama starring Pat O'Brien as ( Captain Stephen Jameson ) , a former military officer who accepts a job at the infamous San Quentin prison and brings with him ideas of military-style-reform . His changes don't go over easy with hardened criminals like ' Sailor Boy ' Hanson ( Joe Sawyer ) and fresh new ' fish ' like Joe Kennedy ( Humphrey Bogart ) . An uprising of discontent begins when a bitter guard ( Barton MacLane ) informs some of the prison population that Jameson is dating Kennedy's attractive sister ( Ann Sheridan ) . Movies like this flourished in America during the Great Depression and it is very odd that it was actually banned in Finland . Rounding out the cast : Joe King , James Robbins , Garry Owen , Veda Ann Borg and William Pawley .
Brad Pitt as Jesse James .	Friendship turns into betrayal in this lumbering tale that puts focus on the assassination of Jesse James . In the late 1800s Jesse James ( Brad Pitt ) was one of the most well known men in America . Reputation , folklore and dime store novels are credited with making the Missouri outlaw a Robin Hood type hero to some , including a young Robert Ford ( Casey Affleck ) , who thought he knew more about James than James himself . Begging to join the last James gang , Ford went from being a pain in the ass to a very guarded friend . That friendship would grow into something dark as Ford still had the grand idea of being famous himself . He will look at his hero as a stepping stone to greatness . Well photographed , well acted , but still you get the feeling that the hype made you expect more . It is doubtful this will become a classic . Both Pitt and Affleck are outstanding . You would image more action . What there is is ruthless . Also starring are : Sam Shepard , Garret Dillahunt , Paul Schnideider , Mary-Louise Parker and Sam Rockwell .
Whimsical must-see fantasy .	Round up the kiddies and pop the popcorn . This film will entertain all ages . Noah ( Chris O'Neil ) and Emma ( Rhiannon Leigh Wryn ) Wilder were excited to leave Seattle on vacation to the beach of Whidbey Island . The children find a mysterious box washing ashore . Upon opening , the puzzle box contained shiny rocks , a conch shell and a stuffed rabbit among other things . The rabbit tells Emma its name is Mimzy . The box contained a green crystal block that Noah discovers allows him to move objects . The box and new " toys " make their way back home to Seattle , and life really gets strange . The children's mom ( Joely Richardson ) is also trying to digest the fact Noah and Emma are specially gifted children . Half the state of Washington is blacked out and it alerts Homeland Security to the Wilder home . Mimzy is the phenomenon that holds the key to mankind's future . F / X are fascinating . Also in the cast : Michael Clarke Duncan , Rain Wilson and Kathryn Hahn .
The raven is the eyes of the devil .	Sheldon Wilson , a well-regarded maker of horror flicks , presents something worth attention . KAW is interesting enough . There is an outbreak of mad cow disease on a Mennonite farm . The virus is transfered to the ravens who eat the rotting cattle carcasses . The infected flock of coal black birds descend on a small town , where the outgoing sheriff ( Sean Patrick Flanery ) and long time local doctor ( Rod Taylor ) try to muster the citizens to band together in hopes of survival . A farmer / bus driver ( Stephen McHattie ) turns out heroic in saving the community . CGI ravens are pretty frightening and there are a few gory scenes . This film had the chance to become something stupid ; but producer Gordon Yang knew the positive results of having a decent story line that taps into human anxieties of natural disaster and disease . Other cast members : Kristin Booth , John Ralston , Ashley Newbrough and Megan Park .
Not the expected knockout , but packs a punch .	Denzel Washington portrays Rubin " Hurricane " Carter , a champion prize fighter that is unjustly sentenced to prison for murder . The movie drags in some spots making the flick seem too long for it's intention . There is enough interest to make you look for a copy of the autobiography . Washington makes you feel the compassion and takes you on an emotional bumpy ride . Other noteworthy cast members : Vicellous Reon Shannon and Dan Hedaya . Golden Globe and Oscar worthy .
They were assigned to provide an heir to the King Henry VIII .	Controversial historian Dr . David Starkey narrates and provides historical insight into the assignments of the wives of Britain's most famous monarch Henry VIII during his long reign from 1509 to 1547 . Six wives in all and between them titles of Queen , lover , victim and survivor . Catherine of Aragon , Anne Bolelyn , Jane Seymour , Anne of Cleves , Catherine Howard and Catherine Parr were influential in changing the course of English history . Two wives were beheaded and one died after giving birth to the son that Henry demanded . Starkey is informative , passionate and sometimes over dramatic in his narration . Instead of an actual movie we have dramatized reenactments with most of the cast no even resembling the characters they portray . Andy Rashleigh serves as King Henry . Also featured are Julia Marsen , Charlotte Roach and Caroline Lintott . You really have to be interested in history to keep up with this TV mini-series .
The horrible truth can be scary as Hell . NOT FOR THE TIMID .	This is the most even handed documentary I ever remember seeing . I actually watched the sequel two nights before sitting glued to the original HBO investigative special . A cold hard look at life lost . Three young second graders in West Memphis , Arkansas were found dead along a creek bank . They were nude , brutally bashed , sexually abused , mutilated , cut and even signs of being bitten . Three teenagers were ferreted out and convicted of the horrid murders . One of the convicted is mentally challenged ; another is an introverted follower ; and the only one on death row professes to interest in witchery . True life human drama that will rip at your moral fiber and question your own compassion . My opinion is that the real killer or killers are still at large . Too many unanswered questions keeps this mystery alive . Does hope have a heartbeat ?
The template for " Dragnet " .	This black and white and fuzzy gray Film Noir is primarily a dark drama based on a ' true story ' from the L . A . police files . This surely was the template for TV's DRAGNET considering one of the minor stars is the one and only Jack Webb , who plays a forerunner forensic lab tech . A war hero Roy Martin / Roy Morgan ( Richard Basehart ) turns burglar and cop killer . Being an expert with electronics , Roy is lured into a planned ambush at the electrical shop where he leaves his adaptive creations on consignment . Police work is still primitive at best and Roy manages to temporarily elude the cops . This story is presented in a documentary style with intrigue building to the clever finale . Basehart plays it cool , confident and heartless . Helping Webb round out the cast are other screen veterans : Roy Roberts , Whit Bissell and Scott Brady .
Suspenseful . Gut wrenching .	Air-borne adventure that keeps you on the edge of your seat . A Canadian passenger plane finds itself in trouble . Accidental ptomaine poisoning strikes all passengers that were served baked halibut instead of pork chops . The pilot Captain Bill Wilson ( football legend Elroy ' Crazylegs ' Hirsch ) manages to keep control of the plane a bit longer than his co-pilot . The only one on board with remote ability to land the plane is Lt . Ted Stryker ( Dana Andrews ) , who flew fighter planes in WWII . A problem exists with Stryker ; he has never lived down losing fliers during the war and hasn't attempted to fly in ten years . Reluctantly he takes over the plane with his estranged wife ( Linda Darnell ) as his co-pilot . Other players include : Sterlling Hayden , Geoffrey Toone , Peggy King and Jerry Paris .
Strange and dark , erotic drama .	Writer / director Philip Ridley presents a suspenseful and equally strange story that holds your interest from the beginning . Brendan Fraser fans will see a piece of his best work . Ashley Judd fans will be very satisfied with all they get to see . This is an odd and sometimes slow story that really sizzles and catches fire . Fraser plays Darkly Noon , who finds himself separated from a strong religious family and is wandering in the woods . He is befriended by Judd , who plays the part of Callie , a very seductive soul who lives in the woods with her mute boyfriend . Fraser's character soon begins lusting for Judd ( and who wouldn't ? ) and has to battle with his religious upbringing and his impure thoughts . His self contained emotions makes him a very volatile person , as he feels God wants him to eradicate the new found evil . Figure into the mix ; the mute's deranged mother ; an evangelic undertaker ; and a wandering circus family . This is a very entertaining movie to say the least . And Miss Judd mesmerizes .
Rodeo clowns keep the bull from riding the cowboy .	This little seen movie deserves all the respect it can get . It is different , and doesn't lack twisting story lines . Country music star Dwight Yoakam plays a rodeo clown named Virgil Kidder . Virgil works for his buddy Brownie ( Bo Hopkins ) and returns to Waco , where he will have to face his past . This is where he ran out on his pregnant girlfriend Katelin ( Michelle Joyner ) . The local pompous Sheriff Acuff ( John Getz ) blames Virgil for an accident that ended his bull riding career . Virgil just needs to lay low and not cause a commotion for the weekend , so they can move on to Amarillo . This rodeo clown has enough trouble in the ring ; but ends up in a strange relationship with the Sheriff's niece ( Kiersten Warren ) , who happens to think she is a vampire . There is also her stud bull riding brother ( Walton Goggins ) that wants a piece of Virgil's hide . Not enough ? Enter a meeting with Katelin . Interesting ? Hell yes . Also in the cast : Cindy Pickett , Peter Fonda and Brent Anderson . Filmed in and around the areas of Denton and Wichita Falls , Texas .
Suspense . Mistaken identity . Hitchcock .	Film-Noir from the masterful Alfred Hitchcock , who forgoes his cameo by standing in the opening shadows proclaiming a true life story instead of his usual suspenseful fiction . Henry Fonda plays Christopher ' Manny ' Balestrero , a stand-up bass player at New York City's Stork Club . In the need of money for his wife's ( Vera Miles ) dental appointment , Manny goes to borrow on her life insurance policy . Before arriving home , he is arrested for multiple robberies . The mild-mannered man exclaims he is the wrong man . The witnesses swear he is the right man ; the police are convinced . Before going to trial Manny's anguished wife is placed in a psychiatric hospital . While on bail , the " right " man is arrested . . . at a distance . . . Manny's double . Other players include : Harold J . Stone , Anthony Quayle and Nehemiah Persoff .
Playing two ends against the middle .	Joey Gazelle ( Paul Walker ) is a low level mobster that is ordered to get rid of a gun used in killing dirty cops . Gazelle hides various weapons for safe keeping in his basement . The gun in question is lifted by his son's friend Oleg ( Cameron Bright ) to use to kill his abusive stepfather ( Karl Roden ) . The homicide is not successful and young 9 yr old Oleg is on the run . The gun is taken and then traded before being recovered again . Two groups of ' good guys ' are putting the heat on Gazelle to make sure the silver snub-nose does not land in the hands of the cops . Flying lead causes copious amounts of blood . The body count is enough to lose tabs on . This is a very manic thrill ride and it seems that the word used the most is f # k . A very apt cast that also features : Vera Farmiga , Johnny Messner , Chazz Palminteri , and Arthur Nascarella . I'm liking Walker more every time I see him . Kudo to writer and director Wayne Kramer .
Spellbinding romantic masterpiece .	Fascinating drama and powerful love story . Audiences in turn-of-the-century Vienna are stunned , mesmerized and gravitate to the acclaimed illusionist Eisenheim ( Edward Norton ) . The mysterious magic man draws the attention of Crown Prince Leopold ( Rufus Sewell ) , who feels that he and his title has been besmirched ; when his intended , Sophie von Teschen ( Jessica Biel ) , assists the magician with an illusion , Eisenheim and the lovely young woman realize they had a childhood romance . Suspense builds as the Prince assigns the city's chief inspector ( Paul Giamatti ) to shut Eisenheim down . Sophie is found dead and a high profile investigation begins . Eisenheim helps the case by performing his most impressive illusion yet . Norton is superb ; Biel alluring and Giamatti convincing . THE ILLUSIONIST is mind-bending and worthwhile .
If its not one hoax , its another .	Absolutely hilarious screwball comedy . A hotshot newspaper reporter ( Fredric March ) tries to get in the good graces of his boss ( Walter Connolly ) by exploiting the " imminent " death of an ailing young woman ( Carole Lombard ) . By way of newsprint the doomed young lady becomes the toast of New York City until her health situation is revealed as a hoax . Supporting cast includes : Frank Fay , Margaret Hamilton and Charles Winninger . Lombard is wonderful in the role of the ailing / doomed Hazel Flagg from Vermont . My favorite scene is when March is walking down the sidewalk and a small boy bolts through a gated fence to bite him on the back of the leg and scurry back to safety . This knee-slapping comedy is directed by William A . Wellman and its a crime not to watch .
One horrific day in New Zealand .	This stark drama is based on the Aramoana Massacre in New Zealand in 1990 . An out-of-work , down-on-his-luck gun collector David Gray ( Matthew Sunderland ) , upset with the local where his family has banked forever , is at the end of his rope . . . he snaps . Gray turns a solemn peaceful small town into the site of a bloody nightmare . He goes on a rampage and starts shooting everyone that comes in the vicinity of his home . Lifelong friends become targets . He even shoots animals that get in the way . He end up killing 13 citizens of the community before being gunned down by the local police . Makes you think hard about your own neighbors . Others in the cast : Karl Urban , Lois Lawn , Simon Ferry and Tandi Wright .
aka The Cemetery Man . Italian cult classic .	This zombie movie is not as cheesy as say NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD . Rupert Everett plays Francesco Dellamorte , a watchman / caretaker of the local cemetery . A bizarre thing begins to happen that makes his job more tedious . The dead arise after being in their grave for seven days . To kill them again , you have to crush their skull or shoot them in the head . This dark story is not without its moments of humor . Profuse violence and the gore appears real . Lighting or lack of , sets the mood perfectly . Great for a weekend rental . Better seen later in the evening the better . Anna Falchi and Fabiana Formica have memorable roles .
If you don't deserve it ; you deceive to get it .	This is a semi-hilarious mock documentary about a teen beauty contest in Minnesota . Anywhere from hilarious to ridiculous and all points in between . The only thing redeeming is Kirsten Dunst . She knows how to get your pity , concern and loyalty . Ellen Barkin is hardly recognized as Kirsten's drunken mother . Kirstie Alley is pretty darn good as the dirty dealing former beauty queen and mother of the obvious next winner ( Denise Richards ) . Miss Richards ' character is beautiful ; but spoiled , pampered and a bitch . Not exactly an expose , because the behind the scenes back stabbing is assumed to be part of a beauty pageant . Tongue-in-cheek humor . Nevertheless another vehicle for the talented Miss Dunst .
Rocky VI . . . running on heart and soul .	First of all , you may be thinking that the sixth installment of the Rocky franchise will be very predictable . . . not exactly . Rocky Balboa ( Sylvester Stallone ) an underdog ? The ever-popular Italian Stallion comes out of retirement when a highly publicized virtual match between the ex-champ and the current heavyweight champion Mason " The Line " Dixon ( Antonio Tarver ) ends in victory for the aged Balboa . The Dixon ego is fueled and he reluctantly agrees to an exhibition match . . . televised from Las Vegas . Rocky's son and friends disbelieve that the former two-time champ can enter the ring without embarrassment . Passion , spirit and absolute fortitude summons up all that Rocky has to give . Dixon is much younger , faster and stronger ; but that will not mean the scheduled 10 round fight will be an easy task . What happens is one of the hardest-hitting and punishing matches in boxing history . Also featured in the cast : Geraldine Hughes , Burt Young , James Francis Kelly III , Tony Burton and Milo Ventimiglia . Astonishing is the shape Stallone is in . I found Hughes impressive . And note that Tarver is a former lightweight world champion .
Amazingly Interesting .	Very good special effects . A teenage computer whiz ( Matthew Broderick ) gains access to the Pentagon's strategic computer system . He thinks he is playing a new computer game instead of actually warming up a World War . The cast also includes Ally Sheedy , Barry Corbin , Dabney Coleman and John Wood .
Inspiring drama . Billy Bob rides again .	Directed by Michael Polish , who helps brother Mark write . . . THE ASTRONAUT FARMER is a dramatic comedy well worth attention . Charles Farmer ( Billy Bob Thornton ) is a former Air Force pilot , who was forced to leave the NASA astronaut training program due to his father's death . Charlie is the butt of jokes , because he builds his own rocket in his barn on his Texas ranch . His wife Audie ( Virginia Madsen ) has had faith in him reaching his dream of launching himself into space . Soon his ranch is set for foreclosure and the attentions of the FBI , CIA , FAA as well as NASA are coming down heavy on Farmer as he secures 10 , 000 pounds of fuel to carry out his mission . This astronaut farmer gains support from the common man around the world thanks to TV exposure . His neighbors see him as an oddball , the government sees him as a threat to homeland security , the news media sees Farmer as inspirational . . . you can't help but realize you owe it to yourself to follow your dreams . Also in the cast : Max Thierot , Bruce Dern , Jon Gries , Tim Blake Nelson and Jasper and Logan Polish .
Breathtaking soul searching trip for a father and son .	Set in Vermont during the Prohabition , Quebec Bill ( Kris Kristofferson ) is desperate for cash after a freak lightning strike burns his barn full of hay . Despite the warnings from his mystical sister , Cordelia ( Genevieve Bujold ) , he decides to go back to his old ways and hatches a plan to steal whiskey from a Canadian whiskey pirate . Quebec Bill and his 15-year old son Wild Bill ( Charlie McDermott ) along with farm hand Rat ( William Sanderson ) and Henry Coville ( Gary Farmer ) , the senior Bill's brother-in-law , set out on a treacherous journey across the Vermont / Canadian border to steal twenty cases of whiskey . The trip proves to be unforgettable and a bit haunting . The cinematography is beautiful and the acting is very commendable . Also in the cast : Heather Rae , Luis Guzman and Lothaire Bluteau .
A citizen of nowhere .	Viktor Navorksi ( Tom Hanks ) is traveling from his war-torn homeland in Eastern Europe to New York City . While in the air , his country has politically changed due to a fiery coup . Since his country ceases to exist . . . Viktor's passport is no longer good , meaning he can not enter the United States . He becomes stranded at Kennedy Airport with no authorization to leave the terminal's international transit lounge . Viktor is treated rudely by the airport supervisor ( Stanley Tucci ) ; and is constantly monitored by security cameras . During his temporary residence , he falls in love with a beautiful stewardess ( Catherine Zeta-Jones ) . As time passes , Viktor is befriended by several airport workers . But the stewardess is the only one that knows why it is so important for Navorski to enter New York City . Hanks and Zeta-Jones are cast perfectly . Also featured are : Chi McBride , Zoe Saldana , Diego Luna and Kumar Pallana . This movie drags at times , but the mixing of romance and comedy makes THE TERMINAL very watchable . How can you go wrong with a picture directed by Steven Spielberg ?
Boarding on runway number 5 . Belly land in the jungle .	Director John Farrow re-makes FIVE CAME BACK ( 1939 ) , which he also directed . The crew and passengers of a crippled plane try to survive in a South American jungle . Pretty bland , but worth watching due to the acting of Rod Steiger . Destined to face a firing squad , Steiger's character is pivotal to the films anxious finale . Other cast members of note are : Robert Ryan , Gene Barry , Phyllis Kirk , Anita Ekberg and a young Jon Provost . If you are like me and enjoy watching the old black & white movies . . . this really isn't so bad .
They say that war is Hell .	Based on a William Haine's Broadway play , COMMAND DECISION is more drama and dialog than war action . There are no women , no dogfights , no actual combat . . . officers are suppose to be gentlemen , right . Flight commander Dennis ( Clark Gable ) is suffering great loses on bombers he sends out on missions over Germany . Time is of importance to keep bombing locations where the enemy is building jet fighter planes ; but Dennis is facing opposition from his own superior Major General Kane ( Walter Pigeon ) and a group of influential politicians and reporters . A testosterone heavy cast including : Van Johnson , Charles Bickford , John McIntire , John Hodiak , Marshall Thompson , Ray Collins , Cameron Mitchell and Edward Arnold . It would stand to reason this film was to boost sales of War Bonds .
It makes you feel like dancing !	If you're a young Emperor Penguin in Antarctica and you can't sing . . . you're an outcast . Mumble's ( Elijay Wood ) Dad Memphis ( Hugh Jackman ) and mom Norma Jean ( Nicole Kidman ) know that their son is cute , but had no idea he could dance , dance , dance . Mumble is blamed for the lack of nourishing fish in the community , due to his horrible singing voice . He is cast out by the Elders only to find friendship with a posse known as the Adelie Amigos led by Ramon ( Robin Williams ) , who thinks that Mumble's " hippity-hoppity " is the greatest way besides singing to attract available female companionship . Mumble only has eyes for Gloria ( Brittany Murphy ) , the greatest singer in his estranged homeland . Mumble seeks advice from Lovelace the Guru , who joins the dancing youngster and the Amigos to set out on a fact finding adventure . This journey will prove to change Mumble's life ; as well as save his community . This animated musical is endearing and wholesome entertainment for the whole family . Williams also voices the Guru and other's lending voices to characters are : Hugo Weaving , Anthony LaPaglia , Jeffrey Garcia , Chrissie Hynde and the late Steve Irwin , the Crocodile Hunter .
An odd , but touching relationship .	Terry Gilliam directs this quirky , busy heartfelt tale of a homeless former professor ( Robin Williams ) obsessed with medieval history and his relationship with a jaded guilt-ridden ex-radio DJ ( Jeff Bridges ) . Williams and Bridges are superb . The story line evolves around redemption and the search for The Holy Grail . Also in the cast are Mecedes Ruehl and David Hyde Pierce . It may take a second viewing to grasp the intended effect . This just may be Bridges ' best performance to date .
An innocent man is an innocent man .	Documentary styled film-noir based on a true life story . A cleaning woman offers a reward for information that may lead to her son's ( Richard Conte ) release from prison for the murder of a policeman over a decade earlier . A Chicago reporter ( James Stewart ) is asked by his editor ( Lee J . Cobb ) to investigate this human interest story ; and he ends up turning it into an expose of corruption in the criminal justice system . Well written and acted . Kudos to director Henry Hathaway . Stewart is powerful as the cunning reporter . Conte is a bit rigid , but yet believable . Other players : Kasia Olzazewski , Helen Walker , John McIntire and E . G . Marshall .
Weird horror-comedy . Worth a look .	At first you wonder where this movie is going . Its like a freight train that needs to pick up some speed . Written and directed by Paul Andrew Williams , THE COTTAGE is really a hoot in a twisted sense . Dark comedy good for some belly laughs . David ( Andy Serkis ) and Pete ( Reece Shearsmith ) are rivaling brothers volleying unpleasantries at each other as they take refuge in a secluded cottage in a remote countryside . They are bungling the kidnapping of a buxom blonde Tracey ( Jennifer Ellison ) , who refuses to stay quiet let alone tied up . Things get worse when Tracey's step-brother Andrew ( Steve O'Donnell ) arrives with what was suppose to be ransom money , but instead . . . tissue paper . Confusion and paranoia set in ; but things are really going from bad to worse as the four find themselves fighting for their lives when the cottage dwelling maniacal farmer runs amok with an axe . Everything becomes a weapon as sick slapstick gore begins taking its toll . Disturbing images that lets you decide . . . sick or funny . . . or both .
A very dark family secret .	Directed and written by Dav Kaufman 13 HOURS IN A WAREHOUSE is a lot better than some reviewers express . It doesn't exactly lumber along , it just doesn't progress at a break neck speed . Five small-time crooks , including the Hancock brothers Randy ( Chars Bonin ) and Mike ( Danny Salmen ) , pull off a heist and take refuge in a warehouse that once belonged to the brother's old man before his suicide . With a hostage ( Meisha Johnson ) in tow , the gang have time to kill . Its going to be a considerable wait until the next morning when they can unload the stolen art and collect their payoff . The warehouse once was used for shooting snuff films and porn by the brother's father . During the wait each becomes suspicious of each other and when strange noises are heard paranoia sets in . Plus it doesn't help that a strange set of numbers begin appearing on the walls . What in the hell is going on ? A very dark family secret is revealed ; and the night will become hard to survive .
If you would climb into a fourth floor window ; why not jump ?	At times a little slow , but an above average TV drama with thrills and suspense . This psychological passage is about a private eye ( Mark Harmon ) and the woman ( Mimi Rogers ) who hires him to find her missing husband ( Cliff De Young ) . Very watchable and personally I liked this a whole lot better than PROOF OF LIFE ( 2000 ) which is more or less the same story . Harmon is cool without trying to be macho . Miss Rogers is flawless and to die for . In support : M . Emmet Walsh , Paul Gleason and Michael Boatman .
Glam rock on the verge of changing the world .	The British Glam Rock movement is all here . . . the flamboyant costumes , the glitter , the energy , the statement coifed heads , the preening and pulsating glammer pop stars intent on changing the world . Arthur Stuart ( Christian Bale ) is a British newspaper reporter investigating the legend of bisexual glam icon Brian Slade ( Jonathan Rhys-Meyers ) , who drops out of sight after staging his own death as a publicity stunt during a concert . Although married to Mandy ( Toni Collette ) , Slade is infatuated with punk pioneer Curt Wild ( Ewan McGregor ) and will stop at nothing to further their careers . Director Todd Haynes , who also shares writing credit , is far from restrained in presenting this very flashy , visual , sexual and character altering musical movement . This obvious homage to David Bowie , Iggy Pop and Kurt Cobain has more than its share of nudity and sexual situations . The talents of Rhys-Meyers and McGregor seem to feed off the other . Curious yellow ? All that glimmers is not gold .
A celebration the human spirit , perseverance and valor .	Director Oliver Stone is known for great detail and not pulling punches . Only 20 people were pulled out of the rubble alive , after terrorist flew two planes into the twin towers of the World Trade Center . This movie is about # 18 and # 19 . It started as an ordinary day for Port Authority officers John McGloughlin ( Nicolas Cage ) and Will Jimeno ( Michael Pena ) until all hell broke loose . The two officers were trapped in the rubble of September 11 , 2001 . The two made a pact to fight for survival . Images are intense , emotional and very disturbing . Maria Bello and Maggie Gyllenhaal play the wives of the two trapped officers . The cast also features : Jay Hernandez , Nick Damici , Stephen Dorff and Jude Ciccolella .
YOU talking to me ? You talking to ME ?	Director Martin Scorsese uses harsh reality and memorable characters to perfection . Robert de Niro plays a slightly deranged Viet Nam vet that drives a NYC cab at night . His insomnia appears relentless and he spends a lot of his time in porno theaters . This lonesome loser does have a heart buried beneath that rough and hardened exterior . Driving his taxi allows him to see through his eyes the underbelly of the city and confirms his contempt for the " scum " all around him . So memorable is his working up to date the beautiful Cybil Shepard only to pss her off by taking her to a porno flick . Then trying to " rescue " a 12-year old runaway turned prostitute ( Jodie Foster ) and dealing with her sleazy pimp ( Harvey Keitel ) . A stomach-churning bloodbath seems to be an unconditional cleansing of a very personal hell . Also in the cast are : Leonard Harris , Albert Brooks and Peter Boyle . This great movie is just a building block towards Scorsese's genius .
Spooky . . . in a very good way .	Deserving of its low budget cult following . A group of girlfriends crash off a bridge and one girl , Mary ( Candace Hilligoss ) , mysteriously rises from the river . . . but her life has become tormented by repeated visions of a strange man ( director Herk Harvey ) . On her way to Utah to take a job as a church organist , she passes a deserted pavilion that she can't get out of her mind . Its a bit creepy when Mary finds herself invisible to her surroundings and even creepier when she goes to check out the pavilion to find a group of zombies ballroom dancing . . . led by the ' strange man ' . CARNIVAL OF SOULS is shot in Black & White with an atmospheric setting church organ score . . . spooky . Well worth watching . Other players : Stan Levitt , Frances Feist , Art Ellison and Sidney Berger .
Just the right pedigree . Disney classic .	LADY and the TRAMP is one of the most underrated , but endearing Walt Disney animated features . Memorable music and purebred fun . A high-bred and pampered cocker spaniel , Lady ( Barbara Luddy ) , learns to be adventurous and carefree when she meets Tramp ( Larry Roberts ) , a raffish mutt from across the tracks . Spending the night on a hill overlooking town ; begging for bones ; sneaking into the zoo ; running from the dog catcher and that memorable spaghetti and meatball dinner . Other characters in this fantasy are : Trusty and Jock , Darling , Si and Am . Lush backgrounds and " He's A Tramp " sung by Peggy Lee help make this film one to be enjoyed by the whole family . Others lending voices to characters are Bill Thompson , Stan Freberg , Bill Baucom and Miss Lee .
Decent horror flick with modest body count .	Part of the After Dark Horrorfest and possibly the best of this crop . Written and directed by Rolfe Kanefsky ; a very anxious movie with some thrills and chills . Most of the acting is bad ; but some nice looking girls to stare at . The killing scenes are imaginative , violent and worth talking about . Ellen ( Blythe Metz ) orders an African fertility mask ; but is mistakenly sent one that is very demonic looking and horned . The mask possesses a evil spirit that overtakes Ellen , driving her insane . On the way to a mental hospital , her husband ( Luciano Szafir ) runs out of gas and leaves her in the car to wait . She believes that she is taunted by her ' Nightmare Man ' and ends up being chased in the woods by him . She finally finds refuge with two vacationing couples partying in a nice home in the middle of nowhere . Soon the ' Nightmare Man ' appears to prove Ellen is really dealing with an evil spirit with killing on its mind . Needless to say , a body count begins and evil continues to breed . The movie is stolen by the character Mia played by Tiffany Shepis . Also in the cast : James Ferris , Hanna Putnam , Jack Sway and Aaron Sherry as the ' Nightmare Man ' .
Where have you gone M . Night Shamalan ?	Have you ever watched a dog dance on its hind legs ? And exactly what came of it ? It seems that writer / director M . Night Shamalan had started a chain of movies that left us equally baffled . With THE HAPPENING , he is creeping back with some recognizable fright and chills . This paranoia filled thriller has Philidelphia high school teacher Elliot Moore ( Mark Wahlberg ) and his doe-eyed wife Alma ( Zooey Deschanel ) trying to outrun what seems an unstoppable phenomenon sweeping across the land . Mind boggling deaths erupt in major cities and what is causing this total breakdown of humanity ? Elliot's wife and teaching friend Juilian ( John Leguizamo ) and his small daughter head through Pennsylvania farmland in hopes of finding a safe place to hide from this terrible plight that seems to travel with the wind . Is this an invisible killer that you just can't outrun ? Well photographed and some decent F / X as expected . Also in the cast : Ashlyn Sanchez , Spenser Breslin , Alan Ruck and Jeremy Strong .
What's hard with granting a last wish ?	A bit quirky and bordering bad taste ; but intelligent enough to be worthy of watching . A wheelchair-bound young woman Jane Hatchard ( Helena Bonham Carter ) is teamed with a reluctant caregiver , Richard ( Kenneth Branagh ) . Richard is an artist that daydreams of human flight . He builds an airplane in his garage and intends to fly it . He wants to resurrect his own troubled life by taking care of the independent , dying Jane , who suffers from an neurological disease that has all but left her speechless and very little motor skills . Wheelchair-bound and full of spirit , her last dying wish is to loose her virginity . She offers herself to Richard , who won't help her directly ; but is willing to rob a bank in order to pay a gigolo to do the deed . I found this flick ambitious and humorous . Even in this role , Carter has a certain charisma and likability .
How about a hammer to the head ?	Screenplay writer Jeff Butler adapts a Clive Barker short story and it couldn't be too much more brutal or darker . Leon Kauffman ( Bradley Cooper ) is a struggling photographer in search for just the perfect subject to make a name for himself . He is encouraged by a prominent art gallery proprietor ( Brooke Shields ) to explore the dark and dank side of the city's underbelly and capture shots of the down trodden and late night street wanderers . Against the advice and wishes of his girlfriend Maya ( Leslie Bibb ) , Leon begins stalking a notorious serial killer named Mahogany ( Vinnie Jones ) , who is a legend of sorts that totally beats the living hell out of after midnight subway riders . The finale is as interesting as making a playground in the middle of a slaughter house . THE MIDNIGHT MEAT TRAIN is intended for mature viewers that can handle the perverse and graphic carnage . A big surprise is Shields . Not much camera time , but I'm sure the money was good . Also in the cast : Barbara Eve Harris , Roger Bart and Ted Raimi . Kudos to director Ryuhei Kitamura .
Not your ordinary superhero .	A Peter Berg film . Action packed comedy with fulfilling special effects . And hey , we get a superhero that didn't originate in a comic book . Hancock ( Will Smith ) is a hard-living , sarcastic hero with super human abilities ; maybe misunderstood and real down-and-out with a lack of people skills and out of favor with the public in general and with public officials for lack of property damage control . Hancock saves a public relations expert , Ray Embrey ( Jason Bateman , from being being ran over by a train . Embrey in turn convinces Hancock to agree to an extreme makeover and pull his reputation out of the gutter and make nice with the public . In meeting Embrey's wife ( Charlize Theron ) , Hancock discovers she has similar and even stronger powers than his own . Plus she holds the key to unlock his secret past . Will his popularity rise or will this prove to be his demise ?
Its not easy to keep a good man down .	Robert Aldrich directs this fast paced and violent adaptation of Mickey Spillane's novel . Film Noir meets a touch of Sci-Fi . This much overlooked thriller is said to have been accepted better in France than the U . S . when released in the mid 50's . Moody shades of glorious black and white , this film progressively holds your undivided attention . That cool , hard hitting private dick Mike Hammer ( Ralph Meeker ) picks up a wailing woman ( Cloris Leachman ) wearing nothing but a trench-coat in the middle of the highway . This leads to Hammer taking on several thugs and secrets associated with the Atomic Bomb . Femme fatales and mystery amok help make up the core of this very volatile crime flick . Meeker is stoic and self confident as Hammer . There is also an impressive group of actors rounding out the cast : Paul Stewart , Maxine Cooper , Albert Dekker , Jack Elam and Gabby Rodgers .
Edward G . Robinson does what he does well .	Very good crime drama . The gangster with the big ego , small in stature , Joe Krozac ( Edward G . Robinson ) in spite of all the crime associated with him . . . goes to prison for ten years on a tax evasion charge . He previously brought back a wife Talya ( Rose Stradner ) from the old world . As he enters lock up he finds out she is pregnant . In prison Krozac is not the " mister big shot " he has been so accustomed to . For ten tears he is obsessed with meeting his son . While away his wife has divorced him and married a newspaper writer ( James Stewart ) . She has also renamed her son . Krozac is released and his old gang roughs him up and humiliates him trying to find the location of his hidden money . They kidnap his son , since a beating doesn't get the results they want . Joe manages to return the boy home , but bonding is not successful . Very good atmospheric scenes . I most enjoyed the last several minutes of the movie that is shot in the rain . Robinson is always a top notch gangster . Stradner is neither attractive or effective . The young boy Douglas Scott is way too prissy to be interesting . Stewart is yet the big star . Others in the cast : Lionel Stander , John Carradine , Frank Conroy and Alan Baxter .
Very good British made sci-fi .	A meteorite shower lights up the sky and blinds all that watches it . Most of the world population must also deal with some rather weird plant life that can uproot itself and seek human nourishment . Howard Keel plays a sailor recovering from an eye operation , thus not being blinded by the mysterious glowing display . He finds a young girl that slept through the starry shower . Together they seek out help and a solution to this very weird problem . A couple of marine biologist , stranded in a lighthouse , get a ' hands on ' encounter with the rampaging stalks of terror . An evenly paced movie considering the slow moving menace . This makes you ponder watering your plants . Very good movie . Also in the cast are Janina Faye , Nicole Maurey and Janette Scott .
Stark melodrama . Humanity in state of depression .	A very gloomy Hal Wallis production based on the play by William Inge . The focus being on a couple of less glamorous people ; Doc Delanely ( Burt Lancaster ) is a recovering alcoholic sharing a mundane life with his frumpy and unkempt wife Lola ( Shirley Booth ) , who lives in anticipation of her runaway little puppy Sheba returning home . She also holds herself guilty for their troubled wedding twenty years ago . When Lola rents out a room to an attractive college student Marie ( Terry Moore ) Doc becomes bothered by her youth and her activities with a boyfriend ( Richard Jaeckel ) . The household already in stress changes its dynamic and the emotional disturbance causes Doc to wobble off the road of sobriety . Lola , precariously needy and a bit backward , all but completely comes unhinged . Doc and Lola in the need of each other suffer their nagging feelings of failure . This movie still packs a wallop . The characters draw you in rather quickly then hang your emotions out to dry . The role earned Booth an Oscar . Lancaster seems rather young for the role , but believable as Doc . Also in the cast : Philip Ober , Edwin Max and Walter Kelley .
Bust on through to the other side . Sex , drugs and Rock ' n ' Roll !	Dynamic and explosive story of a L . A . band trying to deal with discovery , fame and dealing with its moody lead singer , who has his own demons to fight . Oliver Stone directs this ode to The Doors . Some of the scenes are almost duplicates of actual events . And on the other hand you also deal with many inaccuracies . It is quite apparent that this movie is based on the myth of Jim Morrison and The Doors and does not get too much farther from that . At times it seems that the other members of the band are only sidemen to the moody , energetic , blatantly sexual front man . Not since Kurt Russell gave us the excellent portrayal of Elvis Presley in ELVIS ( 79 ) have we had a powerful performance like Val Kilmer as Morrison . Kilmer even does some of the vocals himself . Fans of The Doors no doubt will knit-pick this film to death and love it at the same time . It is well worth watching several times . Besides the flawless Kilmer , also in the cast are : Kathleen Quinlan , Michael Madsen , Kyle MacLachlan , Meg Ryan , Kevin Dillon and Billy Idol . Love it two times and two times more .
Dark , absorbing drug drama .	Surreal and sordid glimpse at the underbelly of drug addiction . This film is narrated by Val Kilmer , who plays Danny Parker , the alias of Tom Van Allen . Danny is a tattooed trumpet player ; a crystal meth addict who is lost in his search to find his own identity . Living to binge on speed and serve as a " rat " for two cops , one played by Anthony LaPaglia . Danny witnessed his wife being murdered ; he is determined to avenge her death as he drifts in and out of his drugged stupor . My favorite character is the no-nose Pooh-Bear ( Vincent D'Onofrio ) . Others in the cast : Peter Sarsgaard , Glenn Plummer , B . D . Wong , Deborah Kara Unger and Meat Loaf . Directed by D . J . Caruso and written by Tony Gayton , SALTON SEA grim as can be , but worth the off-kilter trip .
Four friends put on the leather and hop on their hogs .	Walt Becker directs this hilariously funny road trip written by Brad Copeland , with room enough for some comical ad-libs . Four friends , Tim Allen , John Travolta , William H . Macy and Martin Lawrence , need a break from their mundane lives and tress filled jobs . These suburbanites decide to hit the road with a cross-country motorcycle adventure starting in Cincinnati and ending on a California beach . These guys throw caution and their cell phones to the wind and sporting their leathers sporting the moniker Wild Hogs . In New Mexico , these amateur care-free souls meet up with a " real " biker gang , The Del Fuegos , led by Ray Liotta . Belly busting . screwball situations and laugh-out-loud misadventures provide a great escape . These four actors work well with each other and you can tell they enjoy playing off of one another . Comedy for the whole family . Also in the cast : M . C . Gainey , Marisa Tomei , Jill Hennessy and a Peter Fonda cameo .
The U . S . Secret Service needs Charlie Chan .	During World War Two , spies come in all shapes and forms . America's Number One Chinese detective , Charlie Chan ( Sidney Toler ) , is called upon by the Secret Service to find who murdered the scientist / inventor of a top-secret weapon to protect the U . S . forces from German U-boats . Chan arrives to a house party full of guests that contains a spy that has stolen the assembly plans of the newly invented weapon . The guests are quite eccentric , if not just plain suspicious . Chan is followed by one of his sons ( Benson Fong ) and daughters ( Marianne Quon ) good for getting in the way of the investigation . Not one of the best Chan movies I've seen , but still good enough to hold interest . Absolutely comical is Mantan Moreland that plays a chauffeur named Birmingham Brown . Others in the cast : Gene Roth , Lelah Tyler , Gwen Kenyon , Arthur Loft and Sarah Edwards .
No just OK , but a decent sequel .	Treasure hunter Ben Gates ( Nicolas Cage ) is on another adventure trying to prove one of ancestors was not involved with the assassination of President Lincoln . The proof will be in a secret book intended for presidential eyes only , handed down for generations . Gates and his partner Riley ( Justin Bartha ) will have to outrace another historian ( Ed Harris ) to a long lost " city of gold " . Clues will lead to the Statue of Liberty in New York and one of its mates in Paris . The trail of clues will go to Buckingham Palace ; the Oval Office ; " kidnapping " the President ( Bruce Greenwood ) ; the Library of Congress and Mount Rushmore . There will be the need of some assistance from Ben's estranged wife ( Diane Kruger ) , his dad ( Jon Voight ) and his mother ( Helen Mirren ) . The scenery is pretty awesome and zinging one liners that are actually funny . Your attention will be on the movie throughout . Also in the cast : Harvey Keitel , Alicia Coppola and Ty Burrell .
Army misfits become daring gang in Tokyo .	Sandy Dawson ( Robert Ryan ) is a former GI that has hand-picked a group of others like him ; and along with some local thugs muscle their way into a protection racket ruling Tokyo's numerous pachinko parlors . Dawson runs his band of misfits like a hard-boiled military unit . They commit bank robberies , knock off jewelry stores and brazenly rob trains carrying military ammunition . It is a rule that any injured gang member be shot to death . The Army gives a special assignment to Eddie Kenner ( Robert Stack ) to infiltrate the gang and bust it up along with proving that Dawson is a murderer . The finale shootout proves to be as curios as interesting . This 20th Century film noir ( in color ) also stars : Shirley Yamaguchi , Cameron Mitchell , Brad Dexter and Sessue Hayakawa .
To make the perfect doll . Creepy .	James Wan , who gave us SAW , writes and directs this creepy ghost story . Jamie Ashen ( Ryan Kwanten ) receives a ventriloquist dummy in the mail . Sender unknown . Moments later , as he is out of the apartment , his young wife Lisa ( Laura Regan ) is murdered and her tongue is ripped out . Jamie returns to his hometown of Ravens Fair to unravel a children's nursery rhyme that may give him clues to his wife's death . The rhyme is about a woman named Mary Shaw , who was a ventriloquists that was murdered and buried with 101 or her " children " , a collection of hand made dummies for her act in vaudeville . The small town at one time lived in fear because of mysterious and haunting deaths possibly related to Mary Shaw . Tension is thick as bricks . The atmosphere is creepy . Perfect for a good scare . Also in the cast : Donnie Wahlberg , Michael Fairman , Amber Valletta and Judith Roberts .
Is good for one good for all ?	Stephen Gaghan directs some fascinating subject matter . . . some stimulating and some volatile . At a rapid pace that may cause some confusion and then what seems like lulls to let your brain digest . The talented George Clooney proves why he is a man to be reckoned with . His role as a government operative and international adviser is strong and compelling . SYRIANA deals with greed , cheap labor , international politics , terrorism , assassination and it all revolves around oil . . . who has it and who wants it . Matt Damon is a small businessman that becomes the financial adviser for a Middle Eastern prince ( Alexander Siddig ) who is afraid of not getting to assume control of his father's oil dealings . Jeffrey Wright plays an oil company official that is being swayed by the government to expose corruption as part of questionable oil company transactions . Also in support are : Amanda Peet , Christopher Plummer , Amr Waked , Robert Foxworth , Chris Cooper , Tim Blake Nelson , Daisy Torme and William Hurt . SYRIANA is expectedly big , a bit messy and full of intrigue , tension and flashy entertainment .
Murder for hire and lusty intrigue .	Screenplay written by , directed by and starring the incomparable Orson Welles . Welles plays a rough and tumble Irish seaman who gets caught up in a murder for hire scheme and at the same time not so secretly smooching with the wife ( Rita Hayworth ) of his eventual lawyer ( Everett Sloane ) . Film-Noir at its best . Script and story line meanders in that Welles way . Terrific camera angles and positioning . My favorite scenes are the get-a-way from the courtroom and later the very unusual scene in the mirror maze . Note : This movie has nothing to do with Shanghai , but San Francisco . Hayworth ( the soon to be ex-Mrs . Welles in real life ) cuts her trademark red hair and dyes it blonde . Welles floats back and forth speaking in an Irish accent as he also narrates this misunderstood movie . And the yachting scenes are filmed on the personal yacht owned by Errol Flynn .
A slow and easy fright fest . First rate terror !	A professor's wife believes that her neighbor is a murderer ; but her personal terror is trying to cope with a spirit haunting her new home . Harrison Ford is what we think is a mild mannered genius . His neurotic wife is played by the ever classy Michelle Pfeiffer . We see a very different side of Ford and Miss Pfeiffer at one point has only her eyes to relay her torment . What I really liked best about the movie is the sound effects . It reminds me of days gone by when the sounds of the wind , a rainy night , footsteps and a squeaking door speak volumes . This movie is not necessarily too long , it just moves slowly getting to the energy packed finale . Your palms will sweat and you will inch to the edge of your seat . The terror filled twisting climax is well worth the ride .
Pick one : yesterday or tomorrow .	This is an emotional portrait of love lost and found . A recently divorced reporter / writer ( Robin Wright Penn ) finds a tragic love letter in a bottle . The letter is written by a ship building sailor ( Kevin Costner ) who is still grieving the death of his wife . Another letter is found and forwarded to the Chicago Tribune and the fascinated reporter tracks down the love shy sailor . The dialogue is no great shakes . But the body language and character interaction spoke brilliantly . Even the dialogue between the sailor and his father ( Paul Newman ) showed love and concern . Fantastic camera work . The rhythm of the sea and the lonely beach were poetic . Chick flick , so what ? It puts you in the mood for romance on a lazy afternoon . Very enjoyable soundtrack featuring : Sheryl Crowe , Faith Hill , Marc Cohn and Hootie & The Blowfish . Along with Costner , Penn and Newman are John Savage , Robbie Coltrane and Susan Brightbill . Take two hours and six minutes to feel the romance .
A funny and entertaining look at a backwoods family .	Elvis Presley plays the part of Toby Kwimper , whose rag tag family is forced to homestead along the beautiful Florida coast . The patriarch of the brood , played by Arthur O'Connell is hilarious . Anne Helm plays Toby's adopted sister ; her love is more than sisterly . Simon Oakland is a mobster that tries to run the family out of their new home place . Joanna Moore tries to get Toby's attention by busting up the happy squatters . Funny situations and five lively tunes help make this one of the most watched Elvis vehicles . The songs " Follow That Dream " and " Angel " are superb . Elvis is very comfortable and natural doing comedy . Every member of the family , young and old , will fall in love with this film .
When the dark couldn't get much darker .	Slow going at first , but be prepared to flinch as your heart jumps . Darker than dark and darker than a coal miner's boots . Strange things begin to happen after a teenager ( Anna Paquin ) moves with her family into a remote country-side home . The house has ancient secrets to hide and horribly disturbing things begin to happen whenever the lights go out . The use of the rain and thunder accent the movie's eerie fear factor . Supernatural events unleash pure evil , but it is still hard for Regina ( Paquin ) to convince her parents ( Lena Olin and Iain Glen ) that the past is intent on destroying the family . Sometimes it is what you think you see that scares you . Unusual and creepy . Worth a second watch .
Trouble trying to buy a boat ; and then girls , girls , girls !	Elvis plays a carefree charter boat pilot ( Ross Carpenter ) . After losing his job , he thinks of buying his late father's boat from its present owner ( Jeremy Slate ) . He goes to work on a tuna boat during the day . At night Ross sings in a nightclub . And somewhere in between finds trouble existing with Laurel Goodwin and Stella Stevens . A soundtrack that features more than a dozen songs . Some quite stupid , but as a whole a better than average album . The classic multi-million selling " Return To Sender " carries the movie . Benson Fong , Robert Strauss , Ginny and Elizabeth Tiu round out the cast .
Escalated revenge leaves someone dead .	Welcome to a teen's world . Sam ( Rory Culkin ) breaks down and admits to his over protective brother Rocky ( Trevor Morgan ) that the school bully George ( Josh Peck ) has been beating him on a daily basis . To get revenge and payback George his due , the two boys come up with a well thought plan , almost perfect plan . Rocky gathers some of his pals and Sams ' girlfriend Millie ( Carly Schroeder ) for a ride to the woods and a float trip down the river . The plan is to make George get naked and jump in the river as the others leave , forcing the bully to walk home without his clothes . The perfect prank goes bad , very bad . This movie is well directed by Jacob Aaron Estes , who also wrote MEAN CREEK . And why they call a river a creek , don't know . But this is a pretty accurate look at life through the eyes of a teen . Also in the cast : Scott Mechlowicz , Ryan Kelly , Brandon Williams and Heath Lourwood .
Justice or revenge . A caped hero emerges .	To director Christopher Nolan . . . a job well done . Fantastic movie with super effects . After watching the murder of his parents , industrial heir Bruce Wayne ( Christian Bale ) gathers all inner fortitude and wanders the world in search of the key to burying his fears and the means to fight injustice . After shrugging his disillusions , the Batman legend emerges and the Dark Knight will kick injustice square in the ass and instill true fear into those that have for so long preyed on the fearful . Gotham City has a hero . I had original doubts about Bale playing the DC Comics icon ; but he came through brilliantly . There is an all star cast in support : Michael Caine , Liam Neeson , Gary Oldman , Katie Holmes , Morgan Freeman and Ruter Hauer .
Knee-slapping funny . Let's go sexin ' !	One of John Waters best yet . Waters writes and directs this quirky and raunchy comedy about an underground subculture of sex addicts led by Ray Ray ( Johnny Knoxville ) . Sylvia ( Tracey Ullman ) is an uptight frigid middle-aged woman with sex being the last thing on her mind . Her husband Vaughn ( Chris Issak ) however still has those urges for the horizontal bop . She even keeps her daughter Caprice ( Selma Blair ) , kept in a garage apartment under lock and key . The daughter with mammoth sized breasts is actually under house-arrest due to charges of indecent exposure and public nudity stemming from her striptease act . Suburban Baltimore is up in arms about the trend of public sexual expression . When Sylvia suffers a concussion , she eases into Ray Ray's band of sex addicts trying to discover a new and the perfect sex act . Big Ethel ( Suzanne Shepard ) tries gathering as many " Neuter " folks she can . The " Neuters " are basically prudes that are trying to take their neighborhoods back from the sex addicts that love to " go sexin ' " Funny , funny , funny . Also in the cast : Mink Stole , Patricia Hearst , Wes Johnson and Jackie Hoffman .
Buckets of blood . A terrific scare .	HIGH TENSION lives up to its claim . . . " It will scare the hell out of you " . This shocker is highly volatile with stark graphic violence . Not for the faint of heart . Alexa ( Maiween Le Besco ) and Marie ( Cecile De France ) are gal pals on holiday headed to Alexa's parent's cottage in the South of France . The two story home is in the middle of nowhere adjoining a large cornfield . One takes a shower ; the other ' pleasures ' herself and right when the middle of night approaches calm . . . a mysterious grimy killer drives up in a rust bucket and proceeds to slaughter Alexa's parents and little brother . Alexa is bound and gaged and kidnapped ; Marie , who has managed to hide while being witness to the violence , goes through hell trying to rescue her friend . The atmosphere is frantic and guaranteed to lock up your knuckles and remind you of acidic ' up-chuck ' . The twisting climax will challenge sanity . Before the HIGH TENSION violence begins ; ' getting head ' prompts a novel visual . Philippe Nahon personifies ruthless evil . HIGH TENSION is just that ! Must-see horror .
There is only one John Rambo .	The ultimate warrior John Rambo is living peaceful and almost carefree in the mountains and jungles of northern Thailand . Not exactly mundane , John operates a longboat on the Salween River and captures cobras and pythons for sale to snake fighters . A group of missionaries arrive wanting to hire him to take them up river into war-torn Burma . After reluctantly delivering them with their medicine and religious materials , they are captured by Burmese National Army soldiers . John for the sake of one of the captured , Sarah ( Julie Benz ) , shifts into attack mode and ends up leading a team of mercenaries to the rescue . The violence is grisly and extreme . Don't think about a body count . . . it is more like a piece count . Graphic and bloody mutilations and all the trappings of war . Also in the cast : Graham McTavish , Tim Kang , Paul Schulze and Maung Maung Khin .
There is profit in shipwrecks along the coast of Georgia .	Produced and directed by the legendary Cecil B . DeMille . A rough and ready sea drama with very good special effects . Salvagers compete for the cargo of ships wrecked in the reef off the coast of Georgia . Some of the ships go down not by nature , but by the hand of greedy men . An extraordinary finale with an attack of a giant squid . A star studded cast sustains the interest in this stormy and mobile movie . Notable cast members : Raymond Massey , Paulette Goddard , Ray Milland , Susan Hayward , Robert Preston and a bland John Wayne . Yep , the " Duke " has an important role , but does not headline or carry this film . I've seen this at least six times since childhood and I still think it is great . See for yourself .
A secret is best guarded .	Everyone has secrets , but can they keep them hidden ? I extol the twists and turns in the last thirty minutes of this thriller . A lot happens when you least expect it . Rowena Price ( Halle Berry ) is a determined investigative reporter , who writes under an assumed male name . She spends over six months getting the info she needs to break the biggest story of her career concerning the sexual habits of prominent US Senator ; her story is quashed . . . she quits . Now she finds herself involved in even a bigger story . Her childhood friend ( Nicki Aycox ) is murdered and the suspect is advertising magnet Harrison Hill ( Bruce Willis ) , who has the reputation of making evidence of his many affairs disappear . Rowena's right-hand man Miles ( Giovanni Ribisi ) is still working and has many talents and hidden secrets of his own . Miles is eager to help in Rowena's new investigation ; she goes to work for Hill and even traps him into e-mail chat in hopes of proving he is a murderer . The ad executive discover's Rowena as a spy ; but the info she has is made public . When life seems nice and safe , Rowena discovers Mile's hidden secret and he feels safe because he knows of Rowena's deep hidden past . Berry is steamy , strong and outstanding in this role . The F word is used way too much and I assume that is to get the R rating . Also in the cast are : Daniella Van Graas , Paula Miranda , Gary Dourdan and Richard Portnow .
High - octane action in the Middle East .	Kudos to director Peter Berg . Plenty of action with intense images and war-like violence . An American facility in the Middle East is attacked inside the Saudi Kingdom . Ronald Fleury ( Jamie Foxx ) leads a crack team of FBI agents that make an " un-authorized " trip to investigate and help Saudi officials in finding who's responsible for the suicide bombing at the center of the attack . Intense and topical . You know immediately that this movie belongs to Foxx ; but Jason Bateman's dry humor helps tone down some of the violence . Jennifer Garner is more than pedestrian with what she has to work with . She damn sure is the best sight in the film . Chris Cooper got the job done with his share of the cuts and bruises . The faint of heart may just want to pass on this one . Realistic atmosphere and superior editing . Also in the cast : Ashraf Barhom , Ali Suliman , Richard Jenkins and singer Tim McGraw . The cute Ashely Scott of TV's JERICO has a small role as well . THE KINGDOM brings the same kind of nervousness as putting a ticking time-bomb under your bed .
Where the sidewalk ends . . . the road begins .	Not only for George Strait fans . Not just for country fans . But it doesn't hurt . Music , romance and a simple plot . Dusty ( Strait ) is a country super star that is falling out of favor with how his manager ( Lesley Ann Warren ) is producing his concerts with smoke and explosions . He decides to take a little walk to get away from it all for a while . He rediscovers his " roots " and along the way falls in love with a pretty barrel racer ( Isabel Glasser ) . The finale is predictable , but touching . A very good soundtrack featuring such tunes as " Heartland " , " Where the Sidewalk ends " and the movie's big finale number " I Cross My Heart " . Strait does show some acting ability ; but then again he plays a character no too much unlike himself . The perky and pretty Glasser is to fall in love with . Also in the cast are Kyle Chandler , John Doe and veteran cowboy star Rory Calhoun . Even if you are not a country music fan PURE COUNTRY is more than tolerable . Relaxing and easy to watch .
The rise of the great Genghis Khan .	Brilliant and extraordinary ; one of the best subtitled movies I've ever read . A masterpiece from writer / director Sergei Bodrov , MONGOL , is the story of a determined young boy named Temudgin , who would later become Genghis Khan , the mighty warrior who would conquer the world . After his father was killed by a rival clan , Temudgin would be abused and exiled into slavery . At about the age of nine , he would pick out his future wife Borte and almost magically escape death time and time again . Surviving his turmoils and trials , he would unite his people and become one of the greatest military masterminds of all time . From slave boy to Mongol warrior to become the general who would create history's largest and most powerful empire . MONGOL is an epic and eyeful of breathtaking landscapes and graphic battles . Starring are Asano Tadanobu , Odnyam Odsuren , Khulan Chulun and Ba Yin Qi Qi Ge .
Love ill-conceived , untrustworthy and tragic .	The makings of a classic . . . undisciplined director George Stevens , the up-and-coming and moody Montgomery Clift and the beautiful Elizabeth Taylor . George Eastman ( Clift ) arrives at the door of his accomplished uncle Charles ( Herbert Heyes ) with the promise of a factory job . Against company rules a young worker Alice Tripp ( Shelley Winters ) falls in love with the quiet and solemn young Eastman . George is infatuated at first sight of the gorgeous débutante Angela Vickers ( Taylor ) . The love stricken Alice finds herself ' with child ' and pressures George into getting married . The problem seems to be solved with a boating accident , until said accident ends in a murder charge . Clift is excellent . Taylor is seductive , ravishing and flawless . Winters is noticeable in spite of being cast quite homely and pathetic . In supporting roles : Raymond Burr , Shepperd Strudwick , Keefe Brasselle , Anne Revere and Fred Clark . My favorite scene is the rowboat sequence with Clift sweating bullets and grasping for enough courage to drown Winters . A PLACE IN THE SUN is worth watching over and over again .
Open your eyes and welcome the future .	Talk about a good one . This is adapted from Stephen King's novel and really can put that fuzzy feeling in your stomach . King does so well with bringing us situations that bring back our similar memories . A photographer ( David Morse ) returns to the town he lived in at the age of 11 . He goes to the site of the now rundown house and the memories begin . It is the 1960's and his widowed mom struggles to pay the bills , but he is rich in memories of what happened on his street . . . nothing . That is until a mysterious man ( Anthony Hopkins ) with strange powers rents the upstairs apartment . His stay was a short one ; but one that would be remembered for a lifetime . For atmosphere there is the great sounds of Chuck Berry , The Crew Cuts , Santo & Johnny and The Platters . As you know , King always tries to slip in some of those great tunes of our childhood in almost every one of his novels . Kudos to director Scott Hicks for this wonderful adaptation . Also in the cast are : Anton Yelchin , Mika Boorem and Will Rothhaar .
Amnesia , a mysterious letter and two million dollars .	John Hodiak stars in this piece of Film-Noir . George Taylor ( Hodiak ) is a bitter WWII veteran Marine with amnesia . He returns to Los Angeles with hopes of rediscovering his identity . He has only two clues linked to his past : a vicious letter of woe from a woman that hates him and another mysterious note from a " Larry Cravat " . George in search of Cravat becomes involved with a winsome lounge singer ( Nancy Guild ) and her boss ( Richard Conte ) . Police investigator Kendall ( Lloyd Nolan ) informs the three that Cravat is wanted for murder and the robbery of two million dollars . But what is Taylor's connection ? For all he knows , since thugs are chasing him . . . hell , he himself may be the mysterious Cravat . Director Joseph L . Mankiewicz co-writes the screenplay with Howard Dinsdale . Hodiak is a passive leading man , while the attractive Guild almost steals the movie from him . Nolan plays the copper with a dry humor . Also in the cast : Sheldon Leonard , Fritz Kortner and Lou Nova .
Intelligent crime story .	Richard Fleischer directs this excellent and intellectual crime story culminating in anxious courtroom drama . Based on the 1924 trial of Loeb and Leopold , two homosexual college students who planned and executed a heinous crime just for the thrill of doing so . Arty Straus ( Bradford Dillmon ) , a mama's boy sadist , and his submissive friend Judd Steiner ( Dean Stockwell ) stand trial in Chicago for kidnapping and cold-blooded murder . District Attorney Horn ( E . G . Marshall ) thinks he has an open and shut case until brilliant defense attorney Jonathan Wilks ( Orson Welles ) is hired to represent the two highly intellectual killers . The script is suspenseful , taunt and powerful . Welles lives up to his reputation . Other players include : Diane Varsi , Martin Milner , Richard Anderson and Ed Binns . Kudos to Lionel Newman for his musical genius .
Incindeairy performances .	A griping and intense love story from director Neil Armfield . Candy ( Abbie Cornish ) , a carefree art student , and hopelessly disconnected poet Dan ( Heath Ledger ) are hooked on each other . . . and both are hooked on heroin . This is a deep and darker love story than most . The real world actually takes back seat to their recreational drug use that has taken over their lives . Casper ( Geoffrey Rush ) , an older friend and chemistry professor from the university is their main supplier . They feel they have found all they need in each other . Marriage and unsurmountable debt proves to be a burden about as big as their drug habit . A humiliated Candy starts prostituting and even hapless Dan considers becoming a gay whore . Self-destruction has its price and Candy pays first . But can life actually drag itself out of the cesspool ? Cornish and Ledger seem to go unashamedly soul-deep in their roles . CANDY may not be for everyone ; but misery loves company .
Totally awesome !	Based on the critically acclaimed 1986-1987 DC comic book serial . In an alternate universe circa 1985 , President Richard Nixon ( Robert Wisden ) has change the law to allow him a third term and the world is highly unstable . Nuclear war is imminent between the U . S . and Russia . . . the Doomsday clock is ticking . Members of a new generation of masked superheroes , the Watchmen , have hung up their tights and masks in retirement . But when one of their own , The Comedian ( Jeffrey Dean Morgan ) , is mysteriously murdered . . . superhero Rorschach ( Jackie Earle Haley ) sparks interest in his remaining colleagues Dr . Manhattan ( Billy Crudup ) , Night Owl II ( Patrick Wilson ) , Ozymandias ( Matthew Goode ) and Silk Spectre II ( Malin Akerman ) to " suit up " again many years after they disbanded to unravel a governmental conspiracy against them . Astonishing special effects , high octane fight sequences and beautiful selections and blends of color . Strong graphic violence , extreme language and full frontal male nudity , albeit CGI . Other stars : Matt Fewer , Laura Mennell , Stephen McHattie , Jerry Wasserman and John Shaw . A terrific soundtrack that has well-placed tunes by the likes of : Simon & Garfunkel , Bob Dylan , Janis Joplin and Jimi Hendrix .
Classic . . . one of the greatest of all-time .	THE WILD BUNCH . . . original Director's Cut restores probably one of the most talked about westerns to completeness . Director Sam Peckinpah's sagebrush saga contains graphic violence and explicit language making it one of the first ( if not the very first ) realistic westerns . . . well rode and put up wet . This controversial landmark is evocative of a masterpiece . A ruthless gang of long-in-the-tooth desperados , bound by a fervid code of honor and with intentions of going out for one last outing , is hired by an early 1900's Mexican renegade general . Saddle up and join the bloodbath . THE WILD BUNCH features a who's who of the genre ; some arguably doing their best work ever : William Holden , Ernest Borgnine , Edmond O'Brien , Ben Johnson , Warren Oates , L . Q . Jones . Robert Ryan and Bo Hopkins . Sam Peckinpah's style is easy to recognize and almost impossible to duplicate . Afterall . . . Peckinpah equals perfection .
More boom and thrills for your buck .	The DIE HARD franchise returns bigger and better . Bad-ass New York City detective John McClane ( Bruce Willis ) is back and delivers . Cyber terrorist put a " fire sale " in play ; its intent to collapse the United States government into chaotic dysfunction . Thomas Gabriel ( Timothy Olyphant ) is the mastermind behind this attack and instead of paying computer hackers who helped him , he is having them all assassinated . The killings have already begun when the FBI assigns McClane to collect and deliver hacker Matthew Farrell ( Justin Long ) to the FBI's Washington DC headquarter . The no nonsense McClane saves the young hacker's life and both become targets of the terrorists ; for Farrell has the ability to block the computer mayhem . Gabriel's right hand man is actually his lover Mai Lin ( Maggie Q ) . Systematically the government is shutting down and with McClane in defensive mode the body count continues to accumulate ; so does damage to anything around him . Willis brings with him his genuine humor and excitement . I really liked the scene of the massive traffic jam when the terrorists take control of the city's traffic lights . The scene of McClane knocking out a chopper with a police car is cool . Heart pounding action , well placed explosions and use of Creedence Clearwater's " Fortunate Son " sustain this outrageous ride . Also in the cast : Cliff Curtis , Kevin Smith , Mary Elizabeth Winstead and Jonathan Sadowski .
Hey man . . . stuck in the 70's !	Joel and Ethan Coen can be proud of their BIG LEBOWSKI . Be ready to laugh your butt off . Jeff Lebowski ( Jeff Bridges ) is a pot bellied , pot-smoking laid back slacker that insists on being called " The Dude " . His two best friends are Walter ( John Goodman ) , who sees the world against him for surviving the Viet Nam War ; and Donny ( Steve Buscemi ) , who manages to butt-in on conversations only to be ignored . Dude's world consists of bowling and getting stoned . Somehow Dude is mistaken for a wheel-chaired millionaire ( David Huddleston ) and is caught up in a kidnapping scam for the ransom . Dude seems more upset with getting restitution for his urine ruined rug . Dude of course needs the aid of his two foul-mouthed bowling friends . Also fitting into this amusing plot are : Julianne Moore as Maude the erotic artist ; John Turturro as a hair-netted Latino bowler named Jesus and Tara Reid as sexpot Bunny Lebowski . Rounding out this diverse cast of characters are Philip Seymour Huffman , Ben Gazzara , Flea and Sam Elliott , who also narrates . The dialog seems glued together with the " F " word . . . which of course is a noun , verb and adjective . It seems one toke over the line is not enough . Cheers for the Coen brothers .
Great movie . One of Bette Davis ' best !	This is no doubt my favorite Bette Davis movie . I always seem to like success stories where the underdog overcomes circumstances and comes out on top . The script and plot were first class . And the well acted characters made the story so very real . A young woman ( Davis ) suffers a nervous breakdown due to her domineering mother ( Gladys Cooper ) . After therapy with a noted doctor ( Claud Rains ) , the spinster from Boston becomes a woman of the world . Her appearance changes drasticly . So does her attitude toward life . She now has the courage to stand up to her mother . And the spark that keeps her going is the results of her ocean cruise romance with an unhappily married man played by Paul Henreid . My two favorite scenes are where Davis and Henreid are passengers in a car that accidentally rolls backward down a hill ; and of course the double cigarette-lighting scene in the finale . Of course this was the second time that Henreid did such , but this time was the most memorable . Also in the cast are Mary Wickes , John Loder and Ilka Chase . If you haven't seen this movie ; by all means rent it or watch for it on AMC . I bet the first time you watch it won't be your last .
From a very young age they learned to rule their world .	Noted director Sergio Leone gives us one of the best mobster flicks of all time . This epic chronicles the rise and fall of a group of Brooklyn Jewish gangsters over the period of fifty years . Experience the drama of friendships , betrayal , grief , revenge and lost love . The all star cast is led by Robert De Niro and James Woods . Both are excellent . Notables in support are Treat Williams , Elizabeth McGovern , Danny Aiello , Tuesday Weld and Joe Pesci . Tough guy action at its best . Definitely put this on your hit list .
Riveting ! Killer out of control .	Kevin Costner is back big time ; maybe even his best role ever . Costner is Mr . Earl Brooks , a well respected businessman , philanthropist and loved unconditionally by his beautiful wife Emma ( Marg Helgenberger ) and daughter Jane ( Danielle Panabaker ) . Mr . Brooks is not exactly the perfect man he appears ; Earl is managed by his alter ego Marshall ( William Hurt ) . Earl is a clever insatiable serial killer . As Mr . Brooks carries out what he claims will be his last murder , an amateur photographer Mr . Smith ( Dane Cook ) witnesses the crime . Blackmail is in order ; plus a tenacious detective Atwood ( Demi Moore ) is hell bent on catching the resurfacing Mr . Brooks . Will he be able to continue hiding his double life ? My favorite scene is when Jane attacks her father . We should have had more of Moore . Psychological thriller deluxe . Also in the cast : Ruben Santiago-Hudson , Yasmine Delawari , Lindsay Crouse and Michael Cole .
Torture is chosen as a weapon .	Directed and written by the acclaimed Alex Gibney is the 2007 Academy Award winning documentary feature . No matter your opinion of President George W . Bush or the current fighting in the Middle East , TAXI TO THE DARK SIDE is a deliberate and meticulous examination of torture used as a weapon in the war against terror and proof positive that the Bush administration had full knowledge and of it being employed at Bagram Air Force Base in Afghanistan and at Abu Ghraib and Guantanamo Bay prisons . Lighting the fuse of exposure is the disturbing torture and killing of an innocent Afghan taxi driver . Stunningly crafted expose of reckless abuses of government power out of control . Recommended viewing .
Go rocket go !	A real charming movie based on fact and history . Homer Hickam ( Jake Gyllenhaal ) was not the typical boy in mid 1950s West Virginia . He dared to not follow in his father's footsteps into the local coal mine . Homer's father John ( Chris Cooper ) stayed very agitated with his son's indifference . Football scholarships were the ticket out of the small coal towns . Homer knew there had to be another way ; and when he saw the Soviet satellite Sputnik fly through an October sky . . . this dreamer's dreams exploded . Homer with the help of three of his friends would build and actually launch home-made rockets . Frequent misfires would land the young rocket builders into trouble ; but many trials led to enough successes that the whole town of Coalwood , West Virginia found inspiration in a young man's dreams . A feel good movie that does your heart proud . The cast is rounded out by : Laura Dern , William Lee Scott , Chad Lindberg , Chris Owen and Natalie Canerday . There is a wonderful soundtrack featuring sounds of the time by the likes of : The Platters , Buddy Holly , Fats Domino , The Coasters and Elvis .
Provocative lack of concern . Biased and mournful .	This is a dark and mournful tale of racism and failing families . Billy Bob Thornton was snubbed by the Academy for his portrayal of a Louisiana Corrections guard in charge of executions . He lives with his almost bedridden father ( Peter Boyle ) , a retired prison guard as well as his own son ( Heath Ledger ) also a prison guard less racist than his father and grandfather . Totally out of character Thorton finds compassion and falls in love with the African American wife ( Halle Berry ) of the last man he executed ( Sean " Puffy " Combs ) . Thornton's son feels he has failed his father and commits suicide . Thornton then puts his dad away in a nursing home after resigning his job and buying a gas station . Subtle symbolism with " white " paint , " black " coffee and " chocolate " ice cream . And talk about flirting with the X rating ! ( Not that I am complaining . I used the stop / rewind button three times ) . Miss Berry and Thornton couple for the most realistic simulated sex I have ever seen . This is designed for mature audiences only . Maybe too down to earth ; but the best damn drama I've seen all summer .
A true horror classic .	Director Sam Raimi and good friend Bruce Campbell set out to make a real scary movie . . . although filmed on 16mm , THE EVIL DEAD is good enough to be your next nightmare and a hell of a lot better than your run of the mill slice and dice . Campbell plays Ash Williams , one of five college friends set out to have a wild weekend in the woods . Two guys . . . three girls journey to a remote cabin , of course in the middle of the woods . And the woods whisper " Join Us " . The group stumbles upon a book and a tape recorder belonging to the previous inhabitants , warning of evil spirits lurking in the woods . When the dead come out to play , the newest victims turn into horrid ghouls . Ash , who at heart is a cowardly pansy , turns out to be the macho , macho man to the rescue . It takes courage , a shotgun and a chainsaw . When the flesh-eating demons start their attack , the blood doesn't just ooze ; it splatters , gushes and flows by the bucketful . And there is the scene where one of the girls is beckoned into the woods only to be attacked and raped by a . . . tree ? ! Cheap special effects galore decorate this vacation to a little north of Hell . The comedy was unintentional . It is a product of bad acting by actors with little or no experience . But still , Raimi as writer and director has stumbled upon something here . THE EVIL DEAD more than deserves its youth restricted rating . As if it really matters , other cast members are : Betsy Baker , Hal Delrich , Ellen Sandweiss and Theresa Tilly .
John Lennon : Give peace a chance .	War is over . Is it the people you " run with " or just the fact you have a conscious and the will to speak your mind ? Filmmakers David Leaf and John Scheinfeld II present for our approval an evocative glimpse at the all-out efforts of Richard Nixon's administration and J . Edgar Hoover's gestapo-like minions to gag John Ono Lennon . Former Beatle and peace activist Lennon seemed to be an enemy of the United States government and the outspoken rock ' n ' roller needed to be silenced . He and his wife Yoko Ono were wiretapped and kept under big brother's watchful eye as the Vietnam War raged on and TV nightly news told of massacred U . S . troops . Lennon's anti-war efforts led to threats of deportation . This documentary is well put together and sustained with some insightful comments in between archive footage . Featured are : Mario Cuomo , Angela Davis , Bobby Seale , Gore Vidal , George McGovern , G . Gordon Liddy , Geraldo Rivera , Ron Kovic , Walter Cronkite and John Dean just to mention a few . This 2006 film does not shy away from explicit language , violent images or drug references .
A family implodes .	This is a provocative , disturbing and sympathetic documentary that is as interesting as watching two speed-trains collide . A typical upper-class family in Great Neck on Long Island is steadily destroyed as Arnold Friedman and his youngest teen-aged son are accused and convicted of sex crimes involving young children . Mr . Friedman , an award-winning and beloved teacher , held a computer class for neighborhood children in his basement several days a week . Upon police investigation , kiddie porn was found in the Friedman home on Picadilly Road . The family obsessively documented their lives by way of home movies . These movies , broadcast news video and interviews with victims , law enforcement and the Friedman family members themselves make this documentary possible . A seemingly reputable family is disgraced with the shocking secrets being made public . You will probably ask yourself why you even watched this film . And like many people , you may even flirt with the idea the whole horrid affair never happened . Watching the extra two hours of extra footage with the DVD really conjures questions .
Unswerving love and determination .	An absolute winner from director Danny Boyle . Without a penny to his name , Jamal Malik ( Dev Patel , his fate is verging on change in a major way . The young boy , a product of the slums of Mumbai ( formerly Bombay ) , is one question away from winning India's version of " Who Wants To Be A Millionaire ? " . While answering each question , Jamal reminisces of watching his mother being slaughtered in an attack on Muslims . He and his brother Salim ( Madhur Mittal ) battling to survive the harsh streets as orphans and the thoughts of meeting true love Latika ( Freida Pinto ) . Jamal would be arrested and tortured by the police under suspicion of cheating , for how could a " slumdog " possess the knowledge to be so close to winning the popular TV game . Millions of viewers are watching in awe and admiration . . . probably more important than that final question is the fact he may be losing his beloved Latika . A definite feel-good movie . Also in the cast : Anil Kapoor , Iran Khan and Mahesh Manjrekar . True love endures all .
One of a kind . Great experience .	This animated fantasy is far and beyond others in the genre . This is the standard others will be judged by for a long time to come . A peace loving ogre called Shrek ( Mike Myers ) is upset when his swamp is invaded with fairy tale characters . A lonely , hysterically funny donkey ( Eddie Murphy ) forces his way into becoming Shrek's running buddy . An egomaniacal lord ( John Lithgow ) has the chance to become king , if he marries . Shrek is offered his swamp vacated if he retrieves the pretty princess Fiona ( Cameron Diaz ) and brings her to the midget ruler for marriage . The crude ' potty ' humor is mild and does not distract from the clever written story line ; and this comedy can't help but amuse viewers of all ages . Myers of course has the top billing , but I think Murphy steals the whole show . I think the witty donkey could carry his own movie someday . SHREK lives up to and deserves all of its accolades . Take the time to experience a superb story of love and companionship .
Halariously funny . Mocking legendary rock ' n ' roll .	Jake Kasdan directs and helps Judd Apalow team up on this funny and irreverent story of the troubled life of fictional music legend Dewey Cox ( John C . Reilly ) . Everybody loves Cox . Dewey was forced from home at the age of 14 after cutting his bother in half with a machete . He immediately has a wife Edith ( Kristen Wiig ) and houseful of kids . His songs shake the nation . Instant fame comes from his first hit " Walk Hard " . He knocks out hit after hit . Along the way rubbing elbows with the likes of Elvis Presley ( Jack White ) , Buddy Holly ( Frankie Muniz ) and the Beatles . His career has its ups and downs , but his faithful fans still adore him as he changes styles as the music trends come and go . This musical icon isn't shy of duplicitous marriages , realizing finally that his heart belongs to his back up singer Darlene ( Jenna Fischer ) . Dewey will become a bigger than life superstar even as his hits struggle on the charts . He of course has taken every drug in the rock ' n ' roll world and survived . And when he thinks of settling down , he reminds everyone that he has always ' walked hard ' . Believe it or not , the quirky soundtrack is enjoyable . Highlights are Dewey Cox ( Reilly ) singing : " Take My Hand " , " ( Mama ) You Got To Love Your Negro Man " , " Guilty As Charged " , " Darling " and of course the title tune . Other cast members : Tim Meadows , Nat Faxon , Raymond J . Barry , Harold Ramis , Margo Martindale , Jackson Browne , Lyle Lovett and Jack Black as Paul McCartney .
Evidence under suspicion .	From the Fox Film Noir collection . Directed by Elia Kazan BOOMERANG is a well written and interesting courtroom drama . Based on a true story , a beloved priest is murdered in front of numerous witnesses . It seems to be a cut and dried case . John Waldron ( Arthur Kennedy ) fits the description according to eye witnesses . Chief Robinson ( Lee J . Cobb ) feels the lengthy manhunt has produced the right man . The State's Attorney Henry Harvey ( Dana Andrews ) is given the job to prosecute ; but after digging deep into the evidence he isn't so sure that Walron committed the murder at all . The courtroom is chaotic when Harvey starts tearing apart witnessed testimony . City and state politicians are eager to have a conviction , but will there be one ? Andrews fits the role like a glove . Cobb is at his best . The star studded cast is rounded out by : Jane Wyatt , Sam Levene , Cara Williams and Ed Begley Sr .
Even a living legend must set priorities .	Hang on to your hat . . . Zorro answers the call . Antonio Banderas and Catherine Zeta-Jones command your attention as if you need to be begged . California is on the cusp of statehood and a ruthless gang is hired to keep ballots from getting to the Governor's mansion . Alejandro de la Vega ( Bandaras ) is torn between being an available husband and father and his call to duty as Zorro . His wife Elena ( Zeta-Jones ) and young son Joaquin ( Adrian Alonso ) are reluctantly estranged as ' Poppy is away on business ' . Swashbuckling at its best with riveting action from beginning to end . Zorro and the Mrs . are far from being a normal couple with their excellence in sword-play . Banderas is almost faultless in his superior role as the skilled masked crime fighter . Zeta-Jones is nothing less than ravishing . Supporting cast includes : Alberto Reyes , Nick Chinlund , Rufus Sewell and Gustavio Sanchez-Parr .
Memorable British ruler Henry VIII an original .	He was loathed , loved , feared , respected and definitely left his mark in history . This is a lavish production dramatizing the life and 38-year reign of no doubt the very influential King Henry VIII ( Ray Winstone ) . This shrewed and ruthless ruler was obsessively determined to sire a male heir . His wife , Catherine of Argon ( Assumpta Sema ) failed after numerous tries . Henry would take a mistress , Anne Boleyn ( Helena Bonham Carter ) , who cleverly demanded marriage before having a child . She failed to provide a male child , so Henry had her placed in the Tower of London before she was beheaded . The harsh ruler grew restless with age and would have many slaughtered in a religious gesture ; growing impatient and untrusting he would use beheading as his favorite means of dealing with out-of-favor wives and allies accused of treason . Some disturbing images in this 200 plus minute dramatization . Photographed beautifully . Winestone is very impressive ; but I personally believe Miss Bonam Carter steals the show . The very strong cast also features : David Suchet , Sean Bean , Emilia Fox , Charles Dance , Emily Blunt , Michael Maloney , Joseph Morgan and Lara Belmont .
Farce driven drama . Feel free to laugh .	Richard Kelly writes and directs this funny farce driven drama set in the futuristic La La Land on the obligated picnic day July 4 , 2008 . Citizens of Los Angeles watch a mushroom cloud in the distance as they stand on the brink of environmental disaster . Some folks seem sillier than normal and others are dumber than ever . Boxer Santaros ( Dwayne " The Rock " Johnson ) is an action star suffering amnesia and determined to collect some realism for his next movie script . He is married to Krysta Now ( Sarah Michelle Gellar ) , an adult film icon , who is working on diversifying her image and most importantly developing her own TV reality show . Hermosa Beach police officer Taverner ( Seann William Scott ) along with his twin brother may have important information that possibly unlocks a major political conspiracy . Stupid or just plain silly ? Be prepared to laugh your butt off . Also in this star-studded ensemble : Mandy Moore , John Larroquette , Holmes Osborne , Cheri Oteri , Justin Timberlake , Curtis Armstrong and Nora Dunn .
Teen angst can be dark and consuming .	You will either hate this movie or like it a lot . I can't say I even remotely love it , but I do love Ellen Page . This cute Canadian actress finally got recognition in JUNO ( 2007 ) . This Bruce McDonald movie proves that Ms . Page is a natural , honest , combustible and believable actress . It may take a while to get used to THE TRACEY FRAGMENTS shot not in just split screen , but if you will . . . fragmented screens . The story line is also fragmented and after a half hour or so , you are already involved . Page plays 15-year-old Tracey Berkowitz , who comes from a very screwed up family to say the least . Being a little under-developed in the breast area , Tracey is humiliated at school and nobody really knows the confused girl inside . She is punished at home with a three month grounding for telling off her cross-dressing " shrink " ( Julian Richings ) . But independent Tracey runs away in search for her little brother Sonny ( Zie Souward ) , who has strayed from home thinking he is a . . . dog . Damn , can this get a little more weird . There is the unnerving photographic technique to get used too . Some will complain about the extremely strong language . Although there is a walk in the park , this movie is no picnic . There is this feeling of darkness and raw bitter cold . OK , Ms . Page is the movie's redemption . Also in the cast : Maxwell McCabe-Lokos , Ari Cohen and Slim Twig .
Beautiful movie of troubled love .	Emotional and heart-wrenching romantic drama directed by John Curran and a Ron Nyswaner screenplay of a W . Somerset Maugham novel . Beautiful scenery in China and a very intelligent story with outstanding acting . Kitty ( Naomi Watts ) , a lovely and restless society girl hastily marries a conservative micro biologist Dr . Walter Fane ( Edward Norton ) , who practically lives for his study of infectious diseases . The marriage seems to be in trouble from the very beginning for Kitty really is not in love with Walter . She has an affair with a married high ranking British councilmen ( Liev Schreiber ) . She has periodically found something exciting to inject into a mundane life and marriage . Dr . Fane finds out about the affair and instead of a newsworthy divorce , he forces Kitty to join him in relocating to Hong Kong , where he fights a major outbreak of cholera . The journey to 1920s China could mean redemption and revival of the couple's love ; but just being in the middle of a cholera epidemic is a possible death sentence . Also in the cast : Toby Jones , Diana Rigg , Anthony Wong Chau-Sang and Bin Li . Just over two hour running time ; and every second is worth your attention .
A swinging doctor brings help to the ghetto .	A hip , young Dr . John Carpenter ( Elvis Presley ) comes to a bad neighborhood slum to manage a clinic . He hires three nurses , unknowing that they are nuns in plain clothes . One of the nurses ( Mary Tyler Moore ) , falls in love with the guitar playing doctor and has to make up her mind to stay with him or go back to the church . This is Presley's last scripted movie and probably never looked better . Four songs make up the soundtrack featuring the million seller " Rubberneckin ' " . Also in the cast are Jane Elliot , Barbara McNair , Robert Emhart and Ed Asner . Great for repeat viewing .
Tremendous documentary spotlighting a dynamic Icon .	Malcolm Leo and Andrew Solt : enough said . These guys do deep research and do everything first class . This will be one of the best documentaries of an entertainer ever put on film . Elvis Presley meant so many different things to so many different people . He effected society , hair and clothing styles like no one before him . He changed the music world with the power of an Atomic Bomb . He has sold over one billion records and was the first visual founding father of the phenomenon that became rock ' n ' roll . His influence will live for decades to come . This is a personal look as well as a tribute to the world's most loved entertainer . I have the expanded 144 minute version of THIS IS ELVIS and watch it at least once a year . The soundtrack is like a history and not a greatest hits project . Even the non Elvis fan will be impressed with this entertaining look at musical history .
Off the beaten path . . . to a blood bath .	Director Alexandre Aja is faithful to Wes Craven in this " updated " and " unrated " version of a genuine cult classic . Not for the weak of stomach or faint of heart . . . its either puke or cardiac arrest . This is a must see for every horror flick freak . " Big Bob " ( Ted Levine ) and his bible spewing wife Ethel ( Kathleen Quinlan ) and family plus extended family get off the main highway to California and become stranded in the middle of the desert . And from the hills an inbred community of psychotic beings stalk the suburbanites with full intent to slaughter . The taste of flesh , either animal , fowl or human , is of no concern . These deformed mutants sustain themselves with any convenient blood pumping source . Other cast members : Emilie de Ravin , Aaron Stanford , Dan Byrd , Billy Drago , Robert Joy and Laura Ortiz . Haunting and interesting is the eclectic soundtrack featuring : Webb Pierce , Mamas and Papas , The Vanguards , Moot Davis and Wires on Fire .
Powerful and gripping World War II story .	SAINTS AND SOLDIERS is based on true events set following the Malmedy Massacre . Five Allied soldiers , one being a British airman with important intelligence that needed to be forwarded to Allied command , are trapped behind enemy lines . Outgunned and without food or supplies , they have to deal with the frigid wilderness as well as roving German troops . These brave men struggle with carrying out their jobs as soldiers and to survive with honor and morality . Realistic and thrilling combat scenes and even the war-torn , snow covered woods at times are a majestic site . Piercing gunfire and soft falling snow are as much part of this movie as the discovery and revelation of each survivor's thoughts and secrets . This film is masterful and well acted . Cast includes : Corbin Allred , Peter Holden , Larry Bagby , Kirby Heyborne and Alexander Polinsky .
Yes , beauty can still kill the beast .	Super-director Peter Jackson has his way with the mightiest Kong ever . Screenplay credits are given to Fran Walsh and Philippa Boyens as they regenerate the original story by Edgar Wallace and Merian C . Cooper . Have no fear , the original 1933 classic version of KING KONG starring Fay Wray and Bruce Cabot still has its spot in our hearts and memories . Of course , the 1976 remake with Jessica Lange and Jeff Bridges is way too easy to forget . Jackson makes this big-budget remake something special with stupendous special effects and inventive and deliberate production design . Jackson takes the liberty of making Kong an ape instead of a gorilla . That way the giant creature can use both arms and legs in fierce , life-and-death combat with dinosaurs , bats and various giant ' creepy-crawlies ' . Naomi Watts is exceptional as Ann Darrow , who after being captured by Kong actually forms a special relationship with the beast . Jack Black , mugs and postures as Carl Denham , who gives the world its eighth wonder . Adrien Brody is surprisingly interesting as Jack Driscoll , who in this version of the tale is a bargain-basement play-wright . Faithful assistant Preston is played by Tom Hanks ' son Colin . Thomas Kretschmann plays the rough and ready Captain Englehorn , who hires out his ship and crew to take Denham and his movie company to the mysterious Skull Island . Kyle Chandler is cast as the obnoxious movie star Bruce Baxter , who actually finds the guts to be a real hero . Others in the cast : Evan Parke , Jamie Bell , Stephen Hall and Andy Serkis , who actually was important in the production of aping moves in motion-capture to give Kong a more natural looking gait . My favorite scene is where Kong is running amok in New York City snatching and grabbing blondes off the street looking for Miss Darrow . Also cool is the sequences where Kong playfully pushes Darrow around in the jungle . Three hours plus may be a little much for some folks , but just get comfortable and enjoy an extraordinary remake of a classic .
Great value is placed on reputation .	Spike Lee directs this edge-of-your seat thriller . Clive Owen has had plenty of time to plan and orchestrate the perfect robbery . Owen and his group disguised as painters enter the Manhattan Trust and things border bizarre . Denzel Washington is a NYPD hostage negotiator that is ready to redeem himself by getting some 50 hostages released and disrupt what is looking like anything but a bank robbery . Wealthy banker Christopher Plummer hires a defiant power broker Jodie Foster to intercede the situation with a hidden agenda . Captivating cat-and-mouse standoff between Owen and Washington . Captivating crime drama . My favorite scene is watching the money take flight as bullets riddle an open safe . The few scenes of Washington with Foster are mood setters . Upon conclusion you realize how damn smart this movie is . Also starring are : Wilem Dafoe , Kim Director , Cassandra Freeman and Peter Gerety .
Indiana Jones ' adventure in India .	Director Steven Spielberg and the imagination of George Lucas are back at work again . This time a little toward the darker side with level of gore and violence on the rise . Daredevil archaeologist Indiana Jones ( Harrison Ford ) travels to India in search of the legendary Ankara Stone . In tow are a winsome gold-digger named " Willie " ( Kate Capshaw ) and a young street kid Short Round ( Ke Huy Quan ) . All three provide their share of comic relief . The mystical stone will give a desperate village needed protection again and in the bargain stumbles into the hideaway catacombs of an ancient palace where a secret cult is forcing kidnapped children into slave labor . Indy to the rescue and enough adventure to please his fans ten times over . Outstanding John Williams musical score . Also in the cast : Amirish Puri , Roshan Seth , Philip Tan , David Yip , Philip Stone and Dan Aykroyd .
Hell on earth .	Excellent . Recounted are the events leading to President Truman's decision to drop an A-bomb on Hiroshima in 1945 and its aftermath . Filmed primarily in " tinted " black and white with the weaving of newsreel and stock footage . Witness testimonials put the explanation point on the haunting depictions . Kenneth Welsh is uncanny in his portrayal of Truman . Other stars of note are : Richard Masur , Leon Pownall , Wesley Addy , Daisaku Akino , David Gow , Ken Jenkins and Naohiko Umewaka . A must for WWII and history buffs .
Revenge can devour you and spit you out .	Perverse , obtuse , profane , controversial ; but award-winning revenge drama about a common businessman ( Min-sik Choi ) with a family and a habit of getting drunk after work being kidnapped and put in a makeshift prison . He is incarcerated for no obvious reason ; his prison resembles a rundown hotel room . . . but there is no windows and a locked steel door . This becomes his home for fifteen years ; he is finally allowed to watch TV where he sees that he is a wanted man for murdering his wife and daughter . He contemplates suicide several times , but mostly he works out and writes of his situation in a journal . Just like he was kidnapped , he is set free and being obsessed in his wanting to carry out his revenge . . . a young sushi chef ( Hye-jeong Kang ) helps him find his captors . This South Korean film includes scenes of torture , sexuality and ultra-strong violence . This one is not easy to forget . If you are serious about your movies , OLDBOY should not be overlooked . Also in the cast : Ji-tae Yu , Seung-Shin Lee and Dae-han Ji .
It smells like a nightmare ! But it is just napalm in the morning .	APOCALYPSE NOW REDUX ( 2001 ) features forty-nine minutes added to Francis Ford Coppola's surreal Vietnam epic . A dillusional , but loyal and steadfast Capt . Willard ( Martin Sheen ) accepts a classified mission to terminate Col . Walter Kurtz ( Marlon Brando ) , who is a loose cannon that has strayed from the program . Kurtz is not of sound mind or deed and has crossed over into Cambodia where he reigns God-like over a renegade outpost . Coppola succeeds in presenting his highly ambitious depiction of the disturbing horrors of war . Not only are Brando and Sheen excellent ; Robert Duvall is in top form in his short screen time . Other notable cast members are : Frederic Forrest and Dennis Hopper . Scott Glenn , G . D . Spradlin , Harrison Ford and R . Lee Ermey all have minor roles . Sam Bottoms and a young Laurence Fishburne are cardboard and pedestrian . Carmine and Francis Coppola are responsible for the majority of the brilliantly eerie soundtrack that also features The Doors and Flash Cadillac . I can't really explain how the best can actually get better ; but you owe it to yourself to see the expanded version of this masterpiece .
Hidious fiend homesteads subway tunnels .	Christopher Smith writes and directs this tense creepy thriller . Kate ( Franka Potente ) is an attractive model agency broker , who leaves a party to go to another . It is near the midnight hour and she falls asleep in a London subway station . Upon awakening she realizes she is the only one locked in the subway tunnels . . . or is she ? Before long the lanky blonde is being chased in her pitch-dark subterranean hell by a deformed and deranged fiend ( Sean Harris ) . F / X are graphic , gripping and sustains unimaginable panic . CREEP is an effective horror flick that haunts and taunts . The hair on the back of your neck will stand erect and scream . Supporting cast : Paul Rattray , Vas Blackwood and Kelly Scott .
Adventure masterpiece .	Written by George Lucas and directed by Steven Spielberg , RAIDERS of the LOST ARK is a template for success in the genre . Indiana Jones ( Harrison Ford ) is a man's man , professor , acclaimed archaeologist and international adventurer that is hired by the US Government to locate the mystical Ark of the Covenant . Indy will need the aid of his ex-flame Marion Ravenwood ( Karen Allen ) , no stranger to archeology or adventure , as he embarks on a thrill filled quest for the Ark . He must make his discovery before a team of Nazis do . There is poison , snakes and plenty of traps as obstacles in the adventurous trek that leads to Nepal , marketplaces in Cairo , treacherous jungles in South America and a top-secret Nazis submarine base . In the end Indy and Marion witness the glorious unleashed power of the Lost Ark before the US Authorities have their way with the Biblical treasure . Others in this apt cast : John Rhys-Davies , Paul Freeman , Alfred Molina , Ronald Lacey and Wolf Kahler . This grand story of bravery , persistence and determination is glued together with the outstanding musical score by John Williams . This is the start of something good .
Classic adventure for the times . Bogart and Hepburn .	This John Huston classic combines drama , adventure and romance within a background of war . Humphrey Bogart and Katharine Hepburn are at , some say , their very best . In WWI Africa , a Bible-thumping spinster Rose Sayer ( Hepburn ) tries hard to turn the other cheek when her missionary brother is killed . A hard drinking riverboat captain Charlie Allnut ( Bogart ) offers the strait-laced lady what he thinks is the safest passage down an African river . Captain Charlie is as rustic as Rose is prim and proper . Along the slow cruise , Rose persuades Allnut to destroy a German gunboat . The two battle aquatic obstacles and themselves . The riverboat will end up needing some repair and before long the unlikely couple find affection for each other . Also featured : Robert Morley , Theodore Bikel and Peter Bull . This movie's allure has and will further endure the test of time .
Strangle hold on reality .	This is the movie that sets the standard for the war flicks that followed . This is Oliver Stone's Oscar winning account of a young man's tour of duty near the Cambodian border , circa 1967 . Innocence is the first thing to go ; pride is what a survivor takes home along with memories that will haunt for a lifetime . Tom Berenger and Willem DaFoe lead a very good ensemble cast that features Charlie Sheen , Forrest Whitacker , Kevin Dillon and Johnny Depp .
Young British fliers become defenders of the sky .	Exciting and equally dark , this remake of Howard Hawks's original ( 1930 ) starring Douglas Fairbanks , Jr . This World War I drama finds Basil Rathbone as Major Brand , the ruthless commander of a squadron of British fliers . Capt . Courtney ( Errol Flynn ) and Lt . ' Scotty ' Scott ( David Niven ) are hard drinking aces that beg Brand for more time to train new pilots . Brand doesn't like losing his fliers , but is forced by his own superiors to keep pushing the green pilots beyond their abilities . Brand turns his command over to Courtney . Will the camaraderie remain the same , or will Capt . Courtney become as disliked as Brand ? Director Edmund Goulding makes extensive use of the breathtaking aerial combat scenes used in the original . Terrific movie . Flynn and Rathbone are dynamic together . Other players include : Barry Fitzgerald , Donald Crisp , Melville Cooper and Carl Esmond .
Dark and forbidding .	David Cronenberg directs a thriller set in the underbelly of London . Russian-born Nikolai ( Viggo Mortensen ) is a driver for one of the most ruthless crime families of Eastern Europe . He is a chauffeur that has more skills than his employer can imagine . The family is headed by Semyon ( Armin Mueller-Stahl ) , who hides himself as the owner and proprietor of a Siberian restaurant . His tragic and cruel son , Krill ( Vincent Cassel ) , is the family enforcer . Nikolai is protecting a truer identity trying to get close enough inside the crime family to bring it down . He ends up meeting a pretty midwife Anna ( Naomi Watts ) , who accidentally possesses a dead young girl's diary that has enough evidence to bring Semyon's crime family to its knees . Mystery , deceit , murder and bodily harm seems to be a part of an unstoppable chain of events around the translation of the few pages of diary . Provocative with very bloody violence , graphic sexuality and full male nudity . Also in the cast : Mina E . Mina , Sarah-Jeanne Labrosee and Sinead Cusack .
The exceptional swashbuckler for the ages .	A genuine classic from directors Michael Curtiz and William Keighley . Adventure , bravery and romance . Robbing the rich and giving to the poor . . . the colorful and dynamic swashbuckler Robin Hood ( Errol Flynn . Fighting nobly for justice and the common man , the dashing Robin Hood duels the evil Sir Guy of Gisbourne ( Basil Rathbone ) and foils the dastardly wicked Prince John ( Claude Rains ) ; all the while . . . Robin strives to win the hand of Maid Marian ( Olivia de Havilland ) . A classic example of good trumping evil . Flynn is rousing and fearless . Rathbone is a superb villain . Miss de Havilland is beautiful and flawless . The supporting cast is more than apt : Eugene Palette , Alan Hale , Patric Knowles , Una O'Connor , Ian Hunter and Melville Cooper . Not to be overlooked is the Oscar-winning score by Erich Wolfgang Korngold .
Barry Levinson directs a masterpiece . Greed or family ?	Well acted . Well written . One of my favorites . A greedy young hustler ( Tom Cruise ) seeks to reunite with his brother played by Dustin Hoffman . Hoffman's character is an idiot savant and has just inherited the bulk of their father's estate . Cruise takes Hoffman out of the asylum and back into the mainstream hoping to talk him out of his share of the inheritance . This drama does have some very , very funny moments provided by Hoffman . All is well that ends well . I have watched this over ten times and have not tired of it yet . Super movie !
A scriptwriter meets a real challenge .	SUSAN SLEPT HERE is a cute comedy about a Hollywood scriptwriter Mark Christopher ( Dick Powell ) , a former Oscar winner , having trouble scripting another smash . His hardworking typist Maude ( Glenda Farrell ) is about to her wits end as well . Christopher has had an idea of writing a script about juvenile delinquency and on Christmas Eve he is given custody of a spunky 18 year old troubled teen off the street . . . Susan Landis ( Debby Reynolds ) . This is really not appreciated by Mark's gofer Virgil ( Alvy Moore ) and his fiancé Isabella ( Anne Francis ) is in a slow boil with the lid ready blow . The situation is all quit innocent until it seems Mark decides to marry the young girl to keep her out of jail . Now he really has material for a new script . Also in the cast : Horace McMahon , Herb Vigran , Les Tremayne and Maidie Norman .
Powerful . Macho . Action packed romantic drama .	The top 1 % of the nation's flyers gather for fighter pilot training . Outstanding maneuvers in the sky . Great soundtrack embellishes the hi-jinks , action and drama . You walk away from this one proud and pumped . This had to be a Godsend to the military recruiters ! I can watch this one again and again . Tom Cruise , in probably his best role . Kelly McGillis goes by the name of Charlie , but looks all woman to me . Wow ! ! Val Kilmer plays a good hard ass villain type . Anthony Edwards , Tim Robbins and John Stockwell are air jockey buddies . Tom Skerritt plays the mentor . Meg Ryan has a small , but very noticeable part ; cute , funny and loud . Excellent photography and sound that will not let you snooze . Don't miss one of the best of its kind . TOP GUN is tops .
Creepy is a pretty good word for it .	Director Robert Wise lets our imaginations slide into overdrive . This is an eerie adaptation of Shirley Jackson's " The Haunting of Hill House " . Dark shadows , noisy doors and loud sounds from who-knows-where . Perfect lighting and atmosphere for a genuine horror tale . ' Nell ' Lance ( Julie Harris ) is the skeptical heir of a reputed haunted mansion that will share her first weekend there on the hill with a parapsychologist Dr . John Markway ( Richard Johnson ) and other guests . It seems there are ghosts in the mansion that does not appreciate visitors . All-the-while , Nell's sanity is very questionable . Bloodless , no gore ; but subtle horror exudes . Other cast members : Claire Bloom , Russ Tamblyn , Fay Compton , Valentine Dyall and Lois Maxwell .
Doomed Marines fight to the last man .	Arguably one of the better WW2 movies . As Pearl Harbor is being devastated , a limited number of Marines on the small Pacific island Wake face an onslaught of Japanese prowess by sea and air . Knowingly outnumbered , these brave men put up the good fight for pride and country . John Farrow directs this action packed film that is commended for the moral boost it provided . The special effects are very good considering the era and technology available . I've watched this flick several times over the years and it still has an appeal . The very talented cast includes : Brian Donlevy , Robert Preston , William Bendix , Albert Dekker , Macdonald Carey and watch for Rod Cameron , Hugh Beaumont and Frank Faylen .
To know him is to understand him .	Martin Scorsese directs this biopic that peaks at the life / career of eccentric billionaire industrialist Howard Hughes ( Leonardo DiCaprio ) . Beginning in the late 1920's to the mid 1940's Hughes directed movies , would test fly innovative aircraft of his own design and battle his physical disabilities . His life long phobias and his obsessive-compulsive disorder would cause him to exile himself from friends , lovers and business stalwarts . The world he once believed to own would become a secret world unto himself . Most interesting is his relationships with Katharine Hepburn ( Cate Blanchett ) , Jean Harlow ( Gwen Stefani ) and Ava Gardner ( Kate Beckinsale ) . Alan Alda plays Senator Ralph Owen Brewster . Jude Law is cast as Errol Flynn . Close business associate Noah Dietrich is played by John C . Reilly . Also in the cast are : Alec Baldwin , Willem DeFoe and Ian Holm . THE AVIATOR runs almost three hours and is well worth the time . Photographed and scored masterfully .
A real chiller . THE MIST from the master . . . Stephen King .	Absolutely no disappointment . Writer / director Frank Darabont successfully adapts for the screen , Stephen King's short story about frightening things lurking in a nasty fog . After a violent thunderstorm , artist David Drayton ( Thomas Jane ) , his son Billy ( Nathan Gamble ) and next door neighbor Mr . Norton ( Andre Braugher ) go into a small town in Maine for supplies . A mysterious fog slowly engulfs the community and townsfolk seek shelter in a local grocery store . They are warned of " things " in the mist killing people . Terror sweeps the group and adding to the paranoia and fright is a religious zealot Mrs . Carmody ( Marcia Gay Harden ) preaching fire and brimstone . Huge mosquito-like creatures start attacking the grocery . Now the crowd knows a little of what is to come . Local rumors target a nearby military top-secret project going awry causing this possible end of days . Nevertheless , Drayton and the survivors must face-off against each other . . . Mrs . Carmody's new followers and those few that believe in taking a chance against what else hides in the mist . The atmosphere created is urgent and chilling . The creatures are fearsome . The gore is top shelf . And the disturbing images are just that . Monsters in the mist against mankind . There's winners that become losers ; ultimately . . . Stephen King done right . No disappointment here . Also in the cast : Laurie Holden , Toby Jones , Frances Sternhagen , Jeffrey DeMunn and William Sadler .
Do you know Alice . . . the world is on her shoulders .	Very good Sci-Fi with violence throughout . Alice ( Milla Jovovich ) has been subjected to biogenic experimentation . She is pretty and pretty damn volatile with super-human abilities . Superior strength and dexterity and she is hiding in the shifting sands of Nevada . She joins forces in the desert with Carlos Olivera ( Oded Fehr ) and L . J . ( Mike Epps ) . There are new survivors Claire ( Ali Larter ) , K-Mart ( Spenser Locke ) and Nurse Betty ( Ashanti ) combining forces to eliminate a deadly virus that has been created to turn every human on earth in the living undead . Outstanding F / X and visually exciting with hard hitting action . Ashanti is very impressive . Others in the cast : Christopher Egan , Matthew Marsden , Joe Hursley , and Linden Ashby .
Do doubt . . . an instant classic .	An absolute joy to watch . One of the better animated features is an understatement . Lightning McQueen ( Owen Wilson ) is a hotshot , outspoken rookie race car that lives for speed . He finishes in a three way tie with The King ( Richard Petty ) and Chick Hicks ( Michael Keaton ) for the chance to go on to the Piston Cup Championship race in California . On the way west , an unexpected detour finds Lightning in an almost forgotten town , Radiator Springs , on Route 66 off the interstate . McQueen makes true friendships with some quirky characters - - including Mater ( Larry the Cable Guy ) , Sally ( Bonnie Hunt ) , Luigi ( Tony Shalhoub ) and Doc Hudson ( Paul Newman ) , who happens to have won the Piston Cup several times in his faded career . Among other voices featured are : John Ratzenberger , Cheech Marin , Michael Wallis , Bob Costas and George Carlin . Helping rev up the action is a super soundtrack that features : Sheryl Crow , Rascal Flatts , James Taylor , John Mayer and Brad Paisley . You owe it to yourself to relax and be entertained . CARS is not to be missed .
Outstanding and highly graphic .	An absolute knock-out . Photography as good as it gets . 300 is based on a historically-inspired comic book series later to become the novel by Frank Miller . The retelling of the Battle of Thermopylae circa 480 B . C . may be historically inaccurate , but hell fire its a great movie . King Leonidas ( Gerald Butler ) of Sparta collects his best soldiers numbering 300 strong to defend against a Persian invasion . Leonidas knows this battle will be suicidal , so he only selects men that have sired a male child to continue linage . The mission calls for stopping King Xerxes's ( Rodrigo Santoro ) invasion of Greece at Thermopylae . A hunchbacked Ephialtes ( Andrew Tierman ) betrays the Spartan's planned passage through the narrow cliffs ; this will allow the Persians too surround the overwhelmed Spartans . Dilios ( David Wenham ) is dispatched to tell the story of the sacrificial battle and to expound the glory of the 300 . This film contains tremendous in-your-face graphic battle scenes . Lena Headey plays Queen Gorgo . Also in the massive cast : Dominic West , Vincent Regan , Tom Wisdom and Michael Fassbender . 300 is awesome .
Almost perfect plan for revenge .	Well thought out . Interest sustaining story . Christie ( Danielle Kind ) is almost twenty and has led a very miserable life . Three years after her parent's divorce , her father committed suicide ; but Christine is easy to blame her Uncle Ray ( John Wesley Shipp ) for his despondence . The vengeful Christie comes up with a diabolical plan to get even with her Uncle and puts a meticulous plan in motion . She moves in with Ray and his wife Miranda ( Cynthia Gibb ) and their daughter ( Annie Boviard ) . Christie will employee a willing accomplice Selene ( Anastasia Phillips ) to turn her Uncle Ray's life upside down and inside out . She is hellbent on avenging her father's death .
Stark , real and torrid . Can you hear the moan !	In two words . . . hot damn ! This scorching drama is derived from a 1927 song by Blind Lemon Jefferson . Lazuras ( Samuel L . Jackson ) is a God-fearing former blues musician , who is bitter and broken from a cheating wife . His soul seems lost in his crop of butter beans . One fateful day , he finds the town nymphomaniac Rae ( Christina Ricci ) half naked and beaten unconscious on the side of the road . He takes her home to nurse her her back to health . The panties and crop top sex addict is tied with a forty foot chain to the radiator for her safe keeping . Lazuras and his bible will be forced to combat Rae's darkest demons . Things almost become deadly when Rae's husband Ronnie ( Justine Timberlake ) returns early from the Army . Jackson learned to play the guitar for this role and really belts out some blues . Ricci softly sings a Sundy school song . And a doe-eyed blonde in panties is not required to sing well . Also heard are Bobby Rush , R . L . Burnside , the Dixie Nighingales and the Heartless Bastards . Jackson and Ricci are outstanding , deeply and very believable in their roles . Also in the cast : S . Epatha Merkerson ( Law and Order ) , John Cothran Jr . and Michael Raymond-James .
Fiendish thriller .	Is a little girl that looks like a woman suppose to do things that women do ? HARD CANDY is a sadistic chiller full of hard sweat suspense . Hayley ( Ellen Page ) is a 14 year old girl that seems to have the wisdom of a woman a bit older . On the internet , she converses with an easy enough to like photographer ( Patrick Wilson ) , that she eventually meets for coffee . Jeff , the photographer , charms the girl into coming to his house for a possible photo shoot . Hayley suspects Jeff of being a pedophile and after her hard delving investigation , she decides to impose revenge for all the young girls he may or may not have harmed and emotionally hurt . Hayley , much smarter than she appears , drugs Jeff and initiates a merciless revenge " below the belt " . This flick is thoroughly riveting and terror personified . Sandra Oh makes a brief unimportant appearance . Wilson gives everything he's got . And Page is just amazing . . . a twenty year old playing the part of a 14 year old girl . She is very convincing and absolutely awesome .
Dark , but very enlightening .	A powerfully wonderful movie . You are held in a death-grip once you let yourself get involved with the story . A successful dentist , Alan Johnson ( Don Cheadle ) , is torn in a life crisis of balancing his career with his family . He notices his former college roommate Charlie Fineman ( Adam Sandler ) and wants to touch base . He finds that Charlie , who lost his wife and family in the 9-11 attack on America , is no longer in touch with reality . . . choosing to involve his mind with his favorite music from the past and video games . The former roommates rekindle their friendship and strengthen their former bond . Johnson has his friend Angela Oakhurts ( Liv Tyler ) , a psychiatrist , to try and bring Charlie out of his grief . . . but it is Alan that accomplishes in getting his friend to emerge from his deep darkness . Jada Pinkett Smith plays Johnson's wife . Writer and director Mike Binder plays the role of Charlie's attorney / guardian . Also in the cast : Saffron Burrows , Donald Sutherland , Adell Modell and Robert Klein . Outstanding soundtrack featuring the likes of Bruce Springsteen , Graham Nash , Pear Jam and The Pretenders . NOTE : I have never been a Sandler fan ; but I found him outstanding in this role . In some of the scenes , I thought out loud . . . why has he never been approached to play singer / songwriter Bob Dylan in a biopic .
A classic Old English poem comes to life .	Director Robert Zemeckis presents BEOWULF in a digitally enhanced live action Sci-Fi fantasy . Very visual with intense violence and ' simulated ' sexual sequences . Why wasn't high school English literature this exciting ? If you happen to be a Beowulf purist this movie may cause some agony . King Hrothgar ( Anthony Hopkins ) and his people and magnificent mead hall are being terrorized by the horrific monster Grendel ( Crispin Glover ) . Hrothgar puts out the word for anyone with a strong army to come band with his own soldiers to battle the monster . It is the mightiest warrior of them all , Beowulf ( Ray Winstone ) and his cadre of soldiers to the rescue . The acclaimed hero destroys the demon Grendel and incurs the wrath of the monster's sexy and seductive serpentine mother ( Angelina Jolie ) . The battle will echo through the ages , immortalizing the memory and name of Beowulf . Superior eye-candy . With Jolie at the top of the list ; you have to be impressed with the bloodshed and gore , the dripping blood and oozing entrails . The cast also features : Robin Wright Penn , Julene Renee , John Malkovich , Brendan Gleeson , Alison Lohman , Greg Ellis and Sebastion Roche .
Powerful . Eye opening . True life story !	Director / co-writer Kimberly Peirce puts on the screen a rather frank and sordid love story that ended in a tragic murder in 1993 . A young girl in Lincoln , Nebraska leaves her home to try and live out her preferred life style , that as a boy . Suffering a gender identity , Teena Brandon / Brandon Teena lived a short alienated life ; but found a soul mate that finally accepted the love of a lonely person . In Teena's mind , she is a young man trapped in a girl's body . After the transgender roll playing was discovered , Teena / Brandon was brutally raped and finally shot to death . This movie will not be for everyone . The profanity and violence is relevant to the tragic story . The rape scene is very intense and not easy to watch . The shock of the whole thing is that this is a true story . Sympathy and compassion are part of comprehension . This movie will be hard to forget . Hilary Swank's Oscar winning portrayal of Teena / Brandon is much to talk about . Chloe Sevigny , as the soul mate Lana , is worthy of praise as well . Also in the cast are Jeanetta Arnette and Alicia Goranson .
Touching drama about first love .	Reese Witherspoon plays Dani , a young country girl that falls madly in love with the new 17 year old neighbor , Court , played by Jason London . Court tries his best to make Dani realize that the difference in their ages would make a love relationship improbable . Soon the nubile charm of Dani starts winning over Court's will . Next enters the meeting of Dani's older sister , played by Emily Warfield , and the beginning of a short lived love / jealousy problem . Tess Harper and Sam Waterston round out the cast . This is a fresh , free spirited ; but heartbreaking drama that touches down deep . Feel free to cry .
Don't go to sleep ! There is a crime to solve .	This is a thriller that just keeps stacking on the intrigue and excitement . Powerful and masterful acting . Al Pacino is a high profile detective that goes to Alaska with his partner to help out in a murder case . Hilary Swank plays a young cop that is also trying to solve the crime along with the Alaskan police . After Pacino accidentally kills his partner , he is blackmailed by the hunted sadistic killer ( Robin Williams ) who witnessed the shooting . When Pacino is not playing cat and mouse with Williams , he is trying like hell to get some sleep ; but sleep doesn't come . Pacino is convincing and it is really interesting to see the darker side of Williams . Swank is actually impressive and could have handled a meatier role . Kudos to director Christopher Nolan for the atmospheric chiller . Highly recommended .
Research shocking the world .	Sex is as secretive as a whisper in a hurricane and at the same time has the urgency and power of a hydrogen bomb . Alfred Kinsey ( Liam Neeson ) , a biology professor at Indiana University , unknowingly changed American culture when his " Sexual Behavior in the Human Male " was published in 1948 . Kinsey grew up the son of an engineering mentor and sometimes preacher ( John Lithgow ) . Rebelling against his rigid father , Kinsey became a zoologist from Harvard and began an extensive study of the gall wasp . At Indiana University , he met and married the open minded female student , Clara McMillen ( Laura Linney ) and began his gathering of data on sexual behavior . The project of gathering sexual histories would consist of thousands of interviews . Kinsey would recruit a team of researchers ( Timothy Hutton , Peter Sarsgaard and Chris O'Donnell ) developing a technique to get people to forget about the guilt and shame and speak candidly of their sexual thoughts and activities . Kinsey would be thought of as a Godsend for American males and females alike . Kinsey drug sex out of the closet and set in motion a sexual revolution . Neeson and Linney are superb . Rounding out the cast of this eye opening bio / drama are : Oliver Platt , Tim Curry , Dylan Baker and Veronica Cartwright . Frank and graphic sexual content and images earns KINSEY a strong R rating . Kudos to Oscar-winning director Bill Condon .
There is a fortune in gold to be found .	THE GOOD , THE BAD AND THE UGLY is the final and finest of director Sergio Leone's ' dollar ' trilogy . The good : Joe ( Clint Eastwood ) . The bad : Sentenza or Angel Eyes ( Lee Van Cleef ) . The ugly : Tuco ( Eli Wallach ) . Joe , also known as Blondie , is a shiftless gunman with a touch of honor . Angel Eyes , is a hit-man who always gets his assignment done . . . usually in a sadistic manner . Tuco is a Mexican bandito always looking out for his own interest . . . without a conscience . These three are looking for Confederate gold worth $200 , 000 . The cache is buried in a nameless grave . . . but who will be the first to get his hands on it ? The finale proves borderline hypnotic as Tuco pathetically runs in circles through the graveyard looking for the hidden treasure . This surely ranks with the best westerns of all time . Other cast members : Claudio Scarchilli , Benito Stefanelli , Livio Lerenzon and Aldo Giuffre . Ennio Morricone's wonderful score will echo in your mind long after the final credits roll .
Pride . Honor . Every brave man takes his turn .	This is a wonderful movie that will restore pride and let you walk away with the feeling of viewing a masterpiece . Bravery can be found in every age , creed and color . Mel Gibson is superb as Col . Benjamin Martin , who reluctantly leads a volunteer militia to heroic fighting in the American revolutionary war . Col . Martin is known as ' The Ghost ' for the way he stymies and makes fools of the British commanders . Revenging the death of his young son , Martin is fearless and relentless . The battle scenes are brutal and power packed . A rough and bumpy ride you won't soon forget . Also appearing in this smoke filled war drama are : Heath Ledger , Lisa Brenner , Jason Isaacs and Chris Cooper .
Is sportsmanship that important anymore ?	If you think that bad taste is funny . . . be ready to laugh your butt off . This is not to be confused with the Walter Matthau Bad News Bears of 1976 . Watching this team of misfits is somehow refreshing . Morris Buttermaker ( Billy Bob Thornton ) , a former major league pitcher who saw of an inning in the big leagues , is hired by Liz Whitewood ( Marsha Gay Harden ) to coach her son and a group of little league rejects . Butterworth , currently working as an exterminator ; drinks beer constantly , chain smokes cigars and doesn't particularly like children ; but reluctantly takes on the job of coaching these talent-challenged kids . A thorn in Buttermaker's side is the coach ( Greg Kinnear ) of the returning champions . To the rescue comes his estranged daughter ( Sammi Kraft ) and a neighborhood tough guy ( Jeff Davies ) . Thornton is hilarious as the grousing coach . Nobody could play this role any better . And impressive is Kraft , who was discovered in a public park and reportedly can throw a 72 mph fastball . Crude , rude and a whole lot of fun to watch .
Devious minds and lonely hearts intertwine .	Based loosely on the novel of the same name , LITTLE CHILDREN , is provocative , gripping and erotic . A couple of interesting focal points ; a neighborhood living in fear of a pedophile , Ronnie ( Jackie Earle Haley ) ; and a relationship born of necessity and lust . Sarah ( Kate Winslet ) and Brad ( Patrick Wilson ) are saddled with children and both very unhappy in their marriages . Their relationship began on a dare , while their children played in the park . Sarah , an outsider with a major in English literature . . . now a stay at home mom , becomes disenchanted with her successful husband ( Gregg Edelman ) when she finds him sniffing panties and masturbating in front of his computer . Brad , whom the neighborhood women call " the prom king " , is frustrated with not being able to pass his bar exam and his nagging filmmaker wife ( Jennifer Connelly ) . Sarah and Brad's illicit relationship is fueled by their new found lust . Meanwhile , the convicted sex offender Ronnie is having major problems coping with his miserable and secluded life . An extraordinary drama that sheds light on the human stain . Also in the cast : Phyllis Somerville , Catherine Wolfe and Mary B . McCann .
Extremely compelling saga of the " Zodiac " .	Edge-of-your-seat drama based on two non-fiction books by Robert Graysmith about the Zodiac killer . The ruthless serial killer haunted and terrorized the San Francisco Bay area in the 60's and 70's ; leaving citizens and police authorities in a constant state of panic and shock . The killer would mock detectives and news reporters by leaving a series of ciphers and menacing letters with the promise of his identity . The trails of evidence yielded false leads . The true story behind the murders is still considered one of the most perplexing cases of unsolved crimes in modern history . Cartoonist Graysmith ( Jake Gyllenhaal ) , reporter Paul Avery ( Robert Downey Jr . ) , inspector David Toschi ( Mark Ruffalo ) and partner William Armstron ( Anthony Edwards ) sacrificed their personal lives and careers with their almost obsessive investigation and hunt for the Zodiac . Intense movie that grabs a hold and doesn't let go . Also in the cast : Elias Koteas , John Carroll Lynch , Chloe Sevigny , Brian Cox and Dermot Mulroney .
Profoundly : friends to the end .	Barry Levinson directs this powerful and gripping crime drama . A youthful prank goes very wrong for four young boys growing up in New York's Hell's Kitchen . The childhood bud's are sent to a brutal reform school where they find out it is not how tough you act . . . its the stamina to sustain your very life . Many years later their torture and rape is still not spoken of . Two of the childhood friends come across the head guard ( Kevin Bacon ) and they execute their revenge . When charged with murder , ' Shakes ' ( Jason Patric ) and Mike ( Brad Pitt ) unite to exact revenge for the brutal rapes and tortures they survived . Very strong sexual content with graphic violence . Riveting and suspenseful . This strong cast includes : Robert de Niro , Dustin Hoffman , Vittorio Gassman , Billy Crudup , Minnie Driver , Bruno Kirby , Terry Kinney , and Ron Eldard . Some very dramatic performances and a story that is hard to forget . Highly Recommended .
Riveting crime drama .	Director William Friedkin sculpts the screenplay of Gerald Petievich's novel . After his partner is killed days away from retirement . Secret Service agent Richard Chance ( William Peterson ) starts a ruthless search to find who is responsible . His new partner ( John Pankow ) is not really thrilled with Chance's methods , but he honors the code of a partner is a partner . A story line with cops and counterfeiters , loads of violence and a rambunctious car chase and nudity is enough to keep you in your seat . Peterson is impressive . Wilhem Dafoe is a great bad guy . Others in the cast : John Turturro , Debra Feuer , Dean Stockwell and Robert Downey Sr .
Fantastic fantasy treat . You've just got to see it .	Based on a Neil Garman novel , STARDUST is pleasing to the eye and a great escape flick . Wicked witches , flying pirates , greedy princes and a very magical and forbidden land beyond a protective wall . Tristan ( Charlie Cox ) is trying to win the heart of the beautiful , but cold Victoria ( Sienna Miller ) . He promises her a fallen star that has landed behind the village wall . He finds the star is not a star at all , but a celestial beauty named Yvaine ( Claire Danes ) . A fairytale-like adventure really gets underway when the wicked witch Lamia ( Michelle Pfeffer ) tries to steal Yvaine's youth . Tristan pledges allegiance to protect the lovely Yvaine , and he doesn't know it yet . . . he is falling in love with her . Also in the cast : Robert De Niro , Peter O'Toole , Melanie Hill , Henry Cavill , Jason Fleming and Mark Strong . Photographed beautifully . De Niro is a hoot to watch . Danes is simply adorable . Rated PG-13 for fantasy violence and a bit of risqué humor . That should not be a deterrent though . STARDUST is magical .
Well made graphic remake .	A contemporary remake of Wes Craven's controversial 1972 shocker . Briefly after arriving at her family's vacation house on the lake , Mari Collingwood ( Sara Paxton ) and her best friend are abducted , terrorized and brutally raped and left for dead by a prison escapee Krug ( Garret Dillahunt ) and his crew . Near-death and wounded Mari manages to swim back to the summer house . The terrorist take refuge from a storm in the Collingwood's retreat . When Mari's parents John ( Tony Goldwyn ) and Emma ( Monica Potter ) realize that their visitors are responsible for their daughter's condition suppress their rage just long enough to vow to make them suffer a brutal and grisly death . A strong R rating for violence , nudity , profanity and sexual abuse . Very tense , but gratifying . Also in the cast : Riki Lindhome , Aaron Paul , Martha Macisaac , Michael Bowen and Spencer Treat Clark .
Geogre A . Romero masterpiece .	The legendary George A . Romero continues his string of " dead " flicks and this one will not let the zombie fans down . Probably the most daring and relentlessly gruesome of them all . Intense , grisly , guts hanging out and heads exploding . . . the high-master of gore adds to his reputation for stomach turning realistic special effects . A group of college film students are trying to complete a short film assignment when Pennsylvania is hit with the pandemic rise of flesh-hungry zombies . It seems all of the buried dead around the world , not shot through the head , rise to raise some hell and chow down . A group of the students struggle for survival while filming the shocking events along their trek to safety . This is Romero at his best . The cast includes : Michelle Morgan , Josua Close , Amy Lalonde , Joe Dinicol , Shawn Roberts and Tatiana Masiany .
It's a gore feast ! And a hoot .	Buddies Matt Damon and Ben Affleck , combined with the services of Chris Moore and horror master Wes Craven , produce a rollicking horror comedy . Kudos to John Gulager for his quirky direction . A group of strangers find themselves trapped in a roadside tavern in the middle of nowhere ; this diverse gathering must get their s - - t together and in a hurry , for they are about to have one hell of a struggle on their hands . . . a battle for survival against a family of creatures hungry to feast on flesh . Blood and guts spew , shoot and splatter . Messy body parts are a byproduct that seems to stack up . A motley crew of actors , that are a hoot to watch in this almost tongue-in-cheek dismemberment , includes : Krista Allen , Jenny Wade , Duane Whitaker , Henry Rollins , Jason Mewes , Clu Gulager , Diane Goldner , Balthazar Getty and Tyler Patrick Jones . A conclusion : Allen is one tough good lookin ' chick . Note : Clu Gulager , of course , is the veteran actor of stage and screen ; and father of the director . Goldner is the director's wife .
Man vs machine . Intelligence can be dangerous wisdom .	This is an under rated Sci-Fi gem . Absolutely powerful story line leaving no room for cob webs in your mind . Dr . Charles Forbin ( Eric Braeden ) puts his life's work into creating a super intelligent computer that links up with a similar machine created by the U . S . S . R . and tries to hold the world hostage . Dramatic dialogue and crafty schemes seem just enough to outwit the computerized meglomaniac . Tension is tight and privacy is a cherished commodity . Braeden , who later would become a major TV soap opera character Victor Newman , is outstanding in this role . Susan Clark plays one of his co-workers and pretends to be his lover in trying to fool the computer . Gordon Pinsent plays the concerned President , while Lenoid Rostoff plays his Russian counterpart . William Schallert is the calm and cordial Director of the CIA . Other notables in the cast are Marion Ross and Georg Stanford Brown . If you get the chance to see this Cold War thriller . . . by all means check it out . If you want to leave your brain at the door , forget it . . . you will need it .
Give him what he wants .	Craig Baxley directs the script written by Stephen King inspired by his novel " The Storm of the Century " . Intrigue , mystery and horror . The population of Little Tall Island off the coast of Maine is getting ready for one hell of a storm . . . the storm of the century . A mysterious man ( Colm Feore ) arrives and seems to know the little nasty secrets of the townsfolk . Mother Nature's big blow is not enough . . . the haunting stranger seems to be the cause of murder and suicide . The island is controlled by fear as the stranger threatens not to leave unless the community gives him what he wants . There could have been gore galore , but this well photographed thriller was released as a TV mini-series . The snow scenes brings back memories of THE SHINING . Feore is haunting and captivating . Other stand outs in the cast are : Tim Daly , Casey Siemaszko , Becky Ann Baker and Spenser Breslin . There is a quick glimpse of King on the TV before it is shattered . If you haven't read King's novel of the same name . . . you will now want to .
Real dirty fight flick .	MILLION DOLLAR BABY is a pantywaist compared to RIGGED . As good as that acclaimed movie is , RIGGED is just as real and powerful as FIGHT CLUB . And Rebecca Neuenswander is a knockout . FIGHT NIGHT is about the underground boxing circuit . . . from Dalhart , Texas to Tulsa , Oklahoma and Kansas City , Missouri to Miami , Florida . Michael Dublin ( Chad Ortis ) is a full-time con man , a product of the circuit traveling from town to town with one scam to another . You have to get in line to get a piece of him . . . enemies outnumber his friends . Dublin comes across the best scam of his career when he meets Katherine Parker ( Neuenswander ) , a female bare-knuckled fighter that possess more skills than any man twice her size . Dublin and Katherine hit the road with what he calls ' fight-rigging , in-reverse ' . Every abandoned warehouse , country fair and seedy basement bar seems more and more like the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow . Dublin's extra shady past was meant to catch up with him as the stakes get higher and danger is just a left jab away . Even the relationship between Katherine and ' Dub ' travels to an unexpected place . Brutal violence and strong language star equally in this hard punching drama . Others in the cast : Kurt Hanover , David Alan Graf , DeeDee Arps and John Wilson .
Emotional drama about a mother's love .	Another Clint Eastwood effort snubbed . This time directing the ever beautiful Angelina Jolie in a role where her acting abilities step to the forefront . It is 1928 , and Los Angeles single mother Christine Collins ( Jolie ) leaves to go to work and returns home to find that her son Walter ( Gattlin Griffin ) has vanished without a trace . Her efforts are relentless , while the Los Angeles Police Department appears to be lacking in eagerness to continue their search for the boy . After five months , a little boy is returned to her . . . but it is not her son . She seems to be going up against the whole police department , but actually it is just Capt . J . J . Jones ( Jeffrey Donovan ) trying to make Miss Collins look delusional . Public opinion and the press get involved ending in exposing the world of corruption in which the LAPD let itself wallow in . The time period is depicted well . The story is touching and memorable . Photography and editing seems flawless . Also in the cast : John Malkovich , Jan Devereaux , Frank Wood and Colm Feore .
Non-stop action with high body count .	Absolutely adrenaline driven with a body count so high you lose count . Bloody and violent and a damn powerful movie . Hardboiled and angry , Mr . Smith ( Clive Owen ) delivers a baby in the middle of a rapid fire gun battle . The baby's mother dies , so Smith enlists the help of a lactating hooker named DQ ( Monica Bellucci ) to protect the child while he tries to unravel the mystery as to why the baby's life is being threatened . Newspapers for diapers and a cameo bullet proof vest will be the little one's attire for the time being . It ends up a cat-and-mouse game on a grand scale opposite a maniacal hit-man named Hertz ( Paul Giamatti ) . The game is bloody , violent and very volatile . . . and deadly is putting it mildly . Not for the faint of heart . Also in the cast : Stephen McHattie , Julian Richings , Daniel Pilon and Tony Munch .
You are your father's son .	Tom Hanks like you've never seen him before . Hanks plays Michael Sullivan , " The Angel of Death " . He is a hitman for his surrogate father John Rooney ( Paul Newman ) an elderly Irish mob boss . Sullivan's young son ( Tyler Hoechlin ) witnesses what his father does for a living and both are soon on the road for seven weeks robbing banks to avenge the murder of Sullivan's wife and other son . Enter Jude Law as a reporter / photographer willing to kill Sullivan himself for the chance to add to his collection of photos of dead mobsters . Filmed beautifully catching the drama of life in the 30's . Sometimes the pace bogs down , but then a burst of graphic violence sustains the story . Director Sam Mendes directs this powerful drama about loyalty , responsibility , betrayal and the bonding of a secretive man and his young son . Other notable cast members are : Dylan Baker , Stanley Tucci , Daniel Craig and Jennifer Jason Leigh . Hanks again proves to be excellent in a very memorable movie . Make room for some Oscars !
Is it really just an eye for an eye ?	Steven Spielberg directs this riveting movie based on real events . The world was stunned as it watched the 1972 Olympic Games in Munich . Eleven Israeli athletes were held captive and then slaughtered . A former bodyguard for Isreali Prime Minister Meir ( Lynn Cohen ) named Avner ( Eric Bana ) is assigned to lead a team to track down eleven Palestinian terrorist responsible for the Olympic killings . The mission monikered " Operation Wrath of God " had Avner and his squad of assassins crisscrossing Europe and America to eliminate the terrorist group known as Black September . You make think a running time of 2hrs and 44mns as lumbering ; but MUNICH has the ability to hold your interest throughout . Tremendously engaging . John William's musical score is intense and deliberate . Other featured actors : Daniel Craig , Ayelet Zurer , Ciaran Hinds , Hanns Zischler , Mathieu Kassovitz and Geoffrey Rush .
Astonishing . Beloved priest . . . a child molester .	Written and directed by filmmaker Amy Berg , DELIVER US FROM EVIL is an expose that is appalling , frustrating and infuriating . The crime is heartbreaking and life-changing and absolutely unforgivable . This is the frank account of a Roman Catholic priest , Oliver O'Grady , who for 20 years raped and sodomized multitudes of children that were entrusted to his personal and spiritual care . The Catholic Church's California hierarchy with full knowledge of O'Grady's sinful perversion kept quietly transferring him to another parish . . . then another . . . and another . Molesting boys and girls and even a nine month old baby girl ; O'Grady appears on camera confessing and acknowledging his life as an habitual child molester . His hideous proclivities sustained in each new parish and the congregations had no insight of their new priest's past as he garnered each new source of victims . To this day O'Grady walks free in native Ireland . Also appearing in this documentary : Father Thomas Doyle , Cardinal Mahony , attorney John Manley , theologean Patrick Wall , Governor of Oklahoma Frank Keating and by way of archive footage Monsignor Cain and Pope Benedict XVI .
The last western outpost . . . Fort Apache .	Classic western . Not exactly the real west . . . but John Ford's west . Almost methodical and definitely deliberate with very good characterization . Lt . Col . Owen Thursday ( Henry Fonda ) takes command of his last regiment and seems to cross each man with his arrogant and ' by-the-book ' demeanor . The only soft spot would be for his daughter Philadephia ( Shirley Temple ) who accompanied him west . Capt . Kirby York ( John Wayne ) disagrees with Thursday's tactics , but honors his glory-seeking new commander . . . even when it comes to sure disaster . Huge action scenes beautifully photographed and staged in the famous Monument Valley . Justice , honor and heroism flourishes like many if not most of Ford's projects . A very accomplished supporting cast includes : Ward Bond , Victor McLaglen , Anna Lee , Guy Kibbee and John Agar's debut . Wayne is Wayne . Fonda is opposite of being type cast and is excellent . Temple is still a darling at the ripe old age of twenty and already married to co-star Agar . Fort Apache was constructed on Crash Corrigan's Movie Ranch in Simi Valley . If FORT APACHE is not a classic , I don't know what is .
One of the greatest westerns ever .	Everything you could ask for from a western . I rate this one right up there with UNFORGIVEN ( 1992 ) and TOMBSTONE ( 1993 ) . The 1957 original starring Glen Ford and Van Heflin was pretty darn good ; but Russell Crowe and Christian Bale makes this 3 : 10 to Yuma one of the great ones . Full flavor shoot-em-up western . A more than well photographed movie about Arizona filmed in New Mexico . A desperate farmer ( Bale ) struggles to support his ranch and family through a harsh drought . He accepts 200 dollars to help transport a notorious bad man ( Crowe ) to the railroad depot to board the 3 : 10 to Yuma for imprisonment . The gang leader does everything including bribery to sway the farmer into letting him escape . Excellent efforts from Peter Fonda , Ben Foster , Gretchen Mol and Logan Lerman . Without the violence and strong language you would have a TV show not a great movie . Catch the 3 : 10 and you'll be happy to do it again .
Jealousy reveals secrets .	Richard Eyre directs this enticingly nasty little tale . More or less based on the 2003 novel by Zoe Heller , this movie is clever and sensational . A dewy eyed attractive Sheba Hart ( Cate Blanchett ) starts her first teaching assignment at St . George's School in the north of London . Some see through her supposed innocence . She at first is loathed by the school's spinster Barbara Covett ( Judi Dench ) . With a stressful and mundane home life , the attractive Sheba enters an illicit sexual relationship with one of her fifteen year old students ( Andrew Simpson ) . Barbara's lesbianism is not a secret among her peers . The elder and much respected teacher quickly turns her sights on the attractive Sheba ; and Barbara mentions this in the journal she has written for years . . . placing a gold star on her better days . Barb with her hidden desires accidentally witnesses Sheba and her young paramour in the act of oral sex after school . Ms . Covett reveals her discovery to the winsome Sheba and begins her blackmail in hoping to consummate the lesbian affair she desires . In a jealous rage , Barbara blows the whistle on Hart in turn starting the ruin of her marriage and career . Sheba temporarily moves in with the elder teacher only to find well kept journals revealing the real intentions of her secret admirer's hidden desires .
Did the butler do it ?	This is a Graham Greene thriller . A small boy , Phillipe ( Bobby Henrey ) , hero worships the household butler , Baines ( Ralph Richardson ) , working in the French embassy in London . When Baines ' wife ( Sonia Dresdel ) accidentally falls to her death , it is investigated as a murder my Inspector Crowe ( Denis O'Dea ) , Detective Ames ( Jack Hawkins ) and Detective Hart ( Bernard Lee ) . Phillipe is the only eye witness and it appears he is being forced to say his hero is a murderer . Kind of slow at the start , but interest is keenly sharpened before this British classic reaches its finale . Other players : Walter Fitzgerald , Joan Young and Geoffrey Keen .
Absolutely cool !	This sequel to 1995's GET SHORTY has former loan shark enforcer Chili Palmer ( John Travolta ) looking to get out of the movie business and going into the music business . Chili comes to the aid of a recently widowed music exec ( Uma Thurman ) to jump start the career of a newly discovered chanteuse ( Christina Milian ) . Three other people are haggling to get a piece of the rising diva's future fame . There is her recently dismissed controller ( Vince Vaughn ) , who thinks he is a hip black manager ; there is his boss ( Harvey Keitel ) , who is slime persona-fide and a very upscale gangsta-rap producer ( Cedric the Entertainer ) . This sequel is pretty slick ; and to be exact . . . pretty damn cool . Travolta's Chili Palmer usually gets what he wants and knows how to make things happen . Plus he gets on the dance floor again with Thurman . This couple is what you get when you join sly with sexy . Most of the comedy comes from The Rock , an obviously gay bodyguard and Andre Benjamin , of the group Outkast , who is a gun happy minion of a Hummer driving entourage . Milian is very likable and struts her stuff appearing in a duet with Steven Tyler of Aerosmith . Also in the cast is an inept hit-man played by Robert Pastorelli in his last performance before his death by accidental heroin overdose in 2004 . This role was a stretch from the role that made him famous on TV's MURPHY BROWN . If you liked GET SHORTY , you will welcome this cool crime comedy .
The family that slays together . . . well , slays together .	Jump back or strap yourself down . This is gore deluxe and I love it . THE DEVIL'S REJECTS is a sequel to Rob Zombie's HOUSE OF 1000 CORPSES ( 2003 ) . Not so campy ; instead grisly , nasty depravity . Sheriff Wydell ( William Forsythe ) and a band of armed officers ambush the homestead of a redneck family of psycho serial killers . Mother Firefly ( Leslie Easterbrook ) is taken alive , while Otis ( Bill Moseley ) and little sister Baby ( Sheri Moon Zombie ) escape annihilation and join up with partner in crime , Captain Spaulding ( Sid Haig ) , a local celebrity television clown . The body count rises as they humiliate , torture and relentlessly kill anyone that gets in their way . The trio seeks shelter in a whore house in the Fun Town hideaway . Sheriff Wydell , wanting to avenge his brother's death by the Firefly family , makes the decision to over step his authority and cross that line separating law and lawlessness . The finale is high-octane with one of the most ruthless and violent showdowns you've probably ever seen . Writer , director , creator Zombie can be proud of his naturalistic , sadistic and intense kill-fest . THE DEVIL'S REJECTS features one of the most prolific uses of the ' F'word . Strong sexual content comes with the blatantly obvious ' R ' rating . Supporting cast features : Priscilla Barnes , Danny Trejo , Michael Berryman , Ken Foree and Geoffrey Lewis . An outstanding choice of southern rock provides musical backdrop and some songs will never mean the same again . You'll hear The Allman Brother's Band , Elvin Bishop , Steely Dan , Lynyrd Skynyrd , Joe Walsh and even Three Dog Night and David Essex .
What is life ?	Stark and deeply dark . 21 GRAMS is the telling of three disparate people who become linked as a result of an ill-fated auto accident . Jack Jordan ( Benicio Del Toro ) is a born-again Christian ex-con , who accidentally kills a family on his way home from work . He turns himself in and finds himself behind bars again guilt-ridden . Cristina Peck ( Namoni Watts ) is a woman fighting her drug addiction as she is given the news of her husband and two daughters being killed in the car accident . In the midst of her grief , Cristina agrees to donate her husband's heart to a math professor , Paul Rivers ( Sean Penn ) suffering congenital heart disease . Upon release from the hospital , Paul hires a detective to seek out Cristina . Soon they enter a doom-stricken romance and future that is shared with the self-loathing Jordon . Through the pity and remorse , the self righteous ex-con feels Paul and Cristina should not be together . This is a real passionate movie that suffers the distraction of darting back and forth from past to present to past . 21 GRAMS is very volatile , animalistic and no less riveting . There is so much self-hatred guilt and urgent sexual expression it is hard to find just a glimmer of hope or optimism . Tragedy kills ambition .
Thoroughly riveting . An assassin with a number .	A mega selling video game comes to life on the silver screen with a high body count and enough action to have you hanging on the edge of your seat . You just won't want to miss a second of this thriller . A genetically-engineered assassin known only as Agent 47 ( Timothy Olyphant ) , works for a top secret organization and his talents as an elite marksman is for hire to eliminate high profile targets . His grace is lethal and his precision is beyond remarkable . His target is Russian President Belicoff ( Urich Thomsen ) , who will prove to be a double assignment . When 47 is double-crossed on the mission , he becomes the hunted . . . by Interpol and the best of the Russian military . He also has to deal with unfamiliar emotions , when a beautiful and mysterious Russian woman ( Olga Kurylenko ) supplies him information about Belicoff . Sauve and deadly 47 deals violent retribution and reigns supreme in life-or-death games . This movie definitely provides the big bang for your buck . Very scenic locations and beautiful photography . Also in the cast : Dougray Scott , Robert Knepper , Michael Offei and James Faulkner .
Powerful story of the ways of the sea .	A classic . Herman Melville's short novel comes to life in distinguished black and white cinematography . Peter Ustinov directs , co-writes , produces and stars in this stirring tale of might verses right on a British warship in 1797 . Ustinov plays Captain Vere with Robert Ryan as his Master d'Arms John Claggart . Terence Stamp makes his debut as the young Billy Budd , an uneducated naive seaman forced to serve in the British Navy during the war against the French . The innocent Budd is easily liked by the experienced crew ; and a mutiny almost erupts when the charming Billy is tried for murder . Well directed and acted . Powerful original music by Antony Hopkins . The very strong supporting cast includes : Melvyn Douglas , John Neville , Paul Rogers , Victor Brooks , John Meillon and David McCallum . Too good to miss .
Cabin fever spawns suspicions .	Better than expected and very interest sustaining . O . J . Caruso directs this tense tale of high school senior Kale ( Shia LaBeouf ) , who punches one of his teachers and is put under house arrest . Under surveillance by way of an ankle bracelet , Kale becomes a voyeur taking interest in everything from his suburban bedroom windows . He almost immediately finds himself smitten with his new attractive next door neighbor Ashley ( Sarah Roemer ) . Trouble starts to brew as he observes and suspects another neighbor , Mr . Turner ( David Morse ) , of being an elusive serial killer . With the help of Ashley and classmate Ronnie ( Aaron Yoo ) , a dangerous investigation begins . Supporting cast includes : Carrie-Anne Moss , Jose Pablo Cantillo and Viola Davis .
Things aren't always what they seem .	Almost non-stop action . Tim Kearney ( Paul Walker ) is a former Marine , and a three time loser and is serving his time in prison . His life has the chance to change when a scheming DEA agent , Ted Gruza ( Laurence Fishburne ) , needs somebody to impersonate drug lord Bobby Z ( Jason Lewis ) , who has died of a heart attack while in a prison in the Philippines . Gruza wants to trade Bobby for a DEA agent held in Mexico . Kearney is a dead ringer and sees his chance to pull a double cross and remain a free man . Soon things go awry and he is chased by a biker gang , Mexican drug profiteers and Gruza with his own agenda . Tim gets valuable help from one of the real Bobby Z's ex-girlfriends ( Olivia Wilde ) . Plenty of explosive action and a story that sucks you in . Others featured : Keith Carradine , Rebecca Chaney , Joaquim De Almeida , Jason Flemyng and JR Villarreal .
Riveting story of family ties .	Gavin O'Connor directs and co-writes what sometimes looks brilliant . . . then appears like a muddled mess . Definitely an intense crime drama . Ray Tieney ( Edward Norton ) is a reputable homicide detective and good at what he does . A recent NYPD drug bust goes bad leaving two cops down and two should wish they were . Ray's father ( Jon Voight ) , a high ranked police official , pressures him into taking the lead in investigating what looks like a corruption scandal in the making . One big problem is that the precinct targeted is run by his brother ( Noah Emmerich ) . Problem two is Ray's fellow officer and brother-in-law ( Colin Farrell ) may also turn out implicated as a dirty cop . The more Ray finds out family ties tangle and pride is tarnished . When cops turn on cops it isn't pretty . When families fall apart it is another thing . This strong cast is supported by : Jennifer Ehle , Frank Grillo , Lake Bell and John Ortiz .
Ironically there is humor found in illness .	MARVIN'S ROOM is a character-driven drama based on the Scott McPherson play . Director Jerry Zaks manages to get the best from an all-star cast . Bessie ( Diane Keaton ) is a care-giving soul that discovers she has her own health dilemma . Bessie takes care of her bedridden father Marvin ( Hume Cronyn ) , who always seems to be nicely dressed right down to his bow tie . Marvin has retired himself to his room . Aunt Ruth ( Gwen Verdon ) is a handful that is not too damn close reality . She likes to wear a garage door remote around her waist and insists on huge hugs . Bessie is told by her own physician ( Robert De Niro ) that she has leukemia and needs bone marrow . She is forced to contact her sister Lee ( Meryl Streep ) with whom she has had a 20-year old feud . Lee , a beautician , seems to be only interested in supporting herself and two sons . Ten-year old Charlie ( Hal Scandino ) does well to stay sane by ignoring the drama that surrounds him . On the other hand 17 year-old Hank ( Leonardo DiCaprio ) is earthy and troubled after being institutionalized for burning down the house . There is a lot of emotional ground the two sisters must decide on to discard and what to forgive and forget . The characters are so well defined and its easy to understand where each is coming from . Isn't it great that life allows humor to be found in times of discouragement and ill-fortune .
When a dream coming true is destiny .	Marvelous . Outstanding . The only thing I can find wrong is the film's title . . . MILLION DOLLAR BABY . This is a drama that packs a punch . Clint Eastwood directs and stars as Frankie Dunn , a cautious and wise gym owner and former boxing manager . His gym is managed by one of his former fighters Eddie ' Scrap Iron ' Dupris ( Morgan Freeman ) . Their lives take on a new perspective when a thirty-something waitress Maggie Fitzgerald ( Hilary Swank ) comes to the gym hoping to find a manager and trainer to help her escape poverty by becoming a boxer . Maggie and Eddie are convincing enough to change Frankie's mind about training a woman for the ring . Maggie proves to have the determination and the punch to become an acclaimed fighter . The fighting scenes are well choreographed and exciting . This emotional , powerful story has an unexpected and heart rendering finale . Eastwood , Swank and Freeman are excellent . Also in the cast : Jay Baruchel , Lucia Rijker and Mike Colter . This movie deserves every one of its accolades .
Impressive , brutal and relentless .	One Hell-of-a ride and worth slinging off the sweat and jumping back on again . Outstanding special effects and butt kicking action that just keeps on coming . Wesley Gibson ( James McAvoy ) is a high anxiety suffering account consultant letting his miserable job consume his life . His pathetic existence changes when he finds out his estranged father was a super assassin belonging to a thousand year old secret society of killers known as the Fraternity . He is groomed by the drop-dead gorgeous assassin Fox ( Angelina Jolie ) and under the watchful eye of the group's leader Sloan ( Morgan Freeman ) . Wesley has the same superior abilities as his father and has been selected to kill the rogue member who murdered him . In due time Wesley will learn the keys to his own destiny . This thrill-fest also stars : Terence Stamp , Thomas Kretschmann , Common and Marc Warren .
Erotic crime drama series . Close to excellence .	Stephen J . Cannell created one my most favorite TV series SILK STALKINGS . Stalking ran from 1991 to 1999 on CBS and then USA . Mitzi Kapture as Detective Rita Lance and Rob Estes as Detective Chris Lorenzo made the show what it was . Two detectives solving sexually-based crimes in Palm Beach , Florida ( although the show was filmed in Sand Diego , California ) . It was this duo's job to catch killers among the rich and well-known among sharp dressed men and scantily-clad bomb shells . Although the budget was said to be tight , the screen always seemed to be filled with vivid color and modern eye candy . The close working relationship between Estes and Kapture at times pseudo erotic is so smooth and easy to watch . The series became very mediocre when the original duo left for other projects . First being replaced by Nick Kokatkis and Tyler Layton ; who would be replaced with Chris Potter and Janet Gunn . Ben Vereen was versatile as Lorenzo and Lance's first supervising Captain . He later would be replaced by the very apt Charlie Brill . Catch SILK STALKINGS on DVD at BlockBuster . You will really enjoy it or even fall in love with it all over again . Highly recommended .
Dakota Fanning is marvelous .	Outstanding and memorable drama set in rural Alabama in the late 1950s . The focus is on Lewellen ( Dakota Fanning ) , a precocious and free spirit living in isolated desperate repression . Lewellen lives with her Grammie ( Piper Laurie ) , but spends most of her time with her Daddy ( David Morse ) and his girlfriend Ellen ( Robin Wright Penn ) in his dilapidated shack . Young Lewellen finds solace and safety in the music and movements of Elvis Presley . She idolizes Elvis and at the drop of a hat she can sing " Hound Dog " complete with Elvis-like movements . When it is announced that Elvis is actually coming to town , the young girl is desperate to find money for a ticket . Her friend Buddy ( Cody Hanford ) , who would do anything for his closest pal promises to get her a ticket for the concert . When it is time to collect the ticket , she is raped by a much older boy and the ticket is given to Buddy . She is demoralized and her free spirit is compromised . If that is not enough for her to deal with , her Daddy is struck by lightning and his fried mind will never be the same . As Grammie is left to take care of Daddy , Lewellen considers going away with Ellen . HOUNDDOG is very moody and you can almost feel the currency challenged South . Photography is well done and captures the time period . There is music by Gisburg Smilek and of course Elvis's " Hound Dog " , " Heartbreak Hotel " and " Peace in the Valley " . Miss Fanning's imitations of Elvis are charming and heartfelt . To be exact Fanning is superb in this role . For those worried about the rumors of child pornography . . . be assured there isn't any ; but expect tragedy , hopelessness and loss of innocence . It seems I have waited almost two years for this movie's release ; and I'm not disappointed . Now to nitpick : it is very doubtful Elvis would drive down a back road in the middle of nowhere . . . alone . Lewellen is urged to sing " Can't Help Falling In Love " that didn't exist until late 1961 . And when Daddy returns after a brief disappearance and gives Lewellen the gift of an Elvis record . . . that particular record label wasn't used by RCA until March of 1976 .
Don't upset Bogie , the madder the tougher .	Geronimo . Exceptional Film-Nior starring Humphrey Bogart hard and rugged as ever . Bogie plays Captain ' Rip ' Murdoch , who is traveling to Washington , D . C . with fellow paratrooper Johnny Drake ( William Prince ) to accept their Medals of Honor . Drake disappears and ' Rip ' follows him to his hometown where he discovers that he has been burnt to a crisp in a questionable auto accident . Murdoch searching for the truth meets with Drake's girlfriend ' Dusty ' ( Lizabeth Scott ) and immediately gets involved in blackmail and murder . Very good performances from Bogart and the husky-voiced Scott . Plenty of suspense and cigarette smoke . Other players : Morris Carnovsky , Marvin Miller and Wallace Ford .
Angst . Dispare . A new understanding of life .	Charming , heartfelt and very engaging . Reality can be believable . Drew Baylor ( Orlando Bloom ) , a hot-shot shoe designer , is overwhelmed when his sneaker design fails and causes his company a loss of near $100 million . Not only does he lose his job , the hands of fate are hard handed with the news of the death of his father . On his trip back home he meets a vibrant , beautiful and unstoppable Claire Colburn ( Kirsten Dunst ) . Drew goes to Elizabeth , Kentucky to bring his father home to Oregon . Meeting his dad's side of the family is a bit smothering ; but there is the assurance and comfort in the arms of the adorable Claire . Bloom has top billing and for once I found him impressive . But Dunst is the bomb . Damn , she is honestly adorable and this may just be her finest role to date . Other notable performances are turned in by Susan Sarandon , Gailard Sartain and even Paula Deen from TV's Food Channel . Supporting cast includes : Jessica Biel , Alec Baldwin and Paul Schneider . ELIZABETHTOWN is embellished with an infectiously incredible soundtrack . Kudos to writer / director Cameron Crowe proving once again he understands the spirit of the young in body and soul ; and is a down right genius .
Blockbuster of 1982 . Spielberg masterpiece .	Much talked about heartwarming and cherished movie from Steven Spielberg . Unparalleled magic and imagination that touches hearts of all ages . A 10-year-old boy Elliott ( Henry Thomas ) befriends an extra-terrestrial accidentally left behind on Earth . A moving story of Elliott helping the lost little alien learn of ways on Earth and then the dependence of his brother and sister to elude scientists and government agents from apprehending the little E . T . for their own purposes . Wiht help E . T . manages to " phone home " . Scenes of friendship with no earthly bounds and humorous moments as a young Drew Barrymore almost steals the show . A sensational and magical score by John Williams . At one time this film held the honor of being the highest grossing movie of All-Time . Rounding out the cast : Dee Wallace , Peter Coyote , Robert Macnaughton , C . Thomas Howell and K . C . Martel .
Exceptional look at Americans in protest .	Director Hal Ashby's screen presentation of Woody Guthrie's autobiography is cinematic pleasure . Bleak and heartfelt , sympathetic and proud . Guthrie ( David Carradine ) as a young man was trying to support his wife Mary ( Melinda Dillon ) and two small children by painting signs during the Dust Bowl of the 1930s . Just like a multitude of Okies , he left Texas thinking salvation would come from the fields of California . He left his wife and kids with her family and jumped on a west bound freight . Riding the rails with others like him , the protest singer he was gathered more ideas for his mournful and sad songs of protest . As a migrant worker in the San Fernando Valley , he continued writing songs about the sights he had seen and the sorrows he shared . He joined up with Ozark Bule ( Ronny Cox ) on the radio . He not only sang his songs of union organizing , he was proud of his share of brawling against union-busters . His radio job in shambles , Guthrie hit the rails again heading east to New York and a bigger audience to present his songs of protest to . If anything good came from the Great Depression it was Woody Guthrie . Carradine did his own singing which is impressing itself . This movie captured the feel of America and her people during a deliberate and testing time . Also in the cast : John Lehne , Gail Strickland , Ji-Tu Cumbuka , Elizabeth Macey and Randy Quaid .
The " Georgia Peach " was actually NO peach .	This is a damn good biopic about baseball legend Ty Cobb . Not much baseball action , but a not-to-miss movie if you are a real baseball fan . Cobb was probably the most hated ballplayer in history ; but definitely one of the best . . . and that for sure is debatable . This movie shows what happens when a biographer discovers that the truth is far less glamorous than the legend . Respected and well liked sportswriter Al Stump ( Robert Wuhl ) gets assigned and requested by the subject to write the bio of Ty Cobb ( Tommy Lee Jones ) . Stump travels through a major winter storm to Cobb's home in Tahoe . Cobb is dying and wants his story to be told . . . his way . Cobb mistreats , slanders , belittles and humiliates Stump at every opportunity . Stump has to battle not only his subject by his own values as to either candy-coat his story or present an accurate picture of the disgusting , racist , drunken and bitter Cobb . Most of Cobb's story is mythical and exaggerated . Even Ty would tell you he is a ' damn liar ' . He was definitely someone to reckon with on the ball field . With his spaced hand grip was one of the greatest hitters of his era . He was known for sliding into second or third with cleats raised to his opponent's knees . And sliding home would even raise his cleats crotch and stomach high . His nickname was " The Georgia Peach " , but he was by all means no peach . He retired in 1928 with over 90 records . In 1936 , he was the very first player to be elected to the National Baseball Hall of Fame . Cobb was so disliked by other players , only 4 showed up at his funeral in 1961 . Ty Cobb was quoted " When I began playing the game , baseball was about gentlemanly as a kick in the crotch . " I've seen this movie several times and urge any sports fan to watch this story of a unique athlete .
Evocative Film-Noir . Hard not to like .	A very definitive noir classic directed by Jacques Tourneur . You can't get much better than this . Jeff Bailey ( Robert Mitchum ) , a chain-smoking former-gumshoe trying to change his life by running a small gas station in Connecticut , is visited by a man from his past ( Paul Valentine ) . Joe Stephanos urges Jeff to take a small trip to meet with a wealthy gambler / mob guy Whit Sterling ( Kirk Douglas ) . Sterling wants to hire Bailey to track down his jilted lover Kathie ( Jane Greer ) , who left a slug in his shoulder and disappeared with a small fortune in cash . Bailey takes the offer and finds the femme fatal in Mexico with no idea what the gambler's former mistress plans on doing and with whom . Not only is Sterling concerned with Jeff's situation , but also is his former detective partner ( Steve Brodie ) and local love interest ( Rhonda Fleming ) . Sets and scenery are superb . And a finale that you don't expect . Also in the cast : Dickie Moore , Richard Webb and Virginia Huston .
She knew what she wanted . And she thought it was right .	An HBO Presentation of high caliber . Very interesting and captivating . Gretchen Mol plays Bettie Page , who grew up in a religious family in 1940's Nashville , Tennessee . She loved being photographed and in the 1950's , she became a legendary pinup model . Some of her photos were so provocative that they led to a U . S . Senate investigation into pornography ; and targeting her immensely popular fetish poses . Miss Page was just a small town girl that with her winsome " look " became an erotic icon that enthralls fans to this very day . Fimed in glorious B & W , with bits of color . Miss Mol IS Bettie Page . The cast also features : David Strathairn , John Cullom , Lili Taylor , Chris Bauer and Cara Seymour .
Leave it to America to make business out of war .	Hilarious satire starring the talented John Cusack , who also helps write and produce . Cusack plays cold as ice and hot as Tabasco hit-man Brand Huaser , who is sent to Turaqistan , a country occupied by an American private corporation run by a former U . S . Vice President ( Dan Aykroyd ) . Hauser's assignment is to kill a Middle Eastern oil minister Omar Sharif ( Lyubomir Neikov ) . Hauser's cover is to masquerade as a trade-show director and sustain his cover by organizing a high-profile wedding of outrageous and over-sexed pop star Yonica Babyyeah ( Hilary Duff ) . Sidetracking the high toted assassin is a head strong reporter ( Marisa Tomei ) . You can tell Cusack put a lot of work into this film . He is terrific . Duff and Tomei also make the very best of their roles . Duff may be the one who really stretches her character . Also in the cast : Ben Kingsley , Joan Cusack and Ned Bellamy . The voice of Hauser's Humvee GudeStar is that of Montel Williams . You hardly realize this flick runs 107 minutes . If you dig outrageous political satire , WAR , INC should ring your bell .
Halloween . . . the remaking of a classic .	Rob Zombie re-invents John Carpenter's HALLOWEEN . Zombie writes and directs this remake of the 1978 slasher masterpiece and turns it into the ultimate stab-a-thon . The director really goes out on a limb successfully as he shows us how Michael Myers became one of the most memorable psychopaths on screen . We witness a young Michael ( Daeg Faerch ) as a child killing his mother's ( Sheri Moon Zombie ) worthless boyfriend , Ronnie ( William Forsythe ) , his older sister and her boyfriend . Not to mention beat the daylights out of a bully from school . Years of therapy with Dr . Loomis ( Malcolm McDowell ) does little for the institutionalized Michael ( Tyler Mane ) . After his escape , the masked maniac goes on a bloody rampage that will thrill most hardened of horror fans . Bloody-disgusting . The most violent HALLOWEEN you've ever seen . This retelling of something so familiar is well worth the effort . Faerch is absolutely amazing . Also in the cast : Danny Trejo , Scout Taylor-Compton , Brad Dourif , Leslie Easterbrook , Clint Howard , Danielle Harris and a bit part for Micky Dolenz .
Everybody has their troubles .	Very good movie . Very good stars . Very good story . David Trask ( Gary Merrill ) , is an attorney that has left his wife because of an affair and by circumstance is the sole survivor of an airplane crash . He has listened to the problems of three individuals while in a weather delay ; and he takes it upon himself to contact the families of those victims . He finds the wife of a troubled doctor ( Michael Rennie ) ; a domineering mother-in-law ( Evelyn Varden ) of an aspiring actress turned stripper ( Shelley Winters ) ; and the invalid wife ( Bette Davis ) of a loud obnoxious traveling salesman ( Keenan Wynn ) . After these meetings he realizes it isn't too late to go back home to his wife ( Helen Westcott ) . Winters outshines the entire cast .
A dynamic tale of desperate lives crossing .	Billy Bob Thornton plays Karl , just released from the state metal hospital for murdering his mother and her lover . Karl has not matured mentally and life proves him slow and awkward . He is befriended by a little boy ( Lucas Black ) and his mother ( Natalie Canerday ) . Karl becomes very protective of his new friends and steps in to take care of a dark menacing problem . That problem is a mean spirited bigot played excellently by Dwight Yoakam . The scenes with Thornton and Yoakam are riveting . Also in the cast are James Hampton , Robert Duvall , John Ritter and J . T . Walsh . Thornton wrote a tremendous script ; and his directing seemed painstaking . This movie can drain you ; but you are ready to see it again .
True classic . The loss of innocence .	The world will now know the name Peter Bogdanovich , who directed this great movie about an often forgotten time . THE LAST PICTURE SHOW is set in a small intersection on the highway Archer City Texas . A look at coming of age , disllusionment and the beginning of the end of innocence . There is the hangout owned by Sam the Lion ( Ben Johnson ) . And there is the rugged carefree Duane Jackson ( Jeff Bridges ) and pretty and spoiled Jacy ( Cybill Shepard ) . There is the lonely pensive Sonny ( Timothy Bottoms ) who has an affair with the ignored coach's wife ( Cloris Leachman ) . Filmed in brilliant black and white to take you back to the naive early 50's . Great character development and a slew of memorable supporting performances from : Ellen Burstyn , Clu Gulager , Randy Quaid and Sam Bottoms . Plus vacillating the story is an almost vintage soundtrack featuring : Frankie Laine , Jo Stafford , Tony Bennett , Lefty Frizzell and Pee Wee King . This movie is an example of a film becoming an instant classic that you can watch ten maybe twenty times without getting tired of it .
Tremendous documentary . A must see for lovers of rock ' n ' roll !	1956 is the year that a 21 year old truck driver exploded upon the music scene and began his legacy . This documentary follows Elvis Presley through a very busy year of accomplishment . Two days after his 21st birthday , Elvis has his first recording session for RCA Victor . The session produced his first million seller " Heartbreak Hotel " . We see Elvis on the Dorsey Brothers Stage Show . And then comes other TV appearances ; The Milton Berle Show , The Steve Allen Show and The Ed Sullivan Show . After performing a very sensual " Hound Dog " on the Berle Show , Allen then has Elvis dress in a tux to sing a tame version to an actual basset hound . On Elvis ' final Sullivan Show , he was shown only from the waist up to please censors . The editing of still shots mixed with filmed footage is superb . And the music itself can tell the story of that magical year that we were introduced to " Heartbreak Hotel " , " Hound Dog " , " Long Tall Sally " , " I Got a Woman " , " Blue Suede Shoes " , " Ready Teddy " and the title song from Elvis ' first movie " Love Me Tender " . Even non Presley fans have to be impressed with this documentary . And to think this is just the tip of the iceberg . The rest as they say is history . Quoting the late John Lennon , ' Before Elvis there was nothing ' .
Absolute classic . Lust , greed and double-cross .	Some of the best suspenseful Film Noir ever . Billy Wilder directs and co-writes with Raymond Chandler . Totally out of character is Fred MacMurray as Walter Neff , an insurance salesman that is smitten with the beautiful and devious Phylis Dietrichson ( Barbara Stanwyck ) , who is tired of her abusive oilman husband ( Tom Powers ) . Together they concoct a plan to kill Mr . Dietrichson and share the double indemnity insurance that Neff sold . The crime goes awry when Neff's suspicious boss ( Edward G . Robinson ) figures out the fraud scheme . Both Walter and Phylis think of covering themselves with hastily thought double-cross . MacMurray , Stanwyck and Robinson are flawless with most likely their finest performances . Based on a James M . Cain novel , DOUBLE INDEMNITY is one of those great movies that is a crime to miss .
A legend up close , private and personal .	This is a great two hour special event presented by CBS . An intimate look at the family and private life of the legendary Elvis Presley . Candid comments from his former wife , Priscilla and their daughter , Lisa Marie . Exclusive , never-before-seen TV performances and photos from the Presley Estate blended with private home movies of Elvis with his family and friends . Also interviews with Priscilla's parents , Paul and Ann Beaulieu and Elvis ' cousin Patsy Geranen . And personal insight and comments from good friend Jerry Schilling . You see different aspects of Elvis ' life . . . his time at home in Memphis and Califronia ; his time in Hollywood making movies ; his concerts on the road and in Vegas . There brought to light unabashed is Elvis ' career highs and lows , his generosity and human frailties and the glimmer and echos of just part of what makes his legacy enduring for decades and decades to come . Of course its hard to mention Elvis without his music . Featured is music from TV specials , movies , concerts and his vast RCA catalog . Highlights featuring : ' Heartbreak Hotel ' , ' Suspicious Minds ' , ' In the Ghetto ' , ' Always On My Mind ' , ' Buring Love ' , ' My Way ' , ' If I Can Dream ' and ' Can't Help Falling in Love ' . This special will be available on DVD with an extra two hours of footage . There is a double CD featuring 32 of the Presley family favorites . And there is also the " Elvis by the Presleys " in hardback . Long live the King !
Instant classic Americana .	Kudos to director Ridley Scott for pulling this together . . . and no punches pulled . In your face biopic based on drug-kingpin Frank Lucas ( Denzel Washington ) , who ruled Harlem and was total master of his domain . His product was twice as good at half the accustomed price . Cutting out the middle-man , Lucas personally made the trip to the poppy fields of Asia's Golden Triangle to make the deals and made connections to have heroin shipped stateside in the coffins of soldiers killed in Viet Nam . Maybe too honest for his own good , super cop Richie Roberts ( Russell Crowe ) diligently worked to bring down Lucas , who was believed to be making more than a million dollars a day in drug sales . Lucas would turn informant helping Roberts and a myriad of law enforcement entities arrest crooked cops and foreign nationals , who were paid handsomely to make importing heroin easy as clockwork orchestrated by Lucas . Graphic violence and language . By all appearances American Gangster is as real as you can get and one of those movies not to be missed . Also featured in a very strong cast : Ted Levine , Josh Brolin , Chiwetel Ejiofor , Lymari Nadal , Cuba Gooding Jr . , Armand Assante , Carla Gugino , Ruby Dee and Clarence Williams III .
Will there be fries with that ?	Produced , written and directed by Barry Levinson . DINER has been one of my favorite movies from the first time I watched it . This comedic drama takes a look at a group of Baltimore guys in 1959 . They spend most of their time at a local greasy-spoon diner discussing their collective fears of growing up . Inspite of one being married , the group seems ambition-less with little respect for women . It seems their goals are ' copping a feel ' and ' getting laid ' . These somewhat shallow characters are played by a host of future accomplished stars . Mickey Rourke plays a hairdresser by day and a law student by night . He is driven by sex and his gambling habit . Kevin Bacon's character is estranged from his wealthy family and has a warped , if not sick , sense of humor . Steve Guttenberg is approaching marriage , only if his fiancée can pass a quiz of football trivia . Daniel Stern is cast as the married friend , who is having troubles with his wife ( Ellen Barkin ) . Paul Reiser is the complainer of the group . Tim Daly plays a grad student with his own problematic love life . I really enjoyed the interaction of these young men , as they whittle away their time holding court in their favorite diner . Bumbling , arrogant , stupid and obnoxious actions of this circle of friends is played quite believably . The atmosphere is sustained by a wonderful soundtrack of the times featuring the likes of : Chuck Berry , Eddie Cochran , Fats Domino , Jerry Lee Lewis , Dion & The Belmonts , Howling Wolf , Bobby Darin and of course , Elvis . Also in the cast : Kathryn Dowling , Colette Blonigan , John Aquino and Michael Tucker . The angst of coming of age usually proves entertaining . DINER picks up the tab and leaves a modest tip .
ELVIS : Bigger than life and meant for Hollywood .	A very well done documentary , officially authorized by the Elvis Presley estate . Info and tidbits focusing on the films " Love Me Tender " , " Loving You " , " Jailhouse Rock " and " King Creole " . . . all made prior to Elvis ' stint in the Army . Included are clips from those movies , Elvis ' screen test , movie outtakes , TV appearances and previously unseen ( at the time ) home movies . A few Elvis songs are featured like : " Anyplace Is Paradise " , " Love Me Tender " , " Loving You " , " Mean Woman Blues " , " Jailhouse Rock " , " Baby , I Don't Care " , " Young and Beautiful " , " Blue Suede Shoes " and " Crawfish " . Some comments from : Scotty Moore , Elvis ' original guitarist ; good friend George Klein ; girlfriend June Jaunico ; writer / directer Hal Kanter ; writer Allan Weiss and co-star Jan Shephard . Top notch editing and great blending of B & W and color footage . " Elvis in Hollywood " is one of the better Elvis documentaries I've seen .
Terrific saga . Not to be missed !	Joel and Ethan Coen cunningly adapts a story by Cormac MaCarthy that is set in 1980s West Texas . A beginning with so much anticipation ; and a fade to black finale with your's truly expounding . . . s ^ @ t ! Llewelyn Moss ( Josh Brolin ) is a redneck slave to his resources that while hunting in the dusty Texas desert stumbles upon a drug deal gone real bad . Bodies of Mexican gangsters bullet-ridden and swarmed by flies lay by expended weapons . Moss coolly ignores a damn pickup load of drugs , but eagerly grabs a grip on a briefcase full of $2 million in $100 bills . He doesn't realize that he will soon be chased by a psychotic hit-man , Anton ( Javier Bardem ) . This is the most methodical , ruthless , no nonsense killer in movie history . One unstoppable bad ass . Small town Sheriff Ed Tom Bell ( Tommy Lee Jones ) personally knows how determined and crazy Anton is and will try to track down Llewelyn and save him if possible . At the same time joining in the chase is the high dollar bounty hunter Carson Wells ( Woody Harrelson ) , who is hired to stop Anton . Desert landscapes are photographed beautifully . The violence is bitter and most definite . Llewelyn is too damn stubborn for his own good . He seems to not know the meaning of quit . He is a welder by trade , but $2 million in a briefcase means retirement . Anton is ultimate in regard to being the most psycho killer to take unnerving joy in his obsession with everyone's destiny and gives the flip of a coin a whole new meaning . Sheriff Bell is pretty much borderline old codger with pride in the old school of enforcing the law . Wells is cocky , fearless and not too afraid of death . The murder rate is brisk and guaranteed to speed your pulse . Also in the cast : Kelly Macdonald , Tess Harper , Barry Corbin and Stephen Root . Thanks to the Cohen brothers for this bleak guilty pleasure .
A legendary performer finds himself .	After much convincing , Elvis Presley does something about his career teetering on the brink of stagnation . During the last week of June 1968 , the man who almost single handedly led a musical revolution in the mid ' 50s made use of " Western Recorders " and the " NBC Studios " , Burbank , California to put on tape a TV special . The Elvis NBC Special came to be known as " The ' 68 Comeback Special " . It was originally aired on the night of Dec 3 , 1968 and slaughtered the competition : ' The Red Skelton Show ' , ' It Takes a Thief ' and ' The Doris Day Show ' . Made up of production numbers and mini-concerts in front of live audiences , this TV special afforded a lost man to find his way home . Elvis Presley was back and once again his career would regain meteoric flight . Producer / director Steve Binder would be swamped with accolades . NBC took the chance and came out looking like a champ . Elvis ' fan base would swell . The lp " Elvis ( TV Special ) " would rapidly peak at # 8 on the Billboard Top Albums chart . This 76 minute video is highlighted with a Gospel Medley , the Guitar Man Medley , and songs like ' Lawdy Miss Clawdy ' , ' Jailhouse Rock ' , ' Tiger Man ' , ' One Night ' , ' Memories ' and the great finale number , ' If I Can Dream ' . Even non Elvis fans will appreciate watching this . In a way it is like watching musical history . . . hell it is musical history .
