The Trilogy continues , and it's just as good as the first . . .	. . . with even more action pumped in ; the final battle sequence is an astonishing feat from Jackson and his team , making an entire fleet of Urk-Hai completely computer animated , seem totally convincing . And while the second part is exactly as long as the first , it's even more eye-grabbing with it's visual wonder , the scope of Middle Earth the most impressive thing about Two Towers ( it's deserved of an Oscar ) . Another impressive feat is the computer animated creature of Gollum , a schitzophrenic , deformed Hobbit who finds Frodo Baggins his new master , alongside Samwise Gamgee , and he may just be the most compelling of the characters , along with the somewhat downsized role of Gandalf the Grey , er White , played still with skill by Sir Ian McKellan . So , for the fans of the Fellowship , and for Tolkien's core audience , they may find a few story strands missing from the original novel , but it is highly reccomended viewing anyway , and if those are concerned about not seeing a scene they visioned from the book , keep in mind that probably a year from now will see the release of the Two Towers extended edition on DVD .
a total contrived aberration of a TV movie , not because of its sincerity , but . . . well , maybe that is a big part of it	Riding the Bus with My Sister is a shameless attempt to put up such an insane sequence of events into a two-hour-plus-commercials time slot to total up to this : Beth ( Rosie O'Donnell ) is inspiring and courageous and livens up those lives of people around her , and anyone who doesn't see otherwise can shove it . But the opposite is true , particularly due to the performance , though the writing doesn't help . It's not within the power of a filmmaker to make something that doesn't draws the viewer compassionately in , as LONG AS it doesn't try and think the viewers themselves are , to use the word bluntly , retarded . But Angelica Huston , who doesn't seem to do her late-father proud when it comes to taking the director's chair , plops on the sentiment when really what is being revealed is the wildly contrived story of a control freak who's mean and annoying and , at the end of it all , unsympathetic . This might be passing a lot of judgment on O'Donnell's character , who was based on a real person , but it's not without some notice . Beth might be one of the most irritating characters in recent memory , in TV or elsewhere . This doesn't mean some ( totally unintentional ) laughs aren't to be had at the expense of the totally dingbat turn from O'Donnell . Maybe it's method , maybe it's just playing it in a very horrific one-note way , but she doesn't do anything to help make this big goose who doesn't seem to notice that the ones who point out that she's loud and obnoxious might be the correct ones . No , the point of view of the filmmakers control that more than anything , wherein it's all either black or white : either people really respect and care for her ( the black tae-kwan-do student who has the Isaac Hayes look is never explained really as to why he's with her aside from ' she makes me laugh , I love her , blah blah ' ) , or they're dismayed by her rude quality , like when she's at the cafeteria the bus drivers are at and , after the umpteenth time she's been there , is yelled at by one of the other drivers to get out as it's the BUS DRIVERS section . It would be one thing if the writer tried to make this as some legitimate dramatic scene , but it's all played up like " people just don't understand , " which is accentuated by the whole relationship between the two sisters . Now , it's not that McDowell doesn't try a little with the part , but what is there to be given to her anyway ? Her part is meant as a lazy counterpoint to Beth's half-crazy half-stupid mindset . She's a career woman who is a photographer ( not very well apparently , even when she makes " arty " photos in black and white ) , who puts aside her career , and her boyfriend , to stay with Beth after the death of their father . Rainman , however , this surely is not ; the story has very little in the way of actual development , except for the most base and totally , despicably predictable points , with O'Donnell grinding on through in a performance that gives cringe-worthy a bad name ( or a good name , I guess ) . Even the flashbacks are ridiculously inept at showing anything aside from ' I didn't really care for my sister then , and I should've , as it took my father about my entire adolescence to move out of the house ' , in a gray Flags of Our Fathers tint of course . This is all capped off with a final section where Beth tries to contemplate having children . At this point , against my better judgment , I soldiered on to the end , with rests on a shot of Beth , her sister , and the " hot " bus driver all in a goofy pose . If you have the guts to go through it , just make sure to know there's many " laughs , tears , hugs , etc " , complete with the sappiest guitar pluckings this side of Eric Clapton after watching a puppy die , and an atmosphere of total dread where there should be some rays of happiness for these people for the audience . No such luck ; it's a Hallmark movie at its most exploitative .
has inklings of potential , but it's all not there really , at all	What a title , it's the kind of title where if someone said it out of context of it being a movie I would have to say ' you said a mouthful . ' Here , I suppose it ranks alongside multitudes of other very long , very wild B , C , D , and so on movie titles that try and go even further with making the movie seem more creative than it really is . This is a particularly exceptional case then with the Incredibly Strange Creatures Who Stopped Living and Became Mixed-Up Zombies . It's directed by Ray Steckler ( aka Cash Flagg , also as lead actor ) , who sometimes tries to put the camera in interesting ways with his asinine script . But even that doesn't work ; it's another case where he zooms in and out , and in and out again for dramatic , hypnotic effect , and it simply - for lack of a better criticism - stinks . But the material around it doesn't help much either , even if on a cheesy level there could be something in there to work with . Jerry ( Flagg , err Steckler ) falls for a burlesque dancer ( I'm reluctant to say stripper , matter of fact I'm reluctant to say dancer ) , but he doesn't realized she's connected with a hypnotist / gypsy woman ( an Elizabeth Taylor look alike , albeit with a mole ) who is changing people into zombies . Already there's trouble with the picture when early on it can't decide when to cut away from aspects of the carnival . We get it , they're on a roller-coaster , yippee . But that isn't even the most torturous parts ; more than half of the movie is dedicated to showing the acts on stage , usually very repetitive , boring dance numbers that have no continuity in the cutting and shots and sometimes even have the lights WITHIN the same shots , if that's explainable . There is also a ' big ' dance number that tries for the 50s studio glam , but again falls desperately short . Then come the scenes that are meant to be scary and hypnotic and terrifying - good lord . It's a combination of baroque camera set-ups that are un-workable , and still don't match up even when Steckler goes to show how Jerry is becoming a mixed-up zombie , or whatever it might be ( for much of the picture we get few , if any , zombies , aside perhaps from the hypnotist's assistant who reminds me of Anthony Quinn from Lawrence of Arabia with a horrible make-up job ) . So it's no wonder then that I really only got to the picture , and sat through it laughing all the way , thanks to Mystery Science Theater . There are actually some moments that I laughed at ( not with , mind you , as it's not really ' meant ' to be a comedy , I think , I could be wrong , even as the title is perpetually goofy ) , but without the three little commentators on the bottom of the screen I would've stopped it after about 20 minutes . Bottom line , the title's a keeper , but the flick comes about hair's length away from being a tumor .
to call it a turkey would be an insult to tasty poultry everywhere - shame on these directors	Yup , that's right , two people directed this . . . or so-called directed it . This is direction for the celluloid impaired , the likes of which only show up in the worst of Troma movies . It's about . . . . GOD ! Yes , you heard that right , obeying God's laws , and if not you'll take drugs as an addict , get hooked up with evil scientist turkey , and then in the midst of a hallucination turn into a turkey-head and attack the drug pushers that did this deed ! You dig ? Actually , don't dig , at all . This has moments of spontaneous hilarity in the worst possible way , but it's undermined by any and all attempts by its creators ( and future role model for Larry Bishop's Hell Ride , Steve Hawkes as writer / director / ego-maniac / turkey ) in making it a Reefer Madness style message movie about drugs and , eventually , God itself . Now some of this would be alright for some laughs ( lord knows how damn random it is to keep seeing the director , Grinter , pop up from time to time as a " narrator " who reads from the script as a would-be Bela Lugosi out of Glen or Glenda ) . And by the time the filmmakers get to the turkey headed creature-man-thing , looking like a cross between a discarded Skesis from the Dark Crystal and a Docor Who villain , one can join in the fun with the repetitive screaming sound effect and awkward edits . But really , it's just so poorly made - this kind of movie will make cinematographers ' heads spin perennially over how absolutely God-awful some of the shots are as being pseudo-documentary and pseudo-horror ( or , better yet , pseudo-suck ) - and acted ( everyone , from Hawkes to every single player , including two actors who look like they wandered off from the Allman Brothers band ) and plotted ( the ending , which provides a whole " It was all a dream " twist may be the most offensive thing of all ) , that you'll groan and feel completely sickened with yourself for watching what one hoped to be a ridiculous tongue-in-cheek turkey-killer flick . My advice , and I can't believe I'm saying this , go back and re-watch Eli Roth's Thanksgiving trailer . You get more turkey for your buck in a 20th of the time .
If you don't watch the film with the Mystery Science Theater 3000 commentary , you'll end up making your own . . .	' Manos ' The Hands of Fate attempted something very few filmmakers have ever done before , and un-intentionally no less - this film goes below expectations , but not just any ordinary expectations . I knew right from the get go this would be a bad movie from the reputation it's garnered here on IMDb . However this takes the cake . It ends up being more embarrassing , more horrendous , and more offensive than anything cooked up from the Ed Wood school of low-budget , horror movie-making . On top of every performance ( even John Reynolds ' Torgo , who does pull off that insane servant look , despite no voice to match ) stinking to high heaven , every single bit of craftsmanship takes everything that was set up in the cinema world right out the window . The good news for people who wish to see it out of sheer curiosity is that it's now available from the Mystery Science Theater 3000 people ( as it has been for ten years , one of it's most infamous specials ) . Their commentary is a plus , and just when you think it can't get any worse , it gets funny by way of them . It's hard to heckle a film . This is the prime exception . All the music , the camera shots ( though , giving the benefit of the doubt , it's all shot with one camera getting 30 seconds at a time with no sound attached on location ) , the atmosphere , the flimsier - than - ripped - flip - flops storyline , it sets a standard that few movies can go to . Maybe that's its most impressive feat , that it takes itself so seriously as a legitimate , circa mid 60's B horror film , that it's fun just to watch and experience the depths it goes to .
a muddled merging of poetry and documentary ; a film that will hit , miss , or both , for its audience	Heart of Glass is a period piece , not merely because of its probable 19th century time period , but because of when it was filmed , what footage was used , the music , the " acting " ( appropriate in quotes ) , and the experimental attitude . Werner Herzog has always been one of the most unconventional and challenging of filmmakers - of himself and for his audience - but in this case his challenge almost becomes more of a gimmick . I wonder if my reaction to these non-professionals Herzog has here would be any different if I was not aware before that all of the actors were hypnotized , save for Hias ( who , to be honest , could've fooled me with how his ' performance ' goes ) . Maybe not by much ; like Jean-Luc Godard , whom Herzog once said is like intellectual counterfeit money , Herzog used his cast as much as gets them to be their unnatural selves by having them almost as mouthpieces to say his dialog , more leaning to being stylized poetry , as much as their sort of physical presence being controlled to the note . Also like Godard , he attempts to combine this with a technique in composition that merges documentary with a sensibility that is as well closer to a form of poetic , personal expression . Unfortunately like Godard ( I mean later Godard though ) , it doesn't really fly . It may for some , and in fact it's up there on lists of Herzog fans as one of the best . But the problem is that Herzog is so wrapped up in how everything should try to be in evocation and , in his own usually warped way , provocation , that its a style that can shut out the viewer from what should be a rewardingly hypnotic experience . But even if there was no knowledge of the hypnosis of the cast , things still feel off ; at times I almost felt like I was watching some demented hippie filmmaker from the period waxing and waning in 19th century garb about random intonations in nature or what the ' ruby glass ' has in significance , with stares and glazed looks and demented laughter . It's not un-merited for a man of such immense talent and artistry of Herzogs's to experiment and push the envelope of how a story can be told and how to get characters on screen in a way that is totally his own . The problem though , which is usually not the case particularly with his prime work in the 1970s , is to experiment without much of a real story to work with , or for that matter any characters to really give a s about . The main character , Hias ( Bierbichler ) , is the one who gets the town into its sort of madness , but I didn't even really get this sense until more than halfway into the film . By the end , even as Herzog's reached something of a quasi-resolution with the factory burning down , his message ( which does lie somewhere in the film ) about the beauty and dangers of a ' cult ' mentality lays in a muck of flat scenes of symbolism . Needless to say , however , Herzog tripping over himself , in my opinion , contains moments of wicked absurdity that are quintessential , and moments where the documentary style works strongest , as well as his ever strong eye for ' adequate images ' . Maybe the funniest scene , amid two cartoonish looking fellows sitting at a table , has these guys in a daze working out their issues with glasses of beer : one throws a glass at the other's head , without any response , as well as the other just dumping the beer on his head . A moment like this , or the scattered laughter during a botched glass-making attempt , rises to Herzog as a subtle master of weird comedy . It was also worthwhile to actually see how the glass-making process actually worked , as Herzog's eye for men in a physical act like this was pretty interesting . I even dug the whole fast-speed shot of the clouds running over the valley . But even in getting his footage of landscapes , some of it seems like it's aged , put to Popol Vuh music that accentuates its ' trippiness ' where it doesn't need it . And it's sad to admit that by having characters that give off a totally empty aura in exquisitely framed and lit compositions aren't a good match . For me , which it won't be for everyone seeing the film as some may be even more turned off by as being totally boring , which is sort of isn't despite its pretensions and for those who find in it great and moving art which is understandable , it's not a success . But as with directors like Lynch and Woody Allen and even Godard to a degree I'd rather watch a moment of stumbling than a complacent work by a hack Hollywood director . In the midst of the muddle , at the least , there are some bright spots of artistic expression .
this would get a limp noodle if this was a XXX mag	Joe D'Amato might have made some other notable movies in his very long and very prolific career - prolific , of course , by turns of making VERY cheap Z-grade movies in Italy's big exploitation boom of the late 70s early 70s - but Porno Holocaust isn't one of them , or at least shouldn't be . Granted , I should not expect much from a movie with such a title , but I thought considering the back of the box's description that it might have some fun horror scenes with the " horny , mutant , cannibal zombie " . Turns out the zombie doesn't appear until more than halfway into the movie , and at every turn we get instead a tawdry sex scene as hardcore as one can imagine . Which is fine . But it's not very enjoyable , except in the most " what the f is this BS " kind of way . There's laughable dialog involving lobsters costing more from mail-order Japan than in Paris , hot , slim women play biologists and zoologists who have particular sexual hang-ups ( letting the door be unlocked to be raped , and a bi-polar kind of enjoyment out of getting gang-banged ) . It all leads up to the island , where the " main attraction " is a guy who early on just spends an absolutely pathetic ( forget ludicrous ) amount of time just staring at the newcomers to the radioactive wasteland of the shot-on-Caribbean island , and once revealed has a face like one of the guards in Jabba's palace and has a sweet potato for a main genital . But much dumber than anything before it is the " relationship " that develops between the monster and a dark-skinned lady who has an inordinate amount of time to escape , but just sits there , blank-faced , as the monster brings gifts and for what must be a racially-motivated exploitation move on the part of the filmmakers the monster ONLY rapes and kills the white women , and not her . And it ends , of course , with a " happy " ending . I use quotes , of course , out of a kind of shock that this could have any kind of legitimate ending at all . Bottom line , this is NOT what you might expect , as possibly being a bloody horror movie with plenty of tacky but cool looking Italian monster-zombies devouring human flesh . If anything what violence is in the film is done on a shoe-string ; a log hit to the face is immediately cut to the bloody aftermath , which is like the aftermath of a tomato hitting someone . So really , the last part of the title is meant more for market sake . Yet even as a porno movie it has little to go on except as a reason for the cast and crew to get a paid vacation to the Caribbean ( as an interview with George Eastman suggests , this was just one of a few quickies made while on the island ) . Its got penny-bought schlocky camera-work and similar actors , filled with genitalia about of the whole time and with wretched lip-syncing and music like Nino Rota forced at gun-point to make something snappy in a bordello , and it's STILL a piece of celluloid dung all the same ; all of this could be an immense guilty pleasure , but it isn't .
the worst thing that Tony Scott would ultimately want to hear about this film is that it's boring , but in the end it is	Boy , what a wreck to sit through with Domino , and I mean like a ship-sinking sized one . But maybe the only quasi-decent thing I can say about it is that I stuck through it , and didn't stop it or walk away mid-way through it . I knew that it would almost be sort of hypocritical to not finish watching the movie , just to see how far it could go into its own megalomaniac ego-trip of an " acid - punk - fever - dream - whatever - the - f " scape into movie-making this is . And I'm not sure how everything that could go wrong with a production like this does . Maybe there's something about it that has ended up appealing to some people ( Tarantino , who of course has an allegiance with Scott and some of the actors in cast here , listed it in his top films of 05 ) , but it just flew over my head . Or rather , it didn't , it went right into my senses and at first , I tried to find it OK . Then , it went through the Alex-in-the-Clockwork Orange chair phase . And then it became towards the end with the Las Vegas scenes something that ended up pushing it up into the list of the 10 worst films I've ever seen - and one that director Tony Scott wouldn't want to hear more than anything - it's boring . Because after a while such an onslaught of bombarding images , sounds , voices , editing as if - much as Suvari's character refers to Christopher Walken's character's attention span - a ferret was at the buttons , the tint on the camera , and all things considered , were monotonous to the point of inertia . But what's even more disappointing in that , as any filmmaker with talent , which Tony Scott has , can make material into pretentious rubbish ( just see Godard's last twenty years of work more or less to see that ) , is that there is potential here , in the cast and even in the script . Taking aside Kiera Knightley , mentioned below , there's Mickey Rourke , Delroy Lindo , Lucy Liu , and Walken too , who in the latter of the bunch in little spots does try and give some personality and humor - " what's with the font " . And ironically the script , by Donnie Darko's Richard Kelly , isn't the biggest problem here , at least not on the outset . If anything he starts off the film in predictable fashion like any self-respecting post-modern American action film would do in non-linear , start-with-a-bang style writing with a couple of bits of witty dialog . But in the end potential gets squandered , and what I was left with at least was the equivalent of a decent B-movie type of steak grilled into something incomprehensible . I wonder really if Tony Scott thinks he's making art here or a fun B-movie or more or what . Maybe it's the former ; he was a painter before a movie-maker . But the professional focus of previous action-film guilty pleasures like True Romance and Crimson Tide is lost within what he tries to do with the material . Did he think he was over-compensating for something , or that his style , or lack thereof , meant to heighten the experience for the viewer . I know what he was going for , in the style of something like Oliver Stone - or even in pushing the envelope forward in what he ( more successfully ) hinted at in Man on Fire . But style this flamboyant , cut-a-second , and really shallow and basically commercial ( he , too , was a director of commercials before films , see Top Gun for proof ) does not work with material that , as flawed as it is anyway , deserves some credibility . It's almost like Scott doesn't trust the viewer to just take the basics of the movie , so he overloads it , pushes the envelope , and at least by mid-way I knew it was going to backfire . With a cast like this too , you know there could be possibilities . Where else will you get in-jokes , or rather obvious ' ho-ho ' jokes with cast members of Beverly Hills 90210 ? However Scott combines his rambunctious , clickety-clack motions with his crew with symbolism possibly provided by the script ( goldfish as a metaphor for the loss of connected feeling , gimme a break ) , and with characters in all their shallow moves we're supposed to care about with relationships and meaning and such , with a leading lady that doesn't work , at all . Kiera Knightley is attractive , and is OK in some movies ( notably the Pirates of the Caribbean films ) . But here I just didn't see her in any kind of believable way as a bounty hunter . I saw her as Kiera Knightley . Even in a moment of peril where she lap-dances for gangsters just to get her man behind bars , it doesn't work . She collides alongside Scott's direction into the cataclysm that is the movie Domino , where lots of " cool " action and gun-fire and violence mixes with drug trips , underdeveloped characters , lots of " whoa-isn't that cool " style , and other things , until it becomes one of the great messes of the past few years . In short , and I rarely agree with Entertainment Weekly ( if they were the ones who said this quote ) , Domino is indeed trash imitating art imitating trash . And I sometimes really dig trashy films . But not when they're acting like they should be taken seriously .
barely watchable on it's own ; one of the MST3K's best commentaries though	Monster a Go-Go is one of those dreaded would-be drive-in cash-in movies that trying to watch it on its own is an act in futility . Trying to watch the moments of bad actors reciting bad dialog on sets loaned out by the director's mother and featuring the one hook as a 7 foot 6 inch man who's made to look TALLER in the ridiculous high-angle shots is excruciating enough . But then there's also the narrator sounding like he should be reading copy off of an industrial short on the history of buttons , the nearly inaudible dialog read in outdoor scenes , the random scene with the kids dancing at the hall to rock AND roll music , the atrocious ( let me repeat that , atrocious ) lighting where , as the Mystery Science Theater guys observe , their faces have been burned off , and an ending that wraps things up like a tarp scotch taped around a 400 pound dead guy who left this Earth by leprosy . It's a wretched work of science fiction that talks too much , doesn't walk the walk , and tries to compensate with lots of shots of tanks and army men and stuff cause , you know , that's impressive to the kiddies in these flicks . Luckily , Joel , Crow and Tom Servo are to the rescue with their commentary , and it is definitely one of the best that they recorded in the Joel era . Most comments are just plain silly ( their number with John Jacob Jingleheimer Schmidt , or just the echoing of the goofy sounds of the soundtrack are classic ) , but there are many a harsh , cutting word against the flick too . I loved just seeing how at the opening credits they acknowledged it would suck - " Hey , heh , hey guys , see Bill Rebane , two of them , shows up once , then again , and . . . oh this is going to suck " . It might seem a little biased that at the end , something unusual , they actually boo the movie ( not undeserved , but still ) , and up until before it ends keep asking when the hell it will end . But throughout I kept on either chuckling out just rolling-on-the-floor laughing at not just the specific little throwaway gags or lines that are too obscure for some , but just how it would match up to certain parts ( i . e . starts to fall asleep , Narrator chimes in , they all startle to wake up ) .
Shaq's egomania OOZES off of this movie ; a notorious bad kids movie , and not as campy as one would wish	Yes , Kazaam is one of those horribly bad movies that almost reminds one of everything that is wrong with not just kids movies , but with humanity . Here we have Shaq as a rapping genie - yes , a RAPPING genie - where he does everything from making bad puns to dressing in ridiculous outfits , all ending in him in a Christ-like pose with lots of light surrounding him . So , yeah , expect really cheesy bits , including the first wish being a lot of junk food falling down from the sky ( and , regrettably , not knocking out the two main characters , particularly the kid ) . What might not be expected is that a film with a kid and Shaquille O'Neill would be so incredibly schmaltzy ! The main plot of the film involves this kid , played in that all-too-typical and annoying-kid fashion by the great-grandson of Frank Capra ( where in which the kid is yelling out his dialog angrily ) , who comes upon a genie who's been trapped in a boom-box . Then " hiarity ensues " as the kid makes the Shaq-genie his quasi-slave as he waits on his last two wishes as he tries to make amends with his shady-gang-type absentee father . This really sappy , contrived son and father story would be bad enough , as there are certain lines that have been uttered in a million other movies ( i . e . the " two chances in life " speech from father to son ) . But it's Shaquille O'Neill who is both the reason to watch the film ( ironically ) , and the obvious sinking crux of it all . His plot line involves him , when not getting the over-talky treatment from Capra , to rap within the dialog and also start off his blossoming recording career . On top of this , he also kicks ass and takes names with the main bad guys who want him back in the boom-box . So is there a camp factor to the movie ? Up to a point , but this is even squashed by all of the mushy scenes and ' heart-felt ' moments that have really no business with the rest of the material . One might ask if the people making the movie , who were obviously doing it at the behest of the popularity of a BASKETBALL player who wanted to go on the Michael Jordan acting bandwagon , if it would be anywhere near decently entertaining or convincing . I'd hope that they too knew they were just getting paid . But I'd hope even more that they felt at least a little guilty afterwords for feeding the Shaq-machine . So , if you want to have a fun night of Shaq as genie - turned - rapper - turned - wisecracker , all the more fun to you . Hell , it might even be interesting to have a Shaq movie night with this and his other critically acclaimed effort Steel . But if you're hoping to keep a few brain cells , stay away from what is very likely the worst flick of 1996 , and a candidate among many others for worst of the 90's .
satisfactory romantic comedy , brings its laughs , and its predictability in tow	Owen Wilson and Vince Vaughn , the stars bringing this vehicle to theaters ( there are other notables in the case , but not with the kind of draw of these two ) , are very talented , and usually pretty amusing . Wilson , for my money , is the subtler of the two , and is more of the leading man , while Vaughn is usually over-the-top in his double-talk , and garners some laughs even when some fall flat . They take the film Wedding Crashers and make it watchable , along with some supporting actors playing strange characters . It's not as wild as one might expect from the trailers , and as a ' date ' movie it's rather predictable . The opening twenty minutes is close to genius , by introducing the audience into this care-free , inspired montage of Wilson and Vaughn crashing the weddings , enjoying the celebrations , and going to bed with many women . It's not laugh out loud funny , but it garners a few small laughs , and it a very good set-up for what seems to be a film in this vein . It's not quite the case - we get a story that sort of goes on auto-pilot ( to put it another way , I've seen a story like this many times over in mainstream romantic comedies ) wherein Vaughn gets dragged into staying for a day with the daughter ( Isla Fisher , perhaps the best overall funny performance ) of the Secretary of Treasury ( Christopher Walken , of all people ) , and Wilson goes along as he tries to woo another daughter ( Rachel McAdams , a beauty no doubt ) who is already in a relationship with a alpha-male guy ( Bradley Cooper ) . This is when formula takes over . While the laughs are there , including a crazy dinner scene ( it's like a 30's screwball comedy crossed with American Pie for this scene , one of the funniest ) , a demented quasi-rape of Vaughn on his first night at the Clearys , and some other amusing parts sprinkled throughout the film , there are flaws . For one , it does go a little longer than it should - a couple of scenes could've been cut , or at least trimmed . At two hours , a romp of a romantic comedy shouldn't feel this over-long ( a lot of it for the story of Wilson and McAdams ' characters , who have good chemistry , but don't have much room to go in the formula ) . Another problem is under-developed , or non-developed characters . Take the character Cooper plays , Sack - he's been with Claire ( McAdams ) for over three years , and yet she is everything that he isn't . He's a one-dimensional villain , someone who is so obvious that it doesn't leave much room for conflict or second guessing about where the film will go . This goes for the Walken character as well , who seems mis-cast in a film where his odd comic genius and timing could come in well , but he doesn't bring much to the table aside from maybe one laugh ( perhaps not intentional ) . Ironically , two characters who score a lot of points when they appear on screen , Will Ferrel as the Wedding Crasher legend Chaz , and Keir O'Donnell as the closet-freak / brother Todd , get very little time to bring funnier bits ( they're stuck , again , in the traction of the screenplay , who do what they can in the time given ) . Wedding Crashers did give a couple of surprises , and it is gleeful , dumb fun for most of the way . But when it comes to the last quarter it starts to drag , the laughs become more diminished , and it becomes more of waiting for the last scene than being entertained . The whole aspect of the lying theme of the film fits in , yet really as story devices . In short , it's a film that brings in its moments well , and gives some good room for Wilson and Vaughn to work in ( Vaughn , whom I've always gotten the least of laughs in the pack of Wilsons , Ferrell , and Stiller in their films , actually makes good on a lot of the set-ups and pay-offs of the absurdities ) . But the script and actors tend to stumble as much as they make it entertaining . or a
easily the worst film Sam Raimi has directed yet	I remember seeing For Love of the Game in the theater and thinking ' this isn't the same Sam Raimi that directed the Evil Dead trilogy and A Simple Plan , is just can't be . ' It's one thing that it's a Kevin Costner movie , which in and of itself carries a certain formula that can take down director and ship with him . Maybe there might be some even die-hard baseball movie fans out there ( baseball itself is cool , the movies from that can either hit or really miss ) who might appreciate this film , but as that and as a romantic melodrama it's just , well , a shamble of formula , over-sentimentality , and over-wrought dialog . Some of the supporting acting isn't too terrible , as John C . Reilly and JK Simmons are usually hard to disappoint . But it's practically humorless , and ( this is a bit subjective here ) can be somewhat incredulous against Yankees fans . The premise itself could've worked - aging baseball pitcher does a perfect game while his romantic life has a checkered past . But Raimi isn't able to breathe that much life into the script , and the Hollywood feel of it just adds to its , well , blandness . It's not one of the worst movies of 1999 , but it's a definite yes that I would not only not recommend it , but would steer clear of it if it came on TV again . Maybe as a piece of fluff it might just be a below satisfactory effort , but from Raimi it's emanates from me a big " huh ? "
not at all undeserving of its straight-to-Sci-fi-channel-status	I just looked back at my notes on Highland : Endgame , still the only other Highlander movie I've yet to see ( also never seen an episode of the show ) , and an a little surprised at how high it was rated then even at a grade . I must have reacted to the final battle scene between Adrian Paul and Christopher Lambert , which is the only thing I can even recall from the one time seeing the film , and finding it kind of cool in a cheesy , disposable science-fiction flick manner . But the fact that it is so forgettable shouldn't be taken for granted , at the very least in what has come AFTER THE ENDGAME ! According to a friend each Highlander film gets even more disconnected and continuity confused than the last , and The Source is probably one of those textbook examples of a story being simply way too confusing for one who isn't at least a little familiar with the franchise . And at the same time , seeing it tonight on the Sci-fi cable channel , it's not totally out of place , and maybe not quite as offensive as some of the product made right in their home premises . But it's still a waste of any viewer's time , even for die-hard fans . The only real value at all to be taken from the movie , and there is maybe a little bit , may be in aspects , in parts , of craftsmanship , like the make-up on Pyramidhead and the cinematography , the latter calling into mind ( oddly enough as I'm not kidding ) Pan's Labyrinth , of course without much at all of the power of the context that film had in style and substance . But once that is past , then one is left with direction that seems to come out of a school that is based entirely on a time when MTV still made music videos , with touches of would-be 300 knock-off thrown in either as unintentional or as sucker-punching for genre fans . And acting that is just fair at best and atrocious at worst ( Adrian Paul can act , says who ? And the guy that plans the Pyramidhead , what gives ? ) But what made it most incredulous was the editing ; since the story is filled with many a cliché ( dying man gives his long monologue to teary-eyed hero , longer monologue from a disgusting creature about what is to come in the rest of the story , sex scene between hero and girl after a heart-to-heart , final duel , et all ) , the editing should at least try for professionalism of some sort . Not so . This director / editor team is about as toxic as Steven Tyler and Joe Perry in a 1978 hotel room loaded with five 8-balls a piece and a one hooker between the two of them . Often during a fight the characters will be shot as if in slow motion and SPED up , and then back and forth as if there isn't any conviction in just seeing simple fight choreography . But worse are the montages - aside from Bratz , which is in a league of its own , this is some of the just , well , inept editing I've seen in many a moon , particularly at the beginning and end where it seems as though nobody even watched the fing last ths of the movie that came before or after it ! The music is also another kicker to go with the director's scheme of assault on cinematic style . By the time it ends - which seems to be longer than it really is despite the long commercial breaks . The only good news that can come is that The Source has now been reached , and the series can now end , like another beheaded immortal or whatever the hell .
not made to be a bad movie , it just is , though not really ' classic ' bad	Edward D . Wood Jr ( or E . D . Wood credited for the film ) is practically revered today as a filmmaker forgotten and neglected in his time as just another Shlock-Meister of B-movie ( or Z-movie ) cinema . His legacy is now , well , being the ultimate in bad schlock kind of movie-making , where you can almost see the sets about the tear at the seams , the actors going through their lines like they know they won't get any pay for it , and camera-work ( and perhaps editing too ) that becomes jarring in the worst possible ways . While the Sinister Urge , Wood's last ' real ' film before diving deep into obscure porn directing ( ironic considering the film's subject here ) , does not have a kind of classically bad way about it like Plan 9 From Outer Space . That film has since become a kind of cult classic where the actor in place of the late Bela Lugosi in the film , the various props and sets ( including the ' saucers ' ) , and horrendous narration becomes most of the ironic fun . The Sinister Urge in comparison doesn't have that impressive ambition to be something more than it can never be , as this film is nothing more than an under-cooked ' warning ' film about porn movies , and the people who may kill to be apart of them . The Sinister Urge is 71 minutes long , which doesn't overstay its welcome ( though one may try and define ' welcome ' with an Ed Wood picture ) as a film with many static camera angles and very few moments of ingenuity . One of those - the scene where the brakes don't work with the car - is ironically successful , as it really shouldn't be at all workable as a scene , but as a little piece of suspense it could be worse . Most of the rest of the picture isn't so lucky - again , many , many actors who seem like they are not only content to not become stars , they're almost doomed to be in pictures like Wood's . Often the performances are wooden , but of course part of the real problem with watching such actors is the often silly dialog . It tries to be ' realistic ' , but Wood has no gripe with stopping somewhere to have a character ( usually the lead cop character ) to lay out a dull speech about the message of the story . On top of the story not really being too coherent , anyway , the director's method of the ' cut , print , perfect ' method can be seen quite often with some laughable mistakes abound . Now , does all of this make the Sinister Urge as astoundingly , amusingly bad as Plan 9 ? Not really ; there's nothing too memorable about how the film is bad here , unless you're a die-hard fan of the director . He does try here and there to keep some storytelling merit , with his style being so uncomplicated and static it shows his ambition . But the lack of talent overcomes everything else , not to mention the cardboard-sided points of the film . It's also not too unworthy of the Mystery Science Theater 3000 treatment either , which has now made the film available on DVD . The commentary is spot-on usually and funny , though as with Plan 9 you may still want to make wisecracks on your own . That's Wood as the mustached guy who fights at the Cafeteria in one scene .
I walked out , sad to say but it's true	Suddenly this movie came back to me in a flash - of what I tried to watch of it , anyway . At the time I actually saw it in the theater ( snuck in of course ) , hoping maybe that the film might be slightly different from the one-sided approach on the TV show that makes Pokemon look like Miyazaki . I knew that there was also a whole big trading card side to the whole shebang , but that maybe the filmmakers might forgo that for an actual story or at least one or two characters to have some sort of interest in ( at least in Pokemon there was the villains out to stop Pikachu and those other kids ) . After about 30 minutes of the film , I started to get the same sensation I felt having seen Digimon in the theater years before - the sensation of being numbed by over-the-top , hideous displays of anime via lots and lots and lots of battles between characters that I couldn't give a hoot about . So much is invested into making the card-players with their animals fight off incredibly stylish and colorful , which here and there it was , they forgot that they're making a movie . If it was something just short and small to show at an anime or comic-book convention , fine , but not for 90 minutes ! After said 30 minutes , I did a rarity on my part which was to walk out , feeling that even though something was sort of going on with the character of Yugi - going into Egypt for some rare creature to face off or whatever - there wasn't anything really to see more of that I didn't already get bombarded with already . It's got more flashy gimmicks than a magician hopped up on 10 cups of Starbucks , but nothing really goes on that redeems all of this with content . For the fan-boys of the series or the cards or maybe for the most die-hard of ( KIDS ) anime shows and flicks it might be worth a look , or a glance , though its current status on the IMDb bottom 100 is not really without merit . Pretty disposable as I remember it .
it barely qualifies as a guilty pleasure ( mostly for its climax )	I would probably want to give this movie a zero if not for the climax , which involves not really Snakes on a Train , but rather Train IN a Snake . The premise was cooked up far more than likely over the course of a night of beers after hearing about Snakes on a Plane in production ( this , in fact , was released to coincide with that film's release ) . The joke is probably not lost on those who will seek this out ; I don't think there would be a soul out there who would consider this anything as a serious action-thriller effort ( unless on an ironic level beyond the capacity for rational thought ) . It's about a Mayan curse placed on a woman who's damned by her family for leaving with another man , and is soon seen sickened and coughing up green slime laced with , of course , snakes . She and her beau go on a train headed for Los Angeles , and very soon after the more-than-cliché characters are privy to snakes overtaking the train - with the originator woman becoming a snake herself . If it would be worth listing more about the movie I would , but there isn't enough time during the day . All that can be said for the quality factor is that it's almost on-existent ; there are student short films with larger budgets . Maybe that was a wise calculation on the filmmakers ' end , that there would be so many copies sold , just for the joke factor alone , that they would re-coup their budget in the first weekend . Because by looking at the sets ( the trains themselves change randomly in the middle of a scene ! ) , the actors ( if you can call them that , with only one other actor - the one with the very thin hair who hits on the one woman throughout the movie - who benefited from the flick being produced ) , the FX ( also next to non-existent , making the effects in Snakes on a Plane seem like Star Wars ) , and the actual CGI snakes themselves , with the final huge behemoth snake something to behold in sci-fi movie channel terms . This all means , basically , that it is a laugh riot every step of the way ( especially , as cruel as it sounds , when a little girl becomes involved in a snake's " attention " ) , with the very disregard for good taste working well in its favor . This being said , it is also 100 % disposable , like a B-movie sour-flavor lollipop .
fantastic for laughs - for all the unintentional ( ? ) reasons - though lacks things like texture and quality . . .	. . . which is fine . Doogal probably wouldn't of caught my attention in the slightest - and I barely took a glance to it when it was first released ( or escaped ) into theaters last year . But then when I saw Jon Stewart's credits on this site , his name popped up for this movie . I clicked it and was momentarily horrified : Jimmy Fallon , Ian McKellan , Judi Dench , William H . Macy ? One of these does not belong ! So after some head-scratching I watched it more as a goof than anything with friends . Boy , oh boy , you don't quite know what you got till it's gone , so the song goes . Doogal is an American re-dubbing of a movie that was in English ( and , apparently , featured Bill Nighy in the now Jimmy Fallon role , which is completely inexplicable and even offensive to Nighy fans ) , and not even a GOOD re-dubbing : the dialog most of the time doesn't match up at all , and one character , a moose ( voiced by Kevin Smith - as a favor to the Weinsteins to be sure ) , barely opens his mouth . It's got a good guy and bad guy that are springs ( with Stewart playing one of them , in maybe the most ironically cool part of the miasma ) , tired and old-hat pop-culture references left out from the 90s and elsewhere , which come at every turn possible , and has animation that might look decent if this were a ) on the Nick Jr channel , or b ) a video-game created for kids who are playing their very first video game . As entertainment , however , it is meant to be a goofy journey to get three diamonds to free a bunch of kids frozen in a carousel while Zeebad ( Stewart ) plots to get the diamonds to freeze the sun ( albeit no one seems to notice that Zebadee , McKellan's spring , lacks to know-how to use his mustache - yes , his mustache - to thaw out the youngsters ) . It's such a poorly run ship you wonder if people really lost their jobs over it ( or if the Weinsteins got stoned out of their gourde with the re-writers after green-lighting the re-dubbing ) , and , ugh , I haven't even gotten yet to mention the sexual tension between a caterpillar and a cow ! So , in a way , the movie is actually really funny and spectacularly campy in the way that one might see in an old AIP release from the 60s or 70s . Only difference is , this is supposed to be a legitimate CGI movie for kids ! This being said , actors like Macy and Stewarts ( maybe not Goldberg , who knows ) took on the project knowing what they're getting into . Needless to say , if any good could've come from it , the spring has been mentioned often in splendid self-deprecating ( and self disbelieving ) manner by Stewart on the Daily Show .
she should have just done an interview , not a movie that screams pretension like no other	I know Guy Maddin directed this short film , My Dad is 100 Years Old , but either acclaim or blame should be rest on Isabella Rossellini's shoulders for this . She knew what kind of picture this would be , and Maddin seems more like a hired hand here than a true visionary . And if anything , the vision of sorts is really distracting and unnecessary and is just really poorly done . I know the intentions are good , and if I had to rate just on intentions it would be much higher praising , albeit in such personal terms . Roberto Rossellini is a great filmmaker , one of the greatest that emerged once the smoke settled from World War 2 in Europe . And his films Open City and Paisan are films that should be rediscovered for years to come as technology overcomes the film industry ( even if it's just in museums ) . But one of his daughter's , Isabella , hasn't done the greatest of tributes , from my perspective , with her My Dad is 100 Years Old short film . There isn't really anything coherent to the picture , which might have been acceptable had it been maybe more focused , so to speak . What I mean is the same pretension that she seems to be commenting on ( although too little too late by the last shot when she calls for the camera to move in front of her directly in profile ) , and done with a very ' this is how it is ' take on things . She makes fun of Fellini and Hitchcock ( the latter in profile , the former played by her ) , as Rossellini himself - or the form of him as portrayed by a huge belly that Isabella recollects was what she remembers the most - rags on anything in cinema that doesn't address morality and the like . Only when Chaplin comes out - also again Rossellini herself playing her along with David O Selznik - does some praise come out . For a film that lasts only 15-17 minutes , it seems like it fills up its time much too smugly and with an air of content at being all over the place . It's interesting to see how the rest of the picture , with its obtuse camera angles and pompous style of editing and framing and dialog , compares with the few precious clips of Open City that are shown , and how more insight into the director is in those clips than in everything else his daughter shows . Now , in full disclosure , I do like Isabella Rossellini a lot , as an actress , and she is a beautiful woman , but taking the controls on a complete tribute project like this nears all too much to the point of disaster . We get a view of a man who is simply all alone , out-casted by a film community that once embraced him , and sullen by the fact that people don't care about his movies after a while , or the kinds of stories and characters he wants to portray . It sounds really good on the outset , but it's not what I thought it would be when I finally saw it - a mess . I would have much rather had seen a full-on documentary on the director instead of some avant-garde deconstructionist short film . A big disappointment from a big fan of the director .
not surprised it never got much at all of a theatrical release	The Moving Finger , the ' plus ' feature on a DVD featuring Brian De Palma's Murder a la Mod , was made by Larry Moyer , a strictly independent / B-movie director who apparently never really directed again after this ( he has one animation co-direct credit on a short ) . Not too surprising why ; his film is a blend of even-for-then tired clichés between a heist plot and the swarm of the Beats down in the Village in the late 50s and early 60s . It's about a bank robber who gets shot , and is somehow able to make it on a bus down to Greenwhich village and hide out among a group of bum-beatniks who are allowed to stay as long as they appease the man who owns a dingy poetry club ( gravely voice Lloyd Stander , like Mickey from Rocky with " poetry in ' im " ) . Not much happens really , and despite Moyer's attempts to capture some reality of the squalor of the village scene at the time he doesn't get enough . He's tethered to a bad plot with crummy actors ( save for Barry Newman , star of Vanishing Point , who oddly enough is here almost as a goof in the midst of the " tea-heads " ) , and long stretches of dancing and dialog to B-movie music that doesn't stick well . With more creative direction , and maybe more of an attempt to go with style as do the poetic bums of this world , this premise could have some lift . As it is , it's barely a half step above Mystery Science Theater status . It's not a movie to seek out specifically if you've never seen it , and I wouldn't go out of my way to watch it again if I rent the Murder a la Mod DVD again . Only redeeming quality is a scene with a cockroach race .
pretentious twister of a horror-thriller , it won't kill Lohan's career , but it's a definite blotch	I Know Who Killed Me , written and directed by two first-timers respectively ( the director has done a couple of ultra low-budget horror efforts , seen only in festivals ) , is the end result of the two of them ( and the producers more or less ) watching much too much of the series Twin Peaks and the film Fire Walk With Me without really understanding the symbolism exactly . It's a mystery of a mystery , and it involves stigmatic twins , owls , severed limbs , and severed finger , and a killer who may have escaped from the Blue Man Group and was forced into appearing in this film . Lindsay Lohan , attempting to dig deeper than ever with her acting talents ( and for all of her debauchery and self-destruction off-camera she does in fact have a little talent , seen most prominently in Prarie Home Companion ) , portrays Aubrey / Dakota as a woman / women torn by fragmented memories and a life that's as pulpy as a rotten orange . To go into the plot too much might not exactly be spoiling but merely too disengaging : Aubrey , the girl who's the ' normal ' one , goes to school , is smart , has the cute boyfriend , disappears one night , is gone for three weeks and is discovered on the side of the road missing a leg and a hand . In the hospital she also says she is not Aubrey but Dakota , a stripper who's mother was a crack-head and has no social security number . The twists that perpetuate go on until the very end , which soon becomes less confusing and just plain stupid . The condition that Aubrey / Dakota has is explained thanks to an Ask . com entry with a weird man explaining it behind a space-like background . Meanwhile , the director goes to town in illuminating the harsh and would-be surreal psychological states with the color blue . It's a motif that not only falls flat on itself , but becomes part of the unintentional humor abundant in the film . The action veers towards Evil Dead parody , with one shot reminiscent of the classic line " Groovy " , and there's even one sequence that looks ripped right off of the dream scene in Vertigo , right down to the music . Like The Number 23 , the filmmakers attempt at subject matter meaning to be provocative and dramatically tense all the way , but the concepts don't fly by because of a lack of solid skills ; with the millions of dollars at the disposal of the crew , why should there be scenes where shots are out of focus and without any significant stylistic effect . How do we care about someone being tortured if it veers into looking like a short film shot by an over-ambitious teenager with a camcorder and a penchant for Tony Scott ? As for Lohan , who goes into her role as if it's both The Parent Trap ten years after and a revisionist take on Laura Palmer , it's not exactly a horrible performance in corresponding with not exactly a failure of a film . The problem is that any skills that she puts into the scenes are faltered on the material , and on her lack of experience thus far in tackling more complex subject matter and a character who - had it been under a possibly more competent filmmaker - could be demanding of an emotional upheaval . The scenes where she strips ( and a stripper who , as did Jessica Alba in Sin City and Natalie Portman in Closer , is more of a go-go dancer as opposed to a classic striptease artist ) are muddled and sluggish , if looking objectively , and it just adds to the exploitive aura of the whole picture . In fact , it probably serves best , particularly if one is going into it looking for unintentional humor ( if you're a Twin Peaks fan as well it's likely to pop up every other scene at least ) , as a low-end exploitation flick that doesn't serve much purpose on anyone who worked on it in the future . Maybe they'll go on to better things , but for now it's sub-par .
the Howard the Duck of the 21st century	What exactly goes on in Frank Miller's mind I cannot truly say . Whatever it is , the creator of two or three of the most influential and artistically challenging comic books ( Dark Knight Returns and it's better sibling Batman : Year One plus Sin City at its best ) has over time lost his mind - or maybe hubris and fame have gone to his head . He does have a vision , I'll grant him that . Maybe next time he'll just stick to doing his comic-book version of it instead of trying to go-for-broke as a first-time solo director ( and depending on point of view on his credit on Sin City it's his first time directing period ) . Here's what Mr . Miller does : he takes one of the most beloved comic strips ever created - Will Eisner's tongue-in-cheek series of stories surrounding Denny Colt , aka the Spirit , who fights crime and tries his best to protect and help out citizens who get themselves into extraordinary circumstances . It was light but dark , funny but serious like any great pulp story , and Eisner was a pretty darn good artist to book . He takes this series and transmogrifies it , morphs it , shreds it into a thousand pieces and puts together what he thinks makes sense or looks or sounds cool or weird or different or plain sexist or , ultimately , " colorful " , and made a film . This isn't the same as a comic-book , where doing a spin on the Spirit in his universe might have been interesting , if only on the basis of his drawing work being incredible . No , instead we're treated to a movie plot that skips around maniacally in a universe that Miller has transformed in unnecessary darkness and just plain old " what-the-f-ness " , where characters neither look the same ( the two biggest examples being Denny Colt's classic blue blazer being made black since , apparently , Frank Miller only knows black and red and a kind of off-turd brown , and making the main villain , the Octoupus , a character not of the shadows as in the comic but decked out like a Dick Tracy villain on crack with Japanese and Nazi dress codes played by Samuel L . Jackson ) , sound the same ( I don't remember this much cursing or nudity or even dialog this crappily campy ) , or move the same ( basically , a lot of fight scenes are derivative of anything from the Matrix , which was also DP'd by Bill Pope , to Sin City itself ) . While it's not a prerequisite to be faithful to the source the whole time , it certainly can help to at least have a comprehension of what the author's intent was with the material . And yet , this own mis-comprehension of the source material for Miller provides him with ample opportunity to do crazy warped stuff just to see if he can pull it off , and it turns into a series of acts that are like sideshow attractions between freaks and the Grindhouse . Perhaps that's why this isn't one of the absolute worst films I've ever seen and just one of the stinkers of the year : Miller has many scenes here , like with the completely inexplicable Nazi stuff ( where dialog ranges from " Dead as Star Trek " to something to do with ' frozen beagles ' ) or that one henchman who becomes just a flipping foot who , seen on-screen long enough , becomes tearfully funny . While a lot of the scenes , like say when the actors have to act convincingly with dialog that is trite and ill-timed and poorly rehearsed and horribly cast ( Gabirel Macht being one of them ) , left me just slapping my hand against my face wondering what I had gotten myself into , there were little pockets that were about as funny as anything I'd seen in years . More frustrating , perhaps , is that I didn't know what Miller aimed for . If say he tried to make an actual joke , like with the toilet gag , it was throw-a-tomato awful . . . but that Nazi scene still makes me shake my head uttering " wow " . Speaking of wow , how about this acting ? If for nothing else , if say playing devil's advocate the picture has a terrific look to it and visuals that stun ( and to be fair one or two shots are stunners , among say thousands ) , the performances here are 90 % of the time variations on boring and dimensional and hackneyed and anything else you can think as an analogy to cardboard . Eva Mendes and Scarlet Johansson reveal why they need actual , real directors , because without they fall apart ( albeit Mendes as shown little anyway to show her real talents ) . Macht , as mentioned , is one of the stiffest heroes in history . Supporting players like the hard-nosed cop and even those goofy-f clones are worthless . . . Only Samuel L . Jackson seemed to get the gist of what he was supposed to do , and any scene he pops up in , almost in spite of Miller's decisions with the character , charges up the picture . It's ironic that Octopus is obsessed with eggs - he plays a ham worthy of the greats . This doesn't make it a great performance , or even a very good one - just not boring , which helps in the midst of such a turgid piece of comic-book movie dung .
Reinging and ringing over my head	It's basically impossible not to consider the tragedy of as the most significant event of a nightmare day on American soil . At the least it tore up New York city , and left many lives devastated . The writer / director of Reign Over Me , Mike Binder , tries to set up a form of critic-proof shield around his film by making the central tragedy for his protagonist that his family - wife , daughters - were killed on one of the planes in and for years has slipped into a horrible funk that has made him delusional and pretty close to schizophrenic . It's not using for a movie that is troubling ; films like United 93 and to a lesser extent World Trade Center benefited from facing the horror of the day head on . It's using it for this particular tragedy for this man's life . At first it's almost more of a plot device : since it was victims , the government paid out a huge amount to Charlie Fineman ( Sandler ) , so that he can still live in his apartment , refurnish the kitchen as he argued with his wife over on their last phone call , and play video games and jam out on classic rock without the worry of not having a job . Unlike , for example , the Fisher King , where the psychotic widower was also homeless , this solves the problem of dealing with monetary status . But then , as the character develops , it becomes more of a nuisance than anything . There's no depth developed within this situation aside from Charlie not dealing with the loss of his family , and what's explored in the friendship that's reconnected with Dr . Johnson ( Cheadle ) , his ex college roommate , is really bizarre and unamusing at the least and just plain stupid at worst . The way that the two connect rings false on counts of writing and directing , if not all the way on performance . Which leads to the two biggest flaws in this colossal waste , as the two feed into one another : Mike Binder's writing and Sandler's performance . I'm not one to say that Sandler can't act , on the contrary his turn in Punch-Drunk Love is revelatory , and I've even enjoyed him replaying practically the same persona in his string of comic star vehicles ( with a few obvious exceptions i . e . Click , Eight Crazy Nights ) . Here , however , he plays it all as incredulously one-note . You truly want to feel sympathy for the character - some will , to be sure - but Sandler blights this by not giving us anything to see that he wasn't always this cantankerous and crazy and demented . As clichéd as it might've been , albeit on top of the others included in the piece , a flashback wouldn't of hurt aside from the brief blips of his former life . It's such a misstep in perceiving tones of scenes , playing things for goofy laughs and drama sometimes in the same beat . Only a highly charged scene involving a gun carries any leverage in the acting department . But then the other problem , the writing , drives down most of the potential in the piece . I would be interested in seeing a film that explores some of the dimensions of a character coping with deep-rotted grief , yet not in this ham-fisted manner . On top of how Binder deals with Charlie's trauma , there's the friendship aspect , which attempts to pull some dimension for Cheadle's character . To his credit , Cheadle does give it his best , but much of the script asks him to go from being rational ( i . e . dealing with that on / off sexual harassment charge ) to being freewheeling and taking Charlie as a kind of guide to living how one wants to ( i . e . going against family ) . It becomes so frustrating that by the time some of the logical steps come closer - the psychiatric treatment Charlie does need , and is entitled to get - it's almost so out of reach for one to care from the blocks in the material . It's contrivance of plot details , it's contrivance of character , and it's a total sham and manipulation by the time of an unbelievable catharsis . It's simply not a good movie , or at the very least overrated .
not a pleasant experience as I remember it	Lawrence Kasan doing an adaptation of a Stephen King novel ; you'd think that the man who was in part responsible for Raiders of the Lost Ark and Empire Strikes Back , and directed a good film or two in his time , would be able to make a memorable work by the author . It is memorable , in it's way , but not really as the author might've intended . Or maybe it is ; maybe it's such a gross-out factor in Dreamcatcher that had King trudge through this . But maybe another problem with adaptating a book like this , another of his I've yet to read , is that it's immense in size and scope ( from what I remember from seeing the size of in in hardcover , a dictionary almost ) . But whatever the reason , Dreamcatcher is a mess , and not just in what pops up on screen from the one-hour mark onward . It starts off promisingly , with a couple of flashback scenes to a childhood setting where the main male characters have a particular struggle , and a ' special ' person is helped by them , and also helps them in return . This has that element of King writing kids that always works well , a tinge of Stand By Me there with an added brush of humanism . Then the story shifts to the friends reuniting in a cabin up in a snowbound mountain . Things seem honky-dory , but they soon turn ugly , very ugly , and then , well , here comes the real juicy parts . What starts off as a story with some interesting fantasy elements involving a ' dreamcatcher ' , something that binds together these characters thoughts somehow , goes off into a crazy alien invasion story . The aliens are dealt with in a very nasty manner , and not in a kind of fun-nasty manner that has been done in other science fiction films or stories . I could deal with the way the aliens first sort of , erm , surface , which involves a part of the body I'd rather not mention here . But then it infects one or two of the others , and it turns one definitely into a kind of bizarre schitzo homicidal maniac who also happens to ride around on the snow on a jet-ski . Then the government gets involved , with Morgan Freeman popping up in one of the very rare times I had displeasure watching him in a movie . He can be the greatest of actors in this day and age , but the character - an obsessive general on the hunt at any cost for the aliens - is beneath him , and any sense he tries to bring to the part gets swept away by the muckedy muck of the story around him . Would I recommend Dreamcatcher even as a so-bad-it's-good horror movie ? Probably not even as that . There were a few moments I could remember , when I finally gave myself away from any sense of reality and turned over to the delirium of the second half of the movie , and it was funny to a degree that was almost cheating but still goofy . But those moments are few and far between . The film overall is a muddle , a lurid take on a story where the characters are set-up OK , and then knocked down or turned on their hinges as what was neat to start with soon evaporates . And one wonders if it's more to blame on Kasdan / screenwriter William Goldman's end , who tried to take on the large-scale scope of King's work , or the actual source material itself . Apparently it was the book that King wrote after suffering from being hit by a car years ago , perhaps as his sort of therapy back to his old writing chops . Which is fine - but for it to be this , and from a man far more talented than such manic , searching - for - scares - other - than - gore tactics like in Dreamcatcher . In short , not a pleasant experience .
not a real ' worst-movie-ever ' like Lady in the Water . . . more like a high-budget / high-on-itself Ed Wood flick	M . Night Shyamalan , sad to say , was a case of a fluke in Hollywood . This isn't to say that he hasn't had some good moments in movies like Unbreakable and Signs ( more-so for the former ) , but The Sixth Sense , one of the great big wonderkind stories of the 90s has manifested itself with its creator churning out pieces of , frankly , crap upon its unwitting audience . This isn't to say that because his first few hits he wont make more movies - matter of fact he's apparently working on an Avatar picture ( not the James Cameron one , the kid-anime one ) - but following the Village , which took the ludicrous ' twist ' ending to new horrific heights , and Lady in the Water which is , at least to me , a true unmitigated disaster unleashed on to celluloid , The Happening continues the thread of total nonsense in the guise of thoughtful blockbuster stuff . Point of order : The Happening's title first opens up the potential pit-falls for jokes on the title alone ( does anyone else not picture a 60s flower-power flick ? ) , and indeed " something's happening " or " it's happened " or some variation is said enough times to merit a drinking game after it . But then the actual movie , from its opening scenes all the way to the last , are so ridiculous in nearly every step of the way for the same basic reasons that Edward D . Wood Jr's movies are still totally ridiculous failures : give actors a screenplay that is loaded with laughably hackneyed dialog ( at one point the Zooey Deschanal character says , and I quote , " Just when you thought there couldn't be any more evil that can be invented " ) , delivered by more or less ( usually less ) competent actors with straight faces as they are put into a stupid sci-fi premise . In this case a mighty wind of sorts , or rather some chemical coming from the plants that are angry or incensed via nature's wrath or whatever the hell , is attacking the cities and towns of the northeast and the Moore family ( Walhberg and Deschanal and daughter ) run from it . Yep , that's right , a lot of the movie is just characters running from the wind - with the occasional pit stop for Wahlberg to talk to a plastic plant - and from scene to scene there is just one incredibly laughable inanity after another . To give some very minor credit where it's due , it's not always the fault of the direction ; as was the case in the Village there are one or two moments that do reveal some sort of ' vision ' in the works , a shot or two that stand out as impressive . . . and then we get put back into the " what-the-bleep " clockwork of this overwrought " message " movie that says , apparently , that what we don't know from nature and probably can't know since we can't really trust science will kill us . And all the while Shyamalan almost creates something inadvertently very entertaining ; I can imagine the Happening becoming one of those classic bad movies years from now , so entirely dumbfounding with its totally serious-toned acting , dead-pan dialog and awfully staged violence ( i . e . lion feeding , lawnmower ) that one can't help but find it riotous . Maybe Shyamalan can continue his career that way , who knows ? One thing is for certain : the guy is NOT the next Hitchcock or the next Spielberg . He's lucky the wind hasn't knocked him off his feet completely .
a massively confused and dull allegory on bourgeois deconstruction	Teorema brought me to a point I usually don't get to watching films ; I felt like one of these younger ( or just less exposed to ) film-goers who complain about the classic foreign films of the new-waves being too slow and boring . I didn't want to though , as I've seen some of Pier Paolo Pasolini's past work that did impress me quite a lot ( Mamma Roma and especially Hawks and Sparrows come to mind ) . But Teorema is a work that treats ambiguity and allegory like it's not as assets but defense mechanisms . Pasolini has a theme in mind , or maybe a bunch , and they're predicated on some mysterious figure ( Terence Stamp , dubbed terribly into Italian , as apparently the rest of the mostly Italian actors are , and who has little range aside from looking like a handsome Brit ) who appears to a bourgeois family one day during a party , and soon comes the comfort / sex of every member of the family ( save for the father , that , among other things , is never made clear ) . Then , as mysteriously as he arrived , he leaves , and the family goes into a tailspin , as the daughter ( Ann Wiazemsky , who makes her fairly detached performance in Au hasard Balthazar look like a telenovela comparatively ) goes into a catatonic state after seeing his picture , the wife goes batty and aimless , the servant goes to some farm and sits without eating on a bench , and the father also goes into a quasi-shock . It's a maddening film , and not a successful one , because Pasolini doesn't even do anything minimal to make us give one tenth of one crap about any of the characters . Is he condemning or trying to understand these emotionally deprived bourgeois , who male or female jump all over ' The Visitor ' ( un-erotically , I might add , and where's the fun if it's Pasolini ) , and then break apart when he's not around ? The performances might be bad more-so because of the script than because of a dearth of talent : Stamp has done better things , as Silvana Magnano has , but there characters have nothing to do except look awestruck , withdrawn , or in a daze that food or , to be sure , running a factor can quench . It's not that Pasolini even does a failure as a director here - there's one shot especially , as the father walks across the train station in a long tracking shot in a different film stock , that is extraordinary . But even Pasolini's style is off , be it because of lack of budget or by choice , as it becomes noticeable and stupid to suddenly see the change in film-stock from the train-station long shot of the father taking off his clothes , then cutting to an obvious in-studio shot . Maybe acid European art-house fanatics ( and I say fanatics as opposed to fans ) might find some great depth in Pasolini's method to deconstructing his characters , but it's really an exercise in frustration without a pay-off . There's none of the morbid , scalding-hot underlying wit of a real controversial work like Salo , and once the substance starts to irk with the lack of exposition or real depth past the flailing poetic lines , one would try and look at the style for some artistic merit . But Pasolini also compromises himself by adding in supposedly subliminal ( or naggingly intentional ) shots of a blackened desert at times as a character stares off or just during a random moment , and there's other bits of terrible editing as well ( it might have been more effective , for example , if the shot panning up to the woman suspended in the sky didn't suddenly cut jarringly to the on-lookers at the farm ) . And the cinematography almost seems to try to be compensating for what is lacking in the material with many a magisterial but often self-important shot of a character walking for minutes at length for no purpose . And saddening good music is put to poor use . Mozart's requiem comes up any time Pasolini wants to garner some extra emotion , and Morricone , while supplanting an unusual and intriguing jazz score , gets a similar treatment with his notes . Teorema is very disappointing , not simply as a work of social critique or religious drama but as a work from a director who can , and did , do better . It might even be his worst film .
a good lot like Porno Holocaust , only even more misogynistic and with badly dubbed ( Japanese ) sex scenes !	Maybe it was the title , or the trailer ( certainly not the interview on the DVD , which is with the director as he keeps saying " hi , kids " into the camera like a buffoon ) , but I had expectations for Entrails of a Virgin to be at least a bit of sleazy fun with some good sex scenes and brutal , bloody killings by a weird Japanese penetrator . Turns out it's way too sleazy for its own good , or bad , or whatever . There's a problem - and one can see this also in the Italian sexploitation flick Porno Holocaust , similar to this in many respects - in not having balance to the sex and violence . Too much sex and it will turn into a prototypical porno , and not even with much production quality in comparison with most professional porno movies ! And with the killing scenes , there has to be at least a little tack , and maybe just a smidgen of ingenuity , in creating the creature / killer / whatever . Entrails of a Virgin has neither . It's safe to say it's a pretty soulless movie , even if isn't one of the very worst ever made - it's there just for horn-dog Japanese fetishists to get off on girls in trouble and men who have all their brains in their ' other ' heads . In this case , we're given a photo team where the guys are taking some shots of some girls , nothing too salacious , and then by way of a dense fog they stay off at some house one night and are picked off one by one by " A Murderer " as he's credited . First off , the director Kazuo ' Gaira ' Komizu decides he has to put in a quota of random sex scenes early on - we get spliced in ( or phoned in , take your pick ) clips of one of the photographers having sex with one or more of the girls elsewhere . It looks like it's from another movie . Then once settled into the house , there's a ' wrestling ' scene that's poorly choreographed and shot ( yeah , we really need to see him ' all ' there ) , and then on to the rape and killings . First the rape , by the photographers , who promise the girls some jobs for their time . Then the Murderer , who like D'Amato's creature is simply covered in mud and given a stupid facial , and who for an unknown reason kills the men and / or rapes the women one by one . Now , the latter of those , taken by themselves , should be considered the highlights of the movie . This is like saying , however , that the croûtons are the best part of a wretchedly tasting salad . An eye-gouging scene , a spike thrown like an Olympic event ( that scene , actually , is kind of cool ) , and finally the entrailing of the overly sex-crazed girl , whose inconsequential name I can't remember . Even this becomes disappointing just by not being correct to the title ! On top of this , the sex scenes , which become tedious through ' Gaira ' and his indulgence in long-takes-without-cutaways where everything by the Japanese censors is blurred anyway , are dubbed over by the actors ( you'd think that they seem to be enjoying themselves enough , hence the need to let them ' speak ' for themselves ) . But the overall feeling from Entrails of a Virgin is that of a lumpy one , where it's just there to be gawked at and without a shred of suspense or true horror ( watch as the last girl left alive , the virgin of the picture , tries to stop the murderer from getting to her , which lasts five minutes as she keeps throwing sticks at him ! ) You just want it to be done with , for the ' I hate women ' mantra to ease up or be rid altogether .
just one more big-time money maker with no soul and mundane ( though continuous ) action	I guess I remember liking the first two Mummy movies well enough ( matter of fact if I look back at my old reviews they might have been given a piece ) , but at the same time I never remember having a desire to re-watch the movies either after seeing them once as a big-time summer blockbuster as a teenager . With Mummy 3 , they're not even trying anymore , and simply isn't worth your time let alone your money . It's just soulless Hollywood product propped up to try and squeeze any drops left in a franchise that is a reboot of the original 1930's Mummy series . In short , it's a little like the Transformers of 2008 , although I don't even think this will have its defenders like Bay's cluster-f . Now , granted , I wasn't expecting anything really spectacular - frankly it's hard to imagine Dark Knight being topped for pure excitement as a summer movie - but here it's just dumb , and not always the kind of ' fun ' dumb that I was hoping for ( or that might be attempted by the writers ) . It's basically a rehash of the plot of Hero , and ironically stars Jet Li and Maggie Cheung as the main players , and Li plays this Dragon emperor who wanted to take over the world and was ruthless but got frozen in time . His curse is unlocked , however , in the 1940s , and set to reign all over again with his ' mummy ' army . Then steps in the O'Connell family ( Brendan Fraser , Maria Bello inexplicably replacing Rachel Weisz , and Luke Ford as son Alex ) to get back in action once again to try and stop this mummy invasion . . . again . To try and go for any plot is more than just moot ; in the past movies , for all is homaging ( or just ripping off ) of Indiana Jones movies and old-time matinée serials , there were some original ideas and visuals and action set pieces . This time , it's all just a continual loop of Indiana Jones rip-offs ( a friend of mine repeatedly whispered " oh no , it's not from Raiders " or " it's not from Last Crusade " sarcastically ) . There's almost no real invention , even as the climax goes for ANOTHER rip-off ( 300 , anyone ? ) , and the one cool part of the movie - the Yetties ( is that how its spelled ) who are big , hilarious abominable snowmen - lasts all too short an amount of time to have any fun . The rest of the running time is used up for corny , un-funny " jokes " and dialog , false romantic sub-plots , and a performance from Jet Li that is practically non-existent ( and , in fact , he's mostly a skeleton for half the running time despite getting second billing ) . Did I mention the new addition , Luke Ford , is so bland and annoying that he makes Brendan Fraser a charisma magnet ? It's simply another studio piece of ' whatever ' , not a total bomb but without a shred of invention or intelligence in the writing or direction . If it's on TV , watch it for a minute and decide what's going on . But it's bound to be a disappointment even for those who somehow have a nostalgia ( yeah , nostalgia within a decade ) for Mummy and Mummy Returns .
" He is not an agent of the C . I . A . , he is a writer of comic books ! "	This is a kid's movie that I wonder how it could have even appealed to me as a kid back when it first had a little more , uh , technical relevance I suppose ? Actually , no , I wouldn't guess so , if at all ever ? Was it a tax write-off ? Or maybe the filmmakers took too many drugs and drinks while watching James Bond and Pink Panther movies ? Or maybe they knew what they were getting into and thought they could still pull off a legitimately entertaining movie for the whole family . I really have no idea how I would've reacted to this is I were a kid , but as a twenty-something , me and the friends I watched it with became practically the Mystery Science Theater guys , heckling and making up lines as it went along . And , in truth , I might've done it even if I was watching it alone . It's camp without knowing it , or if it does know it maybe it's all the smarter for it . But it does try to pass itself off as something for the kiddies when really it's just too ridiculous and inane for anyone . Maybe the title gives it away , but there you have it - he's a man , but he's also a condor , get it ? Well , to put it plainly if I can , Woody Wilkins ( Michael Crawford ) is ambivalent for about a second to take his ' Condorman ' idea to the next step - to team up with the CIA ! His mission is to stop a Russian terrorist , played by Oliver Reed , while also with the seductive Ruskie ' Bear ' ( Barbara Carrera ) . That's really all you need to know , oh wait , there's more : there's a lead henchman with an eye-patch , or is that a marble eye , or both ? How about big gargantuan title cards to introduce every single locale ( though sometimes , like with the alps scenes , becoming a little confusing again ) ? Or massive explosions ? I think that might sum it up . But really , if you seek out the movie , you should know what to expect not just from the title but from just the LOOK on the cover of the DVD or VHS . It might be one thing if British director Charles Jarrott went for such silly subject matter with more gusto , but it's almost as if he KNOWS how goofy this is , and has car chases that just spring out of nowhere , plus a climactic speed-boat challenge where even more big explosions happen ( and the ratio of the henchmen who jump off the boats before explosion and those who stay on during it is maybe and ) . In other words , it was perfect as a kind of film to rag on , to put it mildly . It might be one thing if it was so good it's bad , but it turns it it's so mediocre it's just , well , bad . It's got heroes and villains that put out dialog that sometimes is a little incoherent , the bumbling sidekick who is SUPPOSED to be a CIA agent , and that darn one-eyed henchmen , come together in a film where said Condorman only takes flight for less than four minutes ! If anything kind can be said about it , it's at least not a boring bad movie , where its so relentless with cheesiness that it becomes wearisome . It's almost too whacked out to get dull at any one point . It is consistent in trying to be entertaining when it really isn't , however it thus becomes on the flip-side entertaining again as fodder for the sort of slings and fun that would make Statler & Waldorf of the Muppets die to dig in on . It's simply one of the most unintentionally funny movies of the 80s , at least from Disney .
it's all TRUE after all !	I could barely keep myself from either nodding off or just turning off this turd , but I decided to stick it out if only for the reasoning that maybe something would happen . This is the work of a writer / producer / director / special fx , Kenneth Herts , who wants to make a statement on ecological damage while making a monster movie . That's what he wanted , anyway . What it turns out to be is a lot of acting , either slightly hammy or just mundane and without much merit , and scenes that seem to repeat themselves as the monster ATTACKS in the river waters ( oh , and what luck , a woman just happens to be naked in it . . . even though there have already been DISAPPEARANCES ! ) This is just nonsensical stuff , but I suppose it's not too harmful ; it's not very obnoxious at the least and once or twice we get a semi-interesting peek at Brazilian " culture " ( which is the father walking through town with his flock or other pieces of a semblance of ' hey , this is NOT America ! ' ) . But whatever hope the director had in casting Mitchum or Carradine is squandered on at best pedestrian and at worst excruciatingly banal and dumb dialog . It doesn't help that when we finally get something of a good look at the monster and the " action " happens , it too is stupidly staged and with only sleazy appeal . Usually I would feel sorry for a filmmaker who had a lot of problems getting a particular picture finished - in this case it took the better part of the mid 70s - but with Monstroid or Monster or whatever it's called . . . nah . If you happen to get the Elvira DVD double-feature of this ( bad print with bad transfer quality ) with Blue Sunshine , make sure to skip this one . Unless , of course , you're an Elvira die-hard and can't help yourself to hear her luscious commentary ; personally , I'd rather get Joel or Mike Nelson with the robots from Mystery Science Theater on this roast turkey .
A movie that means well , but is as overbearing as a rehab cult member	Over the GW is a near failure of a debut feature , and not because it's not without trying . . . Actually , it is . It's a shamble all the more because it's writer / director / technical everyman Nick Gaglia went through the same rehab cult that he depicts in the film . Sometimes a first time filmmaker , full of the vigor that comes with getting a thumbs up or two from fellow film students , goes headlong into style that is way too disjointed , unsure , and dramatically frustrating that the personal side of the story , the extremely personal side , gets smudged in the purpose of telling a good story . Gaglia , who was 13 when put into a horrid program that basically tortured and brainwashed their " patients " with crazy group scare tactics , psychological mind-f sessions that could go on for days , and attitudes from the rehab leaders that would make most Nazis cringe , escaped finally when he was 15 . I'm glad he got out , though it might help if he now goes into a real rehab for his film-making skills , if only for a couple of days , to learn things like , say , structure , proper lighting , fluid camera movement , subtlety with actors , and other basics that are perpetually lost here . It's all the more frustrating because Gaglia is dealing with a subject that should be shown more to the public ( there was recently a Newsweek article referring to a similar AA cult-rehab ) . Many times one wonders if certain personal character studies might work better as documentaries as opposed to narrative dramas . This is an ever-nagging sensation throughout Over the GW , where it almost feels like Gaglia wants to tell the truth but doesn't know how to communicate it properly through his characters . The character that one would think is closest to him , Bronx teen Tony Serra ( Gallagher ) , who is taken by his mother to a rehab in New Jersey , would be closest to Gaglia , is actually much more of a one-dimensional being , where there is very little back-story ( we see a brief freak-out , in black and white , in his old home ) and little connection to his mother ( Moriarty ) , who has more potential that is never tapped aside from a cold stone who passes her kids off to another . But there is a story to go with his two-year crisis , I guess . Right off the bat things get rough ( a nude cavity search in the first five minutes ) , and soon it's clear that instead of medical care it's more like a cross between anger management and some bizarre religious sect , where the head doctor Hiller ( Insinnia ) is a total over-controlling loon . But soon Tony's sister Sofia ( Donohue ) gets thrown in to the program , and as opposed to Tony's repeated moments of outrage and supposed non-compliance , she goes head-on through the whacked-out three step program and once released becoming a runaway . At times there are bits in this fractured nightmare , where there's one woman , a 22 year old mother who has been in the program a year and a half finds she's become a prisoner not allowed to leave , and when the father of the main siblings comes and pays an enraged visit to Hiller when Sofia finally returns to them , that do contain some raw power , very brief glimpses of Gaglia being able to at least garner some leverage in pure melodrama . But these are moments few and far between . It's not just the unsuccessful characters , who are mostly reduced to stereotypes that veer into being like hysterical D . A . R . E . rip-offs ( maybe some of them , like an angry black youth , the passive-aggressive counselors , or even Serra's older sister who is ratted out by the siblings as having taken a hit off a joint and almost thrown into the program , would resonate more if there was more time given to develop any of them ) . It's that Gaglia is so unfocused in his multiple roles on his tiny $30 , 000 budget that not one side of whatever potential talent he has can come through . He over-uses tints , mostly with a shade that looks urine-coated ) , he jiggles his hand-held DVX camera as if it's supposed to be intense ala City of God , occasionally a character will just shoot into frame randomly , his choices of music are like the worst selections possible from pseudo-indie soft-rockers , and there's even inane fake interview scenes with Nicholas Serra ( inspiration ? ) and Krakowsky that feel about as false as possible . Could Gaglia just not get any interviews with the real victims he was with and resort to would-be artistically cathartic plan B ? Bottom line , no matter how much from-the-heart true life stories may appeal to you , don't bother seeing it in the theater , or even on rental , unless you love a final scene with two kids staring off into the digital-hued Hudson river sunset with the final words reading : Dedicated to the Kids . Oy .
mostly a disappointment	John Landis ' Blues Brothers 2000 has a ridiculous plot that goes nowhere ( at least the original had somewhat a plot to get money to save a church ) and is dumb to enough of a degree to warrant it almost as patched-together in a coffee-shop over three nights . Also , for die hard fans of the original , they will feel a great , unavoidable void where John Belushi fit in the original as Jake Blues ( Belushi is dead ) . So that's the disappointment . And there are others , including the inevitable rehashing by Landis and Aykroyd of the past plot line almost to a T with extra fluff like the responsibility factor , whatever that is , put upon Jake and the kid . The car chases , too , are only so-so when compared to the audacity and bizarre originality of the first film's chases ( good for their time , and almost too simple and predictable to do twenty years later ) . But the film isn't totally irredeemable - it almost sets itself up NOT to be by overloading with various Blues icons both old and not so old . So the climactic big performance featuring a who's who of blues and rock musicians is almost worth seeking out the film to see , at least if you're a fan . But it is definitely hit ( very narrow hit ) or very much a miss for original fans of the SNL series and ( compared to this ) absolute post-modern 1980 classic comedy . That it only provides a few solid laughs make it all the more dreary , a sign of Landis's decline from his high peak in the 80's . Cameos include Frank Oz , Darrell Hammond , BB King , Steve Lawrence , Eric Clapton , Erykah Badu , Aretha Franklin , Isaac Hayes , Dr . John , Steve Winwood , John Popper ( Blues Traveler ) , and James Brown as the always awesome Reverend Cleophus James ( who actually provides the funniest part of the film after the end credits ! )
is too mediocre to be a camp classic , but you might have some laughs at the filmmaker / actors ' expense	Mr . Brooks brings out its bag of tricks early on , but its a bag that's sort of moldy and with the scent of contentment with the average as opposed to more outrageous tendencies . It was a good time for the wrong reasons during the film , a vehicle for Kevin Costner to try to make a grasp at star-defiance of type ( instead of a hero he's a killer , woo , big leap ) , but I wondered if maybe the writers would've fared better if they hadn't gone on to make it a " legitimate " thriller . The aspect to the Costner / William Hurt dynamic , where it's a blatantly obvious contrivance of the script where almost every scene without Brooks with a different person in the room or other to talk to is with Hurt's character of Brooks's ego , or Id , or whatever Freudian tick-tack may apply . Some of there scenes , however stupid they might be ( including one where Costner cries , have mercy ) , show some interesting bits and pieces of psychological unease between the two , as if it's been too long that Brooks has listened to his egger-on and doubting Thomas , but still does as the two have wicked laughs at the possibilities of murder and deceit . However , it's director / co-writer Bruce Evans's idea to make Mr . Brooks crammed with the typical elements of a mystery-thriller involving a serial killer , and in some equally expected and inane ways . Demi Moore's character is the given , the tough pro who is saddled with her other motivation that she has to crack the case or else be fired due to a divorce case happening the same time ( this is a totally inexplicable plot line made so that Moore can act even more ' tough ' , and to eventually tie it into the Brooks killing line ) . Then there's Dane Cook , who doesn't act so much as just use his sort of twitchy ' skills ' at acting like he can act to play the almost blackmailing photographer who catches Brooks in the act of killing two of his latest , and then is brought along by Brooks to see someone else get killed . On top of this , we get the ' other wise ' to Brooks's life , which is that he's a legitimate businessman and a loving husband and father , the latter of which to a girl who may turn out to be as dysfunctional as him , in the worst ways possible . Instead of possibly giving the characters and developing situations much serious thought , Evans and his co-writer make it all too ridiculous to take as something more interesting , and at the same time tries to make it a conventional thriller to make it experimental . Although Evans isn't necessarily incompetent as a craftsman with the camera - there are , in fact , many well done shots in darkness and silhouettes and other moody scenes of Brooks in his dark home or in thought or Moore swimming in the pool - the story is just too stupid to really make it on either side , with some minor exceptions ( the moment when Cook's " Mr . Smith " finds the newspaper in the car with the words circled to spell out instructions , to his total anger , is hilarious ) , and the actors are left with material to flounder in . Cosnter can show his talents from time to time , but again he's saddled himself to a work that might have at some point allowed him for extra room to challenge himself , but in the end he almost challenges his audience to actually see if he has anything , at all , going on emotion-wise , which is next to none . William Hurt takes a nose-dive following his smashing Oscar nomination a couple years ago . Moore is , well , the usual , not bad but nothing more worthy of potential . And Cook is close to being a non-entity in a role that should require more chutzpah . In short , wait for TV , real late night I'm - drunk - and - there's - nothing - else - on TV , for this mainstream clap-trap .
as much as it might entice you to see 3D porno . . . it's not worth it . . .	There's a reason one doesn't see that many 1970s XXX movies shown in 3D anymore , if ever , and Disco Girls in Hot Skin is one of the few exceptions likely ever to come out . It plays from time to time at midnight screenings around the US , and it played recently in New York city . I saw it , curious just to see not even so much what a porno would look like on a big screen ( having grown up post Taxi Driver / present internet generation the theaters for XXX simply don't exist anymore in the city even if I was so inclined to go ) but in 3D . And the answer : about what one should expect unless if they're expectations are too high . The film might have been shot in 3D , of that I am not sure at all yet . From the looks of things , either way , the people behind the movie did a very poor job of putting it together . Now , I don't mean this entirely in terms of it as an actual movie , though as a 1970s hardcore porno one has to expect that it's a ) repetitive and stupid and occasionally pretty boring , and b ) at best , and there are some ' best-of ' moments , it's completely cheesy , hilarious disco-era sex-ploitation fun . What I mean is that it's just not at all worth the 3D hype ; watching it with the old-school blue and red glasses ( note to those expecting a recent experience like out of Coraline or My Bloody Valentine 3D ) is retarded , since the colors are already washed out of the print and by putting the glasses on you're not getting that much at all of the original images , however not very well filmed and sometimes just downright fing horrible the shots can get , and it's just lots of blue and red filtered together , with images appearing in double . Only a car chase , which happens for about 15 seconds , is worth any of the trouble . Lame . Simple as that . You know who you are already if you have any desire to see this movie , or then again maybe you don't . You might think that you'll want to see it just for kicks , and if that's the case it's just OK . You should seek out actual GOOD exploitation movie-fare ala Jack Hill pictures or Death Race 2000 or even crazy biker flicks before having to venture into such bizarre and SUPER low budget territory . Some jokes like the recurring psychiatrist who just POPS right into frame ( literally , I'm serious ) to give advice to the one guy who can't get " it " up are pretty amazing , as are the old-school Star Trek props like the rocks thrown in the climax , and a couple of lines of dialog or just a super-duper random cutaway were funny . Other times it just got to be what you'd KNOW going into the movie it would be , which is rampant hardcore sex of all the varieties save for man-on-man , and how this will affect you will depend on how you view pornography . I'm not disgusted by it , but it's never a turn on in the slightest so except for the guilty pleasure of being in a midnight screening of other crazed and drunken fools yelling and howling at the screen ( and the laughter sometimes caused by just laughing at oneself for getting into something like this ) it becomes tedious and just , well , bland , even for supposedly " classy " 1970s porno . And save for a couple of moments of actual disco it falters on that count as well : because it's an underground porno with a couple of big names ( John Holmes gets top billing but is only in one scene oddly enough ) , it doesn't have any real money or resources to make itself a period piece save for a couple of shots at a rinky-dink club and a couple of afros here and there . It's got the crummy disco music but nothing to make it ever in the slightest memorable . Its gimmick really rests on the 3D and since that makes one dizzy enough to fall down the stairs trying to get out of the movie theater on the way out , there's only the scatter-shot moments of sleaze that entertain . It was an experience I was glad to have once , and now never , ever again . It's for real die-hard hardcore fans only , and next time I'll know a lot better . . . that is until the re-release of Jaws 3D !
want to take a gamble ? this movie STINKS !	Robert Luketic , director of 21 , doesn't have as his major folly to change the characters from the book ( which I have not read but heard a bit about ) from an all Asian group of card counters in Las Vegas to a more ' mixed ' lot ( i . e . about are Asian now ) . Nor is it even his casting of his lead actor ( Jim Sturgess probably brings more charm to the two-dimensional part than one would've thought was possible ) . His biggest folly was not questioning as he went through the motions of making a silly , contrived , hyper - slick - music - video - shot - in - Jiminy - Jilikers - High - def if there was anything to change up on an audience who knows such motions through and through . The only thing that might differentiate this movie from a whole host of smart-guy-in-a-new-dirty-pond flicks ( and I can't name them all but the likes of Rounders is a masterpiece compared to this ) is that the characters turn into models from GQ and Maxim by the time they hit it big in Vegas . Not expecting much from 21 is just about right , or even worse . And don't get me started on Laurence Fishburne and Kevin Spacey . It's a paycheck day once again for these two very good - sometimes even fabulous - thespians , who slum their roles as a would-be-DeNiro-in-Casino and a shady MIT professor who by the looks of the movie should be characterized as team-leader-Satan respectively . They too understand what is going on in 21 , which is an ol ' fish-out-of-water fable about smart people doing stupid things with lots of money at stake as an MIT kid ( Srugess ) with aspirations for Harvard med joins a group that goes to Vegas and stakes out hundreds of thousands per weekend by counting cards and hustling from table to table . I guess , in a way , I don't blame them for not doing much at all with their roles . But one would hope that there would be something , ANYTHING , that would make this as something for them to distinguish , that the director & / or the script would give them something to do aside from filling in pat performances from at least a good few other parts they've played . As mentioned , Sturgess at least brings a little bit of interest to a character carved out of some sympathy as kid who gets in way over his head . There's not much else with supporting players either . Kate Bosworth is the kind of actress whom you think can sort of act , or at least knows how to pretend to really act . But there's also something just not there clicking , something when she puts on the ' concerned ' face that just screams so bland that you can't even take it . The writers also plug in clichés of yester-year ( and not long enough ) : Jacob Pitts as the snotty side character in the group who is just too jealous and stubborn to stay in the group long once Benn arrives ; the old nerdy friends from before Ben's trip into blackjack land , who are there as a function and not as any real character ' base ' . And then there is the script in and of itself - giving us such forlorn twists and turns in its final reels that I want to choke on my popcorn - and the direction as well , which pumps up the volume for the kids while making sure to completely sanitize a real Vegas experience for college-aged younguns ( and , of course , the shallowest of all , the two hot male and female leads have to hook up , without much connection whatsoever ) . Maybe you could give it a couple of quick peeks , maybe five minutes , when it's on TNT in a couple of years . But as far as giving any substantial money to this enterprise ? The house wins , Johnny , that's the way it is .
surprisingly run-of-the-mill for the most part , a fairly average , stupid / bad horror fest	I had heard some bad things about Cabin Fever almost as much as I heard the cultish hype . As it turns out , the first film from the new impresario Eli Roth , it's just a so-so effort with the IQ points dropping as the film progresses . There are worse movies out there , and surely more gory ones ( while I'm not sure how the hype-meter got so high on the blood-count for Hostel , there is a good amount for genre fans here ) . The premise isn't necessarily bad either though : kids go to a cabin for a week of partying , only to come across a very sick man , covered in blood , whom in a panic they set on fire . He winds up dead in the water that feeds the reservoir , and soon the characters all succumb to the flesh-eating virus one way or another . The characters , either the lead college kids ( including Rider Strong as the hero and James DiBello as the goofy side-bar ) or the supporting ' village ' folks are archetypal to the point of inertia , if not painfully so . As they meet their fates , the townspeople get pretty weird , and it just seems to be non-sensibly thrown together without the many laughs ; ' Pancakes kid ' comes out of nowhere , and maybe might have been funnier in another movie or by itself , but in the context of the rest of the movie , it just doesn't work . There's also a young police character who is even dumber and less convincing than the others . And the family that goes after DiBello following an incident has some possibilities that aren't realized . But all the while , Roth pumps up his script with common sense out the window and sudden scares and frights with people hacking up blood on one another and a killer dog rambling around . Which isn't all for not either . Now , unlike lesser Troma horror movies or even lesser ones of the 70s or 80s - to which I'm sure Roth is a die-hard fan - he doesn't make it unwatchable . It's also smart to not have any explanation for where the virus comes from . But unlike those films too , he also doesn't really have a fine idea of what makes for great campy-horror times . His film tries for that , of course , and only once or twice does he make it a goofy , bloody time ( I did like the random bunny Strong sees while on the gurney ) . It's not even very poorly shot a lot of the time ( albeit with its own contrived style-choices ala red tint on the lens or that story with the bowling-alley worker ) . It simply contains a lot of illogical scenarios and choices made ( shave your legs with a deadly virus , uh-huh ) , and it aims for fairly typical ground . If that's your cup of tea , more power to you . But at the end I found it to be actually un-exceptional genre territory that doesn't offend audience sensibilities ala Saw , but doesn't swing for the fence either as a clever B-movie . Roth also has the temerity to end the movie on a true note of ' what-the-hell ' as the Santa Claus bearded convenience store clerk from earlier in the film serves a bunch of black people . It could work if he followed up on it with something better , or if he dropped it altogether . Same could be said for a lot of the movie .
maybe if Vincent Price narrated it would be better , but . . . .	The Last Broadcast is the kind of example that should be remembered when watching Romero's Diary of the Dead . There were some who criticized Romero for the style of the picture , for the amateurish acting and an unfitting documentary approach . I would put forward the argument that Romero's self-conscious approach that one of the film students edited The Death of Death on a comp while locked in a panic room was meant to satirize other documentary-style pictures that go overboard in trying to make " messages " . Such as , well , The Last Broadcast . Here is a horror-documentary that takes itself way too seriously for its own good , after opening with a possibly promising premise and couple of scenes that work as intentionally amateur clips of " Fact or Fiction " hosts on Public Access TV - later victims of what could be the Jersey Devil - and then nose-diving into either mind-numbingly boring exposition , cheesy and / or ridiculously edited " digital " images , and a final ten minutes that had me smacking my head just to make sure I wasn't hallucinating . So , in short , The Last Broadcast is definitely something of an independent find , but not in one of those nice ways where you find an item you hear about for years and it turns out to be a gem . Here we get " real people " ( and some of them , of course , are ) telling the story through David Leigh's audio commentary about the Jim Suerd being charged and convicted of murdering the hosts of " Fact or Fiction " and then the process of piecing together footage that is mysteriously sent to the filmmaker and editor Michelle and what clues might lie within . As trying for the documentary style by directors Avalos and Weiler , it falls flat . Not just because of others out there ( i . e . Cannibal Holocaust , the Monster Hunter ) that take similar approaches with sharper results . It's because of an inherent lack of understanding of how a documentary should work even as a " not-real " documentary . It's hard to build any suspense because whenever something interesting might happen in the found footage there's a cut-away to something stupid , or a lousy freeze-frame or another editing device used as if by the " filmmaker " . And it's not really a fault of it being shot on such a ridiculously low budget in and of itself . I can respect that , and if anything it's a good sign for other filmmakers that something can be attempted to be shot on hand-held cameras and edited in the midst of " the digital age " . But in the ill-prepared hands it's not an asset either , as Avalos and Weiler can't direct their actors much at all , least of them horribly monotoned David Beard ( seriously , wouldn't Vincent Price's droll but menacing baritone work far greater worth here ? ) , and they barely ever conjure up much genuine suspense because , really , the main focus of the Jersey Devil is blurred by poor storytelling : a continuing mass of not-even first-year film school attempts at making " flashy " editing choices and transitions . And yet I might have been able to forgive a lot of the flaws throughout the picture if not , oh for the love of Pete , those last ten minutes . After the bulk of the picture going through its warped documentary approach , when a horrific and sudden ( not to mention completely WTF ) murder happens , the style reverts to a regular third-person approach , complete with cranes and stedi-cams and other things that suddenly take the viewer completely out of what's been happening . Aside from the murder not making much sense , and even being laughable to a morbid degree , it also doesn't really do much to suggest anything menacing about the Jersey Devil . What is it , that the Jersey Devil somehow can go through internet lines ala electric Gremlin from Gremlins 2 and ask questions to low-rent public access hosts ? Or that the Jersey Devil infects the souls of filmmakers who suddenly go from being objective to subjective ? What's the point ? There isn't one , in the end , which makes the original idea lose next to all of its potential . Or , to put it another way , it says right on the front of the video box a quote from a supposedly praising review : " May have influenced Blair Witch . . . it certainly preceded it . " Um . . . What ?
not too surprised it's straight to video ; it's exploitive fun , but lesser Miike all the way	I thought of a couple of director Takashi Miike's movies while watching Full Metal Yakuza - Ichi the Killer and Izo - because of what they have sort of in line with it . Both of those films have a protagonist who , more or less , is on a hell-bent path of murderous destruction . But even Izo , in comparison with this ( and I consider Izo a flawed film ) , is more worthwhile than this minor claptrap . Maybe it's also a sign of what Miike had with better things to come , as it was just a short on-assignment gig to fill up his V-Cinema requirements . Not that you can't tell he might've had a hand in some scenes , notably the most violent and abrasive ones where the hero of the title gets his revenge ( albeit with the head of one yakuza and the heart & body of another , ho-ho ) . There's not much story to it at all , except that a lowly gangster gets gunned down when his mentor , a yakuza previously in jail for 7 years , gets out and gets killed too . A mad scientist dubbed the " nutty professor " ( double ho-ho ) puts them back together , and this time totally in metal . Not that there aren't any other " special " modifications too , like in the groin area to be precise ( not just quick blue electrical flashes go through when he gets charged up ) . Then the exploitation-fun continues , as the bare plot wheels away until I couldn't really care less about whatever really happened with most of the characters , and just wondered when the next big huge violent gush of blood would occur . The special effects , even for something as quick and ultra low-budget ( and yes , even for a Robocop spin-off it's very low-budget , even with an invention or two in Miike's arsenal ) , are cheesy , and sometimes the film / video speed reminded me of seeing kids movies from the 80s or something . The only side development in any of the characters , however shallow , is with a woman ( a prostitute I believe ) who is with another man after a previous ill-timed engagement . Sure to be OK enough for most just looking for a splatteriffic time , but I think to really get a lot more laughs out of it I'd have to be pretty wasted . It's not devoid of punch , but it's got nothing in the way of a sharpness of wit or wild visual panache of Miike's other works . It's just what to expect - a V-Cinema gimmick made long into a feature with so-so acting and a yakuza story that's nothing new ; I don't even think it'll get too much better if on a repeat viewing either .
a ' re-imagining ' from Rob Zombie that confuses gore and exploitation theatrics ( and loads of exposition ) for real thrills and chills	The main problem in doing a Halloween remake is that the original is so much still , nearly thirty years on , in the public's movie-going consciousness that it holds its ground . John Carpenter took a very ambiguous approach to the slasher movie , of making a ' boogeyman ' out of a mute psychopath , and filmed it in a manner that , as Ebert pointed out , could be comparable to Hitchcock . Rob Zombie doesn't take that route . His style mixes the slapdash 70's B-movie splatter-movie throwback approach he used in The Devil's Rejects with the conventions of Halloween , and very quickly it becomes a deterrent to whatever he's trying to do in the script . Once or twice it almost seems as if he might try and improve as a director in some scenes , but then he falls back on shaky hand-held camera-work and lots and lots of gore ( ' gotta see the killing ' must have been Zombie's motto on the set during the slaying scenes ) . But that's only one gripe to have , and probably not even the central one . Probably the biggest flaw in Zombie's construction of the film is in making the ambiguous not only nil , but juxtaposing a new theorem to Myers psychology . Gone is the long point-of-view shot that opens the original Halloween , where the perspective has to make the viewer fill in the blanks at will . Now there is forty-five minutes of filling in the blanks , the whitexploitation way : Myers may be a psycho , but it could've been fixed , couldn't it , had he just had the right parents who weren't a waste of space redneck ass and a stripper mother ? Just hearing Myers talk and get bullied on is a mistake ; unlike in Devil's Rejects , where there might have been a purpose ( albeit sort of lost on me ) in making the antagonists the renegade heroes , Myers doesn't need explanation or , dare it be suggested , sympathy for his downfall into madness behind the mask . It's ironic that the producers decided to opt for Zombie's version when originally they planned on making a prequel about Myers's childhood years . If I wanted to get some real psychological insight into a stalker-of-the-night I'd re-read the Watchmen comic-book on Rorscach . And yet the idea of trying to put a new spin on a slasher film of the classic likes of Halloween with a more twisted spin isn't lost on me . On the outset , one's expectation could be at least that the remake might do one better than the recent spat of sequels . But Zombie still lags in that same pool of franchise product , despite his best intentions , because he doesn't project the necessities of suspense , of real horror of the un-seen . A few times Michael Myers will enter into someone's house through the front door ( Laurie Strode's parents are one example , as well as with one of Laurie's sexy and sexed up friends ) , and it could be more interesting if the shot of the door slamming would be the end of the scene . But then we have to go inside , to see the brutality in all of Myers's thrashing and stabbing and choking and so on . It turns to tediousness , which even in the lessor sequels wouldn't be too strong of a factor against it . And Zombie also crams in the information that wisely was left until Halloween 2 , originally , which draws out the narrative until one just wishes that it would end already . It wouldn't surprise me if some day Rob Zombie makes a credible work of film-making , but so far from what films he's made only Devil's Rejects comes close ( and not by a whole lot even ) to showing any promise of him as a writer ( maybe more-so ) & / or director . Gone in Halloween are the little bits of scathing humor that populated his past work , and also gone is a reverence likewise to the underlying wit in some scenes that Carpenter presented ( the ' ghost ' scene is now more about the naked girl than about any real scares ) . It's not a failure , but it's no great shakes at all for the horror genre either . However , if you think that this might be the end of the franchise , it could be by the looks of the ending . . .
A movie poorly executed by and for the hippie culture , made nineteen years after the title year	I only watched 1969 late night one night because the title indicated to me that it might be a film dealing with the issues of the time in the year with sincerity or promise , or even as a documentary . I didn't know how the film would go after the first couple of scenes I saw , but Bruce Dern seemed formidable enough to keep a watch . When the credits started to roll though I thought to myself , " what a cliché ridden disaster this became , why did I stick with it ? " I guess I stayed tuned because the actors seemed promising enough - Dern in a supporting role as a hard-nosed father , his son in the lead played by Kiefer Sutherland , his cocky best friend played by Robert Downey Jr . , and his beautiful sister played by Winona Ryder . Sutherland's character , Scott , decides he doesn't want to go to Vietnam like his brother , so he enlists into college with Downey's character , Ralph , and the two begin to discover what they've been sheltered from - free-love , drugs , and soon enough sex . Some of these early scenes seemed to look kind of silly , but I enjoyed the ( partly obvious ) soundtrack and thought if I stayed with picture ( instead of flipping to a different , better movie ) it might pay off in the second or third act . I got proved wrong , as line after line and moment after moment seemed to lower my expectations , and the characters headed towards an last scene that made me want to puke in my lap . The probable cause of the pits in this movie come from writer / director Ernest Thompson . I don't know who he is really , and I haven't seen any of his other efforts as a filmmaker , but it looked as though he was either tapping into his own by-the-numbers first account of the turmoil that went with coming of age in that year , or was tapping into the memories of other baby boomer yuppies who still try to think back to when they wanted freedom before gluing themselves into the " me " generation . The players tried to do what they could , a couple of scenes had some laughs , and I grinned at a line or two from Downey Jr . Yet I couldn't get over how much the movie hit its well intentioned points home with near propagandizing techniques . To sum it up , this is absolutely the soapy , " made-for-television " version of what life was like in 1969 . If you want the truer , earthy version ( s ) see Woodstock or Easy Rider - those two may be folklore at this point for that generation , but at least they work as being entertaining thirty-four years later to the following generation .
try to get through ' They ' - it's fairly slow , tedious , and red lights !	The very opening shots of They , aka Invasion from Inner Earth , aka The Selected , aka Hell Fire , aka your mama ( well , not the last one ) , has lots of people running around , apocalypse raging . This is obviously from another movie , as the producers of the film rarely have enough of a budget for Wonder bread inbetween the takes for the actors much less staging a big epic cluster-f . Right after these shots , which look made for a promising movie it cuts to the Wisconsin ( or Canadadian ? ) wilderness , where some guys are flying in a plane . But there's also a crazy guy flying a plane who crashes in the woods . The four guys see this and investigate . But there's more than they bargained for : all communication with the outside world is cut-off , except to a pretty girl with a radio in her cabin one of the guy's knows . Then a red light coming out of a flashlight is buzzing around the room - the alien , of course - and now there are ominous callings on the radio . Spooky ? Moreover inept , really , though it's not without a certain allotment of watchability ( unless it's late at night , which might make it a good movie to fall asleep to , or to fool around with the significant other ) . But it's also so cheaply shot that anything that could possibly be in the script is obfuscated by the meandering take of the material . ' We need aliens ' should've been as a protest on t-shirts during the making of the film ! Instead it's done in a style that elimintates the middle-man , or middle-martian , so that Ito ( yes , a director called Ito , who in reality directed one of the worst films ever Monster-a-go-go ) can get many shots of outside in the wilderness and so-so scripted fighting in the cabin . I don't even remember if I made it all the way through to the end . Looks like They don't get very far with this stuff - the filmmakers , I mean . At least the stock music is cool .
disappointing years later , probably my least favorite of Spielberg's big blockbusters	Seeing a film that doesn't work directed by Steven Spielberg is still more interesting , up to a point , than watching an average work by a lesser filmmaker with similar material . Hook is probably one of those films that also probably worked a little better for me when I was younger ( I even saw it in the theater as I recall ) , and had that combination of high flying special effects and kiddie humor and heart that made for a good enough time . But seeing it on TV recently I come across , maybe like Robin Williams's character early on in the film , not connecting with those same nondiscriminatory reactions ( in other words just happy to see something colorful and big with over the top actors and ideas ) . By now , however , I've seen too many of Spielberg's films up to now that speak to his themes of re-imagining escapism and of a father losing responsibility to more satisfying , more entertaining heights than this . The film has its moments , usually among the cast of kids that make up the Lost Boys , but it's also adrift in its huge production design , lackluster screenplay , and sometimes odd choice - or rather portrayals - by the principle leads . Williams himself isn't too bad as the Peter Pan of the picture , as an adult without much heart who has to find it in the midst of finding his kidnapped kids in Neverland . He is re-introduced to Tinker Bell ( Julia Roberts , decent but far from really being memorable ) , and of course the title character played by Dustin Hoffman with enough ' ham ' to feed a starving family . It's hard now to take him too seriously as a villain when even as a kid he seemed a little too goofy for the part . Bob Hoskins interestingly enough is maybe a bit better as Smee , Hook's main underling . The film's main action centerpiece for almost all involved , where Peter Pan and the Lost Boys finally take on Hook and his crew , is an action-filled extravaganza that seems to not really have the focus of Spielberg's better set-pieces in other films he's done . This is contrasted with bits of comic relief by Hook and some others in the Lost Boys that are hit and miss . And the special effects themselves , while a nice precursor to what Spielberg would work with later in the 90s with his Jurassic Park films , aren't enough to support the flaws elsewhere . Mostly in the script , to be sure , where perhaps some of the lack of putting together stronger , less clichéd characterization with the fantasy and un-needed scenes , rubbed off on the director and his style . Would it be a good time for kids ? Maybe , but then many of Spielberg's films are at least eye-candy and at most grand-old times where fantasy and adventure / comedy / drama all mix together for something memorable . Indeed , his were some of the first ' real ' films I can remember seeing and getting into , even the slightly darker and rougher Indiana Jones pictures . But even as a kid my enjoyment of Hook was mostly for surface pleasures - and being a big fan of Williams at the time - and the memories don't stick as well fifteen years later . Call it not being able to be a Peter Pan or returning to Neverland or whatever , Hook is at best average Hollywood escapist fare and at worst an overlong , lacking in focus family-fantasy film that shows the lesser side of Spielberg's gifts as a storyteller and artist .
the flamboyant style and few drops of originality brushed over	The Boondock Saints was a film a couple of times while watching it ( not early on , but midway through and around the last twenty minutes ) I wanted to turn off , but I didn't as I wanted to see what might happen next . Perhaps that's from the crime / action film fan I am , but the set-up to the film is a hook : the MacManus brothers ( Sean Patrick Flannery and Norman Reedus ) are regular Catholic church-goers who also frequent the local pub . One day , after contemplating that God does not rid the world of the ones who are really the wrongdoers , they go out and do it themselves - quasi-vigilantes with a kind of spiritual morality at their sides . The mobsters that they're wiping out are connected , and it leads to an investigation being started by the eccentric / gay Detective played by Willem Dafoe , and also an all-out-war escalating with the hiring of a crazy killer ( Billy Connolly ) on their trails . So , for the first fifteen to twenty minutes of watching the film , the hook had me in , and while I didn't think of it as particularly dynamite film-making , it did attempt at a realistic beginning of the lead's lives and conflicts . This , unfortunately , did not hold . The problem with how The Boondock Saints unfolds is that at many points in the film it doesn't know how to balance the elements of comedy and tragedy , and gets morality mixed up in it all . One reviewer said its like Natural Born Killers with a moral . But un-like NBK , the film doesn't have any particular ' point ' to make , up until the end which becomes very muddled . For example , the Willem Dafoe character - he plays this role wildly , sometimes smoothly , and in some scenes he basically held the framework together . But the script doesn't give him much else to go ; is he funny , operatic , for real ? Writer / Director Troy Duffy has him chasing his tail every which way . Unlike in a smarter , more experimental film like NBK , Duffy in an ironic sense plays it safe with the story . The script has also been compared to Tarantino , and that is a relevant comparison to make . The film-making style itself is not necessarily a QT knockoff ( too many big-style camera moves , and a poor soundtrack sorry to say , there isn't much patience or true daring ) , but the script does have that sort of realm of it . The F-word is tossed around like candy ; the bad-asses in the film are made out to look like ' real ' bad-asses ( see Connelly , one of his oddest roles ) ; and there is plenty of action to go around ( although I'd say , at least in comparison to Pulp Fiction , that had less action , with better results than this film ) . I wouldn't mean to make comparisons , but it would give people a better idea the near naivety of the filmmaker towards the audience . What's the moral in the end anyway , that justified killing is OK if its connected with Catholic revenge and justice ? Whatever points are being made in the film are made early on and then lost in most of the second and third acts . It's not that there isn't some talent in Duffy's writing or direction , or that the actors don't do what they can . Yet there is such a kind of formula to it as well , even in the more unexpected scenes . The Boondock Saints does have its cult audience out there to be sure ( some consider it one of the best films ever made ) , but it is too ' cool ' and ' smart ' for its own good . It's like the horse that you're friend wanted you to bet in on , and then after its impressive first stretch it folds , and then trips over . I almost wished at times I could like it more while watching it , but I also know that there are better , and less exploitive , original genre films out there .
a disappointment , even if my expectations weren't high to begin with	I should say it up front , I don't dislike the R & B of the period , as is given tribute via Dreamgirls . I liked hearing the harmonies of groups like the Supremes or other soul groups ( I'm assuming Eddie Murphy's performance is inspired by a mix of James Brown and Otis Redding , or others I can't think of right now ) . I never heard of Dreamgirls before the movie came out . I decided against seeing the movie in the theaters , not because of any outright bias against the actors or the potential of the songs , but because of the trailer . Sometimes a theatrical trailer can sort of spell out , boldly , what the big picture will be . It was something that didn't appeal to me most of all because of the absolute , dreadful appearance of safe , conventional appeal . One might think the director of challenging efforts like Gods and Monsters and Kinsey might try and make a musical with more verve , more soul , more " UMPH " , if that's the word . And as a director , Condon did pretty much meet that expectation . What I didn't expect , and what ended up annoying me about Dreamgirls , is how much the performances , with maybe the slightest exception , fell flat on itself . It's a subjective thing , of course ; there's been praise to the sky for the work that Jennifer Hudson and others in the film have done in presenting the usual rags - to - riches - then - some - more - trials - and - tribulations musical story . Which is nothing I can really blame anyone on , as the film does appeal for a core audience that can't get enough of BIG vocals , BIG numbers , FLASHY personalities that pop and go into the , well , expected for 2-dimensional parts ( if that ) . But , for the life of me , I could not stand most of the characters , or the actors playing them , in Dreamgirls . Jennifer Hudson has been praised most of all , given accolades as a new rising star following her stint on American Idol , and with vocals that , basically , go to a vocal volume that is impressive . But volume alone does not a good musical performance make ! I never believed her as Effie , not once , except as , in a way , like some big near parody of one of these bigger-than-life and bigger-than-Pete's-sake-ego black women who are so stubborn that it's about as hard as hell to have any sympathy . The character of Effie is meant as the pivotal one , the one whom has the BIG personality , and ends up making a BIG mistake . But Hudson can't fill the shoes , as she just doesn't have the acting talent for it . She was chose for her singing skills , which for her means to belt out every number like she has to reach even the little guy in the back row in Giants Stadium . Aside from the fact , like everyone else , she has to sing such songs that have only so minimal a range with lyrics and tone ( the most prominent number , in the ' break-up ' scene in the middle of the film , stops the film in its tracks , and not in a good way ) . I'm in the minority , but she's one of the worst things about Dreamgirls . But on the flip-side , there's another actor , Jamie Foxx , who despite his actual talents , both at acting and as Ray showed singing , is probably just as ineffectual and , dare I say it in his own way , dull in the part of the domineering manager of the Dreamgirls . There's practically no range for this character for Foxx to play in , and has for of the film the exact look on his face , as , through also fault in the script , goes through the motions as with every other bio-pic of a star group of the past . Only the ending tries to give any dimension , which by the end is far too late and even awkward . Beyonce and the other actress do maybe a little better , which is to say they're adequate in the parts . Only Eddie Murphy , who in a sense is just playing a sort of abstracted version of his egocentric self from many other movies he's been in ( and better ones , ala Bowfinger , also speaking of himself in the third person ) , and for his musical numbers does add a bit of a lift to the proceedings . I almost expected from some of the early Murphy / Lightning scenes that the movie wouldn't be very much special , but at least could be easily watchable . Not a chance ; as much as I would want to admire a movie with soul about the soul era's glory of the 60s and 70s , it lacks the passion that could make it a real contender in a time with so few musicals . The trailer also tempts that this will have some strong dramatic direction . Here , too , Condon falters where there needs to be a stronger vision , and he doesn't pull it off ( the montages , for example , of the rising star variety for the Dreamgirls in the mid 60s , feels as shallow and empty as anything I could imagine in a summer blockbuster ) . Now , a lot of people will like this movie , a lot . Maybe I'm just not entirely in the demographic . But Dreamgirls , for me , makes a fatal flaw for a movie musical - the fun and spirit and melding of what works on the stage to the screen clicks off , and the chance for the unexpected is null and void . It made me feel depressed in its lack of respect for the viewer overwhelmed with clichés .
they should've called it ' Citizen Rib '	. . . Wow . How did this get on IMDb ? It's an amateurish , crazily written and just downright sophomoric comedy that had it been written by a white guy would be the most racist thing ever made since the days of the minstrel shows . As it stands , it's somehow kind of clever , in parts , like some kind of wacky exploitation movie . It concerns the ' lovable ' old Slappy ( GL McQuary ) , who runs the Outhouse , a rickety fast food joint that's in trouble over 10 , 000 ( and one cent ) due in back-taxes and will be shut down if the money isn't paid . There seems to be no real solution until an accident involving a pound of dope is dumped into the rib sauce . . . OK , aside from the premise , is it funny ? Actually , it kind of is , in that guilty pleasure sort of way , like seeing something so off the wall that it couldn't work any other way . At the same time its writing is ponderous , the acting is just one-note all the way , and there's just one stereotype thrown around after another . I'm not saying I necessarily want there to be a redeeming force in the midst of this Outhouse Rib shack , which has the sensibility of humor akin to the lowest degree of the Friday movies ( there's even a character that seems ripped off of a spoof of a Menace 2 Society character in Don't be a Menace . . . in the Hood ) . But it is , by design of how it goes , mind-boggling . It's simply one of the dumbest ' satires ' I've ever seen , although it does make me very hungry for some ribs , with sauce of course !
not a very good memory of this one , except for the beginning	Not the worst that has come from director Brian De Palma , actor Nicolas Cage , or screenwriter David Koepp , but certainly not as memorable as it could've been , Snake Eyes is a thriller that shows up every now and again on TV . I watch it for a few minutes and then get sort of a memory from seeing it in the theater . How I remember it may give an indication of how both remarkable and unremarkable it was . The opening shot , which is usually most remembered , is a daring feat of cinema from a director like De Palma , and does give promise to something big and exciting . We right away get immersed into this larger-than-life atmosphere , with Cage as a smooth talking , high-charged operator as it were schmoozing with people but always on the move . Meanwhile , De Palma makes sure we meet a few essential people ( i . e . Gary Sinise's character ) while not losing the focus of the shot ( s ) . One might almost think to compare with it Scorsese's own virtuoso long-takes in Goodfellas or even those long-takes in European movies . It might look like De Palma's looking for an angle with this . Unfortunately , the rest of the film doesn't really add up to the strengths of this shot . The film is really a kind of pot-boiler murder mystery with Cage conducting the investigation , asking questions , but not getting straight answers . There is the subsequent twist in there with a certain character who one might think of as " oh - should've - seen - him - coming - and - did " . There is conspiracy in the story , which sounds intriguing , but its all very much sticking to a formula or convention that doesn't make it stick out much . And as much as Cage might try in his part , the supporting players don't do much in the way of backing him up ( save for Sinise ) . While I was not as disappointed by the film as say , for example , Ebert was in writing about it , it wasn't something that really had me excited or entertained by it overall . It was just another summer movie to check out back in 1998 , and maybe tape off of TV , but never to really watch again , which is really the most damning that can be said about the picture and its director ( who's better films are really more enjoyable on repeat viewings ) . There's a lot that was going on in the structure and plot , but it didn't add up to much for me .
alternately subtle / ambiguous , and badly stylized and ultimately pointless	For a first-time director Bryan Bertino has a lot to learn , but there are some points for trying . He loves the genre , and according to interviews , wanted to give a 70's slasher movie feel to his film the Strangers . It's about a newly engaged couple who are a little uneasy about this next step ( she is , anyway ) , and then while at a cabin that is his family's old place are harassed / stalked / hunted by three young psychos - all wearing masks - and over the course of a night make their lives a living cat-and-mouse game of hell . With this premise , Bertino does do something interesting at the start , which is to do something one usually doesn't see in horror , which is to make some subtly in the script , the interactions with the characters played by Speedman and Tyler . What isn't said is even more powerful than what is ( as is the case in general , however in a familiar mode , once the suspense starts ) . And there are some genuine scares and creepy bits spread throughout , mostly in the " is that what I think it is in the background " sense . Bertino does quickly master the jump - at - the - little - to - damn - huge things method of horror . What he doesn't master , at all , are some basics of directing . He has hand-held going through the entire feature , even during the opening scenes where one might want a little calmness with the camera . Where a stedi-cam might provide some more easy access to the characters , it's all distracting to see the camera moving about from side to side and up and down . Where his ideas are trying to reach back to trashy horror , his approach is amateurish . Perhaps if you're a novice to the genre a lot of the scares provided , as well as the violence , will seem original and shocking . But as someone who's seen his share of horror , I can say with some certainty that he treads some really familiar ground here . The big " gotcha " midway through is from a genuine mistake on the part of the protagonists , and aside from that it's business as usual . Yet what drags this pleasantly usual horror flick down further is that the director cheats the audience at the climax / end scenes . He tries to do something " different " to make it seem like a more realistic or random tale of horror by having the villains take off their masks , and then not showing what they look like to the audience ( save for one girl who is seen in darkness earlier in the film ) . This , and then a scene with Christian folk who run into the killers on their way out , make for a really frustrating catharsis . At the end of all of these shenanigans , what's the point ? That ' real-life ' violence is horrible and without a true face ? Bolderdash , I say !
Guy Ritchie : the bloke who heard voices	That line refers to a book on M . Night Shyamalan titled " The Man Who Heard Voices . " It's my personal professional opinion , not as any kind of psychiatrist but as a humble hobby-interested movie critic , that Guy Ritchie could join that club following his film Revolver . What voices I can't quite entirely say - maybe it's just the crazy auteur in him trying to get out of his wild post-modern B movie skin , that or some of Madonna's Kabbalah influence , or even just the cliché with the game of chess - but all come together to form this weird mess of a movie . It's not something that is outright detestable , at least from start to finish . Its dreadful droning on only becomes really present in the second half , where the mildly enjoyable parts start to wear off . Because inside Revolver is a reasonably interesting B-movie , plain and simple . A low-level gangster , Jake Green ( Statham , formidable at best ) gets out of jail following a seven-year stint in solitary ( shaving half the time off ) , and finds himself in trouble with a former gangster played by Ray Liotta ( Mecca or Macha was his name , I forget which ) , and then finds himself in the constant , bleeding-dry debt of oblique loan-sharks ( Andre 3000 and Pastore ) . Then there's some gang wars going on about with Liotta and some Asians , and then a hit-man who's really super-duper good save for one crucial instance , and an ending that just , um . . . ends , sort of . That's all I could make out of most of the movie . The rest is pumped with a kind of stylistic vigor attributable to steroids and other medications . For a short while near the start of the picture ( i . e . almost the whole first quarter or third ) , Ritchie has a handle on some of the more dramatic elements , the performances from Statham and Liotta , and even the pretensions aren't too meddlesome at first . . . At first , that is . Until Ritchie makes a crucial error - he replaces plot all with metaphor , subtexts and outer-texts and rabbits pulled out of hats . It's bad enough that he chooses an overbearing soundtrack , ranging from composer Nathanial Mechaly and classical music tracks . But after a while even what should be just crazy exploitive fun turns into just gobledy-gook . A scene that's meant to have some great significance and psychological depth , like the climax , is the nail in the coffin . Ritchie seems to put a lot of trust into this concept of " the Game " , and how it relates to con jobs , gangster life , who dies and who goes , what's going on here or there , and who says to live or die . Maybe this could be intriguing , in the proper clarity . It's almost as if Ritchie gets in the way as a director by not going for just one subject for a short while as opposed to hammering it away and then with a THWAK overdoing it with visual flamboyance . What is all this ? What's up with the animated sequences , aside from a cheap homage to Kill Bill ? Why do the actors seem so monotone so much of the time - do they realize how plodding some of this is ? What characterizes Ritchie at his best - which isn't as a great filmmaker but a pretty enjoyable mish-mosher of the crime genre - is some sense of fun , if not humor , about things . Taking himself so seriously here , and overloading with the kind of symbolism and heavy context that one needs a dictionary or a math book , the value of the story drops drastically . One wonders if this will be the last time we hear Ritchie's " voices " , or if they may return in the guise of a perfectly good British crime thriller . It's a semi-watchable disaster .
A Sandler Carol ; some laughs , but way too much ' message ' to recommend	Now here's something rather paradoxical . I saw the trailer for the new Adam Sandler vehicle , Click , and it was by and large pretty funny , while obvious , and giving the impression that it would be a straight-out comedy . The set-up to the film isn't bad at all , and is sort of promising . But there's something troubling about what is even more obvious as the film goes along . It may be a matter of minutes depending on how soon it might click , no pun intended , what is going on with Sandler's character Michael . And Christopher Walken's ominous , crazy character as the kind of guide for him also brings ahead some clues . It's typical , of course , but it might have been able to bring some more creativity than ended up happening . As it is , I found myself feeling uneasy throughout the third act as Sandler's character has his remote fast-forward through many years and events leaving him in a perpetual sadness until you-know-what with a formula like this finally kicks in . That a lot of this is really overly sentimental and very movie-message like is disappointing , as the filmmakers try to turn around a usual Sandler comedy on its side for the ' Carol ' side of it . That it's all wrapped up in this schematic of the film's structure really brings the film down in a way I haven't seen since Sandler's worst film 8 Crazy Nights . Luckily , when the film IS funny and Sandler and his hit or miss screenwriters get some jokes that work , they do almost as well as those of his ( compared to this ) classic 90s movie work . True , there are only so many times one can watch a dog have his way with a cushion , but the gag works once or twice . And there are some unexpected bits in a kind of unspoken way in Sandler's films that do spark up some laughs from the practical one-gimmick . Sometimes , too , I even found myself having big laughs when no one else in the theater had them , which I took as a good sign . Plus , the cast is , albeit a little ' uh-huh ' , not too bad at all for what they're required for ( which includes , yes , Sean Astin in a speedo ) . In fact , if the entire film was just from the first turning point of figuring out the remote to when it ' turns ' on him , so to speak , it would be a very good ( though short ) movie , with at least one or two memorable bits . But in its total running time , my patience wore thin far too many a time , leaving me at the end remembering too much what didn't work than what did . In short , it's one of Sandler and company's lesser works .
one word can describe this movie for non Bible-thumpers : cracked	Attending a Saturday night screening for Knowing in its second weekend of release I noticed that the theater was fully packed . My first thought was that since it is a Nicolas Cage movie and from the commercials and previews looks to be pretty blockbuster-action style stuff happening that it might make for a good weekend night viewing . But as the movie went into its last couple of reels I had to wonder : did these folks really know what they were getting into here ? Did they realize beforehand , and approve , of how much Knowing takes its BIG plot points and some of its themes from Revelations and Genesis ? Or that for most of the running time what's going on takes such a giant leap from science-fiction into conspiracy-nut territory ? It's hard not to talk about what happens in the ending , but I may have to by the end of this review . First a summary : a widowed MIT professor ( Nicolas Cage , a usually good actor looking faker every movie with his cropped plant hair and plastic surgery ) looks at a page that his son got from an " unearthing " of a Time Capsule that an elementary school left underground for 50 years to be discovered in present day . The page is just numbers , but there's a pattern . It's freaky : the numbers signal catastrophes ( i . e . with 2996 people dead ) , and it leads to other possibilities , such as what the other numbers that seem to not pose any kind of meaning at all mean - and it leads , eventually , to Cage discovering what it all leads to . . . Yup , you guessed it , end of the world . Not just Earth but all planets in the our solar system . The frustrating thing though in Knowing is that for at least a short while there is some promise in the material . Sure , it's kooky to see Cage going through all those numbers like a nut - it makes the Number 23 look almost reasonable in comparison - but Alex Proyas , the director , makes things tense and strange and possibly leading to something complex . In fact the first half contains a relatively awesome sequence : Cage is stuck in traffic and an airplane crashes right across the highway , and he runs through the wreckage with people burning and flailing about and it's all in one shot . Some may not notice that it is all in one shot , which makes it all the more remarkable a feat of direction ( the visual FX are compelling too ) ; it's practically Children of Men amazement in terms of a single visual demonstration of a nightmare on film . But then as more of the plot unfolds - it would appear as if the grown-up kids from Twilight are after Cage's son , not a good actor at all I should add , for some reason and even give him a vision of hell that is half nifty and half bat-s crazy , and it also involves a small black stone - it becomes silly in some part ( it doesn't help that Cage has moments of total calamity as an actor like when he's swinging the bat wildly or is totally bland in quieter scenes ) , and in large part just . . . I don't know what . It's leading to something that should be either a wild revelation or so preposterous that it makes the last four or five of Cage's movies ( i . e . Wicker Man , Ghost Rider , Bangkok Dangerous ) look sane and easy in comparison . Turns out , you'll either be in awe - and you know who you are ( i . e . Christian wackos , Rogert Ebert ) - or scratching your head . I was in the latter , but there's some sliver of me that wishes I wasn't just nearly losing it , laughing in my seat while everyone else was calm and accepting what was going on in front of them . There is some potential here to become a camp hit , something that would give the Mystery Science Theater guys a run for their money with the commentary . But it takes itself so seriously , and also has some scenes and sequences of actual good , intelligent direction from Proyas and his FX crew , that it turns into what it is : another Nic Cage movie mess that ends on such a note to make both Danny Boyle and Darren Aronofsky raise up their pitchforks and scream ENOUGH ! LEAVE THE SUN AND THE TREE OF LIFE ALONE ! If you're looking for it to be something totally wild and unhinged at least for the last quarter you'll get your money's worth . If you're looking for another masterpiece from the director of the Crow and Dark City ( or for that matter Cage's big-budget comeback ) , look elsewhere .
wow , Bob , wow . . . muddle extraordinaire , it needs to be seen to believed	Bob Dylan is certainly one of the great songwriters of the second half of the 20th century , or at least the most pleasurably enigmatic . His songs are poetic , but he doesn't consider himself one ( or does , depending on what IMDb quote you read that contradicts another ) , and like Jean-Luc Godard his output from the 1960s is consistently groundbreaking and with a lot that holds up for the right fan . But this goes without saying one thing : he can't write a screenplay for s . Sorry to curse , but it's apprporiate . The rules that might apply , if any , to screen writing can't be carried over into film-making . This is probably not a new thing to Dylan - he apparently wrote ( and directed ) a film in the 70s that almost didn't even get released in most sections till it was cut to just the songs - but he doesn't know how to keep from having his characters go on and on and on about this or that , making platitudes for something that is meant to make him ( playing a character named Jack Fate , ho-ho ) look all mystical and wise or just confused at not responding to anyone . If it is even written - sometimes it looks like the actors might be making it up as they go along - it is one of the worst screenplays of the decade . It goes without saying that it isn't all Dylan's fault . In fact , him and co-writer / director Larry Charles ( usually of the much more spot-on Curb Your Enthusiasm , Seinfeld and Borat terrain ) do have the occasional scene or line that does work , in its own Dylan-esquire way ( which is to say , I can't explain why it works except that a line is read truthfully or doesn't sound completel sy ) . Plot : not much , except that Fate is let out of prison early in order to do a benefit concert as the bottom-of-the-barrel pick of John Goodman's indebted promoter and Jessica Lange's shallow TV producer , and is hounded by the press ( or rather a press member , as a weird amalgam of Dylan's frayed connection with the press via Dude Jeff Bridges ) , while getting ready for a disaster in the making . This sounds substantial , but it isn't by that much . The compensation is that there are , of course , a lot of Bob Dylan fans out in Hollywood , so there's a lot of guest stars . Val Kilmer mumbles a lot , till making a great point about death and animals , while handling a snake . Giovanni Ribisi plays a quixotic Mexican rebel . Christian Slater's in for a couple of scenes . Don't forget about Like Wilson . And then there's Cheech Marin , and . . . oh , forget it . Strange thing is , I didn't necessarily outright hate the movie . It's more complicated a reaction than that . Dylan seems to be making his flaws here as unique as he would accomplishments ; seeing a scene like the one where he and Charles muck up a perfectly moving scene with a little black girl singing " Times They Are a Changin ' " by the whim of a brutal mother making her little girl memorize all Jack Fate songs like a robot by suddenly putting over it a flashback of Fate getting roughed up years before with a mumbling voice-over , couldn't happen in any other movie . And , to be sure , when Dylan and his band plays , sans the incomprehensible Dylan singing , it's still pretty good . But the problem is less outright hatred of the material but disdain for the self-indulgence . You can tell the actors and the people behind the picture think there's grand statements being made behind what looks like a mysterious Dylan-esquire fable about greed and socio-political status in the media and music and culture . But behind it is really pandering to the ideas without questioning them . Maybe there is more than I saw in the material , yet is there enough time during the day to give another viewing to look deeper , unlike Dylan at his best with his songs ? I'm not sure .
Vanilla Ice was practically everything wrong in the 90s in one homo sapien - and here's his rapped-up vehicle !	How convenient that Vanilla Ice should star in one of the most entertainingly horrible movies of the past 20 years ? Pretty convenient , actually . Mr Ice , aka Mr . Van Winkle , had just exploded with his ripped-off " Under Pressure " sampled tune " Ice-Ice Baby " and was " hot " ironically enough , and was so big in the pop world that he got his own movie vehicle . As was to later befall the Spice Girls , Vanilla Ice chomped at the bit and acted as the new James Dean , a rebel without a cause but with plenty of banging ' pants designed by color-blind dwarfs and a leather jacket with more random messages and symbols then a dozen grad students writing a dissertation could decipher . This filmic ode to rebellion and getting the girl ( or not of course ) and , um , girl's fathers who are in witness protection for ratting on fellow internal affairs cops who come back to extort money , is so joyously crappy that it may live on in infamy in some circles , the campy dark-side to everything Eminem represented . Why bother comment on plot ? There isn't any . It's just a series of montages inter-cut with Vanilla Ice , with his partially shaved eyebrow and a look that is about as goofy as it is deadpan and serious and whatever - his - method - cowlick - head could think of , and the girl played by the hapless Kristin Minter in tow having some rebellious fun despite her father and family's protests . Why is this young man with his flashy bike and , um , " possee " of folk who spend there time waiting to repair bikes by Cheswick from One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest in a house made out of maps and globes and giant salt and pepper shakers doing in this small super-times-3 white town ? Who cares ? It's all an excuse to just laugh one's head off at what is a mix of total ineptitude of direction and " performance " ( the former provided by Mr . David Kellog who with one other exception has had his career taken up by helming straight-to-video Playboy Playmate bios ) , with dialog so classically bad that you'll repeat it for years ( " Lose the zero and get with the hero ! " ) , and oddly enough featuring some pretty interesting cinematography from Janusz ( Shindler's List , Spielberg films since 1993 ) Kaminski who performs so high a standard of work here that it almost goes to further mock the reckless trash on screen . It's a sight to behold , really , for anyone who happened to live through that surreal period where rap was dominated either by fellows in absurdly baggy pants ( MC Hammer ) or had hair that scared old women and small children ( Vanilla Ice ) , or for those wanting to see a time capsule of what-the-f rap songs punctuating plot twists that include the possible worst reading of a kidnapped kid's plea for help on an audio tape . ICE ICE CINEMA !
needed more of Olaf capturing women and acting crazy , as opposed to the rampant sex . . .	. . . but then again that's exploitation cinema for you . The Sinful Dwarf has a great cover on the video-box , and a great guy playing the dwarf , with a face like Jack Black squished with Dennis Hopper ala Blue Velvet demeanor . He's totally crazy and wicked , and it's a delight whenever he's let loose on screen ( the scene where he uses his cane , manually so to speak , on one of the junky prostitutes is a scream ) . But the problem is that there isn't quite enough of him , or with the little weird dolls and toys , except as symbols . The story is thin as a rail : a married couple who like to ' do-it ' a lot ( as Olof looks on ) , and the old woman who runs the whore-house in the attic where women are naked and doped up for the customers wants to get her husband out of the way so she can bring her in on it - by sneakiness , of course , and the woman's own curiosity about the whole place being as creepy as a , uh , Denmark heroin-laded whorehouse . The sex , for some , will be part of the fun in the sleazy-term of it . But it just went on for much too long for each segment ( yeah , we get it , sex takes a while , move it along , more dwarf ! ) And it just becomes tedious , shot in a style that is of the bargain basement variety where the director's ideas include having the woman - being raped while totally dazed and burned out on junk - to be to kick wildly over and over while the guy humps away . This is almost like an exploitation story William S . Burroughs would write - on a bad day . It's fun in spurts , especially in the opening and closing ten minutes . But there's a lot of downtime where we're watching stupid humans talking , a lot , and it's not as much fun . The sex isn't Porno Holocaust bad , don't get me wrong . But there's also a reason it's as obscure as it is - it's got the good title and premise and no strong follow-through . If it did , we might have come across dear Olaf sooner , who makes such a crazy impression that he makes the flick worth watching on his own ( that and one or two pairs of ' assets ' on the ladies for skin-flick fans ) . Bottom line , it's another oddity - the only credited film for the director and writers - where it's dirty , cheap and crude , and with barely the minimum of guilty-pleasure status .
a truly ideal cast , a few funny moments , but it doesn't grasp its tone by the throat	Maybe the director , Michael Traeger , may do something better in the future , who knows . The guy's previous writing credit was Dead Man on Campus , a sub-par MTV dorm-comedy , so that doesn't say a whole lot . He's not exactly , as a character is named in the film , " Some Idiot " , but someone who knows how to put a strong cast together to try and elevate material . The problem is , he's made things so basic that there's not much room for much subtlety or real wit past the standards of the characterizations . It's like a sitcom with a bit more money and a bit more prestige , and somehow a lot of people ( including star Jeff Bridges , who originally passed on the project ) thought the film was a good idea AND didn't need more work script-wise . Frankly , there's too much narration . One of the ironies is that Bridges ' character Andy makes note of how in movies to " show , not tell . " Cardinal rule , for sure , but the very writer / director at the helm doesn't even really follow it ! It's one of the toughest aspects of a film to create worthwhile narration , but it doesn't help to go to an extreme and make it almost anything but . It's also a sign of lazy writing that he doesn't take the material where it really needs to go . This could be a razor sharp comedy , but too much of it , as with a sitcom , thinks it's funnier than it really is . For all the tiny moments of some comedy that do work out ( mostly in part to some of the unexpected turns from the actors , like William Finley who has never been that funny in a movie before ) , it's overloaded . The bottom line is the obvious writing and the direction , shot also TV-style with LOTS of extra light thrown on when not necessary , is completely reliant on the actors to do something with it . They do try , Lord , they do . How could you not with these people : Jeff Bridges , a true-blue talent who could read a computer manual brilliantly ; Tim Blake Nelson , wonderful character actor from O Brother Where Art Thou ; Joe Pantoliano , playing against type in good form ; Ted Danson , where's he been lately aside from being somehow terrific in this ; Patrick Fugit , who is the only one to actually underplay his part ( albeit mostly in the background ) ; Finley , as mentioned , maybe the best of the bunch . Others like Jeanne Tripplehorn , Isaiah Washington , the actress from Lenny ( I forget her name ) , Lauren Graham . They all have something worthwhile for the production . And at the end , for a comedy about making a porno in a small-town , it's mostly , kinda . . . bland . " Some Idiot " , not really , just Some Whatever .
to say it's corny , is . . . . nevermind	Cornman ! A superhero that we can all get around ! That is , if one actually watches the movie , which might be very , very , very few , as the movie wasn't even made by Troma ( although Lloyd does introduce the movie on the DVD , with full corn up the you-know-what gag thrown in ) . It was the first movie by Barak Epstein , and you can tell it was made on the fly , without much actual things like money , good props , make-up , actors , sets , etc . But somehow they made this very bad movie into something that is unusually fun and stupid and self-conscious . One scene that works very well on a level reminiscent ( if not anywhere as good ) of Return of the Killer Tomatoes is when the ' fourth wall ' is broken and the film crew is seen . The director goes up to the actor playing Cornman - horrible actor , of course - and tells him this won't work , and puts in another more muscle-bound actor in his place , and suddenly the fights get better , the guy is not a half-bad Cornman ( if there could be a half-good Cornman ) , and it's a good little rib-jab to the audience that it's knowing it sucks , and it rolls along with the crap-shoot . At the least , Cornman is worth watching , aside from the general badness of it , for the little things , like the villain with his blade covered in cellophane , or for the sidekick who's only function is to smell with his Pinocchio nose , or for the um , yeah , lesbian shower scene that turns pretty violent ( and hilarious ) involving a hose . It threatens at times to become too boring , but for those who want to stick with it the pleasures are all Mystery Science Theater bound . It's so bad it flips to good , then back-flips back to bad again , and then ends somewhat in the middle . Not worth a dollar , more like . . . 5 cents ?
style over substance . not exactly a triumph , but it's over it	Timur Bekmambetov's first American film isn't that far removed from the kinetic , hyperactive and sometimes just plain fing batty movies Night Watch and Day Watch . It's about the " Fraternity of Assassins " , who get their missions from clues hidden in a giant quilt , I guess , and it's also about Wesley ( James McAvoy ) , a regular white-collar worker , and his strange , dark adventure of self-discovery in this fraternity of who he really is - an instinctual , almost-mutant killing machine , meant for revenge by his mentor Morgan Freeman ( who , thankfully , is a villain for once in a great while ) . What is there to say about this then . . . . well , it's never boring . At least as far as I could tell I never did nod off . That being said , it makes last year's Shoot em Up look like a documentary in comparison . And this isn't necessarily a good thing ; a movie might be totally crazy with the over-the-top manners of killing people ( in this one we get bullets that curve , bullets that hit one another , heart rates reaching 400 BPS , and rats who bomb the joint , reminding one of the armed penguins in Batman Returns ) , but does it make it a really good movie ? Not in this case I'm afraid . This is a shame since James McAvoy is a very good actor , one who's very convincing , funny , and believable even when put in the most unbelievable circumstances . He practically carries the first third of the film on his own , this despite him being put in a totally crazy car chase that continues some of the ready-to-break rules set up here by Bekmambetov . And there's even some good star power with Jolie , acting like BIG ACTION STAR Angelina Jolie , and Freeman in a part too easily readable for his own good . But by the end we're given a plot and choice in technical style that knocks off Matrix , Fight Club , La Femme Nikita , a slew of John Woo movies , two turtle doves and a pear tree un-partriaged , and the last quarter of the film is just escalating , laugh-out-loud madness that skids the line between suspenseful and totally ludicrous , and eventually falls over the latter side . Would I recommend Wanted ? No , I wouldn't , at least if you're paying for yourself . But if you're invited , go along and take a chance . You'll leave a little shell-shocked , but you might not be totally sorry you went . Well , might .
it's not horrible to see it once , but it won't have much of a place in my DVD collection	Live Free or Die Hard will attract , and has already attracted , masses of fans of the Die Hard franchise or simply the 07 summer blockbuster crowd , looking for big huge explosions and John McClaine ( Bruce Willis ) as the cynical New York detective out to kill a lot of people ( and there are a LOT of people this time around , by hook or by crook or car smashing into helicopter ) in his mission to do whatever it is the screenwriters get him to do . Which is fine . But personally , the movie comes off like a bag of Doritos or a McDonalds burger that has ' New and Improved ' in big letters on the outer box , but the contents are stale and left out in the open air for much too long . It's not necessarily " good " for you to start with , but it should be something to make you feel good in the sense of more primal thrills . Yet I call shenanigans on this one this time . Like Superman Returns or particularly Terminator 3 , the studios via the writers are left to their own devices to think up a gimmick or situation , not so much any kind of story , to pluck their big headliner hero into , and the idea is that whatever this is the audience will be fine with it as long as they get the basics of what's expected . It's not that the fourth Die Hard installment doesn't try and go for big action . On the contrary , it's got more heavy-duty action than at least the last two Die Hard installments , and probably just as much as the first . But there's a catch - actually a double catch - in the movie this time . Instead of the real work being put into the script and casting and THEN the big action set pieces and violent fights , it's the other way around , and there's a sinking sensation even from the first few minutes that this will be all too formulaic . To give some credit where it's due , it's like looking at a used Jeep that's been re-assembled a couple of times : you'll get around in it , but it's not the most enjoyable of rides . The " new " ingredient mentioned before comes in the form of the threat this time being a high-tech scheme / plot to overthrow America by way of overriding the already over dominant presence of technology itself . The ideas behind this , of governmental control , of the abstract power of computers , are only thrown in of course as stuff to set up the picture , but there's more potential here than is really tapped - and it's potential that is already fishy by already seeming to be there as a device unto itself , no pun intended , as opposed to actually leading to other things in the movie ( ala in Die Hard 3 the ideas of racism , the " other " and so on ) . The only thread that continues through all the films , and maybe to a more successfully ridiculous degree this time , is money . This time the big-time ex-White House terrorist played by the practically straight-faced villain Olyphant is after billions and billions , or maybe just wiping out the system altogether . But unlike in at least the first and third installments ( I haven't seen the second one in a while ) , it's left goofily as just a sidebar to lead up to an uber-conventional climax in an airplane hanger with the key players . Really though , even if this weren't necessarily a Die Hard movie , and it still had all the same plot elements , it would still feel re-cooked : the father over-protective of the daughter not seen again until needed for the plot ; the obnoxious sidekick - here so obnoxious it hurts even in supposedly funny scenes from Justin Long ; the sassy female 2nd banana to Olyphant played by Maggie Q , who is almost a ninja cyborg as opposed to a human being ; the ' man in charge ' at the government agency two steps behind the protagonist and antagonist ; and , disappointing considering it's Kevin Smith , the oafish secret guy who pushes the plot just a little more along . I'm not opposed to big mega-buck franchises pumping out another feature from a series I've admired for a while , and I'm sure if there are others in the future ( matter of fact Indiana Jones 4 comes out next summer ) , I'll likely be there again to plunk down a few bucks and see what comes up . But with Live Free or Die Hard , as stupidly watchable as it can be in its big-bang action sequences , it's like a watered down treatment of a blockbuster for a series that should be the toughest around . When I was younger it was a lot of wicked fun seeing a high-octane movie like Die Hard with a Vengeance ( still my favorite of the lot ) with Samuel L . Jackson doing as much cursing as he did in Pulp Fiction . In this installment , the " F " bomb , considered a big no-no for the MPAA , is actually dubbed over ( in lieu of a PG-13 rating ) if uttered once or twice - with the perennial catch phrase cut off by a gun-shot - albeit still allowing for more " S " words than a sailor on sabbatical and enough ultra-violent moments to make probably the original director of Die Hard wince . It's a double standard , which is bad enough , but heaped on with a predictable plot that runs its course before the movie ends it leads to almost a kind of indifference . In one word , it's " Eh " movie-making .
good for a curio , not so much as a exploitation / biker flick	The Rebel Rousers a few times feels like it could be aiming for something more on its lunch-money used for a budget . It's got a very simple crux to the story - Bruce Dern and Cameron Mitchell as old school friends ( hey , they may be oh two decades apart , but it was college I guess ) say hello and go their separate ways at the start of the film , the former being a biker club leader and the latter a soon-to-be father of a possibly illegitimate child by Diane Ladd's character . Then , some of the bikers one day find the two in a car , take them down to a beach , and beat the crap out of him for just , well , being there . He slugs off to get help while the other bikers race to see who'll get their ' time ' with her , with Jack Nicholson's Bunny ( ho-ho ) vies for the prize . This crux is given some actors who actually say very basic lines of dialog with some conviction and faith in the material , but not much . Some of the acting , or at least casting , is a little strange though . Nicholson is given the top billing on most VHS releases of the film , but his is a supporting role that is like RP McMurphy from Cuckoo's nest with his wonderful sarcasm replaced by striped pants ( which the director decides to use to block some shots ) . There's also the versatile Harry Dean Stanton among the pack , with possibly the most ridiculous get-up in his whole career . It all leads up to a climax that includes a fight , but also a letdown in not having the bikers square off against the Mexicans who show up with their pitchforks on the beach after finally being alerted . All of this is up for good times in the B-movie guilty pleasure sense by the sound of it , and everything that can be made as ' surface ' as possible is used for dramatic or just ' there ' effect ; Mitchell and Ladd's characters have not much else to say except the baby and marriage ; the bikers , aside from Dern and possibly Nicholson ( who when he does have a line or something to do is very funny ) , are hard to discern with any distinguishing characteristics ; the police are ( amusingly ) very limited to a Deputy who's never around and a lummox with bricks for brains . There's even a very good scene where Mitchell gets no response from a bar full of patrons even in his beat-up , bloodied state . But the problem with all of the expended effort put into The Rebel Rousers is that it's too amateurish to be taken at all seriously as a fun time , if that makes sense . Producer / writer / director Martin B . Cohen seems to understand point and shoot ( and the previously mentioned stripe-pants blocking shots ) , and not much else . There is also the issue of lighting , to which it looks like the filmmakers didn't have enough money for or just didn't give a crap about - the climax is a letdown mostly for how you can't see a damn thing that's going on . It's ironic to think that Laslo Kovacs went from Easy Rider to this ( or vice versa ) . His music choices are mostly awful , at least a few supporting actors brought on look like they're improvising on the set ( and not for the better of the actual script ) , and any real guilty fun ( ala Angels Hard as They Come ) of seeing a bunch of bikers being really mean and ruthless is compounded by the Mitchell / Ladd moments which are un-evenly paced . But even with all of this , as a pre-Easy Rider kind of spectacle ( shot before it but not released till after it came out , a shelved movie for three years ) , it's not bad to look at as a curio piece for some of its main players . For fans of the actors who got their feet wet in these kinds of pictures it's of a little interest to see Dern as the unlikely protagonist and Nicholson as the grizzly heel , or Stanton in his sometimes whacked out state . That it leaves no real lasting impression is no surprise though , aside from being a mixed bag .
if only the direction and the screenplay were as exemplary as Harris and the music	Ludwig Van Beethoven's music will endure for generations to come , even hundreds of years . Certainly his impact must still make waves in 2006 if filmmakers decided to once again give the Viennan mad genius of classical music another bio-pic . And hearing all the music of his that comes through the film - mostly the big middle chunk where Beethoven conducts his orchestra for his masterpiece , the 9th symphony - is always a pleasure and occasionally a thrill ( even if I may have been ruined forever by Clockwork Orange as I can't listen to the 9th without that film in my head as well ) . But it's a shame then that a film made about him creating such a work , and the magnificent end of his career , is shown in such a lackluster light . Sometimes the subject matter borders on the mundane , though really reaches more for the mediocre . There's nothing horribly wrong with any aspect of the film , but as I think about it more the directing is just as troublesome as the screenplay . It settles for what seems to be peering into this tense and fruitful collaboration between Beethoven ( Ed Harris ) and Anna Holtz ( Diane Kruger ) , a young woman from the convent and a copyist-would-be-composer . But in the end I felt unsatisfied with the look into these characters , as there wasn't anything interesting surrounding them in the sub-plots , and the director , Agnieszka Holland , is content to make everything very ' drab ' in how everything looks , through the camera and the production design . I felt like I was unfortunately watching a companion piece to the film the Libertine with its style of muddy soft-focus shots , and odd timing for doing zoom-ins and other shots meant to be ultra-arty . It only adds to what is inherently faulty in the script - it makes Beethoven part preachy , God-abiding ( and filtering through ) father figure to Anna , and part complete uncouth ass , who then changes on a dime whenever he sees Anna start to tear up or when he does something crude like ' mooning ' her . Surrounded by the dialog that only gives so much for Harris to work with are two minor sub-plots involving Ludwig's snide nephew , and Anna's secret love interest , an engineer . Both of these sub-plots work even less in conviction then the main story arch , and the nephew part is only given a couple of scenes , without much context with the rest of the picture . It almost seems like filler , and for a 104 minute movie it seems odd with that in tow . The final shot is also a real cop-out by trying for something ' unique ' when it's just a pretentious ending with Anna in the field , almost in spite of the harsh beauty in the music . In the meantime , Copying Beethoven is frustrating to recommend because of the pros that are with a movie like this . Unlike the Libertine , there is a memorable performance right in the muck of the subject matter . Harris is , in fact , nearly as a revelation as Beethoven as Thomas Hulce was as Amadeus . There's real soul to his work here , like in Pollack , and he makes Beethoven a true force of passion and madness and compassion all in equal bounds , almost in spite of what the script gives him to work with . And when he plays the music - and whenever Beethoven pops up - it becomes a pleasure . I loved seeing such a dramatically charged scene like that 9th symphony performance . But it's just one major note in an otherwise non-noteworthy effort . Indeed , if it weren't for Harris ( Kruger is just passable in her turn , no more or less a good performer then in Troy ) , I'd say this could make for a decent PBS weekday night movie , but not much more . A shame , really , but an interesting shame no less .
it's directed fine and there's some good acting , but it's also dim and silly and contrived	The Boy in Striped Pajamas , aside from it looking mostly like a slightly upgraded TV movie ( it's financed by BBC ) and featuring British and non-British actors not changing any of their accents for their characters , is also too obvious for its own good . Holocaust = bad is the basic message of the picture , and a message that apparently never sinks into the head of Bruno , the 8 year old boy who befriends Shmool , the boy of the title who befriends him across the fence of the concentration camp . It also seems to be a movie pitched at children more than adults , which would be fine except that it's not even a very good children's movie , unless they don't know much at all about the holocaust - which , perhaps is likely . Maybe my standards are too high after so many countless films regarding Nazis and the holocaust , but among the many of them ( Schindler's List by far the masterpiece and others like Jakob the Liar remake worse ) , this one is just . . . meh . Does it provide a look at how innocence had little place of the Nazi's plans against the Jewish people ? Yes . Does it have a point regarding good versus evil ? Maybe . It's scope is mainly centered on Bruno's experiences around the family house where his father ( barely one-dimensional David Thewlis ) is the Nazi soldier and his mother ( Vera Farmiga , almost two-dimensional but not quite ) who is horrified by what she finds out goes on at the camps . And , as well , about the kindness of some people who could not comprehend ( or just weren't up on the facts or too young , like Bruno ) the evil possible with the Nazis . All of these ideas and perspectives are fine . It's the execution of these on film , in drama , that counts , and the performances and the direction just don't add up . On top of this are some contrivances to the plot that keep things a little too thick for comfort . Maybe I just wasn't as emotionally invested in the ending as some other critics have been , but it starts as being pretty stupid - for Bruno to just casually dig his way into the camp and then slip on the camp clothes without anyone noticing is one thing - and then , the final straw , with the big lesson being delivered as a manipulative sucker punch to the parents as Bruno and Shmool are shuffled off to the gas chamber at just the exact moment they go into the one bunker . This is just a cruel twist , something done to drive tragedy into a story that doesn't provide much except for a feeling of " . . . what ? " If it touches other people who don't see any of the obvious lines drawn in Herman's script or direction , good for them . For me , it's a total emotional sham .
definitely not one of Sam Fuller or Burt Reynolds ' better days	It being said that Shark is far from being what co-writer / director Samuel Fuller envisioned is right on the money . Or rather , lacking money , because this film seems to have been made with change that fell from the pockets of the producers . It's another film that looks and feels like it was made with the grit and gusto of a man with a need to tell a story , but unfortunately it's quite compromised . On the DVnot too unfitting released by Troma - the special features go to lengths to explain what became of the film once it was completed , and taken out of Fuller's hands to even include ( at the START of the film ) a real lethal shark attack . That the film , ironically , is not the total disaster that Fuller thought it was once he saw what the producers did , is a credit to him and first-time movie star Burt Reynolds . Now , as long as you're not a stickler for little things like , say , continuity ( check out that beard , or how it withers scene to scene , for example ) , the film isn't a total waste . For one thing it still carries the memorably tough wit of some of Fuller's noir films of the 50s , and he still makes his mark on the film in spurts , as one can tell through its fractured , ultra low-budget qualities ( i . e . made in Mexico with a shamble for Sudanese sets , if that's what they are ) . He also gets a little cool gusto out of Reynolds , who would later bloom , so to speak , as a major star in his own right . Here , however , he's still finding his feet some of the time , so it goes without saying that it's more machismo and presence than real ' acting ' up on screen . He plays Caine , a mercenary gun seller with a predilection for wacky danger ( i . e . tossing dynamite out of his car to thwart those on his tail at the start ) . He gets recruited by a tempting female who offers him a chance to dig up gold in a sunken ship . . . all in shark infested waters ! When these scenes do finally come up after a lot of plot line subterfuge , it's hit or miss . Then again , this is long before Jaws , so if the temptation to hear a really rousing score over the underwater scenes does strike you , it speaks to not just that film's strengths but how Shark ! doesn't quite realize all of its potential . It wouldn't be 100 % fair to blame just the producers for the bits of fiasco , because even through what is quite good that Fuller pulls off on screen ( I liked the small chase in the village with the boy and the watch , and a few of the more blatantly exciting moments with Reynolds in his underwater garb ) , he doesn't have that much of a really terrific story to work with to start with . Maybe it's a combination of factors , but that it's Sam Fuller's weakest movie I've seen of his films is both a credit to what he could do with what could possibly have been a real Z-grade stinker and a tome to what he couldn't do with un-supportive , conniving producers . Probably worth a good , dumb time for drinking buddies , however .
kind of like a mixed garnish dish - lots of small pieces put together , good in parts , not filling on the whole	Watching Emilio Estevez's Bobby is a curious experience because I never really felt like I was getting a fully satisfying dramatic piece of historical artifice . It goes for the Altman scheme of things with the stories being multi-layered , but with no purpose for what is really at the core or with enough really fascinating and true moments to make it really worthwhile ( and , compared to Altman , who's style is usually as seamless as a pair of pants , he's much better at acting than at directing ) . But it's the kind of picture that I was glad I saw once , I guess , and if it were ever on TV I might check out a scene or two . What ends up being almost too frustrating about the production though is that it truly is one of the cases of the ' mixed bag ' , where some characters / scenes / performances are either quite good or surprisingly good or just adequate , and then some stuff just doesn't work at all . One of the problems is that Estevez thinks that having all of these stories , with it very much being in the ' period ' for political , economic , racial , international , drug , and just personal issues of sex and marriage , all thrown into the woodwork , will completely stick in the context of it being all before Robert F . Kennedy's assassination . His cast is so varied and loaded with stars , legends , character actors young and old and somewhat not totally known to some viewers , and with both surprises and disappointments to spare . What's to be made when your film has Laurnece Fishburne's scenes - perhaps more in due with the script - being less convincing and cringe-worthy than those with Lindsay Lohan ( who , while not a knock-out , is not bad at all with the limits she has to work with in her story with Elijah Wood ) . As usual we get a compelling turn , if a little muted , from William H . Macy and from Sharon Stone too in an infidelity plot . There are also two things quite unexpected I found - the scenes with Ashton Kutcher and the whole LSD storyline with the campaigners is hilarious , even as his character doesn't have anything to do in the climax ( a reminder of how good Kutcher can be in very small doses ) ; and Anthony Hopkins being underused and with nothing to do aside from hearing Harry Belafonte talk about getting old . I could see what Estevez was going for , which is glimpses into the lives of this wide array of personalities who all have at least some stake , however overly-conscious or subconscious or unconscious it might be ( it IS 1968 after all ) . And I respect especially what he does in using Kennedy's speeches in little spurts , like the coal-miner bit , and the ' violence ' speech put over a pivotal point . But a lot of times the term ' mawkish ' comes to mind , and mostly in turns with the script , not necessarily with the cast who either know instinctively what to do or just try a little too hard . It's particularly , however , with how he combines his dialog being spoken with Mark Isham's musical score , which I think is one of the worst sentimental-type scores I've heard in a long time . Ironically , as if in a schizophrenic state of mind , Estevez gets all of the songs in the film just about right , if not perfect for some scenes ( the Sound of Silence , used in an important scene , is a big exception , which just falls flat against the banality of montage , which also ironically is preceded by the real big climax using montage with audio more effectively ) . By the end I saw a lot of heart and technical effort put into a picture that really only amounts to so much , and with the highs and lows becoming too much to really call the film as either a success or a failure . It's not even ' just OK ' . It's basically a compelling , well-acted muddle that goes to lengths with sentimental over-kill and good intentions .
One of the best examples of how to NOT make a horror film	Ex-Cinematographer ( of Die Hard ) and now director Jan De Bont struck gold with Speed and while it wasn't gold , Twister wasn't a suck fest . This is . I sat in the theater whacting this and thinking too myself , is anyone getting scared by this ? I mean I understand that it could be scary to some , back in 1920 . But now , immune systems have been built up againt horror films , and while they don't have to be gems to be good , they shouldn't have to sucfk like airplane toilets anyway . The plot ( with very little to do with the original and the book ) involves a lady who can't sleep , so she goes to a big house hosted by a doctor ( Liam Neeson ) and with 2 other insomniacs ( Owen Wilson and Catherine Zeta Jones ) to find out why they can't sleep . But the doctor has more secrets that the others know , as the house becomes alive . Some good visuals can't make up the fact that it is really dumb , with a horrible script , not good performances and stupid scares ( the only one that was fair , which makes this film pass , is when Wilson looses his head ) . Definately not for sharing .
a film that risks for greatness but doesn't fly high	I can't say that I'm very much the Superman fan , at least in comparison to some other superheroes that I'm interested in . The whole saga and the like just never seemed all that compelling . But on the other hand , as films , the first two ( more really the first one ) were rather well done pieces of solid , Hollywood entertainment . While I wouldn't want this review to have to keep comparing to the Richard Donner film , certain things did strike me just on Superman Returns ' own terms . Director Bryan Singer has proved with his first two X-Men films that he's not ignorant in the ways of making compelling comic-book entertainment . But here he's got a bigger bill to fill here in terms of making a good enough script ( er , one with as much fun as intelligence for the audience ) , and a cast , aside from the plethora of special effects and visuals at his huge-budget disposal . I wish I could just turn off my mind and just take in everything as it went . As I walked out my friend asked me ' well , what did you expect ? ' Not much , actually , but that much wasn't even filled to what could have been . It's a bit frustrating too to come across a blockbuster like Superman Returns , because you can sometimes feel the ambition that Singer and his crew and cast are going for . And Singer does provide some interesting , sharp visuals at times . And , as well , sometimes he doesn't . In terms of just action-movie terms it is very well shot most of the way , and fans of the Superman lineage looking for a fresh 21st century feel might be impressed . But , unfortunately , Singer's own ambitions become part of the film's drawbacks . Arguably , the film's near two hour and forty minute running time is overdoing it , and despite the information that the script requires in the last several minutes , one too many an ending is delivered . Certain smaller scenes showcasing , more or less to decent effect , Superman's overwhelming ability to do ( predictably ) anything to serve and protect at all costs , are also not really needed . And the basic concept at root in the film , even in the ' must-suspend-disbelief ' world , is a little tough to swallow . Without revealing too much , under comic-book movie logic it falls a little , well , flat . Now , some of this could go by the wayside if the cast was at the best of abilities , or at least with the correct parts . I wasn't expecting another Christopher Reeve , of course , but it was hard for me to see what Singer saw ( aside from his apparent liking of his connection to Clark Kent's awkward / bumbling in Brandon Routh exactly . He gives off a quality of being more wooden and bland than can even be stood considering the man of steel's impervious " human " qualities . Kate Bosworth does what she can , though only so much due to what her somewhat conflicted role requires . A couple of supporting actors are also a little disappointing from Frank Langella and James Marsden . And surprising still is Kevin Spacey , who only occasionally sparks up the kind of appeal that went with his past villain roles . So , in a way , maybe it just all added up to something that worked against what I was going into the film for - it is not bad on the side of technical astuteness and finesse . But that part has to come up against a script with some rough , scatter-shot patches , and a other elements that practically drag the film into a sluggish pace . All of this , however , will be moot for the legions of Superman fans , I would say it would be worth checking out the film at least once on the big screen . But for the non-fans or just the casual moviegoer , I'd say if you do proceed know it might not be the big summer smash that's been hyped to no end for over a month .
" Don't mind Lobo . He's as harmless as a kitten . "	Strange to watch Bride of the Monster with friends and feel both the urge to pull a Mystery Science Theater 3000 commentary on it ( making jokes and imitating characters and movements and laughing inappropriately at times ) and the feeling that this movie wasn't as bad as I expected . At least , not as bad as some of Wood's other movies , which goes without saying that he's not undeserved of the title of " Worst Director of All Time . " His main body of work seen by people are of a kind that is of a by-gone era , of the B science fiction movie where effects were menial and acting was taken by actors who probably didn't even bother with classes ( take Tor Johnson as best example of that ) . But even at its best , which is saying a bit much , Bride of the Monster is a sci-fi flick that has some decent craftsmanship going , a cooky Bela Lugosi performance , and of course Tor Johnson as Lobo . It's hard actually to even describe the story , as sometimes the dialog meanders a bit into what's really going on . But what I got out of it is that Lugosi plays Dr . Eric Vernoff , who has found a way to harness atomic energy to create a " race of atomic supermen , that will conquer the world ! " He has his big , clunky , mute assistant Lobo take a reporter who crashed her car to his laboratory , and prepares her to make her the Bride of the title . But not if a certain hero can stop them , or not as case may be . This movie contains cheesiness that lends itself immediately to ridicule , and I knew this before I saw it via the scenes in Burton's Ed Wood where they show the octopus that doesn't work , and Lobo bumbling through doorways on the ' perfect ' take . And some of the looks on the faces ( oh those close-ups of Lugosi's eyes ) and body language especially by Johnson are too campy to miss , plus that ' octopus ' which ranges from stock footage to , uh , not working . But if there is anything going for Bride of the Monster , it's that it's actually a sort of good-bad movie , where the ineptitude is almost charming in its stilted , under-budgeted way , and that main speech that was quoted in Ed Wood " Home , I have no home " is actually quite cool in its B-movie sort of way . Even the ridiculous bits that pop up ( i . e . a police chief with a random parakeet on his shoulder in a scene ) aren't deterring enough to put it down like Wood's Plan 9 or The Sinister Urge . It's stupid fun that ends with a big bang , and might be Wood's best of his worst , so to speak .
actually directed fairly well . . . it's the writing that's " WTF " as they say	Ah , Stephen King , he made the right choice in not directing again . Perhaps it was just a fluke or a lark or one of those dares he took to see if he could make a movie as good ( or perhaps as crappy ) as some of the other mid-80s ilk that came out , some actually not bad like the Dead Zone and Pet Sematary , while some like Children of the Corn not quite so good really . So , he took one of his short stories and expanded it , unwisely , to a 98 minute length feature script and filmed it , in all its unwieldy glory . . . glory , I say , with that dose of sarcasm needed . Maximum Overdrive is total trash that's a blast to watch , and I almost would be more forgiving of it if it just wasn't so completely dumb-headed the whole way . The problem is not actually in the direction , oddly enough , but in the script itself , which is troubling for something that should be potentially intentionally awesome from King . It's like he cobbled together ideas from the likes of Chrstine and the Stand and the Mist and other works that we all know are just like this and added in trucks and rednecks to give it some " flavor " ( perhaps it not set in Maine is is a saving grace I didn't really notice ) . He also peoples it with Emilio Estevez , Pat Hingle , Yeardley Smith , and a bunch of other actors you probably will NOT remember , or even care to , gives them some laughable ( " We MADE You ! " ) and dead-pan-serious dialog that is not entirely laughable ( really , did anyone laugh when Estevez made that " Eat my shorts ! " line which was already dated when Bart Simpson said it ? ) And , finally , the trucks themselves , them like other random electrical devices directed by the rays of a wayward comet that will only be in the orbit , as we learn from the opening title card , for about 8 days , which have a logic that makes as much sense as a turtle solving a Rubik cube in two minutes . I wanted to get with what the trucks were all about in attacking as this random , evil force that comes only in King stories ( well , not only , but most prominently in the last thirty years ) , but too long the trucks spend just circling around the diner at the gas station , like cowboys in a perpetual loop circling around a group of Indians , and by the time they crash through the diners me and my friends shouted in unison : FINALLY ! It goes without saying some of the stuff with said trucks , like the one with the Green Goblin on the front , was cool . But as with so much stuff in the picture , you only go with it for so long until you pretty much say " alright , that's it , I give up . " If it had been shorter , and this isn't just some ' it would work better as a 25 minute Twilight Zone episode ' thing but it's close enough , like a Creepshow segment , it could be potentially amazing . But it takes too long to get where it's going , it retreads familiar ground , and only one or two moments actually POP with the kind of scariness that King himself promised in a direct-address to the audience where he proclaimed : " I'll scare the HELL out of you ! " Sad to say , he didn't . At the least though it wasn't boring and had a few good laughs .
the least successful of Kubrick's early shorts	There are some very small moments where one might find something of interest in Flying Padre , a small view of a father in a small village farming community who acts as part-time keeper of the peace , and part-time flying enthusiast . But it is not , per-say , for being as a Stanley Kubrick film . It was his second documentary , funded very cheap for an even cheaper profit , but unfortunately seems to be caught in a bind . It would be one thing to get some kind of interview or closer look at this man , but in the profile the only really exciting bits are when he's up in the air ( which does contain a few clever shots from right in the plane , ironic for the air-phobic Kubrick ) . There are staged scenes that are rather , well , silly , like when the Padre sorts out a matter between a little girl and boy . Is it cute , maybe , but it's not really interesting . Another problem , which may be for some more than others considering its very obscure stature , the quality of the picture is bad , and the amateurish style of the staging doesn't help matters . It would be one thing if , like in his last short doc the Seafarers , if there were some more marks to see of him as a filmmaker , or just in general interesting compositions . There isn't much of that here , only in the most minuet moments that pass by very quickly . In short , this is one that was done for hire , on the fly , and is not worth seeing unless you're , like me , a Kubrick die-hard .
quite a disappointment , as I recall	I remember seeing Dracula : Dead and Loving It in the theater - one of only two I had the chance to with Mel Brooks's films - and walking out just thinking " how could this be this lame , even for a kid my age " ? A fan of Brooks and Leslie Nielson may or may not find much use here . The gags , jokes , puns , physicalities and outright spoofed diddies are at the usual at-least-a-minute rate of the past Brooks comedies , but there are just more misses than hits . The bright spots come in very intermittent spurts from star Nielson , who may have just burnt out his comedic energy on the Naked Gun trilogy , and from Peter MacNicol , who does give one very funny scene involving a fly ( in general this and Ghostbusters 2 are his career highlights ) . But people who could be doing a lot better like Harvey Korman in the film don't at all . The style of the film is also a little sluggish compared to the director's past works , and when one of the misses comes , you can feel the dud hit ( i . e . " I think I just had a day-mare " , as Dracula wakes up ) . Not that in some spots one might neglect to grin or have a chuckle - and the nailing of the body in the coffin is a big comic set up and pay-off . But the times when the jokes miss , even as a kid ( and being more susceptible to the slapstick and satire comedy of Brooks on one level ) the overall effort is a mindboggler . One can only hope that Brooks will come back and write / produce / direct one last swan-song , aside from the Broadway convergence of the past several years ( and the Producers musical-movie is something else entirely ) .
shows what can be good - and not so good - about a remake	Maybe I shouldn't be looking to making overt comparisons to the Wes Craven 1977 cult film The Hills Have Eyes , of which this Alejandre Aja filmed remake has done over Hollywood style , and just look at it on terms of just being a horror film in and of itself . But even on its own I found this film to just not work for me , even as I recognized things that I admired about it . And maybe it's because I decided to watch the 1977 original earlier this week that that film is so fresh in my mind that I can't help but make comparisons . However , when you are remaking a film that already has a flaw or two , you can either improve , be on par , or just not be as good as that film , or just be so-so on its own terms . Co-writer / director Aja has a film here that does work for its target audience - the young teen horror fan crowd looking for a quick fix of gore and cheap scares done in a somewhat shaky-hand held camera style . But the problem for me was a little more elemental . For all of Craven's film's shortcomings - mostly by budget and time - was made up for by being a sharply entertaining exploitation flick , building on both the good and evil sides of the characters . This time , Aja is content with making a decent enough set-up for the first half hour or so , and then just plunging the viewer into a kind of checklist horror movie kind of layout . This is not to say he doesn't use the big-studio backup for some good ; the makeup by Greg Nicotero on the deformed mutant villains is very cool and creative ; the gore factor ( not that I was necessarily relying on it for scares , which it didn't really ) was very high and well laid out ; the performances by the family , for the first half of the film , are believable enough with the dialog . But the problem for me lies in that the second half of the film , where Aja could make this good versus evil struggle scary and intense , into being slightly boring . Not withstanding the fact that 80 % of the original is transplanted ( sometimes seemingly with the same shots and angles ) into the remake , the new ideas put into the film also aren't launched off with enough to really engage . And then there are the action / bloody horror scenes , where Aja has his fun pitting these quasi super-mutants against our can't-be-beat heroes ( one of which seems to survive and fight back with an incredible suspension of disbelief for one ) , but its not really that per say . So yes , there's more gore than the first go-around , yes , there are some added disturbing elements ( i . e . a rape scene , not as disturbing as in some films but gruesome enough ) , and yes , the twist factor is turned up to 10 . But with the turns of the horror-film screw , I just didn't get involved , even in separating myself from the original . And the fact that the mutants are very robotic-like in their pursuit of their semi fish-in-a-barrel takes some of the jump out of some of the could-be scares . It will please many , and if you are just a general horror film fan ( and R-rated I mean , it doesn't cheap out on that end ) you'll want to check it out ) . But it's a ' meh ' in terms of it being engaging film-making .
has a couple of noteworthy moments , but mostly boring , symbolic crap	I wasn't sure what I would get with Chinese Roulette , a little-known film from RW Fassbinder featuring one of the stars of the Nouvelle vague , Anna Karina , but I wasn't expecting this . I'm reminded somewhat of what a friend of mine says of Michael Haneke's movies ( while I don't entirely agree , I can see his point ) : " Nothing happens - nothing happens - nothing happens - nothing happens - something happens - nothing happens , end of movie " . While things do happen in Chinese Roulette - a film about two couples who come to someone's home for a weekend and one of the couple's children , a crippled young girl who became that way ( I guess it's insinuated ) from something her parents did has some kind of effect on the group of people in the house to do what she says leading up to a climactic mind-f of a ' what-if ' game - they're not of much consequence , at all . I didn't care about a single character in the film ( maybe the pretentious writer for a moment , maybe ) , not a single one , and that's part of the key to Fassbinder's problem . It's not direction , since that's actually something a strong suit for him , maybe too strong in some scenes where he pushes the ' intense-camera-zoom ' too far . It's just the overall feel and mood and the performances ; particularly disappointing is Karina , who is not just a great star of her time with her muse / ex-husband Godard but an underrated actress , who just spends a lot of time moving her eyes about thinking what's going on around her is interesting . Only the climactic game holds any interest - if only clinically - and it really only picks up ( the aforementioned " something " ) with the final question . Or , in another word , one that is too hard for some Fassbinder die-hards to mutter : boring , metaphorical clap-trap .
it's silly , crude , shocking , gross , surreal . . . and it's only OK	I'm not sure whether or not I expected Harold and Kumar Escape from Guantanamo Bay to better the first cult comedy from 2004 . While H & K Go to White Castle wasn't the prize taker for best pot comedy of the decade ( hopefully Pineapple Express will take that title ) , it was about as cool and witty and deranged and crazy a post Cheech and Chong romp as one could ask for , especially considering the director did Dude Where's my Car . The trailer for the sequel basically gave away the premise right away : Harold and Kumar , on a plane going to Amsterdam , are thrown off for being suspected terrorists , with Rob Cordrey's government agent saying in true one-dimensional tone , " Al-Quaeda and North Korea working together ! " The trailer was perfect on a first viewing . . . then wore thin by the time the film finally touched down completely . To make a blunt comparison - no pun intended ( OK , a little ) - it's like getting a baggie filled with some fairly good stuff , but also filled with a good many twigs and seeds . In other words , it's only about a little worth the energy to get up off the futon and get to the theater . It would probably make a better rental , with a bunch of friends wasted to hell ( this last part might not exactly be a compliment to the film as much as a necessity ) as opposed to a theater . The filmmakers - the first film's writers - pick up the story right where the last left off , following the love / hate friendship of Harold ( John Cho ) and Kumar ( Kal Penn ) , who this time have a similar climactic blow to Clerks 2 , and up until then are anxious nice guy and slacker horn-dog respectively who each have their own romantic flames somewhere out of reach . But at the same time the story / plot is a rehash of most of the jokes from the last film ( i . e . sex dream with a huge female pot-baggie ; in-bred white-trash stumble ; missed opportunities with the opposite sex ) , and they only allow for some few chuckles and thoughts like " oh , that was funny . . . I guess . " The one wild card that pays off incredibly well is Neal Patrick Harris . Here's a guy who doesn't submits himself to a " character " form of himself , who continues where he left off from ' White Castle ' as a has-been with a penchant for hallucinogens and prostitutes . Anytime he's on screen it's a riot , particularly here where the poster many have seen of him on a unicorn saying " What would NPH do ? " is given better context . There are also a good few belly laughs to be had with Cordrey's over-the-top Homeland Security agent , and a fantastic bit part from Chris Meloni ( yeah , Law and Order Meloni ) as a KKK chief . Yet more often than not the filmmakers rely on old-hat poop and genital jokes , and when they try and hit bigger targets ( i . e . the ' attrocities ' of Guantanamo Bay , George W . Bush as a pot-head , the state of terrorism in the US ) they fall flat or only work on a shallow level . Their targets are better on smaller playing fields , and they just don't have the stamina to contend with the level of satire that one sees , albeit a different form , on the Daily Show and Colbert Report . So , yeah , it's OK , maybe more or less depending on your comic preferences and how much you can take of either really spot-on gags or just really , really stupid ones . Bring a bud , and see how it goes , maybe .
ehhh . . .	There are many out there that will compare Steven Soderbergh's new film ( a remake ) , Solaris , as like Kubrick's 2001 , and in some respect it tries that in the few moments they show visuals outside of the ship and the pace of the slowness of that is keen on that count . But 2001 will always be the better picture because that was a true meditation on space , and it wasn't an excuse to use a " second chance " romance formula on a space station . This romance , which goes on between George Clooney and Natasha McElhone , starts off on Earth , and we see them trying to get close , but then things fall apart , and she ends up killing herself . Later , Clooney is called up to a station next to Solaris , where most of the crew is dead , and it doesn't take long for McElhone to re-appear in his eyes , though it may not be her at all . While Soderbergh practices an interestingly controlled style that's a bit better than expected , there is always a lack on interest in the characters and what they are feeling - even when Clooney , who tries to show levels of sorrow , turmoil , and occasional reason , is often sterile in this role ; much of the film lacks any lift and wonder , and 2001 at least had both for the intellectual and younger viewer . In the end the point is senseless , and shows that after Soderbergh's grand success with his masterpiece Traffic , he may be slowly going downhill ( this year he also had the low-budget Full Frontal ) . By the way , Jeremy Davies needs to take a couple of acting classes before he's given another part .
a brand of nihilism that can only be exported here to the states - not that it makes it much absorbing	If I had to say anything very pleasant - and yes I mean pleasant in regards to a film about teenagers ( mostly girls ) who start killing themselves in mass numbers and somehow linked to a pop group called Desert - it's that it has a knockout start to it . Actually , the first half is actually about as strong a cinematic pull as the bulk of Fight Club is , and both pictures probably share the common trait of the darkest kind of satire possible . The difference is , it's not necessarily as easy to laugh at what happens in Suicide Club as in Fight Club , and if any film were to take the cake in the unsettling-mindset department , the ball would be in Sion Sono's court , not David Fincher . But if there's one thing that Sono lacks as a writer / director that Fight Club ended up having in spades was a point , or at least a fully absorbing air about it from start to finish . As I said , it starts off in the sort of fashion that will make even the least squeamish have their hairs on the backs of their necks stand upright . We see what appears to be any regular day at the Japanese subway line . Private-school girls line up at the side waiting , presumably , for the train . They all start to hold hands - suddenly , a tension starts to build , and as we know from the title itself , this might be the group it refers to . And sure enough , we're given the full splatter of the impact made when they synchronize their jump . It's truly one of the scariest sequences in all modern Japanese films , or just contemporary films in general . Then we get into more of the thrust of the story , particularly the interest in the Detective Kuroda ( Ryo Ishibashi , whom I remember was not bad for most of what the script required him ) , as the investigation unfolds . But it all seems moot , as more suicides occur , and there's always those pesky little musical interludes either on TV or just randomly interspersed into the framework of the picture . When it finally hits much more personally for Kuroda , and the emotional stakes get raised higher , then the filmmakers suddenly lose their focus - big time . Suicide Club has a lot of potential , and if it were ever on TV again I'd try and check out scenes that still resonate so long after first having seen the picture . It's not an easy film - even if you end up loving it - and it puts up some questions about what the media's responsibility might be in these matters of cause & effect ( or , in the old Marshall MacLoughan saying , ' the media is the message ' ) . But most of the fascinating points and deliriously violent bits get hammered down in the bog that is the rest of the picture . I remember just feeling like the film trailed off after a while , with something it still tried to latch onto in coherence but left to nothing except to try and make more of a ' logical ' explanation , of someone who was possibly behind the subliminal parts in the messages in the songs . I'm sure if you're Japanese or are more familiar with the pop-culture scene the group Desert ( whether or not they are real is anyone's guess , which is a partial credit to Sion Sono ) it's a little funnier or more in context , but if not , as was the case for me , it starts to wear thin after a while . Not that I don't think there isn't room for what's ' really ' behind the suicides , but in comparison with the much stronger statements and visual strokes being done elsewhere , it's paler in comparison . There is forceful film-making here , and something to be said about the derangement and hopelessness in the hearts of men and especially women . But what does it all add up to ? Depending on some , it might not add up to anything , and Suicide Club is then just a dire exercise in a kind of pornographic nihilism , or it adds up to one of the most powerful kinds of horror movies made about what you'd least expect and the consequences and after-effects of such a disturbing element like mass suicides . I still don't know whether I like it more or less , I just know my reaction wasn't terribly favorable . That being said , I was glad I saw it , warts and all .
and finally " Ape Killed Ape ! "	Battle for the Planet of the Apes is a disappointment for what the director doesn't accomplish that he already had so well in his previous installment ( the dark veneer is gone , as are any relevant comparisons to the present with any level of satire ) , and it's the kind of cheese that a little kid will wrap in tiny balls and hurl at the screen whenever it comes upon him to do so . This time it's war ! Caesar butts heads with Aldo , a war-monger gorilla with a thick skull and a less than one-sided personality who is reminiscent of the Michael Biehn character in Planet Terror : Give em the guns ! Give em ALL the guns ! And so , war is waged between the straggling humans and the now powerful apes and gorillas . Will there be a voice of reason ? The plot doesn't have much cohesion except to make it clear that this one will tie up whatever loose ends there needs to be with the first part , just in case anyone really wants to take notice ( of course , there are some more than thousands of years in gap space between five and one , but who's counting ) . In the most crucial scenes in the picture , where the battle is waged harshest and Aldo has to answer for a horrible atrocity , Thompson only films it adequately enough so that it doesn't ring badly on TV . There are some ambitions in the script , even to include the original " Lawgiver " , played by none other than the great John Huston . But it's not for much trouble ; there's even a lapse of judgment in seeming to put in lots of footage from the PAST films for some reason , which must be attributed to laziness on the writers and editors . Probably on par , if not maybe a smidgen above , the 2001 remake of POTA , ' Battle ' doesn't end with a bang , but with a bunch of bangs that amount to the emotional wallop of a whimper .
Sidney Lumet directed this ? uh-huh . .	I have memories of this film , mainly because - a little strange to admit it on such a forum as this - I was once the lion in not a full-on production of the Wiz but in a segment in a musical revival thing as a kid with a couple of scenes from the show dropped in . So in sort of ' preparation ' , I watched the film a few times . I saw it again on TV recently and I tried to connect what I thought of it the first times around some ten or so years ago . I may have had a little admiration for it in spots , but I also wondered why it didn't totally work either even back when I was a less discriminating of flawed movies . The sense of large-scale production design and escapism is still there when I see it , and a couple of the songs are lively , but now having gone through many of director Sidney Lumet's other films as a director , all I can think now is ' why Lumet , why ? ' Because it's to me something uncharacteristic of him considering his better films ( the Pawnbroker , Serpico , Dog Day Afternoon , 12 Angry Men ) which are all gritty dramas . It's a change of pace , to be sure , and it's not necessarily a horrendous mistake . But to say that it isn't necessarily ' good ' isn't off the mark either I'm afraid . It's basically an African-American interpretation - if not outright remake - of the Wizard of Oz , where Dorothy and Toto get taken away from their urban living into a fantasy-version of it . Michael Jackson , Nipsey Russell , and Ted Ross play the usual companions of Scarecrow , Tinman and Lion , and each gets their own song to display their inner flaws and insecurities ( " You can't win " from Jackson , as cheesy as it is , actually isn't that bad ) as they head off to meet , of course , the Wiz ( Richard Pryor ) . But along the way there's the wicked witch Evilene , with her minions now on motorcycles . So all of this does have potential . That it all isn't realized is maybe not so much the fault of any one complete part of the production , even if it has overall definitely dated . A good few of the songs , particularly the couple when Dorothy and company arrive in the Emerald city ( " Color it Gold " as I remember it called ) , are lavish , huge production numbers , but also tinted with that 70's disco tinge that is more than a little irksome . There are also attempts at humor that don't really add up either , though as a kid I laughed a little more than I did today . Is it worth seeking out then , giving as something for the whole family to see ? I'm not sure I could really say . I still have memories of having fun doing the ' Ease on Down the Road ' number back , and seeing it for some played out like this might be more entertaining than for me . Diana Ross isn't terrible here , but I would probably get more enjoyment out of seeing her sing with the Supremes than being stuck in such a typical character who has to sometimes emote to the point of overkill ( when the evil witch has the heroes in a certain predicament you might see what I mean ) . It's cheesy and big and ambitious , and Lumet probably had good and lofty intentions . But it just doesn't hold up altogether , at least for me .
a film where satire and drama don't mix well	Terry Zwigoff and Daniel Clowes , director and writer of Art School Confidential ( second meeting after Ghost World ) , have here a perplexing convergence of sensibilities . It's a film that I really wanted to like more than I ended up doing so . It has a premise that is not bad at all . A suburban kid constantly picked on as a kid ( and virgin ) goes to an odd-ball ( and usual kind of ) art school , where he meets people who are , admittedly by the film itself , walking clichés . And for the first half hour , give or take , I thought the satire ( and , more importantly in this case , laughs ) that Zwigoff and Clowes were aiming for went off splendidly . There are some funny vignettes showing the young Jerome ( Max Minghella , whom I'll get to next paragraph ) trying to adjust to this new world , where he has troubles finding the right girl , and in general to his fellow drawing classmates as they mouth off as the pretentious being brilliance . BUT , then the storyline takes a bit of a detour , and it along with the characters never fully recover . The problem I see reminded me of why another film that targeted a specific group in-wind of an institution-kind of setting , so to speak , like Election , worked well and this didn't . Not to compare too much as they're different films , while Election could work in balancing out some of the more dramatic aspects with the satire , Art School Confidential just couldn't . As the filmmakers get more into the love story portion of the film , then into the serial killer storyline ( involving characters with secrets soon revealed ) , one realizes that a ) what little satire is left is overwhelmed by the dourness that accompanies the darker side of Jerome's descent into art-school hell , and b ) its star Minghella just can't pull it off totally . As an actor he often has a look on his face and in his eyes that's very much the same scene to scene , close to being on the verge of weeping outright ( yes , even more than Jake Gyllenhall in his earlier years ) . Overall his work isn't awful , but there's more needed for this rather simplistic character - when it comes down to it ( and , admittedly , clichéd but not an interesting kind ) - and is outranked by other superior actors like Malkovich and Broadbent . Maybe some might find more wit in the film's later half than I did , but even the ending that tries to put one more satirical point in the works , seems like its been in other films before . And there are a couple of points logistically in the story that just don't work ( i . e . certain particulars that one once SOBER could see put on the paintings ) . Despite a few bright spots early on , and some cutting wit and clever jabs at the ponderousness of how art school's work ( with some of the best material from Ethan Suplee's sub-plot as a struggling filmmaker ) , it's a disappointment coming from this writer / director duo . For all the possibilities that could be open with such material , only a few are realized .
it's not a terrible movie , it's just . . . . . huh ?	I remember seeing Romeo + Juliet in a high school English class . . . or at least I'd like to pretend I did . If anything , I probably remember reading the actual play more , or maybe when they tried to do the comparison with Zeferelli's far superior 1968 version . Bored one day ( very bored , though sadly not with the wherewithal to pick up a book like a more sane person ) , I saw Romeo + Juliet was on cable and stayed tuned to watch it . It's not as bad I've heard from some , which is that it's one of the worst films ever made . It's somehow weirdly watchable in some instances and shots and moments . Baz Lurhmann isn't a hack , that much is completely certain , he's got too much verve and POP in his style to be easily ignored . This is in fact what made Moulin Rouge , for better or worse , the significant achievement it was . But all the technical razzle dazzle in this case can't cover up the biggest problem of all : casting . And I don't mean that in the sense of " oh , casting these hot young people of the 90s like Di Caprio and Claire Danes and , uh , John Leguizamo I guess " , that notion is a given . Watching the film today , after years of knowing Romeo & Juliet and Shakespeare work in general , the actors with one or two exceptions can't pull off the performances . Lurhmann leaves these kids and other character players like Harold Pirenneau and even a strange walk-on like Paul Sorvino to fend for themselves . And as for the two stars , Di Caprio and Danes , they are pretty to look at , but the performances clearly don't have a kind of focus that's required with the material . Perhaps this is more than anything not so much a fault of the director's in that " oh , I'll cast them for this look and that " , but of simple things like rehearsal . I can imagine Lurhmann taking so much time to prepare how to make Verona the Verona-on-speed of his world , the Capulets and Montagues in their power games and battles , all super-designed and made out in super 90s sheek with some 80s leftover . So in short , there is a vision here , but its squandered when the human elements are left beside . Some bits are worthwhile , like Pete Posthlethwaie ( sic ) s the priest , but really the main attraction is to try and lure in mall kids who wouldn't go near the Bard with a ten foot pair of designer jeans under normal circumstances . It's shiny and goes fast and crazy , but there's not a lot of substance much . . . at all . That being said , it's fun to re-live some of the 90s music , as cheesy as it can get .
not deep much at all , and it's happy that way - ' safe ' doesn't necessarily mean terrible this time around	Rise of the Silver Surfer is like a three-part cartoon version put back into live-action on Saturday morning for kids . If I was a kid , I think I might have responded more , if only because I knew there could be some cool toys to get . It's a shallow diversion of an entertainment spectacle , but as far as others out there go - notably the prior installment in the F4 series - it could go a lot worse . This time the stories focused on three points : stopping the total annihilation of the world from Galactus - a super-duper space being that comes on like the biggest hurricane , as a big lumbering marvel of visual fx ; the problems of being close together between Reed Richards and Sue Storm , and the rift ego and the good of the group causes among the four ; and the Silver Surfer , and his connection invariably to the previous villain Victor Von Doom . None of this , unlike a Spider-Man or Batman movie , is very psychologically complex or rounded in a kind of perpetually existential comic-book way . But this time it's not exactly dull in seeing how our main heroes interact ( even Johnny Storm isn't entirely annoying this time , as there's a little development about his obviously narcissistic edge ) , and how the media buzz around them encroaches right behind the Surfer and Doom . There's even a very funny bachelor party scene - not too explicit for PG of course - including a drunk joke with the Thing and some guy with an afro . If there are fun enough moments , it doesn't mean the flaws are there , even for one ( like myself ) who's never read a Silver Surfer comic . Doug Jones , who plays the Surfer , provides about a tenth of the skill and imagination he brought to his roles in Pan's Labyrinth , but it goes without saying that he's not given a really impressive villain to play . Hardcore fans be damned , this is a very simplistic creation , for the film anyway , where he goes about on his surfboard in T-1000 form ( minus the knives ) . It's also a distraction to hear Surfer's few words spoken by Laurence Fishburne , who provides nothing except a deep-sounding vocal to a practically expressionless radioactive force . Doom , on the other hand , just provides a kind of extension of his egomania from the first film , only this time compounded by a devilish plan that makes no sense ( ' hey , let me ride on this board to mess around with F4 while the world will soon come to an end , that's smart ' ) . It doesn't help matters that Tim Story , more often than not , is still coasting along as director , offering little by way of visual prowess or much understanding of what rises comic book adaptations to possible great art . But all this aside , I'm kind of not disappointed with Rise of the Silver Surfer on the whole . Notwithstanding another movie in the franchise that probably won't get any better , it's a reckless fun-house that keeps buoyant spirits and may have the fans of the original comics more pleased than with the first outing . At the least , there's an uproarious moment during a Chinese wedding , and maybe one of Stan Lee's best cameos to date ( " It's Stan Lee ! " ) .
just because it is not totally boring does not mean it's any " good "	Baise-moi is a movie you might find while rummaging around in your buddy or girlfriend's box of super-secret things . Not even so much a porn closet or drawer , just a place where things that are too horrible and perverse and maybe just personal are stored away from prying eyes . Certainly it's hard to picture many people putting this in their DVD collections right between say Bad News Bears and Batman . But it could be at least considered a " real " film , not entirely a porno ( though there's enough to classify it such and it has been in some countries ) , which helps to criticize it as something other than just trash or boring masturbatory material . To be fair to the filmmakers ( one a feminist and one a porn star , sounds like a joke but it isn't ) , it should be treated as a serious movie that would only be masturbatory to the sickest fs this side of the bowery . That doesn't really mean it's any good though , or enlightening much on the human condition or , you know , giving a good story . If there is any story it's all knock-off , like Thelma and Louise re-written by Frank Miller on a lesser day and filmed by a kid who's just got a digital camera and has watched far too many no-budget exploitation movies . It's simply about two women ( both also porn stars , which helps to explain why they go for such explicit sex scenes without question ) , Madine and Manu , who meet one day when one forced the other by gun point to drive her to the ocean , then the two decide to join together to do . . . whatever , drive , f , kill , repeat , rinse maybe , reload , quibble , f and kill in bigger-numbered capacities . There's is not a very pleasant trip , nor is it entertaining , but it's hard to say if it's really " boring " in the way that exploitation movies can be when they are at their worst . If nothing else , it's not I Spit on Your Grave , which most of us can be thankful for . It's also shot with some kind of ugly near-yellow tint giving everything a sickened jaundiced look , and acted by porn actresses who barely know two modes to act : Manu is giddy in the most sadistic way or just not giving a damn about what happens to her ( rape early on ) or how many people she kills ( which is a lot , nearing Natural Born Killer numbers by the end I take it ) , while Nadine is more withdrawn , quiet , an occasional smirk but with less of a real drive to be on this pointless trip except as something to do or be . As it stands Baise-moi today doesn't contain that same shoot-you-in-the-face factor of controversy , but it's also of little philosophical or moral justification either . It's a weak statement done up with plenty of pizazz and punk , it's just gruesome enough for the unapologetic intentions it has . Baise-moi settles to be more than its contemporary women - getting - revenge - on - the - run flicks , but it doesn't settle to push any boundaries for those outside of hardcore pulp audiences . It has its reasons to exist , and I never turned it off , and yet what's the point of telling someone else to watch it ? I haven't the slightest , except as a super-flawed semi-interestingentry in killing spree X-rated adventures .
I guess it's fair	I saw this film again on TV one night , and while it looks entertaining for kids , adults will want to reckon back to the days of the TV show ( or maybe just the Honeymooners ) . The actors are somewhat credible here , with Rick Moranis always getting some laughs as Barney , but hey , that might be it here . Not great , but it is a whole lot better than the sequel at least .
I got pretty much what I expected - slightly improved film-making from Zombie's first film , but . . .	. . . that goes without saying that it isn't by a lot . In a way , Rob Zombie's second film , ' The Devil's Rejects ' , affected me the same way his music does - it's usually self-indulgent , stylized like it's nobody's business , and at times its fairly entertaining stuff , but you know while you're listening to it there's better material in the genre . His first film , ' House of 1000 Corpses ' , was below average for my tastes , as he reveled in the fact that he was a writer / director of a horror film by making a Oliver Stone-esquire pastiche of the genre . This time around , he goes for a more conventional narrative , though saying that one must take into account that its in the framework of a raw , un-hinged , demented , exploitation crime film . So , there are some good points about it , if muddled under by the flaws . As with ' Corpses ' , the film is style over substance , or story - the characters from the last film , the ' Fireflies ' ( led by Sid Haig , in a cheerfully disturbing performance ) , are on the lam from Texas troopers , most particularly the vengeful Sheriff ( played by William Forsythe , overplayed for good and bad results ) who'll stop at nothing to see they pay for their crimes . On the way to hideout among friends ( one of which Ken Foree , one of several obvious nods Zombie makes to past exploitation / horror films with cameos and small parts ) , they continue the carnage . While watching the film though , one isn't as concerned with any real story as much as just the atmosphere , the fiends and victims who populate this late 1970's hillbilly environment Zombie has sprung up . The good parts are these - Zombie shows himself to be fairly adept at writing scathingly ( and I mean scathingly like a iron to the face ) witty dialog at times , mostly tongue-in-cheek , and has moments of inspired wild-ness in his style . He also has the good knowledge to let his actors go as nuts as possible , which helps at times to heighten the mood . But this leads into the bad sides of the film , one which some won't be bothered by ( mostly die-hards I'd figure to exploitation flicks of the 70's ) and some may be even more repulsed by than me : the Fireflys are , by Zombie's manipulation , by default the most sympathetic characters of the movie ( when compared to the ' evil ' police that is , and the innocuous victims ) . The problem is , despite some attempts to make them charming by some stretch , to get a viewer on the side of the anti-heroes , he doesn't succeed on this level . During parts of the film , including the ending scene ( I won't reveal it , but to give an idea of the scene it's done with Skynyrd's ' Free Bird ' blaring out ) , I started to think about another filmmaker who's gone in the realm of the take-no-prisoners , on the side of the outlaws film-making , Quentin Tarantino . He's not a filmmaker immune to criticism , but in the sort of side-world he's created with From Dusk till Dawn and the Kill Bill films ( connected by some similar characters ) the anti-heroes have a kind of balance with their more sadistic and ' bad ' side to get a viewer rooting for them almost . Zombie is so in love with his style of film-making and these people he's created , that he doesn't realize that these aren't very charming people at all ( bullies and children almost all the way through ) , and as the film heads towards a climax , it's hard to really root for anyone . Maybe that's the point , as a satire , but I just didn't get it , and by the big finale on a road in Texas , the whole experience of the film felt a little , well , average when in regards to the other ' shock ' films Zombie pays tribute to . In short , the excesses that Zombie went with in ' Corpses ' have sort of lingered on in ' Rejects ' , and while there are some curious and ' cool ' bits scattered about ( along with a very good classic / souther-rock soundtrack ) , it becomes a little boring at times too . I'm sure after this film that Zombie may make more movies , better ones perhaps , but with ' Rejects ' he has made an uncompromising , violent , torrid , amusing , and ludicrous work here that does everything to call attention to itself . . . akin to his solo music work . It's the kind of film I can recommend more to some than others .
Not Altman's best hour , but at times not what you might expect	While Robert Altman's film Dr . T and the Women , which has the usual lot of the ensemble , the overlapping dialog , and differential and emotional relationships beneath the surface has it's moments , it's all over the map even for me . Richard Gere gives a compassionate performance with what he can work with at least , redeeming himself from some of his lessor work ( i . e . Runaway Bride , other films ) . Certain scenes are rather remarkable - particularly not just the ' breakdown ' from Farrah Fawcett in the mall but her whole performance and appeal in the film - while others just aren't . It's like a cluttered bad of tricks and femininity that may appeal more to others , or not at all . Laughs come in small doses from observations from the gynecologists world , but overall , it's a tad bleak , and overall not as successful as Altman's better times in his ' one long movie ' of his long career .
Grindhouse trash that should be trashier , but it'll do in 3	Word of advice : don't go to see My Bloody Valentine in a regular theater . Or even on DVD unless if it's just with a bunch of friends with some beer . It may be ironic of me , but even at just 2 stars I would recommend seeing My Bloody Valentine the remake as it is advertised : in 3D . The filmmakers know that this is trash from the get-go , and they decide the best way to pump it up with horror movie steroids is to make people put on the glasses and create an onslaught of senseless and tasteless killing scenes that try to find new ways to kill people with axes . On this level the picture is respectable as trash , but in a way they almost don't go far enough : on a scale of 1 to 10 this movie is a 7 , even with the 3D . What this needed to be was the most god-awful piece of crap ever , with horrible dialog and violence that could offend the most liberal mother out there . Instead it's . . . another slasher movie with some splashy special effects . This also means please , for the love of Pete , do not go into this expecting anything in way of story or characters . The whole gist of the story is this : " WHO " is the miner killer stalking people on Valentine's Day 10 years after his supposed death / disappearance ? Is it this gentlemen who has come back to town since leaving 10 years ago ? hmm . . . I wouldn't hope that would spoil anything , but who's to say I did ? Maybe for some who haven't been too exposed to many horror or slasher movies this mystery may act tricky and keep them guessing . For everyone else , it's just plain ol ' stupid and leading up to an ending that is second only to Saw III as being most idiotic " Flashback-Explains-Everything " kind of resolution . But then again , why would anyone watch this for things like performances ( though , oddly enough , not all of them are completely terrible , which adds to the frustration of the script being true " blah " ) ? It's an excuse to just throw up newly refined killings and some cheesy dialog and random appearances and JUMP surprises , and from a remake of a horror movie from the 80s that has a spotty record with fans anyway , and on those terms it's not quite as bad as you might expect . Or , perhaps , it is as bad as you'd expect , but it was hard for me not to laugh incredibly through the whole 3D experience . It's great fun as a near guilty pleasure ride , and what it looks to be in every other aspect .
" No . . . you're history "	Looking at Cobra is like peeking in to a time capsule dug underground and unearthed for all to look at in awe . Not because it's a particular ' good ' movie , but because of its time and place and its level of completely tasteless action and " plot " . Cobra stars Stallone as Cabretti aka " Cobra " , a killer robot masquerading as an Italian-stallion detective who wears his sunglasses like they come as part of the GI Joe action set . He's after a killer , or killers as he has to continually point out to his pathetically clichéd higher-ups , and has to protect a woman , model Ingrid ( Brigitte Nielson as decent eye-candy and less than so-so actress ) from being targeted by the killer squad . The tag-line seems to suggest that Cobra might be wiping out criminal elements as they appear in reality in 1986-era L . A . The crime wave was something fierce at the time , going as far as to influence comic books like Watchmen and The Dark Knight Returns . But Cobra functions so much as a comic book it would keep Frank Miller gasping for the oxygen tank : Cobra is after a ridiculously armed and well-stocked group of assassins who we see stand in formation in dungeons or basements or whatever clanging their axes like they're trying to emulate the army art from Pink Floyd's the Wall . You would wonder why something sensible would happen against a band of crazy killers who seem to kill at random until they focus on this ONE WOMAN , like say if the FBI would get involved . . . but no , it's only Cobra , he's the cure , they're disease , yada-yada . So much of this is so implausible it counter-acts what could be some good ol ' mindless dumb action fun . It's TOO mindless , and at times too boring ( those 80s montages are so wretched as to edit on the beats of the forgettable 80s synth-pop ) to even really care . If it isn't dull then it's just so . . . huh ? There is a car chase , for example , where one sees Cobra chasing after ( or being chased by ) the killer squad , and seeing his car once or twice do one of those jumps and crashes that would normally kill any car is one thing - but when it reaches the eighth or ninth time it's just too much . Add to that Stallone's non-acting , his incredulous one-liners , and you got yourself some dated stuff . And yet , it isn't exactly a failure or a totally bad movie . The opening sequence at the supermarket is exciting and violent in that degree that keeps tension building for at least a little while . And the director - hack George P . Cosmatos - does direct some of the absurd violence in the climax at the factory with some panache and thrills . But it's hard to stack up against what doesn't work in the film . Cobra is what other cop movies - not least of which Stallone's own co-vehicle Tango & Cash and Demolition Man - parodided , and it shows .
Edward D . Wood Jr . ' s masterpiece , er . . .	What is called by many film buffs as the worst motion picture in the history of Cinema is indeed cheesy , lame , ill-concieved , and yet irrisistable . It's the type of filmmaking that probably gave George Romero incentive to go the next and better step with Night of the Living Dead , and I mean that in good ways and bad ways . Truth be told , this is one of the most influential movies ever with its unintentional laughs at the bizarre , the bad acting , and bad sets , bad , I can go on and on . But make no mistake , this is a bad movie classic , if you could call it , in the old 50's sci-fi genre . And in closing , if you want just a tid bit of an idea of what to expect from Plan 9 from Outer Space , I'll say this - Bela Lugosi is in one scene in the beginning of the picture ( the laugh out loud exit from the house when he holds the flower ) and then for the rest of the movie he is substituted ( he died minutes after filming the scene ) by another , taller actor in a cape covering his face ! Exceptionally terrible . ( it averages out from my perspective )
leaves me not really offended , though never impresses either , it's just a mediocre horror movie	I don't think that I would completely write off the Pang brothers , Oxide and Danny , as they don't completely go into the self-indulgent post-modernism that has panged , no pun intended , the horror filmmakers of late . Only once or twice did I see that they might jump into ' Saw ' territory . But even having not seen the majority of the Japanese horror movies that have give rise to the over-abundance of ' ghosts-in-my-house ' wave ( and , likewise , to their American counterparts ) , there isn't too much with surprise or shocks in The Messengers . I'm sure they're self-conscious of the films they're paying homage / ripping off ( the one scene involving the crows and their rendezvous with John Corbett's character is like a chummier mash of The Birds and North by Northwest ; Shining and Close Encounters references seem a little more than clear to me too ) , yet they also succumb to having their film be really affect-less . It's never too stupid though ; I didn't have a disliking toward any one character , with the exception being maybe towards the end with Corbett ( I don't think I'm spoiling much there ) , and it's the sort of typical family - moves - into - a - creepy - house story that decides to hit the usual bases without going rapidly wrong on the marks . But there's also the muddle that comes in dealing with the supernatural side of things , amid the average scares of ' what did I hear in the other room , I'll go check ' . For one thing , the variations on who the ghosts and demons in the house are - if they're the family that used to live there , or if they might be the whatevers that killed off the family striking back at the new family in the house . There's fair acting from the family ( Kristen Stewart of Panic Room fills in the teenage-girl niche , and there's competent work from McDermott and Miller ; Colbert is a little creepy , but I guess that's the point ; William B . Davis's bit part is the best real surprise of the movie ) , but it's all at the mercy of a standard script that might've been better , damn if I say it , as a half hour TV episode or something . Only sometimes , too , are there some potential unintentional laughs to be had , mostly towards the climax and with the very randomly placed crows that can only come in a pretty inexplicable flick such as this . In the end , the Messengers is nothing new , and won't contribute much at all to the horror genre at large , but I wouldn't throw it in my ' I hate this movie so much ' bin either , as it only continues to that non-threatening realm of the kinda-creepy PG-13 haunted house picture .
Could've been better , could've been a lot worse	George Romero , with his films and choosing of certain projects , is at least dependably unpredictable . The genres he works in 99 % of the time are in the horror genre , or some bird of it ( be it with zombies in his ' Dead ' films , or more psychological with Martin and the Dark Half ) . Here he brings us the tale of a once prime athlete confined to a wheelchair , and the plucky little monkey who is trained to help him around the house and act as his companion as well as hands and feet . But , of course , things don't turn out right with what this ' experiment ' comes forth . It's like one of those stories you find in those cheap paperback books at the grocery store , only stripped down to bare essentials and given some adrenaline from its filmmaker . This is a peculiar film to see , which offers brilliance as well as dullness and just plain oddness . Some things about the story make less sense than others as well ( as will happen when science becomes important to the story as opposed to more of a MacGuffin ) . The lead actor , Jason Beghe , is good in the role , but isn't nearly as convincing in being the after effect of the ' medicine ' he's given ( as does the Monkey ) as he is in being the earnest , nice side of the character . There is even one great supporting performance in cold , hard-pressed form from Christine Forrest ( wife and bit player in the films of Romero ) . It's not meant to be taken very seriously , to be sure , but Romero on the one hand has a kind of sweet ( in the ironic sense ) , interesting story with just the monkey and her master , as the injections start to take its toll on the both of them . On the other hand , he still has to work in this framework of building up more and more terror with a kind of one-foot death-machine or something . It's worth a look , especially for just the craft of the film , but it's definitely not one of Romero's best .
of a good and powerfully understated effort - until it gets into the personal	Timothy Spall , one of Britains best currently working character actors ( he can be seen in films varied between Harry Potter and the Sheltering Sky ) , is probably one of the only outstanding reasons to see Pierrepoint : The Last Hangman , and probably not until it likely will air on PBS some weekday night . It's not a poorly made film , for the most part ( with the exception of one dream scene set in a field with a scarecrow , which is a revolting taste of schlock surrealism , it's got believable production values ) , but it's mainly in the script that it falters the most . We're given as juicy a subject as one could hope for - capital punishment in Britain in the late 40s and early 50s , with Pierrepoint ( Spall ) as the best in the not-quite profitable business . After getting some acclaim from superiors and sent to hang 47 Nazi war criminals in a week , he gets even more acclaim from his friends at eh pub and on the street via the press . He doesn't want it , however , as he tries his hardest to keep his personal life out of his cold , detached mode at work , which is in the frame of the best of professional ' men ' at work , with everything kept securely inside . A lot of this does make for subtly compelling drama , particularly with the execution scenes , and the the little moments in-between with Pierrepoint and his assistant , or in how he keeps it out of the life he has with his wife . It's when the writers push ahead with the most deliberate and obvious point of the movie , about making the professional personal ( which I understand and could work for the sake of the film ) , is made into something that switches gears radically from the rest of the film . The whole tie between Pierrepoint and his best singing buddy at the pub feels as if it was put in to drive it further home about how he loses his faith in his abilities to do his horrifically successful job , and seems to lack logic to boot ( wasn't there a trial after all ? ) . The whole aspect of Ruth Ellis is also put in almost as an after-thought , with the scene following her execution driving home the idea that if this were a documentary instead , it would be twice as compelling given all of the fact and trouble with the English justice system of the period . But as it is , for a could-be-TV-movie , it does have some very good strengths to it . Along with Spall , the other actors pull in equally subdued and careful work , even from his friend ( whom , oddly enough , Pierrepoint doesn't find out his full name until before it's " go " time ) , and skillfully weaves restraint in with chilling scenes of hangings - and how measurements are made in the most methodical of approaches - into an average result .
not bad , but might have had more potential , somehow	Apt Pupil is a film I might possibly consider watching again , if I didn't have much to do during the day and had absolutely nothing else to watch ( including TV ) . It's one of those transitional films for a director - in this case Bryan Singer - where from one film that's a success to another there's a bridge in the middle that kind of floats and fizzles before getting a closer look . But it's possible too , as I remember it , that part of my problem initially with the film wasn't as much with Singer's work as a director as it was with ( some of ) the writing . Stephen King's story has a lot of potential , and its idea could have different directions in the scope of the tragedy and aftermath-style horror that comes with a Nazi survivor in everyday America . There could even be a Hitchcok element to it as well , with a man who has evil stored somewhere inside and now in a very average , American town ( and , indeed , what evil thoughts might lie in such average-town inhabitants ) And some of that potential is tapped , primarily in the very tense , underplayed exchanges between Brad Renfro and ( of course ) Ian McKellan . In fact , I would most likely watch the film again more than any other reason for McKellan , who is good as usual ( if not great ) , and tries his best to elevate the complexities of such a character like Kurt Dussander for the audience . But , again , the problem goes back to the writing , as in the third act the film goes completely off into more of a horror movie mode leaving some of the more serious and interesting questions left to muck around in the scenes where Dussander goes off the deep end . And , some of the horror brought to the film ( and I would guesstimate most of it is from King's original story ) is sub-par itself . King has written some great stories dealing with the horrors of humanity in the ' real ' world , but Apt Pupil isn't one of them . With all of the effort put in by Renfro as the wayward , typically curious ( and in this case un-hinged ) teen , McKellan as the understanding and interesting but later truly monstrous figure , and Singer's competent direction , it's a shame then that the material itself wasn't totally taken into account . Worth a viewing once , at least for King die-hards who may find some extra enjoyment from seeing at least one unforgettable scene ( where McKellan puts back on the uniform and gets into the ' mood ' of the old-times ) , but it's far from being one of the better Nazi war criminal movies .
a case of " you get what you pay for " at the movies . . . .	In this case , you pay for Stallone drawing LOTS of blood , you got it . Lots of it , with many semi-creatively designed ways of their countless means to an end ( blown up , shot , stabbed , ripped out by the throat , shot many times , cluster-bombed , even an arrow for good measure ) . If you like that in your movies , Rambo ( which , I might add , means ' violence ' in Japanese ) is the movie of the week , or month or so . This isn't to say Sylvester Stallone doesn't make his baby into what he calls as anti-war . Perhaps by the sheer ferocious attempt at this stuff , where it's not even black and white in perspective but just black , then there's almost a fascination with that aspect of it , of things just being in a terrain that may mean to be earnest in messages ( helping on another is good , not so much change , one supposes ) , but comes off as something else completely . The enemy has no personality aside from carnal killings and lust - more-so the killings - which is apt for the only dimension coming from a flashback-dream for Rambo with clips from the past movies . Rambo does , however with these comments about the violence , work as a narrow genre entertainment . Stallone works well at this stuff if he can fit the part . With him , as with many action stars , works when less is more . Ironically , he has a lot more to work with in terms of scope than , say , the first Rambo film ( I haven't seen the other sequels yet ) . While Stallone stumbles from the form path of " save the people , that's your mission " trajectory of the plot with the flashback , there's almost a cartoonish quality when he stays on track . There's a lunacy to a character like Rambo , even as he acts as a superhero for anyone within fifty yards of his reach or running length . To explain the premise is beyond the point , except that this time Rambo is a rogue / renegade in the jungle who catches snakes , is recruited by a church group from Colorado to go into Burma , and then has to rescue them by any means necessary . These means are like a common 80s action film on steroids , which might be the saving grace for the actual script . Unexpectedly heart-pounding , the action goes on and on in a big section of the picture , but there is also a sort of late-night take-over of a Burmese prison camp , and a chilling scene involving some Burmese pirates along the river . The actual theatrics of Rambo seem to hit the kind of ground that made Apocalypto look as trashy as it really was . Rambo is smart as jungle-scented bricks , but at least it's got some attitude , from a dude in his 60s like Stallone no less .
pretty slight , but has enough wit to carry it along	Amy Heckerling's latest romantic comedy , I Could Never Be Your Woman , got , to use a proverbial word , shafted . It was meant for theatrical release and went straight to DVD due to some bad deals done with one of the producers . It's a shame despite the fact that Heckerling's comedy was far from being top-shelf work . It certainly stands a good chance at ranking well enough alongside ( and probably better than ) many of the tripe conventional market-stuffers that are out in cineplexes . Her film posits that a middle-aged TV writer ( Michelle Pfieffer ) has some angst and insecurities in dating one of the new stars of her TV show ( Paud Rudd ) , and it's not a bad premise . This is also thrown in a quasi plot thread involving her daughter ( Atonement's Saoirse Ronan , couldn't tell it was the same girl she's that good ) as she tries to navigate her first possible boyfriend . A lot of this isn't delivered with all of the best execution - certainly it's hard to figure on what exactly makes the Tracy Ullman bits funny as they're slipped in with some awkward soft-focus and at ill-timing - and there's something kind of fishy about putting such an actress like Michelle Pfieffer , who is still incredibly beautiful for any age , in the role of an insecure woman who can't see herself with such a younger man after such a long break from being with a man . At the same time , there is a good deal that does work to Heckerling's advantage , such as the bond between the mother and daughter in the story that doesn't ring as being sappy or trite like in other rom-coms or flicks with mother-daughter talks and such . And almost in spite of the bright lighting , Paul Rudd lays on the same charm and wit carried over from the Judd Apatow comedies ( if , of course , nowhere near as funny in the sensibility of crudeness ) . And who can't love Jon Lovitz or Fred Willard ? So with I Could Never Be Your Woman , it's good for a rental , but that's not really the point with the release issue . It's the kind of movie , as with Heckerling's others , that play for laughs with a big audience , and are perfect for a certain niche of female viewers and die-hard rom-com afficionados . It's light and slight and not too terrible , if not much memorable either .
maybe the best that could be done from the book - a contrived-to-hell ( no pun intended ) blockbuster with some merit	What can I say that has already be said about Dan Brown's international smash book about the deepest " secret " in Christianity ? Having read only part of it ( as it is , arguably of course , an airplane book with a hugely elevated status over controversy and popularity ) , I can say that the movie , directed by Ron Howard and with a cast of French , American and British all-stars , does what it means to do . It brings some food-for-thought , with enough exposition for three typical Hollywood movies . And , at times , Howard and company ( i . e . screenwriter Akiva Goldsman ) shave off a couple of parts in Brown's writing that aren't necessary while keeping the thoughtful ( as well as , dare I say , silly ) nature of the writing . As it is , the Da Vinci Code DOES have a plot that is structured well enough - a symbol specialist , Robert Langdon ( Tom Hanks in a role that basically calls for the basics of his talents , no more no less ) , is drawn into a case of murders , a conspiracy involving secret , ultra-dangerous sects of the Catholic church ( with a creepy villain in Paul Bettany's character ) , and a search for an item as old as Christianity itself . The film traces parts of Europe for the hunt , and along the way there is information compulsively expounded upon about the secrets behind the murders , the symbols , the clues , and how the entire history of the Jesus Christ is possibly - dare the filmmaker / authors say - corrupted and a lie . So it is here that the controversy has been brought through . But the controversy is no more understandable than it was for films like Dogma and The Last Temptation of Christ ; religious groups are BOUND to get sensitive by material that faces against their sternly stringent views . That it's transferred into a murder mystery / thriller that has more twists than the International House of Pretzel puts it up for everyone to contemplate . What helps make the film watchable even as the story goes through more contrivances and surprises than I'd care to count ( with the core being a suspension of disbelief of both plot turns and the exposition bits ) is the cast assembled . The bulk of the players - Ian McKellan , Alfred Molina , Audrey Tatou , and Jean Reno - are the best that could have been cast , and all that are asked of them are to say the dialog with enough conviction and believability to not be totally dull or just , well , wrong . While the direction by Howard and his crew is not the most imaginative , he is able to serve all of the " so-called " facts and ideas to use without making it into the overly pretentious . While I wouldn't think of this at all of being a great film or with the ambition even to BE one , it at least tries to have the skills of the common Hollywood thriller while serving up more facts than the same thriller wouldn't think to touch . To put it another way - this is basically Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade with half of the adventure , and more than half of the historical and religious implications amplified . As Ebert said , is " preposterously entertaining " , and to take it as 100 % serious is missing what is aimed for , even if not entirely successful .
is pretentious always a bad thing ? maybe not , even if it keeps from being very recommendable	I kept thinking watching Pola X , the first Leos Carax film I've seen yet , what it means for a film or any work of art to be " pretentious " . The dictionary defines it as being or seeming to be " expressive of affected , unwarranted , or exaggerated importance , worth , or stature " . Carax does indeed want his film to be important , and sometimes he does go to exaggerated lengths to get his results , of the ' artsy-fartsy ' kind that one would only find in small art-houses in NYC ( in fact , this was probably a film that screened for at least a month at the Angelika in Manhattan ) . But there's an intriguing conceit that Carax has with his material as it goes along : it's almost as if he's critiquing pretension , mocking it in subtle ways as he shows his disparate and desperate character heading towards an uber tragic end . It's a story that unfolds too thickly in hopelessness , where the characters don't seem to mind it as there is hope for two of them , at one point , that things will get better until they start getting horribly worse , sometimes in the abstract . Try as I might have at the half-way point to dismiss it as rambling pseudo-poetic French dreck , there's an appeal and watchable quality to it all , and I'd almost be inclined to call it a good effort . . . Almost . The story is taken from a Herman Melville novel , though I'd wonder how much exactly was changed in the adaptation ( incest , anyone ? ) Pierre ( Depardieu , son of Gerard ) is a novelist engaged to beautiful Lucie , and lives with his mother ( Deneauve ) , but is torn away after finding one night in the woods that he has a long lost older sister who was raised elsewhere in Europe . He moves with her to Paris , and after getting rejected by a cousin ( Lucas , disappearing for a long while in the film then returning in act three , or five , or whatever ) , go to live in a big warehouse type of loft where a weird avant-garde rock band practices and records songs . Meanwhile , a new crazy book is in the works , a child that was tagging along with another woman ( I'd assume Isabelle's friend or caregiver or something ) is killed randomly , and pretty quickly Pierre goes as insane and rambling as his book . Now , granted , a lot of this is presented matter-of-factly , but there is a mood that Carax creates that makes it " affected " . There's a tint , for example , that sometimes makes characters look all blue - which works more or less in the revelation of who Isabelle is to Pierre in the woods - and scenes that aren't totally clear as to whether they are really real or imagined ( Deneuve's fate on a bike is shot and executed almost as a parody of itself ) . And Depardieu himself is like a walking pit of uncertain angst . He plays him adequately enough , but there is the creeping sense , as with the film a lot of times , that there isn't quite as much dimension as one would hope , or at least would think the filmmaker would recognize . Not that this is a total deterrent . I like when a filmmaker isn't afraid to plunge the viewer into unconventional duress and ambiguity , and for at least a few scenes Pola X does feel thriving with a sense of drama infused well by the exquisite but anxious camera-work ( the child's death is one of these , as well as the climax that gains momentum in a style comparable to Strosek , minus the chicken ) . And the actual band in the movie itself seems to be Carax commenting on what he must realize is over-reaching in other sections ; is it to be taken seriously , really , when we see the lead singer or whomever it is doing a weird body movement while the abdomen is covered in red ? There's even a trippy dream scene with characters in a river of blood that treads that pretension line : you can sense the filmmaker behind it is so happy with how it came out as mad as it is , and it's actually quite an eye-full . Carax also pulls off one of the most explicit sex scenes in film history ( full penetration , among other acts of foreplay ) , and this oddly enough does serve an emotional point - it feels eerie in the light , but strangely intimate . All of this adds up to what then ? Is Pola X worth watching ? If you're familiar already with / admire Carax's work , it's a pretty safe bet as an act of semi-experimentation . For a first-timer to his work , like myself , it's a hit or miss experience , but one I wasn't too upset at having . At the least , one can say , Carax didn't go to the lengths of the man who directed a film Carax once starred in : Godard's King Lear .
is it another sign of the decline of American intelligence , or another grab-bag of the most obscene gags and jokes to hit theaters , you decide	Jackass Number Two may not be as " good " as part 1 , though it may depend on how you define ' good ' . I guess it has to mean more to how much you're fulfilled entertainment-wise by the material . To say that the Jackass boys outdo themselves this time is putting it lightly . Maybe it was around the time that one of them drank horse semen , or when one put a leech on his eyeball , or when one of them blew farts directly into a another with a space helmet on , or when . . . Nevermind . The point of Jackass Number Two is , well , there is no point if you're going at it logistically . If anything by logic these guys are out of their ( bleeping ) minds . Being fodder for seeing-red-charging-bulls , here and there surrounded by a snake or two , I wonder here and there if these guys inadvertently have a death wish in them , or at least the instinct . But on the other hand , Jackass 2 is at it's best for me in showing how people can actually be live-action cartoons - sometimes very X-rated and crude , but cartoons all the same . This was evident for me too already in the first Jackass movie , but this time it's almost all-too-blatant . What are we to think of Wile E . Coyote's reputation when Johnny Knoxville straps himself to a rocket ( though this time just for the sake of doing it across a lake , not for a roadrunner ) , or in what I thought of as a Beavis & Butt-head homage rolling down a long hill inside of a tire ? But there are other things that had me laughing very hard at what they were doing . The old-man / lady get-ups were the best for me , as Spike Jonze ( yes , Spike Jonze ) and Knoxville provided caricatures that are like walking , breathing punk'd creations , with genitals and breasts all askew . Yet through all the stupidity , the insanities , and what sometimes just has me going ' huh ' ( the final musical number comes to mind ) , there is at least a good spirit of the old-time pranksters in them , even as they cheat death and get away from it laughing their heads off at each other . Little bits like riding the bicycle with the one big wheel and small little wheel ( " why did people do this " ) , or the switcheroo of Bam's father in bed , are genuinely clever , if still very stupid things to see . Now , if you're going into this movie without having seen part 1 , it may be a bit naive on your part . It helps to see the first one just to know whether or not this stuff is really for you . Because if you know it is for you , Jackass Number Two is probably the picture of the season . If not , you may end up either a ) puking in your seat , seriously , or b ) walking out within the first twenty minutes . This is the kind of picture that I , who rarely calls for censoring anything , could have been warranted a second look for an NC-17 rating . On the other hand , it'd be wrong of me to say I didn't have a good time for most of the time either , even when a gag or joke was weak .
the devices of the writer / director vs . the actors	Sean Penn can be a great actor , but with the Crossing Guard he displays a hit or miss attitude in the believability of his characters . It starts with a given for a gripping premise : a man torn completely psychologically from himself , Freddy ( Jack Nicholson ) finds out the man who killed his daughter in a drunk driving accident is released from prison after only six years . And , he'll go and kill him . Why he'll kill him is also a psychological pull is that he's more so vying to kill him for his ex-wife Mary ( Angelica Huston ) than he is for himself . It's as much , if not more , about pride than it is about vengeance . But through this premise , and the divide between self-destructive , drunk Freddy and the guilt-ridden , morose John Booth , Penn paints his characters sometimes into corners even when things become most intriguing . It's appropriate , I suppose , that Penn decided to dedicate the film to Charles Bukowski , as it probably alludes a lot to the moods of the characters in those books . But in putting across moods so much he almost forgets that his actors need believable circumstances to follow . One device , for example , is the whole " you got three days " angle Freddy pulls with John when he first confronts him in his trailer . There's also the sort of romance-in-limbo between John and another woman ( Robin Wright Penn ) . But what I didn't expect was that the actors almost ( I say almost because they do ) don't rise above the contrivances of the script . There's even a great scene between Nicholson and Huston in a restaurant the night the murder is supposed to take place . Scenes like this , and a tear-ridden phone call from Freddy in a red-tinted room , are powerful and connect with the overall theme of loss in the film . Yet as a director Penn doesn't pull enough with his characters and mood to make it as compelling as it can be . He also relies on some fairly arty camera moves to make it more interesting , when they aren't needed anyway . Nicholson and Morse , meanwhile , are consummate pros who get into their characters completely ( and for Nicholson especially it's almost a walk in the park , with his motivation less about the death of his daughter than it is about decay itself ) . But what is the audience to make of the mediocre decision to have Freddy get pulled over by the cops on his way to kill John , for drunk driving , and then go into a very far-fetched chase from them to catch up to John just so the irony can be placed in ? It's not that the actors don't use some devices either at their disposal . However in the case of the Crossing Guard , no matter how deeply felt Penn is to his material - leading up to a somewhat meaningful ending at the cemetery - he doesn't give it all to actors who demand more from him . I also think having seen this after seeing the Pledge , a brilliant drama with many of the same themes of redemption from another's death and loss from it all , rises so much more above similar ground in this picture . Not bad , but not great either - sort of an unfulfilled , if always watchable , middle-ground .
is this a good movie ? no . is it completely nonsensical fun ? hell yeah !	I'll give it up to Russell Mulcahy , he knows how to direct . . . kind of . Somehow his camera is always moving or finding some kind of intense or superfluous or just bat-crazy motion to get something , anything , out of this insane story . Of course , there can be only one , as is a moral of Highlander that seems to be contingent on the franchise providing McCloud ( Christopher Lambert ) with new opponents who , as with zombies to a degree , need to be decapitated so that he can be the one . Watching the director's cut of Highlander , having never seen it but being well aware of the lineage and even with two of the dreaded sequels Endgame and The Source ( and yes , thankfully , they are worse than this ) , I'm struck by how it's not necessarily a really " good " movie , but it's wildly watchable . Its plot is convoluted at times into a gymnastic pretzel , its actors are either oddly wooden ( Lambert ) , Christmas Ham ( Sean Connery ) , or a total bad-ass ( Brown ) ripped off partially from Schwarzenegger in Terminator . Did I mention the action and fights ? Good heavens . But why should I go on about plot details , they'd only . . . take up about an entire treatment explaining it all , which would include explaining why McCloud is ' the one ' , or what a quickening is , or why Sean Connery plays an Egyptian with a Spanish name and flamboyant costume , or how that one woman who's the secretary is also the little girl is . . . nevermind . Suffice to say , McCloud is in 1986 , but he also looks back to the 16th century when he was first discovered to have " the devil in him " , and soon discovered that he couldn't be killed - unless his head is cut off . So , he learns from Connery ( who arrives on screen in one of the great entrances in movies , almost unironically from Mr . Bond himself ) how to sword-fight and have fun on mountains and NOT swim since he can't drown , and then it cuts ahead to 1986 again where , apparently , an old nemesis played by Clancy Brown is out for blood - his blood - and those around him will suffer as they may . Make any sense ? Somewhat surprisingly , Highlander is taken seriously by a whole lot of people . No problem , as I'm sure there are some who will just look past everything that is hokey and corny and badly choreographed for the mythology that is created . Surely it is entertaining , and sometimes ( whether or not unintentionally ) gut-bustingly hilarious , but it's hard for me to take much of this seriously , because of it being dated and badly staged and ( mostly ) acted without much room for any dimension save for hamming it up or going for one-note bad-assedness . While it's fun as anything in 80s action flicks to watch Connery fight Brown on the steps of an incredibly goofy display of a crumbling castle , not for a moment is it actually quality , imaginative storytelling . In fact , this is like some amazing relic from , um , two decades ago that those who remember liking it legitimately in the past should revisit to really know what they're seeing - which includes some of the incredible and incredibly sappy Queen songs often slapped on in place of a score .
works better in context with Inland Empire	I had known of David Lynch's made-for-his-website shorts called Rabbits long before his latest feature-length film came out , Inland Empire , and when I saw what he had taken from the shorts into the picture it worked a lot better than taken out of context and left by their own . The interpretations can only be so many - are the rabbits meant to be symbols of emotively-drained TV caricatures , or are they just , um , rabbits ? The shorts ended up working better in I . E . because they could go alongside with the other wild and manic scenes of surrealism , and be in a much stronger sense of ' dream-logic ' when taken as part of the completely non-linear structure of the picture . By themselves , they're much more confusing - even as a Lynch fan I admit this - and to use the word often maligned with auteurs , it's self-indulgent to a fault . It's not that seeing how the rabbits interact isn't absorbing in the sense of wanting to see what will happen next , or when the laugh-track is implemented . But what the shorts lack are clearer ties to what is being abstracted . Only Lynch knows , which is just as well . I wasn't unhappy to see the Rabbit segments on their own online , and a few times the ultra strange humor that may or may not be the point of these cinematic exercises . But I wish it could've been more on their own legs , or ears , or whatever . It's not like it's nothing , but it's not as substantial of a Lynchian ' something ' as usual with his shorts .
it's like one big loaf of cyber-teen cheesy-bread ; Miike had to know this was a goof	Talk about a project for hire - this is one of those under-seen movies that is understandably kept nowhere in your local blockbuster , and only discovered on Netflix or Amazon by the fans of director Takashi Miike who might want to look for something even more ' different ' than his high-voltage yakuza pictures and surreal nightmares . In a sense Andromedia is still a surreal nightmare , only this time filled with so much corny vibes that you'd have to be the biggest air-head 13 year old girl not to see the humor in it . I'm sure Miike had to see it too , otherwise he probably wouldn't of touched it with a 20 foot pole . It's the kind of work that's too weird to be popular , ever , in America , and I wonder looking at the response here on IMDb if there's even much awareness for it in Japan . It tells a love story with images like the cherry orchard ( on a beach ) meant to accentuate the power of the main teen couple ( Mai and Yu played by typical but dippy Hiroko Shimabukuro and Kenji Harada respectfully ) . Mai , by the way , is not really Mai , but Ai , her previous self's memory packed into a computer simulation form of herself after her sudden death . It's not just Yu who wants her , but there's also some nefarious villains who want her via the technology for no really big reasons ( no world domination , at least I don't think so ) other than just having it cause it's there . One of these guys is very strangely played by Christopher Doyle , a DP for directors like Van Sant and Wong Kar Wai , who happens to have a haircut like a muskrat long dead and made into a wig . He has his goons chase after Yu , and his friends as well , just after that laptop with poor Mai ( err , Ai ) , leading up to a climax that doesn't really make much sense except to have really over-the-top CGI effects . Actually , much of the film doesn't make too much sense , but if you don't get that by the thirty minute marker , just throw out the movie . I didn't know going into it that it was also , in part , meant to be a partial commercial for two pop-music groups ( though the very oddly placed and uproariously funny music video in the middle of the movie marks as something of a crazy marvel in Miike's cannon ) . Of course , it will never mark as a must-see even for most Miike fans , and I'm sure some who come across it will just keep scratching their heads once it's over . Though after seeing several other films from the massively prolific director , I'm kind of glad to see that there is such a fluffy side to his savage satire , and how in-between the sickeningly cutesy love moments ( like when Mai and Yu have a real ' connection ' , where a carnival lights up and the nearly wretched music cues up ) there's still some bits that remind one of the heedlessly inventive and demented wild-man of Japanese cinema . The only thing funnier , sometimes unintentionally sometimes not , than seeing Yu and his boy-band friends jumping off the cliffs to relative safety , or the brain-tumored gangster Takanaka getting enveloped in the horrendous tubes of the internet center , or the very late 90s mix of Backstreet Boys-styled music and CGI , is that this was originally based on a book ! It's poof , slight , and it almost marks a form of campy , sci-fi pop-art .
interesting as a repetition work , though far from Lynch's best short film	Probably the best , or most engrossed , I found myself in David Lynch's first short film effort - animated of course - was that in his use of repetition there were more chances to spot things not seen the previous time . This is really in some ways rather disgusting in its own abstracted art-school sense , but it grew on me the more times I saw these ' six figures ' going through their digestive problems . There's a mix of colors used in an animated style that I haven't seen much since I was younger ( it was done here and there on these kids videos I watched , the lower rent ones , heh ) . The alarm sound that blares , what Lynch himself described as the ' sound ' attributed to the moving painting he tried to recreate , is my least favorite part of the short . I almost wished Lynch had gone the Brakhage route , leaving just the images to speak for themselves . What I did really find interesting though on a purely film-student level however was how I liked it the more times it repeated itself , trying to get the viewer to see into what is being done with the ink marks and various blotches of ideas in forms of smoke and vomit . Nothing too outrageous or speaking of the future genius he'd show , but it would've been something I'd given high marks for if I was judging whatever contest he originally submitted this to forty years ago - it definitely carries that appeal .
passable enough for a easy-going afternoon , but less than outstanding entertainment	Maybe I'm a little jaded from Lords of Dogtown following the documentary Dogtown & Z-Boys , and maybe my interest in the film is compounded by the fact that I'm not that heavy into skateboarders - even ones that can do some incredible things like the Z-Boys . But the film here , which has some moments of fine humor and edge and even a little drama , isn't something I would outright recommend unless you already know what you're getting into . For example , if you're the kind of person , male or female ( though probably male as , for the most part , it is a male-dominated activity ) , that shops often at the VANS store , or own many Tony Hawk video games , this is the film event of the year . But for the casual observer of the sport , reactions may vary . The drama , of what is there , doesn't totally pick up mainly until the latter part of the film as the Z-Boys start to gain more notoriety with their shake-up of the skateboarding world . From what I remember seeing , much of the film is set among guys - some very famous future skaters like Stacy ( John Robinson ) and Jay ( Emile Hirsch , who does make an impression with his longish blonde hair and cool demeanor ) - who hang out a lot , and try to one-up each other with their ' moves ' , mostly in swimming pools they sneak into and other grungy places in 1970s surf-side California . Some of these scenes are really funny ; I particularly liked Heath Ledger ( somewhat unrecognizable ) as the head of a skater-shop named Skip . But a lot of this is also a bit aimless , even as it has a quasi-organizing principle . As a much stronger storytelling / visual stroke was in the documentary , director Catherine Hardwicke just tries to make it as ' docu-drama ' as possible , with more attitude than real characterization , and sometimes scenes that come off TOO improvised , if that's possible . Not a bad film in the slightest , and if it's ever a pretty mellow day with some friends who are more into the high-stakes , big-game skater world than I , I'd watch it again . It's just that it doesn't necessarily work either as an affecting tale of a small revolution with the youth in the 70s .
a little creepy in some unexpected ways , though should be a delight for kids	Maybe seeing The Polar Express would benefit from seeing it again on a big IMAX screen like Robert Zemeckis intended ( it's been playing steadily the past few years in limited holiday IMAX runs with good results ) . But this isn't , if memory serves me , really one of his best films . It does contain that cheerful , strange holiday spirit that's associated with many seminal works ( and like Christmas Carol there is a level of much needed darkness , like with the side-character the hero boy runs into on the train who looks like he's been slumming it in coal ) . There's even some suspense thrown in for good measure at times , like when the polar express comes into the city , but meanwhile our main kid characters are going underground and trying to find another way out to get to all the excitement up above . And it's a daunting task from Zemeckis and Hanks to pull all this off anyway , so as a technical marvel of animation and innovation it stands right alongside Who Framed Roger Rabbit as a grand achievement . But I'd be lying if I thought it wasn't just a wee bit creepy too . The motion-capture technique which makes up the spine of the picture is sometimes stilted and a little , um , just weird for me , though maybe some kids will gravitate to it more than I . The songs are also a downer , as high-flying as they get in spots ( the conductors ' song on the train ) , seeing Steven Tyler was painful in this situation , and the sappy song thrown in at one point reminded me of the lesser songs I heard in animated movies as a kid . And yet , even with the problems I had with the Polar Express , it achieves what it sets out to do with enough confidence to make it a " treat for the family " , as the cliché goes , and may attract them even more than I or repel them even more-so . It has its moments of ingenuity , and a great chase bit on the train involving lots of ice on the tracks . That it's less than the sum of its parts isn't unimaginable either .
a glimpse at a perpetually torn and frayed family ; Bergman or Rohmer lite	Margot at the Wedding is an admirable but not wholly successful attempt at writer / director Noah Bambach to go another step further following the Squid and the Whale . Where that film had the courage of convictions on the part of Baumbach , making a very personal tragic-comedy where the warts-and-all characters were part of a fully-formed narrative , Margot at the Wedding skips around the narrative , and doesn't have the kind of flow that made such works that Baumbach obviously loves by the masters of intense character studies of intellectual anxieties in love and the mind - Bergman and Rohmer and maybe Cassavetes - so potent . A lot of the time Baumbach has his actors right in the pit ready for a really harsh moment of lacerating drama , he suddenly skips the narrative off to a moment of oddball humor ( I know ' oddball ' is a criticism tossed around often , but what to call it when during a scene with a heated argument , it suddenly has to end when , oh-no , the mother's daughter is lying underneath a tree that is about to fall down after her soon-to-be-step father was cutting down and will also fall on the tent that . . . nevermind ) . Point is , Margot at the Wedding , for all of its strengths in casting , can't quite carry the music despite knowing the words . It's the kind of work too that at 91 minutes feels much too brief ; why shortchange some potentially interesting individuals by cutting off some more time spent squarely with Margot and her sister Paulette and their kids and Jack Black's character to put in some weird unnerving scenes with a Deliverance recast of neighbors ? Those creepy folks , who at separate times go all uppity over aforementioned tree and for Margot snooping in on their house at them cutting up a pig , serve far less purpose for what is really potent and powerful in the picture . And what is also lacking is some context for the actors to work with ; Kidman has her moments of interest here as a woman who is , as becomes all the more apparent as her story goes along , on the succinct verge of mental breakdown ; Leigh is solid as always , even when she only shows her best in the last act while the story starts to collapse ; and Black is strangely affecting here , trading between his ' shtick ' persona of cynically detached heavy and a very sad individual ( and possibly the most sympathetic , save for the kids ) . What happens then is something that is both curious and infuriating ; we're given some snapshots of a family in a perpetual downward spiral , where we're also given at the very end the overbearing sensation ( less subtle notion ) that bad things will continue on . Sometimes there are some moments that really caught me well - Margot climbing a tree is one , and it's a scene shot and edited for perfect impact , and there's also a strangely suggestive scene with Margot and her son sleeping in the same bed , of the complexity of their love / hate relationship - but they were too far and in-between . My complaints are harsh , but it's out of purely constructive critical thinking : Baumbach is a talented writer , as evidenced with Squid and the Whale as well as co-writer for Wes Anderson in the past . He can shoot for the moon if he wants to as a dramatist , as there is enough proof of that not only in ' Squid ' but even in spurts in Margot . But he has not made it yet , as it leaves itself as an exercise , a kind of first-draft of a possibly much better script that instead got made into what's here . This all being said , I was still glad I saw it , and glad that there are still attempts , strivings for a form of harsh truth regarding creative persons who can't connect with one another . It's always worth seeing a film like this , even if it doesn't work all the way .
good try , but not quite cigar for Ritchie on this one	One hopes Guy Ritchie , as with another filmmaker of his age-range Kevin Smith , may grow more as filmmakers as the years go on , but at the moment one senses a kind of rut in the process . It's not even that RocknRolla is an entirely bad film or is unwatchable . On the contrary there are one or two scenes and moments in RocknRolla that could be considered as some of the most accomplished and funny directing and writing Ritchie has done in his relatively short career . But he's also playing on now tired chords ; it's like , basically , Scorsese-lite done to a cup of tea and music video " attitude " pushed to 11 . Which , in all actuality , is like what Lock , Stock and Two Smoking Barrels and Snatch were like , which means lots of colorful street characters with colorful language to match , narration , rock music placed in at every turn possible , and doses of black humor that come with the territory . Personally , I'll go back to Scorsese next time around . In RocknRolla we get the story ( or interwoven stories ) of criminals in the midst of a land deal that also involves 7 million changing hands between a Russian , an ' old-timer ' ( Wilkinson ) , a new younger gang called the Wild Bunch ( including One-Two played by Gerard Butler ) , a seductive lawyer ( Thandie Newton , definitely her sexiest yet ) , and the RocknRolla of the title , Johnny Quid . There's also a ' lucky painting ' that mucks up the work as the local MacGuffin of the piece ( we never do see what the painting is , so who's to say why it appears so lucky ) , and a couple of lowly record producers attached to Quid that get rolled into the mess . All the while Ritchie treats these threads kind of in the mode of ' business as usual ' , while throwing a bone here and there to a new ( or used ) idea and some funny dialog , like about a recurring , hard slap , a closet-gay member of the Wild Bunch ( the revelation scene is actually very well acted , but soon devolves into a so-so joke ) , and a note-for-note remake of a specific plot detail from Snatch , with crayfish replacing pigs as the choice of the old-man villain's " we have ways of killing you / making you talk " device . Most of the performances are well enough for the film ( save for Piven and Ludicrous , who have nothing to do and are there as window-dressing ) , and there is one particular sequence where the Wild Bunch get embroiled in a robbery-gone-bad and an ensuing chase with the Russians that is a fantastic and uproarious sliver of genre film-making . But all the same , for all the attitude , for all the cool rock songs like The Clash's ' Bankrobber ' , and for the eventual " twist " that should come a mile away , it feels a little left-out-of-the-fridge . This isn't to say that Ritchie isn't faring better than his previous effort , Revolver , which saw him trying to experiment as a surrealist and falling flat on his face . Yet , is it too much to exclaim " huh ! " when one sees at the end of the film a title card which proclaims in serial-mode to " tune in next time for . . . The Real RocknRolla ! " How can there be enough for a sequel , let alone the proposed RocknRolla trilogy , when it merely comes off as a less consistently entertaining version of Ritchie's first two movies ? Can there be such a thing , in short , as delusions of genre ? I think so , even when it's sometimes a very good show .
more like ' Voyage to Italy ' than a Before Sunrise / Sunset picture , it's coarse and funny and loses its way towards the end	2 Days in Paris speaks of some good gifts that writer / director / composer / editor / co-star Julie Delpy can provide when on a project such as this . It's a personal film , with former boyfriend Adam Goldberg cast as Delpy's character's current significant other of two years , and how the two of them go through Europe trying to reignite the passion of their relationship but fall flat . Now , it might sound like it'll be one of those movies , where each partner ends up going off to others for sex , lots of lurid depictions , etc . But it's a lot more fluffy at times , and a lot more scathing , in its sensibilities on relationships than that . In the tone of improvisation with the dialog ( how much or little would depend on the scene , I'd figure , as the voice-overs are definitely right from the script ) seems to come from a Linklater-based formula , but this is probably where the comparisons should end ( with the exception being perhaps the idea of chance encounters , here used with grimace ) . It's about the disintegration of a relationship , as it ends up unfolding , but unfortunately it doesn't seem to amount to much in the long-run . Not that Delpy doesn't have a lot of ideas to express on how each side of the relationship has insecurities and doubts and guises and real love to share . Goldberg , playing a kind of Woody Allen type of neurotic figure , and Delpy also in a form of quasi-neuroses , start off with a sort of sensibility between the two of them that's understood - he'll make subtle wisecracks , constantly , and she'll respond usually in kind . But then come the ex-boyfriends - as a form of unintended proof about Goldberg's theory , formed in Paris , that people across one side of the world will likely meet people one knows on the other side - and it starts to set off a chain reaction of questions raised and poised , trust broken , and the climax coming as exposition and a really stupid denouement with a dance in the street . It wont be anything of a Bergman scale of revelation , at the end of it all , but at the least 2 Days in Paris does afford many genuine moments of laughs and some nifty style amid the pretension . I liked Delpy's parents - played by her real life parents - who were nutty without being too over-the-top as caricatures , weird enough to unnerve Goldberg ( rabbit for dinner ? ) , while being sort of friendly and open ( sex with Jim Morrison , who knew ? ) . I liked the moments of comic tension in the cab rides . And whenever a seethingly uncomfortable moment sprang up in a party scene ( there's one line , I can't recall it now , but it comes during one of those drunken dialog bits that don't sound written at all , and it's the funniest in the film ) , it's a sweet piece of dark romantic comedy . The only shame then is that there's not a whole lot that Delpy adds to anything that hasn't been said in other romantic comedies , better ones , even with more realistic characters than most . Fine to see once with a couple of glasses of wine and with / without cigarettes , but as a tale of two people caught in a foreign land with the weight of circumstance and past ghosts in a relationship coming back up at the both of them I'd stick with Rossellini's 1953 film .
a good vampire movie ? Probably not . . . but it is something	Calling director Jesus Franco a pornographer after watching Vampiros Lesbos would be unfair , but not simply for the face that he's directed many , many films throughout a career of B to Z grade projects . It's also because it would be too easy . The man is , after all , an " artist " , or whatever might pass for one in 1970 . He was 40 at the time and made a film that , for better or worse , is a part of a legacy of sex-horror trash that must be mentioned in any conversation about sexy naked women and some blood and vampires and stuff . It's definitely not a very good movie , and point in fact it's probably too pretentious to see its own forest full of trees . But it does have some kind of power , some kind of very strange intuition that makes it never too boring - and , if you're into a very abstract love / mind-game story of vampire femme fatales then here you go . In Vampiros Lesbos or , you guessed it , Lesbian Vampires , Jesus Franco tells a story that is about as loosely based on Stoker's mythology as one of the dresses is on any given girl in a sultry scene . A lawyer , Linda Westinghouse ( and yes , Ewa Stromberg so looks like Linda Westinghouse doesn't she . . . actually kind of ) , is on a beach away from her man and meets a carefree woman , Soledad Miranda , who draws her into her world : she's the sole heiress of Count Dracula's fortune , and has also been indoctrinated into the " coven " of other vampires , and by a slip of the " wine " she brings Linda in as well . Meanwhile , another sexy blonde is going nuts in a mental hospital where a doctor tries his hardest to figure on how to kill the darn beasts . So , in truth , there is some relation to the original book , much in the same way a hippie living in a sewer eating rats and tripping 40 year old acid is in relation to Jerry Garcia . This is such a work of its time that it might have actually been close to perfection for maybe one day in 1970 or 1971 , while the sun was setting and everything was perfect for Franco and his production team and actresses all tanned and sultry , and then it was gone forever and locked into a time capsule . It's loaded with " crazy " imagery , hallucinatory passages of subjective viewpoints from its female characters - perhaps all an allusion to lesbianism and it keeping women trapped who normally wouldn't be under different circumstances ( ? ) - and even an annoying recurring symbol of a scorpion in a pool ( yeah , we get it , scorpion , Peckinpah , move on ! ) The acting also isn't good at all by a couple of the supporting players , like that guy who plays Morpho with the same stone-faced look or even Dr . Seward . But at the same time , as a time capsule , it holds some pleasures of some minor guilty measure . While its violence isn't directed with much care , Franco is a perverted master of a certain kind of seduction between women on screen , and here he does get some scenes and moments that are creepy and striking and even erotic . I also liked Stromberg and Miranda in their roles , no matter how at-best two-dimensional they were . And the music is both divinely awesome and totally ludicrous with it being funky and smooth and ' hey , Tarantino ripped that off and it is that great ' , as well as being like a putrid re-rendering of that Pink Floyd song from Zabriskie Point's finale played repeatedly to poor effect . Vampiros Lesbos is one of a kind , so one of a kind that it would take someone with daring and possibly dementia to remake it . I both applaud Franco's versatility in attempting something as maniacal and coolly grind-house-ish , while at the same time realizing I could never in good conscience recommend it wholly . It's one of those .
at times quite sexy , and a cool look at Manhattan life , but it's also shallow and dated	One of the perks of Nine Weeks is that the stars , Mickey Rourke and Kim Basinger , provide audiences of male and female sexes to come together ; they are both eye candy for each sex , and they didn't look much better than they did here . That's maybe part of the attraction for director Adrian Lyne , actually , the appeal on the surface of these characters . The only problem is that he and the screenwriters dance around some of the tougher questions that comes out of this intense relationship between two people who lust for each other but " can't stop . " As far as character development goes . . . I'd guess there was more in the book . We have prototypical 80s New York characters - Basinger an art gallery assistant and Rourke as a wall street broker of sorts ( not quite , but ' sort of ' as we learn ) - and they meet by just chance and soon the seduction begins , and practically doesn't stop . There are some hot moments here and there ( the food scene is a little too goofy to work , but the scene after the near mugging on the steps in the alley is quite sexy in a truly ' urban ' way ) , but it's obfuscated by the dated manner of the presentation . Only once does the music correspond rightly with the action on screen , which is the aborted threesome towards the end , which is when the dark atmosphere is complemented . The rest of the tracks , save maybe for Joe Cocker's striptease bit , are all fodder for the soundtrack sales . You also want to hear these characters speak more , for the shallow / music-video style compositions and smoke-filled atmosphere to peer away and for us to see these damaged souls for who they really are . This only happens towards the very end , coincidentally when the characters have gone past the point of no return to normalcy . Rourke and Basinger are good in their roles , but there should be more than what's here . It's a slightly troublesome sign when there's far more interest in the environment they inhabit ( we get the point towards the beginning of NYC's once former notorious state , when the typical shot of Basinger walking in a group of people on a sidewalk is disrupted only mildly by a purse snatcher and the chasers ) than the state of the relationship drama . It's worth recommending , maybe , but not much for a repeat viewing unless for soft-porn fodder .
as much to find fun and amusing as to nitpick , decent AIP flick that could be more	Angel Unchained has the ingredients of your basic AIP picture - bikers , ' cowboys ' ( rednecks ) , hippies , and lots of action . Unfortunately , it isn't entirely synthesized . Perhaps I could've known this by seeing it had been re-rated a PG-13 by the MPAA , but I also thought ' hosh-posh , it still probably has that real violent , grungy feel of dueling off between the forces of hicks and bikers ' . Turns out the cooler elements of the film , some of which are some of the more amusing and awesomely bad moments from AIP biker movies , are juxtaposed against a core of a story that's kind of tame , even soft . It's actually got a Seven Samurai-style story to it , with the roles of the bandits and samurai reversed here - this time it's the so-called bandits ( bikers ) fighting off against the good-old boys ( cowboys ) . This starts off some interest even as knock-off material . The acting as well is not that terrible , at least for what's required on such an ultra-low budget . Regulars like Don Stroud and Luke Askew are dependable ( more so Askew who the year before had a memorable role in Easy Rider ) , though Tyne Daly , a strange early part for her before The Enforcer and later Judging Amy , keeps the love story a little too mellow for its own good . Angel ( Stroud ) wants to get away just for a little while from his old gang , so he hooks up with Daly's character and starts working at a commune / farm , complete with dazed bearded help and a token Native American with a special ' mix ' of cookies . But as they get terrorized by cowboys on go-carts ( yes , go-carts , one of the real highlights of the movie ) , Angel enlists the help of his biker gang , with some consequences that unfold . All of this is tricky material , and the co-writer / director Lee Madden isn't totally able to balance out the scenes and moments ( and just visual sights like with Bill McKinney's retro glasses ) with the sappier parts . The latter of which also includes a soundtrack that borders on soft-rock , the specifically wrong tone that suddenly makes the material quite dated . So , if you're looking for lots of carnage , immoral action , and the stomping out of almost everything in sight , you might be disappointed . Even as there is a neat B-movie style climax involving go-carts vs . bikers that does garner up excitement and laughs , the very end adds a point to what ends up being the lesser qualities of the film . It's intentions are swell , but it gets confused as whether it should be more hippie or biker style , with the poor Injun ( yes , that's his character name ) caught in the middle . Worth watching once , especially for genre fans , but not top-shelf AIP material .
it has its moments . . . and then it also doesn't	Paradise Alley is set in 1946 in the dingy and dirty streets of Hell's Kitchen - or the Bowery , take your pick , maybe more like the Bowery - and is centered on a group of characters , specifically three brothers , and how they try to maintain in their squalor or , as it turns out , try and make a way for themselves to get out . It's a sentimental picture as it tries to act super tough and muscular , and it's kind of like a Saturday afternoon movie for the guys who have already seen Rocky and Rambo flicks too many times and want to see something sort of " different " . It certainly is . And not always in a good way . What I liked was seeing how the actors playing the brothers interacted . Cosmo , Victor and Lenny are impressionable and work very well as this trio dynamic . One had high aspirations and has a big mouth but a fairly good heart , another is a crippled war hero who's life has not worked out at all like he might have wanted for himself or his girl , and the other is a fairly content and BIG-sized ice delivery man who finds himself needing money to want that boat house . I liked also how Stallone put these characters against the lumbering idiot gangsters who were too bumbling to really make it as big-shots but could be threatening enough to other bums and the like in the neighborhood . Not to mention the character and performance of Frank McRae as the 40-something wrestler who lives in total degradation even as he's very good at what he does . Oh , and Tom Waits of course , for a role that is merely a blip but one that brings a smile all the same . The problems seem to come for Stallone that he isn't confident enough to take the material where it needs to go as a down-and-dirty grungy street flick . He gussies it up with over-blown camera moves and editing tricks ( I hated the freeze-screen effects used ) , and seem to not always be as strong with dealing with melodrama and the natural way people talk as he did in the first Rocky . If there was a time to make this story maybe it was right after he has his first big success , and then move on to more conventional stuff . But it is at times fairly schmaltzy , and not all of the acting is very good ( the female actresses are all pretty weak , and for a couple of good scenes Lee Canalito feel really flat as the " happy " wreslter brother dubbed " The Salami " ) . Stallone and Asante fare better with the material , and even Stallone himself goes hammy with his own words in some scenes ; Stallone is Stallone , not a Pacino or De Niro , so heavy-duty dramatic scenes don't seem to cut it out as well . And yet , the film does have its moments . I especially dug that final wrestling match , the two contenders ( the other being , I think , Terry Funk ) duking it out as a rain storm is coming down in the arena and the power keeps cutting in and out with lightning effects thrown in . Stallone does make this an epic and nasty and brutal final bout , and it does bring a pretty satisfying completion to a film that is enjoyable but too clichéd by half .
almost too silly and off-the-wall , but it has a charm even for non-Morrissey people	I can't say that I was completely blown away or really impressed by My Life with Morrissey , but there is a definite grungy kind of comic appeal to it . It's too ridiculous and , towards the end , really nuts to be taken too seriously , which is part of the fun and the dilemma in watching it . The dilemma for me , as someone who's heard bits of the Smiths and Morrissey , is how much or how little can I buy into this one woman's obsession with this very English-handsome singer ? Is Morrissey enough to fawn over like some kind of golden cattle God ? Apparently , in the anything goes life of the character of Jackie , it would appear so . She works a day job as a file clerk , but her minds always on her potential future love-of-her-life , who sometimes is in a puppy-love state for her , and other times reaching to masturbatory levels . A whole environment of hysteria starts to come in around her , as her co-workers can't take her anymore , and even out in the open world she's circumspect . For Morrissey fans themselves , it will be hit or miss , and for fans of just plain goofy comedy it might be something more . I myself have noticed it to be a minor cult hit at the college I attended , where the indie-movie side almost had a kinship with indie rockers . While Morrissey and his previous Smiths might be a little more than just ' indie ' types , it's appropriate that this story is not in a higher budgeted or released film . The writer / director / cinematographer Andrew Overtoom , likely taking cues from his previous work on Spongebob Squarepants , isn't aiming high at all in the quality of how he shoots , or even how he directs actors . The same weird charm and glow ( as well as the danger ) in Jackie Buscarino's first film can also veer on being irritating , especially as the film starts to draw to its conclusion . Many individual bits in the office are quite funny , with chuckles throughout , but it's a shame that it never totally comes together to be very memorable . It's watchable and fun enough on a first go if you can find it on DVD , but it may depend on your sense of humor ( or connection with Morrissey himself , the buzz around him ) if it comes off or is simply annoying .
very strange , somehow predictable , and still somewhat satirical	Beneath the Planet of the Apes supposes that , along with the cliché that ' if one already came , another will come too ' for a sequel , there are other true mutants on the planet . So , in a sense , Zaius wasn't incorrect in his assumption to Taylor in part one . There is another and another and another - only they're really mutants ! Men and women with telepathic potential to control minds , read thoughts , and basically make their enemies fight to the death instead of " doing " it themselves . This , of course , is unbenownst to Zaius , who is at the whim of a war-monger gorilla who wants to go into the forbidden zone to wipe out every last human alive . And meanwhile there is that ' other ' human , who as played by James Franciscus has a peculiar resemblance to a Mr . Charlton Heston , appearing here in glorified cameo mode . Beneath isn't anything close to great film-making - the competent but mostly studio-bound director Ted Post has the duties here , which include putting in bits of stock footage at the start of the film ( in case , you know , people FORGOT THE ENDING ! ) And it's not even very intriguing science fiction either ; the idea of the weird , Pagan mutants who only use their voices when they are singing psalms , isn't too far removed from your average Star Trek episode . But there is something interesting about it all the same , that - and granted Heston was behind the script in pulling the strings for the end - there were other things to explore in this new civilized ape world . There are some fun scenes here , and seeing Linda Harrison as Nova never gets old to boot . And yet there's also the nagging feeling of ' its-only-a-fair-sequel ' that keeps it from ever even thinking of going to the possibilities the original explored . The makeup and sets look cool as always , and there's some good experimenting with Goldsmith's score . Now , what is behind the forbidden zone ? Who knows .
How to Make Occasional Sharp Satire & Drab Romantic Comedy	One would think that a director usually makes the difference in distinguishing the material from other , more standard fare . Robert Weide , while working mostly in TV , has over 2 dozen Curb Your Enthusiasm episodes to his credit , and as such one might think he would be prime material to direct some solid satire . Yet perhaps for Wiede it's the writing that makes the difference , ultimately , or just based on some of the actors he works with . Simon Pegg is no Larry David , but on his own Pegg is very funny and with the right material ( notably that with collaborator Edgar Wright ) has created some exceptional British parodies . He's also got a strange charm to him , an affecting wit , and delivery that is up to snuff with other American actors he's working with here . But he can't completely overcome the screenplay . How to Lose Friends and Alienate people is about a wildman writer / editor at a cultish British magazine , and gets some tabloid buzz about bringing a pig to an awards show and getting totally smashed in the process . He grabs the attention of a once-maverick editor of a prestigious Manhattan magazine ( Jeff Bridges ) , who hires him in part because ( according to Pegg ) he reminds him of his younger self . But he never gets an article published , at least without some hassle , and he also has some stiff competition with an older rival , and an attractive editor ( Kirsten Dunst ) , not to mention an insatiable , sexy Megan Fox as a typically snooty celebrity gearing up for an awards-worthy part as a nun in a movie . To the credit of the cast and the director , it is a watchable effort , at least for those who may be able to spot references to La Dolce Vita ( as if it weren't nailing it a little over the head ) , and occasionally there are some really big laugh out-loud gags ( one I'll remember for a long while involves a prank call for a bunch of call-girls into the office of prickly a-hole Lawrence Maddox played by Danny Huston ) . But the actual love-interest angle with Pegg and Dunst is at best competent and at worst just weak and predictable with a few drunken melancholy scenes thrown in for good measure , and the likes of Bridges , Gillian Anderson ( as Fox's stand-offish but shallow agent ) and Fox herself playing on a theme of discontented " hot " talents are usually at the mercy of a screenplay that only intermittently gives them things to latch on to . I wouldn't mind seeing large parts of it on TV again , especially for some of Pegg's stinging barbs of dialog , but it's a partial disappointment .
the 6 P's . . .	Yeah , it's an amateurish student effort , but from what I got from the film - as presented on the Clerks DVD set - Kevin Smith and Scott Mosier pretty much acknowledge this in their intro . It's kind of amusing , actually , though not in the very funny , outrageous aspects that would come out in Smith's other works . It's a goofy , cover-your-ass effort where Smith and Mosier , without access to a night-club singing transvestite ( I think she sang nightclubs anyway ) , decide to make a documentary about the failure to make a documentary on her . It doesn't quite reach the ranks of a mockumentary in the Christopher Guest style , though it basically is a mockery of ' in-depth exposes ' , practically in a TV-fashion . One of the funnier things is seeing , from the start , Mosier and Smith in complete silhouette , and the title card of ' Directors ' also spelled with the phonetic spelling attached . The documentary then proceeds as the actual members of the crew spout off on the un-professionalism of the directors on the project ( one of the funnier bits being that aforementioned ' 6 P's ' quote ) . Some of the exchanges of the two ' disgraced ' filmmakers end up getting some raffish chuckles , and the tongue-in-cheek method of not showing them from chest up is not a bad idea . But it's so short that it doesn't really give off that much of their side's skills , except to show that they know how to edit in a mock-style and get some genuine reactions out of their crew . So it's worth the viewing if you've never seen it ( actually , no one has been able to outside of perhaps the Vancouver film class Smith and Mosier were in - likely with the best premise of anyone ) from the DVD , if nothing else as a curio . It's one of those trifles I wish could've been better , but it doesn't matter too much as it only shows so much anyway as to the great paths that were to come for the director / producer team .
Italian giallo in American mainstream clothing	The Ruins takes place in Mexico with four college-age kids ( Tucker , Malone , Ashmore and Ramsy ) and another guy ( Anderson ) , the latter who takes them to a Mayan temple where his brother is working supposedly on a dig . When they get there , a bunch of angry Mexican-Myans attack them , they scurry up to the top of the temple , and are basically quarantined with a host of virulent , monster-type plants and vines , who in typical horror fashion kill them off one by one . That's the basic premise , anyway , and if you know that and have seen the trailer you probably took a guess whether this is up your alley . For me , I was as intrigued by the trailer as I was who I found out wrote the screenplay , and subsequently the book of the movie's title - Scott Smith , who also wrote the morality drama A Simple Plan . What would these two works have in common at all , or to put it another way how would the same guy who wrote one wrote the other ? Maybe it comes down to how I interpreted it through the direction ( Simple Plan had Sam Raimi , and made it one of his best films , this one has Carter Smith , someone I've never heard of before as it's his feature debut ) . But , basically , both works , and this one in particular , are about seemingly smart and resourceful people acting really stupid in crunch-time . The college kids here are more or less cut-outs as characters , with some making stupider decisions than others ( i . e . Malone's character basically killing off some characters thanks to her incessant lack of logic ) . Normally this would be just a given , but it's interesting to see that the actors don't do a half-assed job playing them - especially , surprisingly , Real Cancun star Laura Ramsey , who acts just high-pitched enough to get her plight as she's infected by the vines - and the ambiguity involving the vines and the tunnel and the Mexican-Mayans at the bottom guarding the outer rim is pretty well done . It's a shame then that the horror comes best only in short spurts , mostly as Malone and Ramsey are in the dark recesses looking for a cell phone that isn't really there , and some visceral horror involving a character's leg amputations . Mostly , it veers a little one way or the other with these vines : they hearken back to Little Shop of Horrors and even the first Evil Dead movie , but it's not very goofy . At the same time , the screenplay doesn't evolve these characters too much past their point of no return . In the initial scenes , then the build-up , I was reminded of some Italian horror films ( can't think of one right now but it'll come to me sooner or later ) , only here of course not dubbed over . It is fairly creepy , and it does provide stock characters , and it gives you that double-whammy of an ending that is half happy and half " oh darn , there go some more " . It is what it is , and it isn't much more , depending on the fan of the genre . It probably works best with a bunch of friends who may or may not like it as a legitimate horror flick .
a biker movie that is ALMOST saved by Bruce Dern	The problems do abound in The Cycle Savages , but it could have possibly been a better movie . I did get into the sheer artificiality , and unbelievability , of the movie at times just on the basis of kinda , sort of buying into it . But it's also got a central problem in that there is really nothing ' there ' in the side of the ' good guys ' . Not that this is a totally bad thing really , for it is the mean dirty rat-bastard bikers that really are the show for anyone seeing the film today . And it's almost luck that first time writer / director Bill Brame has Bruce Dern to fill the part of Keeg , one of the sleaziest of the kind of totally immoral , however with a kind of Little Alex ala Clockwork Orange style of immediate intelligence . Even in all of his occasional mania and outright outbursts getting into the over-dramatic , Dern has this character completely down . It's actually best in the scenes where he ends up being most provoking by having the most controlled , almost calm voice . A lot of his ' wit ' in the film is scabrous , and not really funny , but on the side of giving a convincingly deranged sociopath with a penchant for intimidation and girls it makes the film usually watchable . It's a shame then that Brame isn't able to match him up with more competent actors . Or even , despite having a couple of good ' exploitation ' style scenes of violence and nudity and rape , having not enough for what the rest of the material is asking for . The group , Hell's Chosen Few ( strange for a half biker / half prostitution ring club ) , spends a lot of the movie waiting , and carrying on with side-stuff , while the main story involving the artist who previously drew the bikers who now gets drawn into the deceiving clutches of the decoy is weak and unconvincing . The motives most of the time , even for a B-movie , seem to shift and not seem very solid aside from the man's ' I love you ' phase even after fighting with a slashed abdomen wound . The ending ( coming all too quick and with a lackluster climax ) and the musical accompaniment ( likely the most annoyingly generic riff repeated in any film from the period ) are along with some of the acting the weaker points of the picture , sometimes embarrassingly so . So it does say a lot , however , that I could possibly recommend it on a bad movie level , where some parts become so crazy it's hard not to enjoy it . And Bruce Dern helps bring a good , tiny change of pace to the proceedings of the very typical ten-cent biker production , which by the way doesn't have a big abundance of throughout the film . In a career full of playing antagonists , this one is unnerving and realistic enough to be of note .
not very good , not very bad - a definite in-the-middle movie that cant stick to one side	Sunshine Cleaning is a Lifetime movie in Little Miss Sunshine skin . It's not hard to figure ; the producers of Little Miss Sunshine had a gargantuan hit , and so they thought they wanted to take on something that might have had a similar flavor and hit lightning twice . Unfortunately , it didn't happen , but it's not really the fault of the actors , as they - Amy Adams ( who doesn't like her ? ) , Alan Arkin , Clifton Collins Jr , Steve Zahn - are all likable to one extent or another ( the exception's possibly Emily Blunt , though that's more for her character than herself playing the part , and that little kid playing Amy Adams ' son who at one point talks to God on a CB radio in a cringe inducing scene ) . It's the script , as it tries too hard to meld the quirky ( yes , I'm using the word quirky , it's appropriate here ) comedy and some pretty dark drama and it doesn't really come off authentic either way . There are a few scenes here and there that vary with potential , but only scene , when Adams sits and comforts the old woman whose husband has committed suicide , felt completely and wholly emotionally satisfying ( then again this scene is not populated with get-rich-quick shrimp schemes or a one-armed guy or a kid who talks to God through a CB radio , or another one of those " I'll hang from something and scream loud ala the canyon scene in Garden State ) . I didn't ever really laugh either , and I was only pulled into any of the drama because of the actors in the roles ( Adams is basically the best you'll get if you want an automatic tearing-up machine ) . If it had stuck either way it might have had something .
make sure to find it with subtitles	Currently there is a version of Measures Against Fanatics on you-tube , which was how I got to see this short Werner Herzog film from early in his career . It's about horse racing , or rather the people who take care of the horses , and how to , apparently , protect them from the ' fanatics ' of the title . Unfortunately , it's hard to really give a totally quantifiable rating to the documentary , because the version currently available , despite being in excellent picture and sound quality , has no subtitles in English ( and being that I'm not up on my German much at all I could only pick out a few words here and there based on what I've heard in other movies and elsewhere ) . As far as visuals go it's not bad , though there's not a whole lot Herzog can go in photographing such things like horses walking around and their protectors talking ( though it is cool to see one of the horses walking around ) . It seems to mostly be dull even without knowing entirely what the context is usually in , but there are still some noticeable Herzogian moments , like when the one trainer or whomever proceeds to break blocks of wood with his hand . Or with the mere presence of the old man , who always seems to be interrupting the dialog the person answering is having , always with his say . The music is also ironically cheerful , which makes funny in an off-kilter sort of way . It is worth watching , if you're a Herzog fan like I am , though knowing a little German might help add a little extra enjoyment .
not up to par with the best of Bogart & / or Huston ; Hepburn gets wildly overpraised	Term " overrated " ; it wouldn't be something I would attribute to a film usually as directed by John Huston and starring Humphrey Bogart ( co-star Katherine Hepburn is another matter ) . But overtime this little piece of romantic fluff / saga of war-time daring-do has been called one of the greatest American films ever made . And for those who do love it , more power to them . It is a star vehicle first and foremost - and in 1951 if you were going to have two stars for the majority of the running-time these were the two to get - and die-hard fans can praise it as much as they want . But when it comes down to it , the film hasn't aged as well as one might think , and it goes without saying that what was really on Huston's mind during filming ( hunting elephants ) probably had something to do with the focus coming off of things like , erm , logic . It is a yarn , to be certain , and under the terms of what is " light-hearted " ( in quotes because it has some dark undertones ) it works out alright . But an all-time classic I think not . For one thing - and I know I would get some arguing over this - the two stars don't really have that much chemistry . It doesn't help matters that cliché steers the ship ; Bogart and Hepburns ' characters , Charlie and Rosie , are going down a river where at first they can't stand one another as one is a drunkard on gin and the other is a prissy go-for-it-all who doesn't really see the consequences , AND whenever Bogie somehow gets the African Queen over some rapids she suddenly starts to fall in love with the guy . I don't buy it - when comparing to something like , say , the real McCoy in Bogie and McCall , it doesn't hold a candle . Hepburn , until maybe the second half when she changes gears only slightly , and depending on the risks in the scene , doesn't alter much in her personality . While it is , in a way , a good performance at playing someone who is shrill and prissy , it doesn't help make one care that much about her . Meanwhile , Bogie is still a pro at what he does ( though not Oscar-worthy pro , not up against Brando - the performance that really deserved it was In a Lonely Place , which is sour grapes of course long after the fact ) . He , and Huston's occasional outbursts of creativity in the simple framework of the script , do make it mildly entertaining ; it's a good picture to probably check out on a rainy summer's weekend afternoon with lots of tea ( or gin ) . And there's even a few fascinating bits with the dangers of going down a river in Africa , i . e . the swarming bugs and the leeches as they try and get the boat out of the mud . But by the time of the ending , when the ' what-the-hell ' moment happens as the torpedo strikes at the ship at the most unlikely - yet most likely - of moments , I couldn't wait for the recently married to get off the screen . If you haven't seen a film by Huston or with Bogie or Hepburn , look elsewhere to start . If exotic locales and silly romantic river-boat adventure is your game , be my guest .
even a Spielberg mess has a lot of excellent bits ; it's his craziest effort yet , flawed , BIG , and proud of its longevity	I'm not sure I'll want to sit too soon again through 1941 , directed by Steven Spielberg and written by Robert Zemeckis , Bob Gale and John Milius , but I wouldn't trade the experience . Unlike directors nowadays who go BIG and HUGE with action and cheesy comedy and thrills , and their movies end up possibly leaving a really lousy residue from a kind of soulessness ( Michael Bay comes immediately to mind ) , Spielberg may go way over the top , and in the DVD version I saw it goes on far too long ( whether or not the special edition solves the problems left in the original 2 hour cut boggles my mind just to think about it ) , but it never loses a sense of giddy excitement , like a 12 year old boy given free reign over the controls of a nose-thumbing , immature-yet-intelligent big-budget Hollywood action-war-comedy . For more than a few moments watching it , I thought of what Francis Ford Coppola said regarding the making of Apocalypse Now , when he said " we had too much money , too much equipment , and little by little we went insane . " I wondered how much Spielberg decided to shoot - and shoot and shoot - from the script , though whatever mishaps occur in the picture ( and for the most part goes on in the latter half of the film ) , yet he somehow pulls out a few really extraordinary sequences , and more than few deserved laughs . It's chaos , basically , when less than a week after the bombing of Pearl Harbor the threat of an attack from the Japanese seems imminent . Everybody's up in arms , or at least up in arms with one another ( again , the 12 year-old aspect , both with plenty of explosions , weapons firing off , and more than a bit of innuendo ) , and we're given practically an Altman-esquire view of Los Angeles in this time of wacky despair , even if oddly enough most of what really makes of LA is left away . Then again , any big mash of reality would compact the escapist madhouse Spielberg and his writers intend . Only in a flick like 1941 would you get a bat-s pilot ( a hilarious John Belushi ) , a timid but ready average guy with a gigantic machine gun in his backyard ( Ned Beatty ) , a doubting Thomas General who cries when he watches Dumbo ( Robert Stack ) , two army personnel ( Tim Matheson and Nancy Allen ) who have a deranged courtship involving air travel , and the actual ( yet more-so potential ) threat to the LA area , a Japanese submarine headed by Colonel Mikamura ( Toshrio Mifune , who in a limited role gets to do what he does best - look down-right perturbed ) . It all leads up to a gigantic - and I do mean gigantic - climax that goes on and on and on with the crazed , war-seeking Americans finally finding their sights at the sub . Perhaps if Spielberg and his editors decided to try and tighten it up ( and again I say this after the extended version , perhaps this is maybe a tad different with the shorter theatrical cut ) , it would be a much greater rush of insanity in wartime comedy . A topic like the delirium of Americans on the cusp of war is good for a variety of broad styles ( if that makes sense ) , and the cast assembled here is more hit than miss ( where else will you get Christopher Lee as a Nazi on a sub who can somehow have no problem communicating with the Japanese speaking Japanese ! ) , with the goofy parts still retaining moments of levity . And the madness that usually unfolds on screen , be it small-time or large scale , gets the right treatment at least on the directorial front . There's a dance-hall sequence involving the main romantic love triangle ( I forget all the names , though I remember Treat Williams being involved ) , where the fighting blends with the dancing and completely absurd homaging to a point of delirious genius , and it's one of Spielberg's greatest single sequences from the 70s . I even got a couple of chuckles at his blatant , irrevocable homages to his previous films ( the opening with Jaws , certain shots right from Close Encounters , even a few unintentional allusions to future films ) . But again that frigging script , and the abandonment to pull back from the crazily cartoonish atmosphere , sort of damns it in the last section , where more seems to mean better , even when what might be expected ( more explosions ) doesn't quite come off . It ended up becoming almost an act of annoying the viewer , where already there's been so many scenes of hundreds of people in single shots , stretched into sequences , and grand-standings ( Aykroyd's part ) and wild flights of fancy , that even the best parts end up becoming mired in the thick of it all . I guess maybe it's meant to almost feel like a war in and of itself , but unlike the Coppola picture I mentioned previously , there isn't a lot of art to come out of the sensationalism , just some fun times to have with friends and a very good sense of humor ( mostly a forgiving one ) . This all being said , however , I wouldn't tell you not to see it , most likely if you're a fan of Spielberg and Zemeckis , and I end up recommending it against my better judgment , or rather I don't recommend if as much as the MUCH better works of the filmmakers , but for a certain comic sensibility it might be real gold . I will remember the zany brilliance , but I also won't be able to shake off the fact that it is the sort of midway minor blunder of a filmmaker right in an awe-inspiring stretch of films .
" Arrow-feather ! "	Roger Corman's Gas-s-s-s , his final film as director for AIP , is dated ( and probably even was for the period it got released ) , but somehow it's almost part of its charm . It's an irreverent comedy about a noxious gas that wipes out everybody - at least in the US much as we can figure - who's over the age of 25 . Party-time ! In what appears to be , in the premise , as a slight twist on Corman's own Last Woman on Earth , it's an epic of low-budget proportions , a rampant fiasco of kids in hippie-wear ( or not as case turns out ) and the Darwinian struggles that take place as the roughnecks , jocks and bikers-on-country-clubs face off against those darn ' commie-anarchists ' . Certainly a good premise indeed , at least for those who love the exploitation fare of the period ( myself counted , even as I'm from after that era ) . While it might be one of Corman's ( intentionally ) funnier pictures , there's a nagging feeling that something's not totally there . It is cheap , it is slapdash , it's episodic . The problem , as with some of Corman's other movies , is that a little more effort would make something even more interesting . If there was , for example , another snappy and sharp writer alongside George Armitage , who could whip the script into a tight and awesome shape , it could even be one of the great exploitation films . As it stands , it's merely OK overall . Luckily the good tries to outweigh the bad , which is that there are some really , actually clever one-liners ( " Hey , we all have our own inconsistencies , that doesn't stop the revolution , " to " Drop that chloride , you commie anarchist ! " ) and seeing the biker country-clubbers and the God lightning bolt climax . Best of all is to see a running-gag in-joke for Corman - probably more than one , actually . The first is more obvious , and laugh-out-loud , which is a biker Edgar Allen Poe , who just shows up here and there like some sage wise-man ( who is , of course , not over 25 ) with his wife and occasional raven on his shoulder spouting garbled quotes . The second is a little more subtle , which seems to be a play on his film the Trip , as in the psychedelic-type scenes ( i . e . dancing to Country Joe and the Fish ) with the camera zooming in and out fast , lots of hand-held , etc ) . Corman's gone through this all before , so it has to be questioned : how much of this is tongue in cheek , and how much is just almost shoddy film-making ? Can't be sure . At least there was consistent chuckling to be had , especially at seeing a young Bud Cort in a cowboy hat , and , of all people , Talia Shire !
actually . . . a lot more fun and watchable than I would've thought , maybe for some wrong reasons	How could one not at least try and watch a big , bulky western yarn where Lee Marvin and Clint Eastwood play prospectors who are not only married to the same woman but , yes , sing . Lots of singing . And surrounded by enough extras to give someone a hemorrhage . I did try and watch it , and got through it pretty much unscathed . It's not a movie that one would ever want to put in someone's hands that one trusts and say " yes , this is Clint Eastwood's finest couple of hours " or " Lee Marvin , such a bad-ass " ( albeit for the latter it might be so if talking about his facial hair ) . But digging deeper into the careers of either actor , there are slip-ups that looking at them now actually have a good deal of entertainment value to them . It's just that it's executed - if one were to take this seriously - with such a portend of EPIC ( in caps ) quality , of the production values at a level that would be comparable to the 1995 Waterworld at the time that it becomes too much to comprehend on a human level . Yet there's also the sense of buoyancy to it that makes it kind of admirable as it chugs along . Even in the climax , when the entire town is dragged down thanks to the bull that runs through the tunnel , is cheerful up to a point or at least lighthearted . In fact , there's something kind of charming to a movie that takes its subject matter so not seriously . Like , for example , how hundreds of men all drool at the mouths at the sight of Jean Seberg when she arrives into town , and yet the men decide to hold a sort of auction in order to bid her out ( why not gang up on her ? guess the M rating at the time still carried some provisions as part of the puritanical beats of the ol ' West ) . Or how Marvin and Eastwood both become husbands to Seberg when she just can't decide who she loves more ( and , thanks to the most faithful of all , whiskey , the men reach an agreement on the prospect ) . It's all very ridiculous , from the many , many BIG BIG musical numbers - and I say BIG BIG as they are all loudly produced and with a typical movie studio harmony , only without much choreography organized - down to that hat that Marvin wears as he goes about gathering up more prostitutes for the miners . And what about the songs ? Equally insipid , and if taken as real ' quality ' music is to have to smell your socks for an equal effect . But it's also like a good quality brand of cheese : you take a bite and want a little bit more , and the block is still there for the taking . Songs like " I talk to the trees " and " They call the wind Mariah " , plus anytime Marvin has to sing , is classic stuff on the corniest levels . Oddly enough , Eastwood isn't half-bad as a singer , even with some lift and grace to his voice . Marvin , however , can't sing a note for his life , and the song that apparently won a golden globe or Grammy or whatever has him singing like he's Eeyore the donkey from Winnie the Pooh . When Marvin has to act like a drunken wheez of a prospector who's jealous , greedy , driven by humble melancholy and ego in equal measure , he does alright , and Eastwood , who says more dialog here than in all three of the ' Dollars ' films combined , does what he can . Seberg is also a honey of a starlet , who didn't seem to do much aside from this and Breathless . But as I said , you should go into this knowing what to expect . There was an episode of the Simpsons years ago where Homer looks forward to watching a movie on TV that has Lee Marvin and Clint Eastwood , and suddenly he finds that they're singing , a lot . It should be a joke , and it's a hilarious bit of irony really , because it's true . ' What the hell ' will be the first thing to come out of some viewers mouths on finishing the movie , if they get that far . As for me , I just have to smile , crack up laughing a few times , and realize that this is one of the reasons the 70s had to happen .
great for McDowell , mostly blah for everyone else	The reason to check out the Little Red Riding Hood episode of Faerie Tale Theatre is not a ) the ' revised ' story , which puffs up ten pages with so-called feminist phooey and a bit involving rocks in a stomach ' , or b ) much of the acting , save maybe for John Vernon aside from the obvious . No , the real reason to check it out is Malcolm McDowell , who gives some kind of crazy performance , sometimes campy and sometimes just McDowell-esquire , as he turns into this classic character as only he could . In fact , he makes certain scenes with his weaker co-star Mary Steenburgen better than they have any right to be ( albeit nothing can save the always tired " Granny , what big . . . you have " bit ) , as he moves along with fun and verve and a real knack for what the series at its best can be about . But sadly a lot of the episode is just drivel to make up for what is , essentially , a super-short parable that changes from PG to R rating depending on who's telling it ( i . e . eating Granny & / or Riding Hood & / or chopping the wolf with axe ) .
cheesy acting - very cheesy acting - and true sci-fi channel movie-of-the-week visual effects make this watchable	The Pirates porno , the most expensive ever produced ( at a whopping $150 , 000 ) , is excruciating to watch if you're trying to look for a good plot , or entirely " good " acting ability . It's a showcase for the director , named simply Joone , to showcase a lot of well-lit XXX sex scenes and lots of ultra-corny CGI involving seascapes , caves , ships , and with the icing on the cake being skeleton pirates that have to duel with some bad-ass girls on an island . I can't really recommend it , in a big sense , as it has no real merit whatsoever as far as real creativity goes . But it is , however , of the highest order of sleaze entertainment , and it's a really , really funny movie all the same . It's not even really good dialog so much as good quotes , lines that you and your friends ( or whomever you may or may not be watching the movie with ) will be saying verbatim or close to it for days . Probably the best bet with the ' actors ' though is long-time porno pro Evan Stone , who says his lines with the convincing silliness and strength of a Bruce Campbell ( he's probably the only one who ' gets ' how stupid this all is , and rolls with it ) . Other actresses with one-names like Teagan and Devon maybe aren't quite as adept at that sort of aspect of the performance . You'll get the idea about five minutes into the film , if not sooner . Much of it is basically convoluted ( yes , even more-so ) knock-off material and characterization from the POTC movies , which is not all that bad a thing . A few times it looks as though the director actually understands that a movie like Pirates has to be something of a parody in order to keep the attention of its viewing public - past the obvious points , of which need not be mentioned here . Yet it's good that there's such a high-level of camp value with scenes that look improvised with the actors ( there's one woman-on-woman scene where a bunch of guys stand around them saying " argh " the whole time and cheer on as if truly drunken ) , because if one were to grade this on a scale like the folks at Hustler magazine or other magazines of the sort do , it wouldn't necessarily get a very high grade either , unless if based on subjective perceptions of the sizes of certain ' things ' and how such scenes are sort of staged . Those too are quite cheesy , loaded at times with music that sounds like it might be good to hear while waiting on the end of a busy phone line . In fact , there might be a great deal of camp value that can be derived from these many , many scenes of gratuitous action ( not that there hasn't been worse elsewhere , even as the actors try to go to desperate , raging lengths to get there ) . Overall it wasn't a movie who's big budget wasn't a total waste , all things considered . The R-rated version might even someday find its way onto a Saturday night sci-fi movie channel of the week , and definitely as one of the better ones in recent memory . I'd almost go as far as to say I liked it , but in the sense that I like a good piece of cotton candy : it goes down in an abhorrently artificial way , and it's gone pretty quickly , and then you don't feel like having any more for a while .
slightly underwhelmed , though there are certainly worse ( like , for example , the remake )	I liked most of The Haunting , Robert Wise's adaptation of the novel ( and make no mistke folks , it does feel like an adaptation despite its debt to other haunted house pictures ) , as it's about as competently produced , and with some acting that turns up the intensity level in several spots quite well . I even liked the cinematography very much in certain scenes , as Wise and his team made the house come into the realm of the surreal and the unconscious in some instances ( and one is hard-pressed not to at least flinch , if not jump , when Julie Harris gets up the staircase and finds a surprise behind a place she least expected ) . But , even as it attempts to be - as one friend rightfully argued to me - like a two-hour Twilight Zone episode , it's weighed down in exposition and narration . Where it works in a twenty-minute episode , the novel-form doesn't translate for a film like this . Do we really need to hear EVERYTHING in Harris's head ? It works in little pieces , but it's laid in over and over , already with hefty scenes of conversations that , while usually not poorly written ( save for Russ Tamblyn's thankless part of having to often say to the effect of ' you can't really think it's really haunted , do you ? ' ) A story like this requires just simply mood and drive to tell it . Maybe I lost something on the arc of the central character , played reasonably well ( she's not terrible is what I mean ) by Harris as someone with no real home and a future that seems to last in the house , but her character perhaps would keep up the intensity if one weren't constantly informed of her every thought about being in the house moment to moment . It detracts slightly from some good scenes that are there with the other actors , like Richard Johnson , Clair Bloom and Tamblyn , who all have only so much depth anyway . Still , there is a good deal to watch for if you love your classic horror films , specifically of this ilk : the house itself is quite a marvel of construction by way of its ragged edges , imposing height and curves and structure , it is something excellent to see in full widescreen . And it was fun seeing the special effects team go to work full-tilt ; one can even see in a door scene the seeds for something far more disturbing done in Videodrome . There's even a laugh or two . The Haunting is good viewing for a matinée or even for something to show the kids - if they're so inclined to check out slightly-higher-than-B-movie suspense films of the 60s , and of course it makes the Jan de Bont 1999 remake look like the pile of slack crap that it is . One of the best of it's kind though ? I don't think so .
the biker movie pathos , by Al Adamson	In order to get any enjoyment or entertainment , or just dumb-fun in a B-movie ( if that ) kind of way , like Satan's Sadists ( not inappropriately released on DVD in some circles by Troma ) , is to take into context that it was , of course , the late 60's , and it remains in the sub-genre that is the biker-movie . I almost hesitate to slap the label ' exploitation flick ' on it because one would have to take completely into mind what exploitation entails . Maybe there were many ( maybe mostly ) good-hearted bikers like the ones in Easy Rider that wanted nothing more than to get stoned and ride their wheels without too much trouble . But that is in a particular kind of movie that tries ( and succeeds ) to rise above the expectations of the enclave of biker movies . For the most part , as with Satan's Sadists and many others , a biker gang with a cool sounding name goes into a town , bothers the habitants to a point of total suspense and shock , and the filmmaker may or may not try to dig a little under the surface , go beyond the expectations up to a point . One of the things that makes Satan's Sadists work , up to a point , is that producer / director Adamson usually doesn't mistake what it is that he's making . A film like this , when it played ( where and if of course being part in question ) , would just be used as fodder for make-out sections and beer contests for those in the cars at the drive-ins , just good enough to not make anyone start chucking things at the screen . Adamson brings forth all the ideal elements - a gang of six ( including the perennial grungy / sexy female ) with attitude braced in their eyes and sunglasses , the older straight-laced couple , the good-looking younger couple , and plenty of room for tracking , driving shots of bikes . The gang here of the title run into a cop and his wife , a waitress , another young guy and the owner of a small pit stop in the middle of the California desert . Basically , describing the plot would be moot ; say enough that it is as much of a usual biker film as it is a revenge picture ( and usually the two go one in the same with these movies ) . To Adamson's credit , given a group of non-professional actors ( or B / C / D movie actors ) that are hit or miss ( the bikers are all alright , as are the cop and his wife , but some of the other parts of the younger women are pretty bad ) , he tends to push some of the boundaries of what can be done within the framework of the structure . We have an idea of what will go on , of course , after a crucial moment in the film , but there are little things , like when the bikes brake-down in the desert , or when other minor female characters are introduced all of a sudden in the desert , or the impromptu dance scene in the restaurant ( though that is a staple in many of these flicks , a cool one at that ) . It's when Adamson sometimes kids himself with what he's doing that it steers away , like a little mini-speech given by the groups leader about ' the man ' versus the ' love ' generation before a certain murder takes place . And the music , while with a cool opening number , is draining aside from an interesting drum solo here and there . I wouldn't say to start with Satan's Sadists if you're just starting to get into these kinds of films , as it is relatively hard to find and Adamson , while not without his cult fan-base , was unknown to me before seeing the film and really does nothing more than make your standard genre movie . However it's not to say that within the ' standards ' there aren't some creative flourishes . I liked how there was always the one character clinging onto getting stoned and tripped whilst the others went on with their tough business , who even provides a couple of laughs . And where the film heads to is exciting on the most primitive , fast-food sort of level . There are certainly ' better ' movies out there , probably with better acting and better use of music and locations . But at least in Adamson there is a little experimentation and touches of daring in his style ; little insert close-ups and zooms / pans are interesting , and at times a certain zaniness tries to work its way into the steady shots . If a biker picture , in all of its likely exploitive tendencies and cardboard psychology , is more about attitude and using what is there within the limitations , Satan's Sadists is not bad , though not great .
Babylon A . D is ambitious future-fi with too much that's derivative to stick	Babylon AD means well , and it takes itself seriously enough to not come off too self-parodic , with a few major exceptions with dialog and stylistic choices . Its director , Mathieu Kassovitz , isn't some hack for hire , but someone who does care about the message of his picture as well as the art , of creating a very tangible future of dirt and ugly and gray colors with some super-technicolor sides in New York City , and having an action star as the lead with some moments of actually good acting . He has a vision and he carried it through , but I wonder now having watched the Unrated director's cut ( or what could be the most available director's cut around without sifting through whatever Fox or whomever forced him to cut from the script ) , how much it was studio pressure and how much of it was just second-guessing . This is original in-as-much as one can see some original ideas about it . . . but it's also one of the most derivative mainstream movies I've seen in quite a while . It also veers almost off the deep end towards the very end , which is kind of troubling since that doesn't seem like something forced on by the studios . Action set-pieces and specific , boring usual kind of " WHOA ! " shots I could possibly see ( albeit Kassovitz has claimed the entire affair as a debacle since the studio harassed him from the start , which is hard to argue here ) , but that sort of twist almost makes one grind to a halt - especially when the story itself , when it does make some sense towards the very end , just stops dead in its tracks with one of those very likely tacked-on lines : " Save the planet - yeah , right . " Or maybe not ; maybe this was Kassovit's vision all along , a tale burning with a lot of intelligence for its genre while also leaning towards the generic for influence . To describe the plot , in other words , would be to take it right into a mix-and-match of other futuristic / post-apocalyptic / science-fiction plots : it's Children of Men ( horrid looking future with lots of people living in urban squalor and with seemingly random terrorism rampant in Europe ) meets Serenity ( a " woman " being carried across lines who may just be a " deadly weapon " of some kind ) meets , well , what else could I think of ? At the same time it's also based on a comic-book , which does go to explain what does make the film ultimately work , probably much better than it should . It's a pulp fable told with some intensity and even a few surprises such as Charlotte Rampling and Gerard Depardieu in supporting roles ( Michelle Yeoh isn't quite as lucky , but with less to do ) . The film has such grand ambition , and is filmed from time to time with the kind of brilliance that one might associate with the director of a film like La Haine ( another film with some real social relevance or just something good for our time ) , that it's a shame to see some wretchedly clichéd bits of dialog , some moments of action that lag in that not-too-bad-not-much-good category , and one line in particular involving a " missile linked to my passport " being a laugh out loud line . Topping it is Vin Diesel , a solid star but needing more than what he has here . It's like the rest of the movie : there's depth , their's quality , and their's something really going on . If only there was more , and more originality .
clever . . . too clever by half a ball , I mean half a something . . .	Note - not that too many people will read this , but this comment has some spoilers . Viewer discretion is sort of advised , depending on spoiler-ability and what-not . Hard Candy was one of the most ' talked-about ' indie features of 2006 . I put that in semi-quotes because a movie like Hard Candy does deserve some conversation time . And oddly enough this doesn't mean it was completely widely raved-about by critics despite its many wins at film festivals . It's meant to split up the audience , which is a fair thing to point out considering , since it's about putting an audience through the visceral reaction the characters go through in the picture . Whether or not what's up on the screen ends up as contrived or just a wee bit disappointing will depend on how much one can actually connect with the characters and this little ' game ' that Hayley ( cute and powerful Ellen Page ) puts might-be pedophile Jeff ( Patrick Wilson , also in the much richer drama-featuring-pedophilia Little Children ) through the wringer . For all that goes arguably right and arguably wrong with the film , it's worth seeing once . The problem is , from my point of view , as the director David Slade and his write Brian Nelson jump off from precocious small-talk that's fine and witty ( if somewhat obvious - " Well , doctors agree that I am actually insane , " says Hayley sort of ironically , though not at all mayhap ) , into a long-form version of the Stuck in the Middle With You sequence from Reservoir Dogs - only here substituting crazy Mr . Blonde and the embodiment of all cops Marvin Nash and some fun ear slicing with an oft continuously talkative and subtly crazy-eyed Hayley with the would-be embodiment of perverts in Jeff . Doesn't work as it should , even with the feeling of ' in-the-moment ' being the same , which is heart-pounding tension . But the director and writer try to have their cake and eat it too by making big statements about the morality of luring girls from the internet into the homes of strange men , AND make an exploitation flick with some art-film pretensions ( as good as Slade is , and he is good , at experimenting with color schemes and an unwavering close-up lens , he shouldn't go for the big shaky-cam scenes like he would later do to somewhat better effect in 30 Days of Night ) . Basically , and call me what you will for even thinking this , but the filmmakers didn't go enough , and it's the problem of having a scenario that ends up unraveling as that , an elaborate game that is not even so much played on by one character over another , but on the audience . As gruesome as it is , you expect that Jeff WILL be castrated by the blindly vengeful Hayley as a " preventive measure " , and as terrible as it is - even off camera - you expect things to probably get uglier WITH this intact . But luckily , he keeps his assets , and the game continues , leading up to the stupid chase up to the roof and final proposal . Why not go all out ? Why dangle a perfectly juicy carrot and fling it away at the convenience of the script or good taste or whatever ? In a strange way Hard Candy starts to turn more exploitive , because it turns away from any questions raised about the vulnerability of youth or the sadism that lies in those who want to get some odd pleasure out of pain from others ( just look at Abu-Gharib for that ) , and it becomes safer , more obvious , with the scripts layers revealing itself as just a pot-boiler in the guise of theater . Slade has the gifts to make it work , but he can't rise it quite to the level that it could be . And yet , this all said , it provoked enough of an emotional response that I can get where both sides are coming from - those who loved the tense unconventional idea of the roles reversed in a common criminal story that's almost become too common as of late ( NBC's " To Catch a Predator " is one of the funniest , if most repetitive , TV shows as of late date ) , and those that hated that it went with no real message at the end thanks to muddled ambiguity . And do see it for the acting , as Page and Wilson do their best to look as cruel and frightened and provoked and unpredictable as possible under the circumstances ; Page , especially , tries and succeeds in filling the shoes of a smarter-than-the-average 14 year old who's probably very clever - too clever by half even for the audience - in her plot . You know what she might do next , but you don't know quite how she'll react at the same time , which is something .
the rushed production shows , but it still makes for a fun midnight viewing	According to Jack Hill's commentary on the Foxy Brown DVD , there was only so much time to make Foxy Brown , as the surprise success of Coffy sent American Interational Pictures into a Pam Grier frenzy - they had to have something ready on the double . So Hill pumped out this little quickie of an exploitation flick that was meant to be a sequel to Coffy , but then got lopped off due to continuity , among other things , even though a lot of the plot points back to many things in the original Hill / Grier collaboration ( i . e . boyfriend getting knocked off , Grier playing the perpetual bad-ass , surrounded by corruption she must rid , etc ) . So in that sort of manufactured way , I liked it , and it actually gets into some really tough and gritty material when Foxy gets into trouble , deep trouble , when taken as a sort of slave-prisoner ( following this is a really excellent scene of swift revenge , maybe the most exciting scene in the whole movie ) . There's some good character actor work by Antonio Fargas as the sort of flunkie Link , brother of Foxy's , and by the very cold Katherine , played by Kathryn Loder ( and , true to the ' black-exploitation ' fold all of the villains are white ) . It's a shame though that there isn't more of a really knockout spirit to the whole production , even when Grier is at her best ( which is pretty constant as her character has the charm and the sass and the real conviction to be a real star in these vehicles ) there seems to be not as much of a punch as with Coffy . The big action climax is a bit of a letdown too with the airplane chase . But I'd say there are worse things to see from the period , and Foxy Brown is definitely not one of them .
an obscure 80s feminist neo-noir that may be obscure for a reason . . .	Variety was shot on the super-cheap on the streets of midtown NYC in 1983 , which is for a short while part of its not exactly charm but precise and evocative mood . This is a Times Square that most wont recognize since the clean-up in recent years ; it's dirty , loaded with porno theaters and video stores , and with some exceptions ( like the boss of the Variety movie theater played by Luis Guzman ) there's plenty of sleazy males . In this movie the main character , Christine ( Sandy McLeod ) seems to be a fairly normal girl just looking for a job and finds one at Jose's Variety theater at the ticket window . Little by little she becomes intrigued by the porno movies playing and by a mysterious gentlemen caller ( Richard Davidson ) who takes her out on a bum date to Yankee stadium , stranding her as he just goes away on some urgent matter . What follows is a series of her following him around - even going as far as to the Jersey shore where he does some mysterious " business " shaking hands with people outside of amusement parks - and little by little she sinks further into this porno-type of funk , like a misguided femme fatale sitting in her room and playing 45's in sultry clothes and purple lighting . Some of this sounds interesting because it is - Bette Gordon has a point to make here on the feminine condition in an Urban setting , kind of like a Taxi Driver only replacing the guns with more of the porn , and there are some effective scenes early on showing McLeod surrounded by this creepy but intriguing setting . But there's also passages that , I hate to admit , were just too dull to really be engaged . She follows this man to a fish market , and then we're treated to lots and lots of footage of fish and the like . Why ? What does this really add to the atmosphere ? It's like Gordon doesn't always know if she wants to make a neo-noir or a documentary , and the shuffle between the two forms ( both engaging on their own ) becomes confused . I also didn't care for those passages where Christine gives those ridiculously detailed descriptions / synopses of the porno movies she sees to her exasperated boyfriend ( Will Patton ) , and McLeod in these scenes reaches her most annoying points . She's not a terrible actress throughout , but here she sounds like she's reciting remembered lines as opposed to acting , and one sympathizes with what Mark has to put up with . We're putting up with it too . There is a reason this has something of a very minor cult status , and that it even got Bette Gordon a re-release screening at the Tribeca film festival this year . It's very much a New York movie , made on the dirty streets , meant to capture that dingy side and to give some kind of naturalistic feeling of a strange woman in this environment . But its own mystery undercuts itself . Variety would work far better , maybe even be truly great , as a short film . At 100 minutes , for all of its little moments of pleasure ( i . e . when Chrisitne imagines herself up on the screen in a room with the enigmatic criminal Louie ) , it's too long and too unfocused for what works well to really strike it home . Luis Guzman steals the show .
both amazing and annoying , it's a revisionist western with content and style	With maybe the longest title of any film this year , the Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford , writer / director Andrew Dominik is out to make a real statement on the legacy of outlaw Jesse James and the man who shot him , Robert Ford . Was it murder or almost a kind of suicide ? Was Bob Ford a hero , a coward , or just reluctant to get any of the press he originally might have wanted as a youth ? Questions are raised legitimately by the filmmaker , and they aren't questions that shouldn't be overlooked . But there's a catch , actually a couple : as Dominik wants to stay truthful to the original source AND make an epic film , he makes a work that tells too much while also showing in a style that veers between the magisterial and the false . It's a subjective thing , to be sure , when looking at the cinematography of a film and how it is effective to the senses , though it could be something more legitimately arguable in looking at if it works for the material itself . These , of course , are the big minuses , which I'll get to in a moment . But one aspect to ' Jesse James ' that should be noteworthy all the way is Brad Pitt's performance . He's been a Hollywood star since I can remember , even going back to the mid-90s when he started to break out of character actor parts and into marquee status . Now here's a sort of throwback to the best work he's done as a quasi-chameleon and still with the gravitas of a star . It's a mesmerizing portrayal of a man who is as mysterious as he is deadly , psychotic , loving , paranoid , scary , crazy , affable , and even charming . Just a little facial movement or raise or lowering of the lip indicates so much , and Pitt nails it every time , even in scenes where he almost starts to drag along with the dialog . It is , at the least , worthwhile alone to see the film for him ( maybe a little less so for the rest of the cast who , while good at what they do , are there as typical back-up western parts ) . Affleck is also a good co-star , who has to play mostly in one-note status ( mostly pouty , like a nerdy kid on the playground who is scared s-less but out for blood ) . But it is , at its best , the Brad Pitt show , which is rare to see as of late in his career . In fact , it's probably Pitt that probably kept me in my seat through most of the film . Dominik's direction and writing are , on the other hand , a mixed bag . He wants to make a sprawling , affecting tome on the nature of a legend and of the effect it has on those around the person ( who is , as Ford acknowledges , just a person ) , while coating it as an auteur . His tactic is to take as much narration possible , and it's literal overkill ( no pun intended ) ; we hear some moments when the narrator comments on Robert Ford looking through a closet ! What does this add ? It turns right from the start , and off and on until especially the last fifteen minutes , into a history lesson as much as a dramatization , which disrupts the intentions of making it a subjective perspective . OK , it's known , James was an icon for Americans as a figure of anti-establishment as part of a kind of establishment ( not above the law but not one who should've been killed by a man of no consequence like Bob Ford ) . But does it need to be pounded over the head ? It doesn't help then that cinematographer Roger Deakins adds to the mixed feelings . He captures many wide vistas , tight rooms and dark night exteriors ( I did love the train robbing shots ) like a true pro . But what are we to make of the constant shots with soft-focus ? The explanation I have read is that it's meant to represent the truth that is blurred by legend in the story . That's fine to hear after the fact , but while sitting and watching the movie it just doesn't make sense - it's less poetry and more a consistent form of drab self-indulgence . After seeing No Country for Old Men , where Deakins made , ironically , a better looking western set in 1980 , it becomes clear that the directing has to also be taken into account . And this goes without saying that it isn't a bad movie at all . Dominik does explore the themes at work here , with the damnation of betrayal and the fatality of the criminal , plus the side of America as a kind of hidden backdrop of pain and misery and fear of death . It's just that they're explored for too long and without the kind of depth that's really required . If you're looking for a real classic interpretation of the Jesse James / Robert Ford saga , watch I Shot Jesse James by Samuel Fuller . It might not have the aspirations of great art that ' Assassination ' has , but in its B-movie way it's almost a masterpiece in examining some of the same material .
good story , in the mechanical sense , Ford doing what he does , nothing too special	I was telling my Mother I had just returned from seeing the latest Harrison Ford movie , and all I needed to say was ' it was , you know , a Harrison Ford movie ' , and she said without any real knowledge of the story in the film what the story was about . Because the components are the same as what Ford has been working with in these kinds of thrillers he's been in for the past twenty years or so : Ford's a businessman , family gets kidnapped / held hostage , criminals need Ford to get them money , yada yada yada , cut to the chase , and the climax with Ford kicking ass and taking names . Going into Firewall I expected that , as it being a kind of Hollywood A-list formula picture , and all I asked was that it deliver some bang for the buck . It did , though there are certain points I wondered if little holes in the story ( and a bit of a stretch in believability for the climax ) were worth some of the more rewarding aspects . At the least there's a competent actor to play the antagonist , played by Paul Bettany , already making his mark as a solid character actor . He and his five man crew take said Jack Stanfield's ( Ford's ) family hostage ( with Virginia Madsen as his beautiful - and in real life twenty years younger-wife ) , in order to get 100 million out of a bank that he works at . Things seem to be going as planned for the robbers until - surprise - the banker turns the tables on them . Director Richard Lacarne is also competent enough to not muck up ( some of ) the suspense scenes , and even supplies a couple of un-formulaic scenes to work its way through for the actors to work with ( one example for me was a brief scene with Bettany and Ford's son watching the Flintstones ) . But then at some point then the story takes its turn , and I just sat back waiting for the inevitable to come around . The storytelling of the film isn't too much of the problem with Firewall , but its not the same really enveloping , truly tense territory of the Fugitive or Air Force One . Not that I would complain too much , I'm sure I'm maybe part of the audience that would go see a Ford picture just for the fact that he's in it doing what he does in his successful ' escapist ' way . However I also know that these kinds of films can't last much longer for him and he may have to pick different scripts ; the final confrontation / fight scene that happens in the film is watchable , but even for someone leaving disbelief its a little too much to comprehend . Like Clint Eastwood , Ford has here a movie for his fans , and it's a notch above some of the other work he's done in the past several years . But as the mechanics of this movie turn , however good , it doesn't reach for anything more to work with .
not terrible if you take it for what it is - B movie trash in the guise of the latest Dimension films fright-fest	Cursed isn't any great shakes as a horror film , and I would never put it anywhere near Wes Craven's top tier work ( i . e . Nightmare on Elm Street , Scream , Hills Have Eyes ) . But considering all the work they did to hack through it all , in the re-shoots and the overworked CGI , it's actually not really all that horrible . I remember going to see it and even though it was at night the feeling in the audience was more like being with a bunch of little kids at a Saturday matinée theater in the 50s or 60s - cheap thrills and stupid laughs , and some wicked teens engrossed in stupid antics like , well , romance . Christina Ricci is also not bad at all , and even holds her own when the Kevin Williamson script gets creaky into the media portions of the storyline . There's good jokes to be had at the expense of a ' retarted ' character , Jimmy , who may not be what he seems . And as far as your werewolves go , Cursed at least doesn't have the crappy ones of American Werewolf in Paris - there's some texture within all of the overlap . Hell , Craven and Williamson even go for the ' accident at Mulholland drive ' angle , which strives to be like a version of the accident in Mulholland Drive , only with a dash more exploitation and less dream-like personality in its rush . And an attack scene in a bathroom is actually kind of memorable in its own trashy aspect : you know what's coming , and it's not the best executed scene , but even on a bad-movie level it does its job well enough . This all might sound like being defensive , but it isn't . I'm not saying it's entirely a good movie . But it isn't a very bad movie , not least of which deserving of the cruel lashing it received when released early in 2005 - some of Craven's worst reviews , which I'm sure he bounced back on once Red Eye was released . The thrills are sometimes pretty surprising , a murder investigation sort of interesting , and a climax that is more nutty than a prank box full of spring-snakes . It's like eating a box full of candy that won't last long , and might make your teeth rot , and yet has an inviting texture as candy all the same .
one of the awesomely bad exploitation flicks of the early 70s ; doesn't mean it's any good , but it's bad fun while it lasts	David E . Durston's most readily available motion picture - which means it's the only one that isn't either an obscure porno or others - is I Drink Your Blood , a quickie made for peanuts and meant to be artful to those who have said peanuts in their brain . All you need to know : satanic hippies - a winning contradiction of course - find an abandoned house , beat up grandpa ( who looks very oddly enough like Luis Bunuel ) , and the grandson gets angry enough to shoot a rabies infected dog , draw out its blood with a syringe , inject the blood into MEAT PIES ( yes , meat pies , what kind of meat is meant as an eternal mystery ) , and the Charles Manson wannabes eat em up . The response : they all become , to one extent or another , ravaging quasi-zombies who go after the rural folk one by one , some with a pure ravenous delirium like the black hippie or the native American , and others who's madness grows more steadily ( the women in the group ) . There's even one , I won't say who , goes almost Shaolin-style on the situation . Filled with nobody actors who probably all knew they were going nowhere all the same ( save perhaps for Lynne Lowry , who had somewhat of a successful B-movie career with her cat-eyes appearing later on in the Crazies ) , it's a cheapo attempt to cash in on Night of the Living Dead , but it does have some really fed up ambition going for it in hindsight : it's quite possibly the very first ( un-official ) Troma production . Spared all expense , I Drink Your Blood shoots its financial wad on what little special effects and gore and make-up there needs to be , and that alone . No need to get things like the foam from rabies infected people right , just dab some shaving cream . And why bother rehearsing ( at least , that's what the way it seems of course ) , which is more than evident in possibly the worst child actor I've ever seen in a schlock fest playing the kid who starts this whole she-bang . Yet it is , living up to its hype , a very violent movie , however without a single socially redeeming statement in the process . But unlike some other ultra-violent horror fests of the period ( Last House on the Left immediately comes to mind ) , I Drink Your Blood isn't really out for loftier goals than to shock , and Durston's most significant achievement , if nothing else , is to make all of this bad crap really , hysterically funny , if only in big bursts amid scenes that are also , predictably , dull . The aforementioned Chinese character is the oddest one to have in a satanic LSD cult , though it's also a lot of fun seeing how sleazy the director can get in exploiting racial stereotypes . Of course , due to budget constraints , no " daring " exposes of what it MUST be like to trip , however just watching the hippies chow down on the meat pies is enough to get some chuckles . It might even make for a decent do-it-yourself Mystery Science Theater night , as the ultra-violent rabies-infected LSD-satanic-hippie movie was sort of left in the dust during the show's run .
for any other director it'd be a very good if dated 80s effort . . .	. . . for Hal Ashby , it's something of a tragedy in the course of his career . At this point , to give some background , he wasn't getting the same kind of prime work he did in the 70s ( Harold and Maude , Last Detail , Coming Home , Shampoo , Being There ) , this despite the fact that he won an Oscar as editor and nominated for director . After some low-budget comedies - and a less than great Rolling Stones movie - he took on this neo-noir co-scripted by Oliver Stone , and had a good cast in place with Jeff Bridges playing the on-off lush ex-detective , Rosanna Arquette as the call girl entrapped by cold , grinning / vicious pimp / pusher played by newcomer Andy Garcia . It seemed like a solid genre picture , one that could hopefully make a few bucks among the crowds looking for another fix of action and crime and romance and what-have-you . As far as I know , I'm not sure why Ashby was then fired midway through by the producers . Maybe it was paranoia on the producers part ( Ashby had an addiction to cocaine , ironically considering the subject matter of the film , and perhaps he was still on it during filming ) , or he did genuinely screw up somehow , but seeing that he wasn't part of the production all the way through , it casts the film in something of another light . Taking it as it is , there's some entertainment to be had with the tense dialog from Stone between Bridges and Garcia , and also some good chemistry between Bridges and Arquette . Hell , there's even a compelling undercurrent of redemption that's to be had with Bridges's Matthew coming back from bad alcoholic blackouts to track down the killer of the call girl Sonny . But , and this is the crucial part , the film often has the feel as though it was seriously meddled with by the producers . This isn't to say Ashby's touches with his actors isn't there , as that's compelling enough , but the soundtrack in place makes this so painfully scream out 1980 THRILLER ! that it boggles the mind like a hangover with Miami Vice . And there's even a section of the plot that , as perhaps with Matthew as well , blacks out right after Sonny's death . Certain other scenes don't feel like they had that touch of what came at least mostly naturally to Ashby , which was interesting editing . It would've been one thing if this was just another in a series of damned efforts from the director ( apparently another film he made also had this happen to him ) , but given that it's also his final directed feature , albeit after the fact , adds to the shamefulness . Does 8 Million Ways to Die deserve a director's cut ? Maybe so , maybe not , as it stands it's a competent , mostly satisfying thriller . But we'll never know either way .
decent enough entertainment for what you might expect	Ivan Reitman unfortunately ( today ) doesn't have the real goods on directing spectacular fantasy comedies that work for all ages and can rake in the huge bucks . It's not that he's become a bad director , but that in an age where the ' Frat pack ' grosses nearly 100 million or more at a clip with each film they put out , his kind of comedy is a near-dying breed . This being said , I was glad - if not enthralled - to see My Super Ex-Girlfriend , a pleasant diversion that gives some good moments on its one-joke premise . It boasts also some very good performances from Uma Thurman as the ultra-neurotic and high-strung Jenny Johnson aka G-Girl , who can be as nuts as she is sweet and dangerous as heroic , and even Luke Wilson playing a typical kind of role with his sort of charm and off-handed way of playing scenes . Anna Faris from Scary Movie is decent enough too , if not much to work with character-wise , as the real flame of the story . Even Eddie Izzard pops in as the ' Arch Nemesis ' of the picture . Even with a premise as catchy as the one for My Super Ex-Girlfriend , only so much is made up from it . And there are , needless to say for an Ivan Reitman comedy , some really funny moments . One of them is when Thurman's G-girl persuades the reluctant Wilson to get it on while in mid-flight up in her super-duper grasp in the sky . Even the shark bit , which can be seen countless times on the TV ads , is amusing . Unfortunately , Reitman's writer doesn't really mine enough chances for bigger laughs aside from mostly sexual gags an innuendo , and the performance by the buddy of Wilson's , played by Rainn Wilson ( no relation ) is an under-cooked character of hormonal ties that keep him tethered as the hapless advice giver that really isn't too smart or of as much enjoyment as other characters . Indeed , that might've been my biggest beef with the film was that parts of the story - which Reitman obviously cares about and does make interesting past the gags - becomes undercooked in the last act , and ultimately very transparent . It becomes somewhat of a struggle to care about these people , even amid absurd situations , which was never really a problem in other more successful Reitman films . My Super Ex-Girlfriend does provide enough good gags and humor , decently professional craftsmanship ( no quick editing , with the special effects kept grounded enough not to get too goofy or off the wall ) , and it's a fair bit of summertime fun for audiences . That it is less than the sum of its parts isn't too surprising though .
there's more potential than is really tapped into in the Illusionist	The Illusionist is actually more than anything an actor's movie , which is a little ironic considering how much romantic sweep and movement there should be in the writing and directing . In terms of Neil Burger's direction , it's never really bad at all , and is very competent most of the time ( aside from a couple of notable instances involving the ' soft focus ' around the edges of the frame in flashbacks and one sex scene ) . The writing , however , is a little more lacking even if it's also never annoying or deterring from what's watchable in the film . But there's contrivances as well , through all that is supposed to be seen as complex and very intricate and exquisite . The latter of those can be tapped into in the period setting of early 20th century Vienna , and it's always professionally done . But there's something lacking to it as well - a real driving force through the romantic core of the story , and that supporting characters are more interesting than the main characters , almost in spite of the performances . And as mentioned , if there's any reason more than anything to see it it's for the acting , where Edward Norton makes a character who's own purpose and need in the film is very narrow ( to make his illusions , but more than anything all for the possession and togetherness of another woman , played by Jessica Biel ) . As a child he , Eisenheim , and Sophie meet and fall in love , but are separated by the boundaries of class . Years pass , and she comes back into his life by chance , but now she has a suitor , a Prince played by the icy Rufus Sewell . When a certain tragedy befalls the situation of the Prince and his bride-to-be , this sets Eisenheim off into a whole new direction with his illusions ( Norton often in a trembling , shocked trance look that is always convincing ) by conjuring up lost souls . This the sets off Paul Giamatti's inspector character , and the ties become all the greater to what may become of the central question , however elusive it might seem . All of this might be even more compelling if the actual romantic plot felt stronger . But despite the impeccable skills of Norton , who makes this bland character driven and intuitive ( his choices as an actor are very good here if not great ) , and the OK presence of Biel , their characters aren't as interesting as the tricks and leap-of-faith sized wonders that Eisenheim creates on the stage . If anything at times the film felt stronger and with a better purpose and strength with Giamatti on screen , as he is more than anything the part of the audience , trying to figure things out . By the end his own revelation is probably the biggest leap of all , almost Shyamalan-sized , yet I find his performance is what sticks with me as opposed to the twists and surprises thrown to the audience . It's almost as if the iron-clad conventions of the plot and the intensity , passion and creativity of what goes on in Eisenheim's total control battle it out for dominance . I'd recommend the Illusionist , but with some reservations that not the spectacular event that it might seem to be . Its got skill and tact and a very fine sensibility with Norton and Giamatti and even the dastardly done Prince by Sewell . Though at the same time it's really got nothing up its sleeve .
a film I admire even as it's lacking	I think after seeing writer / director Michael Mann's the Insider and Collateral , maybe I expected a little too much from Miami Vice . But then , even as an 80's baby , I've never seen a single episode of the original Don Johnson TV show that Mann was crucially part of . His film adaptation of the show will definitely appeal to his main fans , but as a stand-alone action-packed blockbuster thrill-ride , it does and doesn't deliver . It's hard to explain why a film like this should work better , because it does contain enough grit and intensity to be a step above other knock-off type films with rough , smart , intuitive cops who don't take s from no one , and the even more dangerous criminals . But for a film from Mann , who is probably one of only several in Hollywood who can have such an auteur-like status over a production as sprawling and big-time as Miami Vice , there's something that just didn't connect with me like his other films . And it's something that is hard to really say as criticism , but it is a film that is more interesting as a kind of digital action-drama experiment than as a real entertainer . The people on screen might be depicting some kind of close-to-reality type of world where the guns are very real and those on either side don't have overtly tongue-in-cheek jabs at each other . But on the other hand , it's not really that much fun either . Another liability with a film like this , which takes itself seriously enough to try and use the style of its different look and of its two leads , is that the story should be more clear . At the core of this film is a story that was meant , I'd assume , in the vein of the Miami Vice TV show , is more of a B-type story than something big like Mann is aiming for . To compensate , the director's script is so concentrated on keeping to the lines of the tense and narrow ( and occasionally clichéd which is good and bad ) that a kind of un-reality permeates through the characters and the scenarios . In other words the story is not really as interesting as it thinks it is . Nevertheless , the actors as mentioned do carry themselves enough for their parts , with each understanding their character's lack of characterization left mostly for broad strokes . For example , the sub-plot involving Colin Farrel and his romantic interest ( who is also the main drug dealer's beau and business partner ) , doesn't develop much further than allowing for the stylistic flourishes . They do look terrific together on screen , as repeated Audioslave songs pop up with the near cinema-verite angles Mann imposes . But the script doesn't give them much more to do than provide two-dimensional fodder for later in the film . I guess what I mean to say about Miami Vice , for all of its ambitions to rise above the material and be a kind of fresh take on the crime / cop action genre with drugs and SWAT teams filmed in HD , is not up to par with what Mann is capable of as a filmmaker . His heart is in it , but it's one that doesn't seem to be as interested in going a little deeper into the character's psychologies like in the film's previously mentioned , but more into getting tighter angles and tough hand-held night shots that border on becoming distracting . It's a picture in the end that does deliver what it promises to its viewers - sexy scenes , thrilling gun-fights , tense negotiation type moments , rotten-to-the-bone villains and slick good guys - and will probably be a let down if you look for more underneath the surface / think about it much afterwards . . . When I look back on it now months later , not really memorable .
post-apocalyptic quasi-guilty pleasure that's better for Heston fans than those looking for I Am Legend	I got what I wanted out of the Omega Man , though if it were a better made movie then I might feel the need to add it to my collection as opposed to sending it back as a rental . It starts off with a very funny and terrifically surreal set-up as Charleton Heston drives around in a red convertible , no one else in the city , with an 8-Track playing muzak . Suddenly , he stops in front of a building , sees something moving around behind the window , and takes out his machine gun firing off some rounds at the figure . Bizarre enough ? How about when he stops off at a movie theater , which has " held over " the documentary Woodstock , as Heston reels up the film in the projection room and watches it for what must be the 10th time ( he talks along with one of the interviewees at one point ) . So far in the film it's deliciously ambiguous as to what the hell is going on , aside from Heston being the only guy in a deserted city ( LA ) with a machine gun and love for the Woodstock film . Deep down , I knew that the story would soon have to unfold , but I wonder how classic the film could be if it continued on this experimental track of mind . The story then unfolds , and it's sort of hit or miss as far as 70s ( pre-Star Wars , post Planet of the Apes ) science fiction goes . A group known as the " family " survivors of a nuclear holocaust who go around in black robes looking like monks with pale faces and completely white pupils , are after Heston's ex-scientist , who somehow got a vaccine together for himself before the plague went totally widespread . He has a good hold-up in a penthouse , with an amusing bust of an old general he talks to and a big TV / mirror he uses for narcissistic purposes . Did I mention the guns ? Lots of them ; one wonders if scenes from this film are ever shown at NRA conventions ( ironically though , the scene where he shoots a monk who's somehow crawled his way up to the penthouse , was in Bowling for Columbine for a moment , which adds to it being unintentionally hilarious when it comes around ) . Soon though once the more strange parts of the film give way to the more typical ones ; the other survivors , not the ' family ' but some group who somehow didn't get infected ( though could ) , bring Heston into the fold , though with some mixed results . Chiefly that our hero gets to bed down with a foxy black lady with a huge afro , and one of the kids infected , who gets cured , stupidly ( more-so stupidly plot-wise ) tries to convince the ' family ' that they can be cured too , which is the last thing on their minds . As an action film , it's surprisingly not as intense as I imagined from hearing the bits of hype and seeing clips from the film . True , it's a lot of fun seeing Heston chew on the dialog and give just a look , or a laugh , and make it worthwhile as some typical Heston machismo , and if there is a situation involving lots of half-dead fellows with wicked intentions it's a sure-fire bet to have a guy like him around . But the story around it seems too undercooked - this is from someone who has yet to read Matheson's book - or rather not appropriately enough in ambiguity while at the same time not really raising any questions like the much more successful Planet of the Apes did . When it comes down to it , The Omega Man is a neat time capsule , especially for those who want to see Heston kick ass and sort of take names ( and maybe just to watch it for all the ironic reasons of a nut like Heston being president of the NRfantasy for him , who knows ) . Just don't go looking for a landmark .
good if you're looking for a memorial of heroism and courage , though short of really affecting	Maybe part of my reaction to Oliver Stone's latest directorial effort , World Trade Center , is not totally the film's fault , or maybe it is , I still can't decide . Months ago I saw what I thought was the ultimate take on the pain , horror and bottomless grief that came from with United 93 , which took a full-on documentary approach with one particular story from that day and without a known cast or really well-known director made an incredibly emotional film . With World Trade Center , this time we get one of the chief directors working today with melodrama and heightened emotions , who more often than not does make it work for his goals . It also has a cast of known Hollywood actors , such as Nicholas Cage ( as the star ) , Maria Bello , Maggie Gyllenhaal , Stephen Dorff , and Jay Hernandez among others . That matched with a story that has no real villains aside from the elements around them ( i . e . a mountain of rubble ) , and given a more old-fashioned approach to the devastation , puts the film at more of a distance for the viewer . This is a respectable , well-made dramatization of the events of these two un-questionably brave policemen . If it isn't better than it could've been , it's because of its ambitions as a simply respecting , and sentimental detailing . This is not to say that Stone and first-time writer Andrea Berloff don't put up some very effective scenes . It's just that they often have to share time with material that , while probably not far from the truth , are too typical or diverting from what is compelling . For example , the early scenes as the chaos first comes up with the first plane hitting the tower , and the officers going in , is just the right pacing for this set-up material . When officers John McLoughlin ( Cage ) and Will Jemeno ( Michael Pena ) are under the rubble , which is very well constructed by Stone's designers for full authenticity , their scenes together are close to touching . Even a moment when Jesus comes into the picture via Stone's use of symbolism isn't lost on me . But it's in the cutting back to the families of the men where I started to feel the disconnect . I understand the purpose of showing the worrying , sorrowful wives and kids in this situation , but it becomes almost like filling up the running time , especially in the most unnecessary scenes of the film in the flashbacks showing both men before the incidents . This added with Stone's hit or miss tactic of visual melodrama makes the film lesser than it could be . But this is all personal gripes , and what I did expect from the film I did get . There are more than enough scenes that hit the buttons that should be met about the bravery and heroism of those who responded to the towers collapse . And Stone is tactful enough not to go all Michael Bay on us with his style ( and , at the least , keep a kind of restraint that seems to be a good rebound after Alexander ) . He keeps his actors in a state of mind that fits the subject matter , and even in the moments that do border on being in a TV-movie ( though in the end a stroke above a TV-movie ) , they're never un-true to what their characters need to be for the material . World Trade Center is meant to hit the mainstream movie-going audience , unlike the more independent-minded and un-restricted United 93 , and for a mass audience it's just the right touch of pathos that's not too soon five years later .
ends up working better than it should , thanks to Seinfeld and some irreverent puns and jokes	My expectations weren't very high for Bee Movie , but it somehow fulfilled what little hope I had that the star power would come through . Unlike Sharktale , where an equally admirable couple of talents combined voice-work ( Scorsese and De Niro ) , Jerry Seinfeld , who co-wrote and co-produced the picture as well , has the right kind of attitude to change up the typical animated movie while not ever reinventing it . It's a tricky enterprise to recommend , because for kids it might have some wit to it that they might not really get , despite the color palette being almost as fresh as Pixar's Cars , and for adults there isn't the plethora of instantly quotable lines and unforgettable innuendo and eccentricities from the great ' show about nothing ' . But considering that it's coming from a man who's never done a starring role in a movie , let alone an animated one , or that it's his first time attempting to write one , it's successful in a sense . That sense , really , is that a sort of sensibility from his stand-up comedy has carried over . All the little observations on the topic of bees and honey and what have you are covered , head to stinger , and a lot of the best moments are when the actors feel like they're riffing like on a stand-up stage . Although the actual storyline itself is kind of clunky and a little like a so-so children's book ( save for the elements of the lawsuit and its outcome , which if one pay's attention to the news lately has even environmental relevance with bees and their connection to pollination ) , the filmmakers are able to straddle the line to make it worthwhile as a ' family ' film , with equal bits of fun for young and old . Old , in the sense that the jokes about Ray Liotta , Sting , southern lawyers named " Ali-Buy " , possible ethnically stereotyped bees ( Barry's family , wee bit like his folks on Seinfeld ) , will get them more than the kiddies . Even when interest in the actual outcome of the situation grows a little weary , and a climax at an airport and up in the air doesn't completely work , little things just stick out very well . It's a vibrant , fast-paced CGI-feature , lacking the power and gravitas of a PIXAR film , but at the same time not stooping to the sophomoric levels that many another CGI movie ( including the Shrek films ) go for . Not exactly a very good movie , but very far from a bad one : it's like a Jerry Seinfeld concert special about bees , nothing but , and somehow , however unlikely , with a fairly charming performance as an actor - as opposed to the sitcom , where he was , more or less , playing himself in an equally crazy world . Other cool voice-work , by the way , from Patrick Warburton , Chris Rock , John Goodman , and Michael Richards .
strong performances + significant problems in NYPD drama	Interesting to see the reactions to Pride and Glory on IMDb : some people like it a lot , so much so that they rank it as one of their favorite films of the year , while others rank it low , very low , saying it's low-end predictable trash that rips off from every other cop movie around including last year's We Own the Night ( that title comes up often , which I can't comment on as I've yet to see it ) . I might be one of those small handful that are in the middle : Pride and Glory is an alright cop drama , not amazing or really terrible . It borrows from many movies and TV shows , this much is definite , and its directorial style goes between fine competence with actual dialog scenes ( with the occasional noir-ish flourish ) and overbearing with the hand-held in action scenes . It seems as if no cop drama in recent memory can quite come up to the height that Narc reached with that - coincidentally in this case Narc director Carnahan had a part in writing P & G's script - and for most of the running time the film suffers from a lack of real stylistic vigor . But , thankfully a big but , the performances are all stellar all-around . From the big players like Edward Norton ( who , unless under duress or restraint by the studio , turns in fantastic work that's subtle for the camera but as intense as a theater performance ) and Colin Farrell ( gaining cred fast this year with this , In Bruges and underrated Cassandra's Dream ) , Jon Voight ( who , somehow , has bounced back from the STP-nightmare appearance in Bratz ) , and character actor Noah Emmerich ( often with one facial expression - tension and an inner sadness - but still good if not as good as Little Children ) , to Jennifer Ehle who plays Emmerich's dying wife who is , for every moment she's on screen , absolutely terrific and even makes great scenes out of otherwise OK elements . This is , in fact , a real actor's movie , unlike Righteous Kill which rested entirely on he heels of its two stars , and for all the black - and - white - and - sometimes - gray areas of the script - about a family of cops who become embroiled in one member , Jimmy ( Farrell ) and his incredulously corrupt dealings and murders - the bulk of the cast make it more than watchable : one is almost fooled from time to time , with all its rampant cursing and crazy bits ( i . e . threatening hot-iron on a baby ) , that it is great . But it isn't . So much of its plot is middling and only sparks of fascinating scenes keep it together , like when a sleazy Hispanic character pays a personal call to Jimmy's house while his family is home , and its final 15 minutes are a mix of wild hysterics ( a supporting character , part of Jimmy's corrupt crew , snaps in a convenience store during a ' pick-up ' and a big race-inspired protest happens on cue ) and a true-blue Irish bar fight that perhaps would've benefited from John Ford rising from the grave to guest direct . So catch it on TV , now that it's almost gone from theaters , if you haven't seen it yet , and judge for yourself if it's high , low , or in the middle of expectations . I'm in the middle , though it does seem like the kind of OK movie that may play better on repeat viewings when nothing much else is on .
a minor effort from Apatow and company , but still better than some other comedies	Could one expect more from Drillbit Taylor's script ? Sure - it's written by Kristofer Brown and Seth Rogen , Beavis & Butt-head alumni and Apatow mega-star respectively ( plus a guy named ' Edmond Dantes ' , which is really John Hughes oddly enough ) - but for what it's worth , as a rental , it's not the worst that could happen . If it is lackluster it's because of the prototypical nerds-vs-bullies element , plus the nerd that wants the girl , and the ' hero ' of the story of the title who goes through ups and downs with his " employers " . Of course , it's also hard to dislike Owen Wilson , who's like one of those scruffy dogs that comes up and yaps and chases its tail and has a charm and fun time , when it's needed . Here Wilson is a bum AWOL soldier who by quick luck sees a job posting for a ' bodyguard ' . The job is posted by a few freshman kids , two longtime friends and one an even bigger geeky dude than the others , who are looking for protection against a really horrible bully and his cohort ( he's the kind of bully that will charge if you put the color red over his face , and of course no one else will stand up to him ) . It's fun times then seeing Drillbit - named , we later find out , for a pinkie accident in high school - teach these kids to buck up and fight the bullies . It becomes a little cluttered plot-wise with Wilson starting to then date the school English teacher ( Leslie Mann ) , and it's sometimes only mildly amusing when it could be shooting the moon comedy wise . Then again , I'm not quite the right demographic for this kind of formulaic high school comedy ; if you're a 11 or 12 year old kid , you'll like this movie a whole lot , and without sounding too sanctimonious it's a little more appropriate then some of the raunchiest stuff in Superbad ( if , again , not as funny ) . Perhaps it's slightly ' safer ' than some of the Apatow productions , even if it's still fairly violent and intermittently crude . A lot of , thankfully in a way , rests on its young actors playing the nerds , the whacked out bully , and Wilson who can go between straight-man and comic relief pretty well . In short , a good rental , though don't rush out for it .
a fever dream that fans may or may not respond to ; a flawed trip into the world of nightmares	Twin Peaks : Fire Walk With Me is quite the perplexing film as both a David Lynch and Twin Peaks fan , because it's got qualities that should make for one of the best works of the director and doesn't really hit the mark . The problem , in a way , is somewhat comparable to the problem of Dune . There , Lynch's lack of control was something that made it a tough journey to go through , even as there was much to see as pure Lynchian cinema . Yet here with Fire Walk With Me it's almost an overwhelming notion of control that has him going way into a column of intriguing danger where pretension becomes a recognizable factor . It also doesn't help that the end result would benefit from being instead one crammed-in crammed as two . The story of Chester Diamond ( Chris Isaak ) and his disappearance while working on a Twin Peaks-related case has the makings for a much more interesting spin-off , where the universe is still intact that Lynch and company have created but has a whole different trajectory with the characters . Meanwhile , there's the detailed back-story of Laura Palmer's final days , and it's here that Lynch starts to lose his balance . Because Lynch and company made Laura Palmer a much more captivating and deliriously melodramatic force with pure , surrealistic overtones in the past tense on the show , seeing it unfold in present-tense time , with the singularly warped Palmer / Bob / father-daughter dynamic going loses its power . It might not for some ; the bits where one can see why Lynch and Engels went into this excursion in the tale of Palmer are reminiscent of the best that Twin Peaks on TV had to offer ; some of these are the dreams , like the re-appearance of the dwarf with " I am the arm " as a crucial , hilarious scene . But at the same time it almost feels exploitive , as a fan , and for newcomers to TP ( which would be better if you're not in seeing this , unless you're up for a lot of upfront scenes of weird and wild characterization and style ) the revelations feel a little more shallow and sensationalized for content purposes . All your favorite cast members are back , and in Phantom Menance style not really always with as much attention or depth as one could want or feel necessary . But then , was a Twin Peaks prequel necessary to begin with ? This question , which can be a nagging one watching the film at times , has to be put aside for the fact that a prequel now exists and it is what it is . The perception of Fire Walk With Me is tricky because Lynch , Engels and company are not really about getting to deeper truths about the nature of mystery , evil's ongoing pervasive quality , and the subconscious , but in flaunting style ( i . e . the nightclub scene , a likely inspiration for the one in Babel ) as a means of going further and further with the ever-lurid , more HBO-than-Primetime story of Laura's downward spiral . It goes without saying that the line between psychological upheaval and mythology is tested to a degree of fascination as part of the whole creation of the ' Bob ' myth and the Black Lodge themselves . This being said , it's sort of odd and all the same seeing Lynch try to get through a work that is almost too big , too personal , too abstracted , and nearly too easy as too much in a scheme of excess , as he's one of the few American filmmakers today who can create some watchable cinema - occasionally powerful and frightening - as it ironically doesn't work . I'd rather watch Lynch mess something up than a far more deliberate attempt from a Hollywood director . Perhaps a late night viewing sometime may change my mind at some point in the future , as will more contemplation in general about what the darks side of Twin Peaks has to offer as opposed to the more light ( if ' light ' is the word to use ) scenes and well-rounded cast of eccentrics . There's even a noteworthy turn by the film's leading lady , Sheryl Lee , and a wonderfully outrageous dream sequence involving Cooper and some random southern guy played by David Bowie . Nevertheless , FWWM is a slight , disappointing trip , and not up to par with the standard , however high , set by the show as a whole .
there are complaints to be had , but mostly it's a fun summer action movie	Will Smith is a great star in Hollywood , and it's fun to see him in Hancock work his way with a character who's an " a-hole " ( don't call him that , by the way , that's the buzz word ) for the first half and then starts to open up and not be so much one in the second half . If for no other reason to see the film it's for him and for people like Jason Bateman and Charlize Theron to show what potential they have with their talents ; Theron especially reminds an audience every once in a while that she won an Oscar for a reason . And , it's also for the first half of the way through the 90 minute running time a wonderful dark comedy that takes itself seriously but also pokes fun at a superhero who doesn't give a flying f and bums around saving people while also drinking his ass off and destroying lots of property . But at some point when the writers decide to develop the mythology of the character , who is apparently somewhat God-like and is immortal under specific circumstances but also has ' another ' like him ( I won't say who , spoiler ) , and they don't give it enough time to really sink in after the somewhat ' twist ' occurs of the way through . And anything humorous in the first half is gone pretty much by near-movie's end , leaving it in the hands of Peter Berg , the director . This was the aspect of Hancock that grated down at me . Berg and his cameraman's style is to usually not bother with things like steadicams or dollys or a camera simply still on a tri-pod or other and to make everything hand-held and wobbly and oddly shot and ( in the case of the hospital climax ) just awfully lit and shot . It comes off as more-so amateurish than being intense or realistic , and it definitely doesn't fit the kind of movie it's meant to be placed in ( i . e . JULY 4TH SUMMER BLOCKBUSTER , hello ! ) And yet , even with the problems I had , I wouldn't stop anyone from seeing Hancock , as a good way to kill an hour and a half and to enjoy some of Smith's best work to date . He's a charismatic and multi-faceted actor , but his star quality meshes well , and it's a performance that's worth every minute to see he's on screen for . If only the rest of the movie were as good as he and his co-stars .
a combination of Phillip K Dick and Dan O'Bannon in a better than average / less than great sci-fi flick	Screamers is like one of those made-for-HBO science fiction programmers from the mid 90s , except that there's some brighter things going for it . One of these is that it's based on a short story by one of the hallmark authors of science fiction , Philip K Dick , and another is that the script mostly got work done ( and seems most noticeable ) by Dan O'Bannon , writer behind Alien and Return of the Living Dead . There's more weight in levels of irony , not always the uproarious variety but more nuanced and violent , more in putting some good twists to the clichés that are taken for granted in stories set in desolate futuristic environments ( the discovery of a cute abandoned child , the devilish nature of the ' screamers ' themselves and how their more advanced counterparts work , the personalities of the crew that Peter Weller's character discovers at the base , and how each member soon dies / gets killed off ) . This might also be attributable to O'Bannon , who tackled this in his previous successes in films , but to say who is totally responsible for what can only be said for those who've read Dick's story Second Variety , which I have not . However it should be said , if only on some level of understanding from reading past works of his , it feels like it has a level of faith to the source , albeit changing locations and certain details in the situations , by being approximately cynical to the characters . The only problem then comes in with it being directed , more or less , as a standard slightly-higher-in-quality made for TV movie . It's by no means a sci-fi channel movie of the week , however Screamers might have fared a little better with its challenging and darkly funny bits without director Christian Duguay , who is professional enough to make it watchable on such a low budget ( low for how it looks anyway ) , but doesn't give certain scenes enough juice to really fly past where it stays at being average . The cast too is a little more of the regular variety , with isn't totally a bad thing ; by having character actors , B-level character actors ( if that ) , it helps add to the levels of slight subversion in this story they're in about technology gone to the dogs on a snow planet in 2078 . I liked seeing actors cast to type , like Andrew Lauer as the ' kid ' who's got enough experience as a soldier but is still pretty naive in other ways ; Roy Dupis in a sublimely duplicitous role ; Jennifer Rubin as the token tough girl . Even Weller has his right place in the framework , not too cocky a hero but with enough confidence to carry a picture without the Robocop gear . I even enjoyed some of the action set-pieces , with one especially involving a whole field of Davids ( the little robot boy ) . There's also a slight issue that has to be contended which is too many ' gotcha ' addendums to the climax . It's not enough that one character suddenly appears as another cyborg , but that there's another , and then another . . . and then finally one last wink in the final shot ( which actually does work as a creepy last bit ) , and it's detracting from what is attempting to be a little more substantial . It's only when the hints of things not staying all happy-in-the-end do the director and actors really hit good ground . Screamers has more than its share of moments , and it will continue to be an underrated find by sci-fi fans as the years go by . That it's nowhere near the best of Dick's adaptations - and not the worst - is understandable .
I can't really recommend it , but I was engaged enough in it as a die-hard Romero fan	Oh the days when independent films were made and sometimes barely ever seen . That still happens to this day , but at least now there's DVD ( matter of fact that was the only way I could get to see There's Always Vanilla - it's next to impossible to find on bootleg ) . In , George A . Romero and the Latent Image , his production company that previously established itself big-time with Night of the Living Dead , decided to go a more romantic / dramatic route , as there seemed to be a possible small market for it . Unfortunately , the scriptwriter , Rudy Ricci , was haphazard and scatter-shot with his contributions , and the script was never finished until the end of filming ( it came to the filmmakers scene by scene ) , so even though there are characters to get interested in as a ' character study ' , Chris Bradley and Lynn Harris ( Ray Lane and Judith Streiner respectively ) , sometimes the dialog and situations become contrived . The main thrust of the story comes from Lynn's relationship to Chris , as Chris is a sort of man-child , who comes into her life suddenly one day after abandoning an older women he may or may not have fathered a kid with , and somehow through his constant sarcasm and lackadaisical charm that gets her into bed . But Chris , as we soon finds out , uses the wit and charms and occasional obnoxious means of talk to mask insecurities . He doesn't work , and when the opportunity comes he backs out . It all leads up to his father relaying a ' meaning ' : there's always vanilla . It's not totally incomprehensible to see why Romero , on an interview featured on the DVD , is completely assured with his feelings that it was a low-point in his career where he tried to gain more experience as a filmmaker and fell flat on his face . There is that side to the picture that is unequivocally dated , and the lack of a better budget or a means to a better structure ( particularly an ending that feels complete or make sense ) is frustrating . But a filmmaker sometimes has to feel that way about certain films , as the experience making it becomes a personal struggle whereas other times it could become a personal triumph ( he still considers Day of the Dead a favorite , mostly for the experience making it ) . Ironically though it's his own skills as a director and editor and director of photography that rises the material to a level of watchability . It's no Cassavetes - as another reviewer noted - but he treats the material with a control that wavers between late 60s early 70s exploitation film-making ( of the period , of course , with some scenes with psychedelia bits and music and pot ) , and a more grounded tone for the actors to follow . And sometimes Romero's given by Ricci a compelling scene to shoot , like when Lynn has to deal with a certain ' problem ' she may need to take care of , but decides at the last moment to run away from it . Or , of course , when Romero cuts the scenes together , sometimes around Chris's confessions to the audience about his mistakes and own feelings at certain times , which pop in at a good rhythm . Or the way he doesn't putz around with montage - often a high-quality trademark in Romero films - even when dealing with schmaltzy scenes like the quasi courtship of Chris and Lynn in a park or on a boat ( I also really liked the one liners each character traded off on one another in the park - marking the shallowness of the period ) . And the actors do bring qualities of believability to scenes that somehow work almost in spite of the flaws in the material ; Laine is actually charming and affable , carrying over similar qualities from the next collaboration with Romero in Season of the Witch , and Streiner is even better here than she was in ' Living Dead ' , as a woman who has to contend with being the mature one in a relationship where a falsity to it rings true almost every day . By the time one sees those balloons fly out of the cardboard box to the cheesy singing ( and usually there is cheesy music here ) , it's clear that this isn't Romero's finest dip into a change of pace . But even in a miscalculation there are intriguing , humorous notes touched on , and that no matter what Romero can somehow be pragmatic with his material , and chooses experimental angles in an otherwise typical low-budget effort .
only a little more than South Park-lite thanks to Steve Coogan	Hamlet 2 is sophomoric , satirical , stupid , trying to be smart while being stupid , and anchored by another winning go-for-broke comic turn from Steve Coogan . It's hard for me to see him doing much wrong , be it the segment with Alfred Molina in Coffee and Cigarettes , 24 Hour Party People or , most of all , Tristram Shandy . It's the biggest credit of all that he is even able to make this film directed and co-written by Andrew Fleming as watchable and occasionally clever as it is . He tries , Lord , oh how he tries to rise up this character into something really memorable , and it is . Though not too ironically while he gave the more prominent and funnier performances in Hamlet 2 his supporting turn in this month's Tropic Thunder was another reminder how brilliantly stupid that was compared to this . Perhaps it's also a difference in talent - instead of Robert Downey Jr giving the bravura comic performance of his career we get Amy Pohler in a hysterical and unsatisfying bit as an ACLU attorney and Elisabeth Shue as , well , Elisabeth Shue - but there's also a factor in the script that separates one as a modern classic and the other as more of a minor work ( if more raunchy and intentionally un-PC ) . It's about a down on his luck actor played by Coogan who's married to a drunk wife ( Catherine Keener ) who scoffs at him any chance she can and after striking out in commercial gigs now teaches pro-bono as a drama teacher at a high school . He's about to get thrown off that gig too ( unlike Max Fischer in Rushmore he can't seem to get luck putting theatrical adaptations of screen classics like Erin Brockovich ) due to budget cuts , but suddenly gets inspiration : he writes Hamlet 2 , a crude musical about a time machine , a rock ' n ' roll Jesus , and face-rape . It's in part a parody of all those goody-too-shoes feel-good movies of inspiration with the teacher leading the rag-tag group of kids into something worth their while ( Dead Poets Society is mentioned more than once in this regard ) , and as a lighter and more raw satire on celebrity and the craft of acting . Sadly , however , it's a slightly hit or miss affair ; sometimes I'm laughing a whole lot as some of the scenes and set-pieces , other times I'm rolling my eyes or lightly groaning at the obvious moments even as I know they're taken as a goof on other movies . The script was co-written by South Park writer Pam Brady , and it's worth noting that a lot of the humor is akin to that Parker / Stone creation ( there's even a character slightly akin to a Kenny , a mute girl who gets knocked about every other scene till towards the end when she SPEAKS UP in caps ) , only it lacks that really stinging wit and almost arrogance in going to the limits to offend with hilariousness . The closest she and Fleming come to this delirious attention to detail is with the actual musical as the climax , with everything from a Grease send up ( " Rock Me , Sex Me , Jesus " is my favorite ) to Elton John is used , and even then there's an inter-cutting scheme to the big brew-haha outside with protesters and firefighters and Amy Pohler screaming about who knows what . And at the center of it all is Coogan , who delivers on little things like singing poetical on a keyboard to Flashdance songs and is funny just skating on his roller skates everywhere because he doesn't have a car ; and don't get him started if he's got acid or grain alcohol in his system . It's a swell showcase for his talents , and maybe shows some promise with the high school kids , but it's also kind of a slight work . I wouldn't say it's a very good movie , but if you must rock your sexy Jesus on , or find Coogan the funniest thing around , then it's a good pit-stop for the moment .
Greenwald is better at documentaries than fiction , but its fairly watchable	Unlike some others who have commented on Steal This Movie on IMDb , I don't know that much about Abbie Hoffman , aside from the obvious that he was a fervent protester in the late 60's , and enough of a symbol of the anti-war and anti-Government movement to get a bit part in Forrest Gump ( he's the " war in Viet-ing-Nam " guy ) . So as part entertainment and part information this film does its job adequately , even as I recognized the film's flaws . It's not without its plus side - if you're a fan of Vincent D'Onofrio ( and to me he has an impressive career as a character actor from Full Metal Jacket to The Cell ) , this is one of the better treats of his career as he lets his hair down ( literally ) and portrays a man on a downward spiral . What's interesting about the story of Hoffman is how he keeps on with the same spirit even as he's forced into hiding in the 70's . D'Onofrio plays the chaotic , but focused , counterculture icon with enough energy and conviction to make up for the fact that it IS a movie-version of the character . As well as this , actors like Janeane Garofalo and Donal Logue are really playing versions of these people that are convincing up to a point . But the problems in the film are more to do with the direction by Robert Greenwald ; he's not as imaginative in treating the material as he thinks he MIGHT be , even as he uses numerous visuals and cutaways in some montage scenes , and adds a typical soundtrack to the proceedings . The script doesn't feel too false in later scenes showing Hoffman's mental breakdown , but it isn't as convincing as I imagine the book ( s ) on and by Hoffman must be . It's a very intriguing subject ( and I'm already a fan of the period ) that's given an adequate cinematic treatment . What's disappointing though for those who come across it will not be what's there but what isn't ; this is the kind of story and character that needs an Oliver Stone kind of treatment ( this is close to it , more like a knock-off ) .
it's good for a one-time viewing , but I'm not sure if I'd rush to see it again	Zatoichi Meets Yojimbo was good as a throwaway movie-of-the-night to watch with friends ( friends who were into Zatoichi and old samurai movies ) , but in the sense of it being something worthy of its stature , it didn't quite deliver . A big chunk of the problem , as many of reviewers as well as author Stuart Galbraith , was Toshrio Mifune wasn't really playing the character really as he was in the Kurosawa films . In the original Yojimbo and Sanjuro , Mifune crafted a true anti-hero bad-mutha samurai , who was grungy with his scratches , but also very cunning in how he could play both sides or act a little uncouth in his manipulations . Here , one just sees him acting like a stumbling drunk , and even a little like a scummy caricature of Yojimbo . Truth be told , it's meant more for Zatoichi fans - he was a HUGE title character , as played by its star Shintaro Katsu . But the problem there as well is that there have been better Zatoichi movies ( I haven't even seen many , but the few I've seen , and as repetitive as they can get , aren't shoehorned plot-wise like so ) . And this isn't totally to put the movie down , as a cash-in flick it does attempt at making some entertaining segments ( and I do like how the two of them decide at first to combine forces , so to speak ) . But it's all not very memorable , as many franchises end up doing when trying to combine their vehicle-makers , except for real die-hard fans of the stars or the genre . It's even sort of lackadaisically shot and edited , in a very formulaic manner .
almost in spite of , or despite , the shabby been-there-done-that script , and a near gimmick of weight loss , Bale makes it watchable	The Machinist is kind of like intellectual counterfeit money , and with a few twists meant to keep some interested and some keeping far as possible away . The more one thinks about the Machinist , the more it's irksome by the cluttered screenplay ( Scott Kosar , with the Texas Chainsaw Massacre and Amityville Horror remakes to his credit ) , which reveals no surprise , or much suspense , in the mental downfall of one-year insomniac Trevor Reznik ( mega-gaunt Christian Bale , even more-so than in the recent , more worthy cause Rescue Dawn ) as he keeps seeing a portly bald guy named Ivan who may or may not work at the factory he's a machinist at , and may or may not be dating a prostitute ( Jennifer Jason Leigh ) , AND who may or may not have taken a little boy Trevor sort of knows as hostage . By the time the obvious twist comes along - the kind that my girlfriend points out about a third of the way through the movie , aw-hell ! - there's a feeling of being cheated from the smug retread of better post-modern psycho-twister fables ( i . e . Fight Club ) . That Kosar does ' clever ' tricks like putting in Dostoyevsky hints , without ever making much light about why they're there , compounds some of the BS . It's a shame , too , because he sometimes gives these characters some believable dialog ( mostly with the machinists and in some of Reznik's talk ) , without trying to take into account a conceit that is used : an insomniac for a year is , practically , not possible , hence there has to be a catch at some point or another . It's almost like a battle that wages on the creative side of things between director Anderson's very good compositions and ( typical-for-this-stuff ) lighting , and the script . Meanwhile , Bale holds up , even if after the fact it's a wonder why he went to such extreme lengths for a character like this ( i . e . would losing 40 pounds be any different than the whole 60 ) . Bale remains totally captivating , immersing as always in service of the character like the most method m-fer since De Niro , though in the reverse here . Because it is such an extreme transformation - unlike the more gradual turn in Herzog's film - we're called attention to it at times , which is unnerving , and works to a much greater effect as a sign of his deterioration than that of the script providing the mental faculties . But Bale does his best to fill in some emotional blanks , and to his credit makes the Machinist at least a passable effort . That being said , it's hard for me to see myself watching this all the way through again .
has the makings of a good remake , though on its own it has its share of flaws	All the Kind Strangers was one of the fifty films that came packaged in a box-set titled " Nightmare Worlds " , and it was one of the rare films that wasn't science-fiction . Yet it probably has just as reason for being in the box-set as sci-fi flicks ; it's got the premise , at the least , and from the description ( wedged in with another movie on the one side of a two-sided disc ) sounds like a cross between the Little Rascals and Deliverance . At least , that would be the first impression had it reached its potential . As it stands , All the Kind Strangers does keep a hold of its creepiness for a while , as Stacy Keach ( playing well as a leading role , which he usually doesn't do ) is a photo-journalist who picks up a little kid carrying a big bag of flour back to his home . Just a normal thing , it seems , to help the little critter out . But then it's a long trek through the backwoods , specifically through a creek , and then to a house where there are seven kids and one " mom " , who really has been sort of kidnapped by the kids . He's kidnapped too , and made to be their dad as their parents are five-years gone . Dogs line the premises , and the pain kid Peter ( John Savage ) carries a shotgun . What to do ? There is actually probably a very good movie , even an extremely controversial one ( maybe on par with Deliverance if not more-so ) with the ingredients here . There's a whole power-structure element in place , the psychological unrest as Peter really is the head of the household - the kids don't know any better , least of all for wacky John ( Robby Benson , maybe the most tongue-in-cheek kid actor of the 70s ) - and how the kids , including Peter , do listen to Keach's ' dad ' if he's forceful enough . And there's even subtext thrown in that is never quite cleared up with a mute girl in the bunch ( obviously , as Frank Miller once wrote , grew up and filled out ) who keeps on eying and making subtle advances towards her new father . This would actually be challenging in better hands , but unfortunately it's A ) a TV movie , and B ) in an odd way meant as a dark twist for the Little Rascals kid's club . So it ends up playing it safe with material that , in the end , becomes preachy and tacky as the kids all decide that it's better to give in instead of having a ready-made mom and dad at the helm . Other things like the cars all drowned in the lake ( and the fact that who-knows how many people have died is left up in the air ) , and little technical things with the production ( i . e . do the kids really pay for the gas , and if not how come there are lights on in the house ? do kids take care of candles that well ? ) Not to mention the length issue ; at 74 minutes the holes are fairly abundant in the plot . But there are strengths here that do come out , even if seeing John Savage might inspire a " I believe in God " bit from Hair , as the acting is more than competent , and given how low the production values are the director gets a good amount of chills from the kids ( awkward might be the way to say it ) and chase scenes . It could make for a remake in good hands , exploring and altering some of the details . As it stands , it's an OK effort with an undercurrent that's sort of unique .
decent Lifetime-style movie that tries to deal with some simple-but-complex issues	Then She Found Me is Helen Hunt's directorial debut . Not a terrible one at all . She involves us , the audience , maybe more-so a female audience than male ( not that a man can't enjoy the movie on its comedy / drama terms ) , though this is mostly after its first quarter or third way through . Up until almost half an hour into the film , the entire picture feels rushed with incident and things suddenly happening to April ( Hunt ) , as she gets married , gets separated / sort-of-divorced , her adopted Jewish mother dies , and she maybe falls in love . Also , I forgot to mention , her real mother ( Bette Midler ) contacts her out of the blue and tells her that her father is maybe Steve McQueen . All she'd need is a bird going to the bathroom on her head to put the icing on the cake . What the story then develops as is how April deals with the men in her life - her new love played in the best performance by Colin Firth - and her ex played by Matthew Broderick , who may be the father of 39 year-old April's first possible baby . And , also , how the hell to cope with finally having a mother who abandoned her at the age of 16 . So much drama ! So much awkward comedy to boot , like both Firth and Broderick accompanying Hunt to the doctor on the baby situation ( featuring a surprise bit part from Salman Rushdie ! ) It's a shame then it only works so much ; Hunt wants for so much of this to click , but it's kind of like Bergman or Woody Allen-lite . While this makes it a slight cut above the other crappy Lifetime movies of its ilk , it isn't helped much by Midler , who is annoying as ever , and an unsatisfying ending . Take the wife or the misses or the new girlfriend . Then only remember in passing that you saw it and maybe liked it , a little .
can a vampire flick be occasionally interesting , usually OK , and sometimes really illogical ? 30 Days of Night is all that	30 Days of Night might be a lot better in the form of a comic-book ( never read it , heard many great things ) , but as a film it's derivative and original , really stupid ( mostly towards the end ) and with some solid thrills in both the classic and neo-forms . David Slade and his crew do an excellent job at creating a little Alaskan community surrounded by the ominous cold and snow , no argument there . It is something to see the baron streets like out of some ghost town in a western painted with splatter spots of blood , and then the shadows of these pesky vampires coming around the bend to catch their victims . And sometimes he and his director of photography get creative in a good way : I liked the over-head shot that looms above a scene of carnage , probably as something closest to the style of a comic book of this variety . It's also cool to see how Slade tries to emphasize the importance of the background , how even if it's all out of focus what you need to look out for what you don't expect to see , which will pounce and tear you to ribbons . This side is worth looking for in 30 Days of Night . But there are problems . I can see how there is already a surge of ' fan-boys ' for this movie , as it appeals to a chilling aesthetic if one hasn't seen many vampire movies before . I can also see how people hated it even more than me - it is trashy in the sense that it doesn't stop to make any logic out of how the vampires even get to the location by some wandering madman ( Ben Foster , should be the performance to garner him an Oscar - for overracting that is - following his actual terrifying part in 3 : 10 to Yuma ) across miles and miles of endless terrain from some foreign land . But in its own way it's a decent B-movie , loaded with some better budgeted effects and production design , as it lowers its sights into being a survival tale without too much pretense . This being said , it's hard not to look at how Slade and company make the vampires , how they move and attack and eat like they're the infected in the 28 Days Later movies , but at the same time still sort of generic when it comes time for their close-ups and one-on-one time , including having a leader of sorts , going back to the Blade series . And while it might be a little harder to make the connection , I can't look at bloody snow dogs in the snowy wilderness without thinking of the Thing - particularly the scene where they're most prominent . At the least , it stays conventionally pleasant , or gruesome , as it needs to be - it's predictable to a fault , but until the last five to ten minutes comfortably so : we got the hero ( Hartnett , who is OK in the role , but is better as a garnish ala Sin City ) , the tough girl , the big guy who has all the chops to take the buggers on , the young sprout teen who wants to prove himself , the naiive old folk , and Foster as the crazy guy . . . But then that ending , which makes any logical flaws beforehand look irrelevant in comparison . Hartnett , in an attempt to stop the vampires from getting the lead female , who's hiding under a car , amid a huge blaze set all across town the vampires set up , injects himself with a deceased vampire's blood , becomes one in part , and then goes out to fight the main bad-ass vampire leader . There's sections I could go on and on about this , from the factor of the fire to the other vampires just standing around not doing anything while there's a big meant-to-be-romantic fight to the un-death , to why they all left the convinience store in the first place . But it all comes off as unbelievable , even for a horror movie , and I couldn't help but laughing out loud as suddenly Hartnett comes back to win the day through a ridiculously gruesome manner . It's one of the worst endings I've seen in a movie this year , and almost left me with a worse taste in my mouth from what was previously an alright entry in the Sam Raimi-produced horror-for-kids of the moment .
if only the script were halfway as captivating as the animation / music	I remember seeing American Pop years ago , but not remembering much from it aside from its ' different ' kind of animation ( which I now know is rotoscoping where characters move life-like to the point where it's basically plopped onto the real people's action ) and music . The music , actually , more than the animation in a way . I remembered a few of the songs too , like " Somebody to Love " and " Night Moves " . Watching it now the animation pulls together with more of the historical concepts , but there's a problem with the film that I couldn't quite shake . Despite the really interesting and could-be-really-something kind of idea of charting one line of generation after generation in 20th century America through their disjointed lives and their connections to music , the script is weak . I'm not expecting it to be 100 % realistic - the animation of course in Baski's style makes things that much more abstracted - but in most scenes a ' point ' has to be made , and only very , very broad strokes are made with the characters . Only early in the film when the boy is passing out the fliers in the club , and with some of the scenes with Frankie , are there some convincing moments with character and dialog . But , then again , most who watch the film aren't looking for an amazing story , as the progression of one generation to the next is really just a bridge to the musical side of the film . This , on the other hand , is quite good , if understandably abbreviated for everything in American popular music ( i . e . blues isn't nearly given as much time as Jazz is ) . The early music in the film is typical , but quite amazing in how it then relays off of the images , later becoming all immersed in the counterculture times of the 50s , 60s and 70s . And the rotoscoping used here , while not of the highest quality , is at least trying to do something different with the medium , and on the visual side Bakshi does pull it off . Some sequences look rather complex ( world war 2 scenes come to mind , also the more psychedelic scenes ) , even as it all does border on becoming tedious . The combination of music and film does create some memorable , if dated , material to view on and see years from now . But it does miss the mark of its ambitions by not giving more thought into the script , as it does have a concept ( using music to chart the discord in a family born from immigrants ) that is great and could be used better in other films .
probably better than it has any right to be , mostly due to its star power	The Bucket List only mildly calls into the A-list of Hollywood screenwriters Justin Zackham , and it only slightly elevates Rob Reiner as a director . He's had a slump as a director for what seems like the better part of fifteen years ( oddly enough the last time the co-lead of this film , Jack Nicholson , appeared veraciously in A Few Good Men , was then ) when before that he had one of the strongest careers of any Hollywood director . With the Bucket List he's made a film that's respectable , entertaining for its time being , and about as deep as a kiddie pool . It's nowhere near as bad as North or Rumor Has it , to be sure . But there could be some tweaking to the Zackham script , little things that could make it stand out just a bit more in dealing with aspects of the drama - what could be really dark and biting to level off with the cynical , jab-in-the-ribs sense of humor to it . What we're given , basically , is two old guys who are out to ' find themselves ' in their time of dying . Ho-ho ! OK , to be fair , it is a major credit to the stars that this even works as well as it does . One is an auto mechanic ( Morgan Freeman ) and the other a billionaire ( Nicholson ) , and the two meet as sharing the same room , undergoing immense cancer treatments . Instead of undergoing " experimental " treatments after each finding out they'll be dead in at longest a year , Freeman's Carter has a hypothetical list of things he'd like to do before he dies . With Edward ( Nicholson ) , he'll do it because , of course , Edward is wealthy enough to go the limit . It's interesting then to follow along these two figures for the simple fact that they are played by two of the best leading men of their generation . Strangely , however , if anyone could be said to have the edge over the other ( all the more strangely because of how much I love the latter ) , Freeman did more with his part than Nicholson with his . This goes without saying Zackham doesn't reveal too much about Edward until late in the game , and only provides enough in the meantime for Jack to be " Jack " that we all know and love - perhaps , sad to say , too much so - while Freeman plays it touchingly , making the most out of a more well-rounded character with a few very good scenes ( i . e . him at the bar in China ) . It should be way too schmaltzy to recommend , and if you do want the kind of studio movie-making that tries its absolute hardest to tug ever so hard at your heartstrings The Bucket List it certainly is that . But what offsets what could be a totally painful ordeal with such ideal stars . But Zackham , at the end of it all , does give enough fun lines and dialog exchanges and things for Nicholson and Freeman to do that one is distracted by the fact that Reiner as a director provides typical and dull imagery to the proceedings , only wisely enough giving the breathing room for the actors in some scenes . It's cheerful to see the bickering before sky-diving or the machismo flaring up during the car race , and it's insightful to see when the two just have a quieter scene like in front of the pyramids . It's a pithy romp about men being men dying of cancer . It's neither Nicholson or Freeman's best day as real masters of the acting craft . But it wouldn't be too bad to catch again , in bits and pieces , on TV .
a somewhat memorable Indie-doc-B-movie	For the first 20 minutes or so of Wassup Rockers , I thought " been there , done that . " Meaning that , simply , Larry Clark has done this kind of movie before , better , more wisely and with some extra depth on the subject of stray kids doing their own thing without much parental supervision . But then , finally , something started to take shape : the film is , if about something , a class tale , with the South Central Hispanics roaming around Beverly Hills just looking for a place to skate and getting into various misadventures ( some funny , some deadly ) . And at the same time , even more than Kids , there's a raw quality to the performances , with mixed results . It's like that docu-drama Streetwise from the 80s with a touch of Ferris Bueller and then put to a soundtrack of rip-offs or sound-alikes of the Casualties . Part of the problem of Wassup Rockers is that it is not too interesting within its aimless structure . Having a film without much of a plot can work fine , they're made all the time in independent quarters in America and especially Europe . But it should amount to something by the end , and by the end of Wassup Rockers there isn't very much of a point except , well , don't go into Beverly Hills for too long if you're Hispanic and looking like a member of the Ramones by way of Tony Hawk . But within this jump-around structure , around some of the random sex scenes and skateboarding and the kind of cool scenes of the kids riding their boards to LA punk rock , Clark does create a fun B-movie . At the least , it's never boring , and if it isn't really groundbreaking or as revelatory or whatever as Kids ( and it isn't ) it does provide something of a small window into something we haven't seen before , or at least I haven't seen before . Not all of the performances are below par , an in fact there's a charm and down to earth honesty to a lot of scenes ( a scene that made me think a lot of Streetwise is when the kid Chico is talking to the Beverly Hills girl in their underwear in her bedroom - this is stripped down to the point of simple documentary , and it suddenly becomes affecting strangely enough ) . And , if nothing else , it works as a B movie , a kids-on-the-prowl story that should appeal most to anyone who likes to just roam around when they have nothing to do when they're 14 or 15 . It's a minor work that has moments of real power .
fantastic production design , usually spellbinding editing . . . but the results are frustratingly uneven	I'll say it off the bat - I haven't read the book of Perfume by Patrick Suskind . But I have heard that the film is , ironic considering most directors ' claims that it was unfilmable , quite faithful to the source . I don't doubt it , as it has a literary quality all about it . From the John Hurt narration ( and even when it's not necessary or adding only bits to the psychology of the characters , it's good to have Hurt doing it ) , to the fast-paced storytelling , to the detail likely expressed in the locations and settings , it feels novelistic even when it's at it's worst ( which is , regrettably , the last twenty minutes , as Truffaut said is the most important section of a picture ) . The initial story itself , the first half of it , does spell some entertainment to come . An orphan grows up into a slave , but has somehow had since birth the incredible gift of smell , to smell everything ( yes , even in smelly old France ) , and is tempted more than ever after accidentally killing a woman one night and smelling her from head to toe . The idea of catching smell , scents of people , drives him bonkers as he later learns of perfume from a master ( Dustin Hoffman , one of the bright spots acting-wise ) that there have to be a set number of ingredients - and that special something to put it over the top . And over the top it does become ! But not before Tom ( Run Lola Run ) Twyker , cinematographer Frank Griebe ( also Run Lola Run ) , production designer Uli Hanisch , and ( surprisingly , considering his past work was with Paul W Anderson ) editor Alexander Berner create the look of the film as something worth watching for . In fact , for the latter , it sometimes is really absorbing the way the images move forward , at a clip that is a little reminiscent of Thelma Schoonmaker ( and , perhaps through that , Scorsese to a very small point ) . If looking squarely on the technical grounds , Perfume is one of the best produced out of Europe in 2006 . Yet however much Twyker and his crew - save for the music which is a befuddling mix of Popol Vuh and orchestrations for a Disney channel movie - go to lengths to make this feel real and gritty and dark , it's hard to obscure how there is , in a way , a silliness to the conceit of the character . On the one hand it is compelling to see him in his early stages , his first victim , his ' training ' ( in quotes as he doesn't need it exactly , just a little guidance ) . On the other hand , and a little more ironic considering the draw of the suspense and horror of the murders , when he starts killing it's not quite as compelling . I know there's a level of disbelief to be had , and this goes without saying that every time Jean Grenouille leaves someone ( orphan caretaker , slave owner , Hoffman's character ) that person dies . And even up until the last twenty minutes I could take that level of disbelief , and it's still a good movie . But when it comes to the climax - and Grenouille's " demise " ( from a point of view may depend on how much you take it as Christian allegory , or devil-allegory , who knows ) - it falls apart for me . It may not for some , as it's own pretentiousness might be part of the appeal - frankly there's a touch of the Passion of the Christ in the mix there as far as slow-motion melodrama goes - and some might hate it to no end . It's a flawed conclusion , though mostly cause of what has been set up before , while sometimes in the ridiculous ( so many murdered , none seen in the act , eh why not ) , feels and comes off realistic in that gritty 18th century set-up that can only come out of the poor and rich sections of French life . By the time we get the messianic image towards the end , I felt like turning off the movie - and luckily it ended . So Perfume ends up being neither a debacle nor a full-blown artistic success . I was glad to see it , and it's fairly well acted ( watch Alan Rickman as he speaks in a very low , sinister tone to Grenouille as he is dunked in the barrel of water ) , even to a point by the hollow-eyed Ben Whishaw . But it just , well . . . does not smell quite right at the end .
Fascinating storytelling , not so fascinating lead performance	Brian De Palma's Scarface , a remake of the 1932 gangster classic by Howard Hawks , changes locations to Miami where Tony Montana ( Al Pacino ) arrives without much going for him . Soon , under circumstances at his disposal , gets to the reign of the gangster's world of 80's cocaine , soon having a sort of empire around him that soon becomes too much to control under the influence of snow . The elements that kept me interested the most while watching this film were Brian De Palma's direction and certain aspects of Oliver Stone's adaptation on Ben Hecht's material . The direction by De Palma ( which owes a little credit to the cinematography by John A . Alonzo and the splendorous production design by Ferdinando Scarfiotti ) is always at an edge and style to kept the audience hooked into where the story is going even if it seems inevitable in the sort of rise , seize , and fall saga of the money dream . Even though De Palma's presenting us with a more-often-than-not despicable character in Tony Montana , the techniques aren't tiresome or boring in the near 3-hour length of the film . It was by De Palma - and Stone's script , which delivers some good , tongue-in-cheek dialog , and tries to understand the scope of the characters in this world - that I stayed through till the end of this film . There were also a couple of surprises amid the conventions ( i . e . the infamous " Chainsaw " scene ) . And yet , I was not one of those who thought that Pacino's performance was something incredible . I'm sure it's been influential in the twenty years since the film's been out there ( the DVD did a whole tribute special by various rappers and real-life hoodlums ) , but from my perspective it served as something of a big liability . The supporting roles are alright , but his bravado , heavily-dramatic style seems like it COULD fit this revised version of Paul Muni's performance . BUT the accent and accentuations he uses from start to finish become distracting , and overtly comical , very quickly . And his booming persona is misused here ; I can think of at least a dozen other performances where Pacino's been able to utilize his presence and style magnificently for the sake of a picture ( The Godfather movies and his movies with Sidney Lumet are great examples , but so are some of his recent films like Insomnia or even the Devil's Advocate ) . This isn't one of them - here he confuses theatrical , operatic acting with ridiculous showmanship . What's even more interesting to me is that Pacino and De Palma's second collaboration - Carlito's Way - was a bit more mature in dealing with the conventions within the crime genre , and found that balance of forceful directing and acting . I do recommend Scarface and yet I don't recommend it as well . There were elements about the film that kept sturdy , even gripping ( the last fifteen minutes or so is rather bloody though brilliantly filmed ) . However the film does have a number of flaws , and not just in Pacino's work ( some scenes are a little too much for me , and I get a kick out of most crime films ) .
emphasis on it being ' melodrama ' , an early Kurosawa curio with a strong second half	Perhaps I'm least likely among the several who've commented here about Akira Kurosawa's first post WW2 film , No Regrets For Our Youth , to recommend it so high , as despite it still being a good film it might be ( for the moment ) my least favorite from the director's 30-film oeuvre . It's still got something to it , but it takes a while to get there . And some of the problems with the film are even acknowledged by the director himself in his autobiography , where he mentions that the film was shot from a revised draft - done so by the insistence of censors who , while wanting a film the opposite of the militaristic propaganda that had been going on during the war , wouldn't let his full artistic vision ( and , more importantly , script by him and Eijiro Hisaita ) make it to the screen . Most of these are not very prominent or awful , but they keep the film from being the utmost powerful and immediate with the style alongside the content . The director's techniques , and ( one of the only times in the director's career ) female star make it worthwhile , though if you're not a fan of the filmmaker or much of a Japanese film buff or historian it's sluggish going . Basically , it was hard for me to really connect with much of what was going on in the first half , which showed Japan descending through the 30s ( mostly in 1933 , the film's first half-hour ) into a fascist state where freedom - prominently here in schools - is quelled . The quasi-love triangle that is set up between Yukie ( Setsuko Hara ) , Noge ( Sususmu Fugita ) , and Itokawa ( Akitake Kono ) is melodramatic to a fault , where Yukie starts as a bright , pretty but un-deciding girl who soon figures to start out a life for herself independently . It's after years of student revolts ( which are brilliantly filmed and edited , one of the few times early in the film ) , where her two main male companions show their sides - Noge for freedom and independence , Itokawa for conformity and the militaristic side of things . Much of this part of the film is done in line with what I might've seen in a Hollywood melodrama of the period , nice music with some heavy dramatic points , all put alongside a political side that doesn't really work . It's only after Noge reunites with Yogie , and the two marry , and No Regrets For Our Youth really gets interesting . Kurosawa also stated that he put a lot of " feverish energy " into the images in the last twenty to thirty minutes of the picture . This does indeed show , as Yugie - following Noge becoming the espionage story of the moment , disgracing his farmer parents - decides to purge her sadness and sacrifice herself into farming the rice fields with Noge's mother . These scenes reach that near silent film magnificence , merging Kurosawa's great eye ( here aided by a later prominent collaborator with Asakazu Nakai ) , and Tadahi Hattori's musical score . The dramatic focus here finally become more compelling than in the weaker first half , and throughout the film this becomes clearer through maybe one of the best reasons to see the film , actress Setsuko Hara . Hara , who became one of the stock company members of Ozu's 50s films , is perfect here in the role , and even elevates some of the slower-going scenes in the film . She adds some dimension to what is at first a seemingly ignorant and content girl , and by the second half really adds well on her becoming aware of herself and what she's capable of . The film could've fared less without her , and it speaks well that even in a lesser film by the director he still casts some excellent talent . But to say that it is a lesser film might be underscoring what is good about the picture , even memorable at times . Kurosawa still puts up some memorable shots or sequences of them , rather . Aside from the aforementioned riot scenes , there's a sequence of shots with the ' youth ' early on running through the woods that makes for a nice precursor to other Kurosawa films with tightly edited , fluid shots . And one little scene where Yukie is in different poses when she hears that Noke will be leaving for a while ( in the 1938 scene ) that gave me a smile . And that such an imperfect and ( occassionally ) dated film , where not even the suggestion of an embrace or kiss can be shown ( see cutaway to bag dropped on the floor in one scene ) , is nevertheless worth watching more-so than the best films by lesser directors says a lot of what Kurosawa can bring to the material .
watch as David Lynch goes on a boat . . . . and , apparently , directs water	This little short film / experiment from Lynch is meant to be some kind of home movie-cum-fever dream where the basic act of going out onto a lake with a motor boat becomes like some sort of journey to some unknown destination . It's at it's best an immense jolt of visual splendor , shot on Lynch's hardy digital camera , where one of Lynch's expressed joys as a filmmaker - to be able to make the flow of water a truly cinematic feat - is put to a successful test . At first he just shows images of the boat , with a girl doing a voice-over meant to be very mysterious but somewhat cognitive of having an idea of what's around her ( or it , as it might be ) . Then the boat goes off , Lynch himself ( steering the boat ) says to the camera " we're gonna try to go fast enough to go in to the night " , and soon all there is to see is water rushing past , very fast , and then superimposed is night over day . The voice-over itself is probably the lesser part of the experiment ; Lynch says on the DVD the short is on that he thought there was a story there , so he put on a voice-over track to go with the images . The narration , truth be told , makes it a tinge more poetic , but not necessarily for the better ; I had flashbacks during some of the narrative bits to short films ( and not the better short films ) I used to see in film classes at school . Yet it's a good little effort that Lynch has strung together here at least by way of eye-catching digital video , where everything seems a little extra heightened ( very bright by way of daytime , then nighttime is much darker , naturally ) and the movement of water at such a fast clip , as one might take for granted , makes for some powerful viewing .
a drive-in movie classic that doesn't totally succeed but has nihilistic fun	Roger Corman , though having his rightful clout as one of the pioneers of drive in movies and exploitation pictures , doesn't have a great film with The Wild Angels , but then it's not meant to be . As I watched the film , I thought of an adjective for the film that I hadn't used for one in a while - it's reckless . Like the bikers themselves that Corman and his writers are ' following ' , the film never really comes together and the parts are definitely greater than the whole . Too many scenes end up kind of flailing around with not much to do except act as filler in-between Corman's rule-of-law of their being an action / fight scene & / or scene of sex every 15 minutes . But on the other hand , as a purely drive-in movie , where people watching aren't necessarily meant to keep track of the whole picture ALL the time ( likely ' making out ' Corman must've thought ) , it doesn't break under time that much . And , sometimes , Corman is actually pretty creative and intuitive as a filmmaker . His cast is Peter Fonda ( quite similar to Easy Rider which means maybe too esoteric and contemplative to be the wild leader of the angels ) , Nancy Sinatra ( not that great , though she can fake a crying scene pretty well ) , and Bruce Dern ( in a role that actually does ask for some real ' acting ' as opposed to biker posing ) . There are also other real Angels riding about in the background , and basically the story revolves around the wounding - and later unnecessary death - of Loser ( Dern ) , who is also given a proper Biker funeral . In between there are plenty of fight scenes , some exciting moments of the men on their bikes , a few sexy , bra-clad women , and the ' squares ' being almost everyone else not an Angel . Sometimes the scenes are pretty basic , lots of generic ( even for the period ) rock and roll tunes put to the Angels riding around , and partying , though once in a while Corman actually makes it interesting . A scene that is finally quiet , for example , when Dern is getting operated on , is one of my favorites in the film ( in general his provide much of the interest ) . But for the most part , it's just the simple tale of youth who just " want to be free , to ride without getting hassled by the man . . . and we want to get loaded ! " In short , it's kind of like the fast-food equivalent of a biker-movie . It's got many ingredients , it fills you up , but it definitely isn't really ' good ' for you despite serving up what's promised ( it doesn't have that healthy portion of being cohesive in structure and with at least a little nuance ) . Though for Corman this could possibly be one of his better entries . ( Strong )
the kind of film that still , years later , gives me the chills	The People Under the Stairs was one of the few films I can recollect that I saw when I first got into the horror genre when I was a lot younger ( the most promising time to get into the genre if it's good , early teens ) that really gave me the ' willies ' . The whole concept has a very demented connotation to it , even as it starts out with a not too unfathomable or retreaded beginning . A boy in the ghetto gets lured into a creepy house for a robbery , only to suddenly find himself unable to leave due to the owners - the ' landlords ' over the property of the burglars - and to the ' inhabitants ' inside of the walls , literally . The boy becomes a prisoner when the other burglars meet their demises , and suddenly it becomes a real cat & mouse situation , in the sickest way possible really . I saw parts of it again recently and it really still puts the zap to my head somehow , even as it's now not as affecting as before . Craven does have a sort of keen understanding of how the outsider outcast freaks of society can make for some good horror villainous times , even if it seems too bizarre to be true . I loved how Craven made the campy conceit of the owners of the house really brother and sister ( Everett McGill as the father , excellent work ) . I also remembered many cool camera shots , usually when capturing the action behind the walls . In the end , all I can think back to is how it left an impact just following two showings around that same time I also saw Texas Chainsaw Massacre and the living-dead movies ( not of that same caliber , due to the writing being sometimes a little unconvincing when it has such great ideas in the works ) . It doesn't either reach the surreal heights of Craven's Elm Street movies . But I wouldn't look at it as a lesser movie .
plenty of irreverence , nothing great , but has enough laughs and balance to work	Bubba Ho-tep is one of those films that might work against my better judgment as a film critic IF I didn't know what I was getting into . I heard plenty of word of mouth about the film , and it only made me want to see the movie more , however not in a ' right-away ' fashion ( I just saw it tonight as part of a Halloween movie-night with friends ) . When I hear that Bruce Campbell , star of the equally hilarious and inventively gory Evil Dead films , plays Elvis Presley , co-starring Ossie Davis as a black JFK , AND they're both in an old-age home , it sounds like I know what I'll get when I watch it . I did , and I didn't at the same time . I knew it would be funny , and it was , but I also wasn't expecting there would be some depth of story to it , or that director Don Cascarelli would inject a weird , off-beat , if a little strenuous style in the mix . Story is simply this - Elvis ( err , an Elvis impersonator , or Elvis who became an Elvis impersonator disguising his true Elvis identity ) is now bedridden after a hip injury , and is old and forgotten behind the walls of a East Texas retirement home . Among his fellow retirees are some oddballs ( to say the least ) including , of course , a black JFK ( or someone who thinks he's JFK to the bone ) . They get mixed up in an apparent un-dead / mummy curse over the old-age home , as the mummy keeps eating up souls out of a rather unpleasant area of the bodies . It's up to them to stop them . This then sends off the film really more as Elvis ' story , as he narrates from his bedridden position ( for most of the film , otherwise in a walker ) about the good old days , how they've gone , and how he can get it back . In an abstract sense it's as much a film about getting old , dealing with fame , and learning to cope with your soul and your inner being . In a way this is something that did sometimes get in the way of the film ; on the outset , and maybe it was too much of an expectation , I expected this to be laugh a minute , almost on the level of the insanity of Army of Darkness ( Campbell's most off-the-wall performance , this being Shakespeare . . . if Hamlet was Elvis that is ) . It wasn't . But there are times when the script does connect with the unusually dry deliveries given by Campbell and especially Davis , who is somehow very good in a role that goes completely against his better skills ( it's not Do the Right Thing , but hey ) . It does give a helluva good time if you want to watch something silly , but cool , with your friends , even if it's not up to par with either actor's best work .
Jarmusch's most ' heavy ' film - original , bleak , tedious , funny , existential . . .	Dead Man is a film I saw two times two years ago . It was the first film by indie filmmaker Jim Jarmusch that I had seen ( it was something about the cover of the film - Johnny Depp in Indian war-paint in black & white holding a gun - that intrigued me ) , and the first two times I did and didn't understand what it was ' about ' . I read from other comments that it was meant to be taken as a ' spiritual journey ' , an existentialist trip through 19th century western country . I watched it again recently , and I understood it a little more clearly , if still a little muddled . Although Jarmusch's trademark knack at pacing is evident , and the rhythm of the film is weirdly in sync with Neil Young's lonely , grungy solo electric guitar , its not as strong or moving as in his best work ( Mystery Train , Broken Flowers , Down by Law ) . Still , Johnny Depp gives a very nuanced , controlled performance . It's as interesting , if sometimes in almost out of curiosity , to see Depp in a role like this when he's been at his peak playing eccentrics and crazies ( Fear & Loathing in Las Vegas , Pirates , Chocolate Factory ) . Here he is William Blake ( less a running gag in the film than a down-pat comparison to the infamous poet ) , an accountant who gets turned down in a grimy , bad little Western town in the middle of nowhere . Aftern an altercation , he gets shot and winds up in the hands of a Native named ' Nobody ' ( direct reference to a Sergio Leone production , among other homages ) . They then go on a sort of journey as Depp's Blake is on pursuit by a trio of bounty hunters ( this brings some of the best parts of the film , and funniest ) . Somehow in the midst of this heavy film Jarmusch doesn't miss out on some chances for surreal humor - there is one scene that includes Billy Bob Thornton and Iggy Pop as intellectual cannibals who argue over Blake . There is also some unintentional humor in Farmer's performance of ' Nobody ' , who at times is profound , confusing , absurd , and very mystical in the Native tradition . Towards the last twenty minutes it is mostly just Depp looking woozily on the landscapes and Native tribe sites . It's fascinating in one way , but ponderous in another . It is always worthwhile to see a filmmaker who is putting forth a vision and letting the audience make up their mind about it , leaving things ambiguous as possible . But it's also the kind of film where you really need to be ' in the mood ' so to speak to really find total artistic value in it . I'm sure I may watch Dead Man one day and come away with it some great poetic / philosophical extractions ( I did on the third viewing , after getting more acclimated to Jarmusch's style and ideas ) . If you're more of a Depp fan though , it's hit or miss to recommend ; the same teenage fan of Pirates may watch Depp in this film and wonder why he even chose the project .
one of the funniest film of the year so far ; though not for everyone	I'm sure there's an audience out there not for the comedic taste of Mike Meyers - there are more flatulence / penile / bowel movement / general excrement jokes to fill three other movies , and it's all crammed into a 96 minute piece . With that said , I loved it ; I've been a big fan of Meyers through his career and with this third installment I can faithfully say I laughed more during this than Spy Who Shagged Me ( the laughs grow less and less since I first saw that three years ago ) , although it doesn't top the first if only because it still stands strong as a solid comedy with originality as its strong suit , not gross out , albeit hilarious , gags . This time , Meyers adds the eccentric Goldmember ( said title ) , from Holland , he has his private area submerged in gold and can lift both legs up at will ; he plots to destroy the world with Dr . Evil and Powers teams up with Beyonce Knowles ( Foxy Cleopatra ) and his father ( Michael Caine in the slyest role of the movie ) . With cameos from the likes of Tom Cruise , Britney Spears , Kevin Spacey and Ozzy Osbourne , and a moments where laugh a minute is more than literal , this is a highly recommended flick on the front of strange and funny .
a not too shabby Troma movie with a big studio , and effects galore	I've seen at least a few Troma movies over time , some almost imports ( Satan's Sadists , Cannibal the Musical ) , other born and bred productions ( Toxic Avenger and Chopper Chicks in Zombie Town ) , and it's at times like second generation Roger Corman , with more or less the same entertainment value . It's all fairly low-budget , with the actors hit or miss , and plenty of gore to chock up along with the over-the-top laughs . Slither , from Troma filmmaker James Gunn ( also scribe on the Dawn of the Dead remake ) , is a bit like that , only it's been given a higher rate of visual effects , enough gore to satisfy the horror-a-week crowd ( and R horror by the way ) , and it is creepier than could be expected . While it is definitely over the top though , maybe at times some of the possible laughs gave way to the strangeness that's going on . And make no mistake , if you don't like slugs , you may be a little uneasy throughout the second half of the film . Because Gunn , who does happen to throw a few turns of the screw in what is at the core very much a B-movie storyline ( with enough ' you-know-these-types ' for two common Troma flicks ) , has some tendencies to really make the action on screen appropriately outrageous ( if that makes sense ) . But the thing that puts the film to be watchable even in its more discomforting moments & / or gags , is the persistence that's given to it all . The alien-slug element is not a new subject , and one could even go back to the sci-fi films of the 1950's for some similarities . It's in the shock-value and the amount of ( ironically ) believability that gives it the edge . Certain images like the first slug-mother ( if you haven't seen it I won't explain it ) ; moments with the slug-zombies in action ; the cheesy thrills relatable to more gruesome horror films . It's not to say there's really brilliance here , but then , how could there be ? For me , Slither has its lulls here and there in some of the dialog scenes ( Gunn wasn't necessarily any kind of strong-point on the DOTD remake ) , and it has the value of a decent pulp sci-fi piece when compared to some other movies . But when the pace and terror does pick up , or there are some true laughs , its not bad at all . At the least , I could see this film having its bit of a cult , if not as big as others .
not the best of the ' Potter ' movies , but it's got some captivating sights and even extraordinary scenes	Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire pushes the franchise into the PG-13 level , and for good reason : Lord Voldermort , played to a chillingly Gothic T by Ralph Fiennes , is much more present not just as an ominous , unnamed presence , but as a vindictive , murderous threat from the grave . He's the Nosferatu of the " Potter " series , but with a further sense of dread that is the unwavering sense of pure evil in such a world of wizards and magic . But Goblet of Fire isn't just about the evil , or just put-on evil by way of a curse or other dark forces at work , though it's in this that the film works usually at its strongest and most surreal points . There's a whole section dedicated to a new form of competition : get the dragon's egg in the Triwizard tournament . Some of this is compelling , mostly involving the actual under-water part of the tournament , where the suspense level isn't very high but it's highly watchable for its interesting look . How does one see " magic " happen underwater ? If there perhaps is any significant problem , or perhaps just big gripe , to have with Goblet of Fire it's that as an emotional experience of the conventional kind it works much better on a first viewing , in the theater , where the big crescendo happens ( murder is a key factor here , of a character I won't mention ) , and one gets caught up in the first truly significant tragedy in the series , if not the film . But on a repeat viewing , somehow , this is lessened in impact , and if anything there's certain flaws in some of the performances ( a father's wailing cries , to not spoil too much for those who haven't seen the movie or read the book , are pretty poorly delivered ) , and even what seemed like really riveting scenes of competition - and some of the quasi-teen drama developments involving Harry's friends - seem a little more contrived or just not as interesting as before . But on the other hand , director Mike Newell finds ways to make his entry in the franchise watchable in many tight areas . Brendan Gleeson was a great choice for Professor " Mad-Eye " Moody , who has a look about him where , as with Rickman's Snape , you can't totally be sure what his intentions or alliances side . And there's some moments of levity thrown in in good levels of measure . But , if for nothing else , the aspect of the strange , violent and , as far as a series like this can go at this point as the mid-way movie , incredibly dark presence of Voldemort , with Fiennes's physical prowess going past the fact that he's under lots of make-up ( or CGI ) and pitting to the most effective villains in contemporary big-budget big-studio movie-making . To put it another way , if the last half hour or so pops up again on TV , I'll be sure to watch it all the way to the end .
not as successfully fantastical as the other Henson films , but it is an entertaining KID's flick	Watching Labyrinth on TV the other day , after years of having not seen it , I'm reminded in general how I see Jim Henson's work , via the usual Muppets ( in the ' Muppet ' movies ) or in the non-traditional ones ( the spectacular film ' the Dark Crystal ' ) , just a smidgen different than as a kid . For one thing , there's the nostalgia factor , of having loved the muppets as a kid and seeing how the entertainment value is still there , if on a slightly different wavelength then as a kid - some jokes more received and understood and some moments not as freakish as when back in the day . But with Labyrinth I just thought , despite all of the talent and marvelous special effects , " this hasn't really changed much for me since I was a kid , it's still just , well , good . " The story itself - of young Jennifer Connelly going after her baby brother kidnapped by the Goblin King ( David Bowie , in full-on regalia ) while navigating through the tangential directions of the Labyrinth with help ( or not ) from creatures - is just a fairy tale for kids . That it's got some clever direction from Henson is not without its merits and some scenes get the fantasy feeling right , even for its time and visual FX limitations . But if there are limitations anywhere noticeable it's in the script by Terry Jones , from the story by Henson and Dennis Lin , where chances to reach to a larger audience ( like with the Dark Crystal , which works for adults just as well as for kids ) are missed . The humor in the film does work here and there , but there are also the Bowie songs to contend with which are , more or less , rather disappointing and , well , 80's in retrospect . I still liked the inventive uses with the supporting Muppet-type characters , the little troupe of sorts that follows Connelly's character till the end ( almost ) . However , having seen it again , I'm not sure when I would want to watch it again , unless I had some kids around . In short , one of the lesser Henson films ( ironically the only one produced by George Lucas ) which means that it still has enough visual prowess and imagination to top the current films reaching for its target audience .
a good Eastwood vehicle , competently directed by Siegel , and two great scenes with the mules	Every once in a while watching movies I come across one that has a peculiarity to it , at least as a genre film . Two Mules for Sister Sara is a star vehicle for Clint Eastwood - in his usual Western movie-star swagger and ultra-cool sense of humor a1nd style - and for Shirley MacLaine as a nun ( in clever , convincing disguise ) along for the ride . It's also directed by a seasoned pro of action genre pictures , Don Siegel , who one year later would take Eastwood to their most notable collaboration ( not sure yet if it's their best till I see the Beguiled or Coogan's Bluff ) , Dirty Harry . It's got some of those good elements for a genre picture of this kind , some scenes with amusing , typically Eastwood - character - with - a - woman conversation , a surprising start to the story as well as revelatory moment later on in the film , and the inimitable Ennio Morricone score . That it isn't all that spectacular overall is mostly due to how low-key at times Siegel keeps the picture , and that the screenplay , while not without merit , doesn't deliver a whole lot of bang for the buck , so to speak . It's not a retread of spaghetti westerns as Siegel has a slightly different style than Leone , but it does definitely resemble some of the spare parts from the films that were spawned off of those . For the most part it is just a film doing what it does - a buddy Western flick with a bit of a slant on the premise , with the enemies rather standard . However , wedged in the middle of what is usual business for Eastwood and Siegel two really terrific scenes that I actually watched twice . It's almost uncharacteristic of the rest of the script , and indeed of how the performances click ( they sometimes don't , akin to the animosity between the actress to the actor ) and the direction works just a little better , that two scenes stuck out for me . The first is when Eastwood's Hogan gets shot by the natives , then sister Sara has to collaborate with him to get the arrow out . This involves a lot of drinking , and some careful maneuvering on both their ends . Looking at how Eastwood acts this scene , it's really one of the best I've seen him do in any western , as he carefully balances it out to not be too over-the-top , while keeping a certain crude charm as sister Sara lets her guard down ( MacLaine , too , is quite good in the scene ) . Following this comes the other memorable one , where the two of them set up a dynamite pinch under the bridge to stop a train . I loved the way Siegel used the hand-held camera in this scene , with a tense way about it that reminded me of the chase scenes in Dirty Harry . And again , something just clicks overall with all of the screen elements , and this centerpiece of sorts , for my money , rises above a good lot of the rest of the movie . If only the rest of the movie , while decent enough , could be this captivating .
the damnedest cult-movie ; uneven but rocking with attitude , humor and individuality	Alex Cox probably knew what he was doing with Repo Man , but it was probably something he concocted while in the basement of a young punk rocker with a lot of dirty second-rate comic books and a lot of booze . How it comes out on the screen makes it a kind of bizarre outcast in the realm of science-fiction comedies , because it's not entirely a comedy ( there's some moments that feel like they SHOULD be more dramatic , like the dynamic between Harry Dean Stanton and Emilio Estevez for the most part , or the scenes with secret-service-type alien chasers ) . In fact science fiction seems to be looming over the heads of everyone like it's some sort of half-goofy half-conspiratorial quagmire , all leading up to a Chevy Malibu that has a certain ' quality ' about it . Much of the story's tangents don't even seem to make too much sense , and the structure feels like it's been put together in cheap ( hence the comic-books ) . But Cox is always working with a mind-set for what's unexpected with absurdities and , oddly enough for such a punk-rock movie , quirkiness . Estevez plays Otto , a perennial punk-rocker who has a ' f you ' attitude to practically all authority figures , which keeps him usually unemployed . Enter in Stanton with his job as a repo-man , with cars getting taken away by " dildoes who don't follow the rules " , and so he joins up as he's got no prospects at all . As he learns how to go about getting car after car , a suspicious wormy guy in glasses is driving around a peculiar car that has a trunk that's similar to something out of the Ark of the Covenant , only more alien-like . So then , as Cox's rude and crude attitude goes , we get the secret-service guys , the bizarre punks who are all about causing disorganized chaos and robberies , ill-tempered Hispanics , a far-out guy at the repo place named Miller , and meanwhile there's always wackiness around the corner . The characters are more or less the main thing Cox works with here , as almost everyone here is an eccentric , or an oddball , or a total off-his-rocker loon ( or just , you know , with their ' secrets ' ) . And Otto himself is a prototype of the typical 80s kid , with no respect but not necessarily stupid either . And around these characters a lot of crazy things go on , or lines of dialog , and they either work or they don't . The only problem is that Cox isn't always focused with everything from scene to scene , and there's a mid-section that just comes off even too weird for me . But I didn't mind this for the most part ; there's almost a sense in the narrative that it's supposed to be sloppy and mismanaged , and through this there's more inventive qualities than one might find in a more prestigious flick with more money . Add on to this one of the great 80s soundtracks , and an ending that gives a big laugh with a big raised-eyebrow , Repo Man is a shaggy dog story , a rebellious-youth pic , and an urban take on the old tale of aliens coming to Earth ( for what reason I still can't tell ) . A minor work of ingenuity that is understandably with its cult audience .
a decent noir with a few really nice touches , such as the main stars	Jean Gabin didn't star in many American films , and Moontide was the only one I could find from my local library . Maybe it was for the best ; his presence on screen is very ( and I mean this as a compliment ) French in tone and inflection and even in style of speak . In English he fares reasonably well , and gives a solid performance as the " gypsy turned peasant " Bobo who saddles up with ex-suicide-attemptee Ida Lupino on a tiny bay community . This being said it's a kind of character that works for Gabin's limitations in the language . Because Bobo is a Gypsy it works that Gabin's English is only so fluent and has the kind of facial expressions that reflect that ( as opposed to say Grand Illusion where he was so natural that it was staggering ) . Lupino , thankfully , is a great match , and the two have some very nice scenes together as a married couple who face trouble when one of Bobo's prior troubles comes back to haunt him , even as it wasn't his fault . The direction is competent and the writing has some moments of cleverness or tenderness or even insight . And as the drama ratchets up one gets involved if only on a perfunctory , conventional level . But the director Archie Mayo ( replacing , of all directors , Fritz Lang ) some moments that really stand out for me . One that I might never forget , and should stand up among some of the quintessential early 40s noir films , is when Bobo has his drunken binge the first night at port and after causing a ruckus in the bar with punching out the guy and making the girl upset goes from bar to bar . In a montage that provides a drunken angle to the camera and editing tricks , we see Bobo going further and further , hearing characters repeat things like " drink , drink " or whatever and it is purely intoxicating to see this . It's the kind of sequence , which lasts a good long 5 minutes , that almost promises this to be a great film . It isn't , but it was worth a shot , and for those who are curious or just big Gabin or Lupino ( or Claude Rains ) fans , it's worth a shot .
Once you learn more about Jazz on your own , the more " Jazz " feels incomplete	Ken Burns ' Jazz documentary , which is a twenty-hour documentary ( too long or not long enough would be the argument , I'd go with not long enough ) , details the history of Jazz from its origins in Ragtime , up until the 1960's . It is indeed insightful for those who do not know the histories of these people , pretty much all of them terrific or outstanding , and it does try to take you inside their world . As one who has only really gotten into Jazz within the past few years , as just a history lesson it keeps attention most of the way through . The problems one can find in the documentary could be really squared down to two . The first is that Burns , while talented and obviously with a good research team and plethora of pictorial aids , forgets something about Jazz - it's supposed to be fun ! There's something about the sense of humor and vitality of jazz that gets lost among the heavy-handed narrations , that make jazz out to be as mighty and colossal as the Greeks or the Romans . Jazz is important to the world of music , but much of what is spoken trumps most of the experiences in the stories ( not that a few of them aren't entertaining - most of the stuff involving Armstrong , Bix , Blaisie , and Art Tatum keeps interest that way ) . The second problem , which is a given considering the length of the documentary , is that there isn't enough room for everyone , and after Miles and Coltrane , it just halts . It would be intriguing if Burns went back and did a ' special edition ' treatment , and cover more ground on what he had , and expand into the great jazz that did come out since the 60's ( and there has been a few , believe you / me ) . If you're wanting to get into the atmosphere , the moods and histories ( and of course the music , some of it rare here ) on Jazz , basically this is the best place to start . But if you're already an aficionado , or if you don't have the utmost attention span to watch all of the footage , it may comes to let-down .
a film about trickery , done in a tricky style that works , with crackling performances	Lasse Halstrom isn't out , as a film-making , to make really extreme and probing insights into what goes into a prankster / forger like Clifford Irving . Maybe it's because he , like I , saw Orson Welles's film F For Fake , which covered similar ground and has the only substantial footage of Clifford Irving on record and in full bloom with his BS meter going sky-high . That film , overall , dug very deep into what is to have forgery , a hoax , as part of personality . Halstrom doesn't quite get that , but nevertheless he's made an entertaining mini-saga of a man - or rather men in this case - who went to the edge of credibility and almost got away with the whole shebang . His story , as covered as well in part in F for Fake , is about Irving's incredibly smart and incredibly stupid attempt at passing off as his own the autobiography of Howard Hughes , then the notoriously reclusive and nutty billionaire with his fingers in enterprises all over the world . He passes off Hughes's handwriting to the publishers and lawyers as his , even as it's really Irving who wrote it all , and even went so far as to have mock audio recordings of Irving AS Hughes to get down in the book via assistant Dick Suskind . As the walls seem to be closing in on their scam , as well as Irving's marriage , it goes as far as mass printings of the book Irving presents - until the ' real ' Hughes makes a press conference call ( call , of course ) , to disprove the book altogether as a hoax . Halstrom surprisingly makes his film light and dark in tone , depending on what stage the story is in , and it's even fun at times to see Irving and Suskind go about their risk-taking maneuvers to get all documents and information they can on Hughes , as if it's guerrilla research . Then as the despair of constant lying increases , and the threat of capture and revelation is nearer , Halstrom makes it more like a paranoid thriller . This latter part may actually be not quite as convincing - so to speak of course , as one can't be sure entirely what's true or not in The Hoax - because , simply , one might not see Irving so much as a crazy person ala Hughes so much as a kind of strange artist-cum-professional at what he does : to make himself believe the BS before he even feeds it to others . Scenes like Irving getting caught by Hughes's " secret agents " in the middle of the night are not as striking as Halstrom might have intended , even as all the while the performances are still good . And the realm of placing the story in context of the times is hit or miss ; it works , to be sure , when going into the Nixon administration sections because it's crucial to the story ( and , according to some articles on the film , is possibly really accurate ) , though putting in the footage of Vietnam and protesters and so forth are sort of padding to environment and period . The music , costumes , locations ( i . e . Las Vegas ) and simple political ramifications make it enough . This being said , The Hoax provides the audience with some very effective performances . Gere , under the right director , can be terrific , and this is one of his best performances in years , as he balances out Irving's higher aspirations of wealth and notoriety with his latter plunge into confusing his own personality with that of Hughes , with suspicions of everything or anyone around him . The filmmakers wisely don't make Irving very sympathetic , and Gere plays this for all it's worth with moments of charm , tension , and delusions of grandeur played out wonderfully . However , if Gere is good , Alfred Molina is better as Suskind , Irving's collaborator and the real behind-the-scenes guy who helps make Irving's fabrications all the more palatable , like hiding documents out of the Pentagon or flying to another country to mail an envelope . Suskind , unlike Irving , ends up dealing with the hoax with more of a psychological / moral burden , and it ends up weighing on his conscience like a brick . It might make Suskind the more conventional character in the movie , but Molina makes him very real and more of the tragic case than Gere's Irving . Molina's track record , at the least , remains untarnished . Other supporting players like Marcia Hay Harden , Julie Delpy , Eli Wallach , and Stanley Tucci are better than average here . The Hoax is a good treat in this month's lot of schlock and big-budget trash by sticking close to making it an actor's movie , and sort of a bittersweet take on what a hoax does in such a grand scale as that of Howard Hughes , and what it does to a person the longer and more intense it goes on for .
more melodrama than film-noir , but it does have some excellent stuff in it	I would be inclined more to give On Dangerous Ground a higher rating , or just think of it as a great film , even as I find there are certain things in the second half that doesn't quite click as well as in other parts . Two pieces of brilliance go by way of co-writer / director Nicholas Ray , however - casting Robert Ryan as the stoic-faced Jim Wilson , and getting Bernard Herrmann for the musical compositions . Ryan here has a great performance almost by not doing anything spectacular , by just having this very hard-boiled look to him in the early scenes in the urban , film-noir landscapes , and then as it very subtly peels away as he gets a touch of the ' heart ' he's been lacking back home . As the sort of masculine-centered core of the film , Ryan is quite good . Herrmann's score , meanwhile , in what he referred to as his favorite of his many many scores , delivers up emotion through the strings in the dramatic bits and the tougher stuff when need be . He , too , is on top of his game here . What's interesting about what didn't quite work , at least for myself , in On Dangerous Ground was a little more in due to the screenplay and to the performance from Ida Lupino . For a director who often has a script as one of the best parts of what he's doing , the writing here starts off fantastically in the city , then as it goes further on in the snowy , rural setting , the melodrama-side starts to loose some of its shape . It's not that the more rough , gritty style of the first part of the film doesn't correspond well enough with the later scenes ; in fact some of these chase scenes and shots of Ryan going through the snow after his ' suspect ' are well done from Ray's end . But part of the acceptance of the change that occurs in the character of Jim Wilson has to be as believable as Lupuno's performance can allow , and she is good in her blind - girl - who's - totally - compassionate up to a point . For example , I did get a lot of emotional contact when Ray shot her in close-ups . But overall there just seemed to be some spots in not just her portrayal of the material , but also in the performance of her character's brother ( not right in the head , perhaps , but is his work interesting , not really ) . I would definitely recommend On Dangerous Ground for the crowd of film-noir lovers , and those getting into Nicholas Ray's work ( as this will finally be on DVD soon enough ) . Yet if certain parts of the story's fabric and sentimentality might not click as well as it should to you , you're not alone . At the least , there's a heap-load of entertainment to be had with the scenes following the cops on their nights across the city streets , like a superlative short film amid a tragic tale of losing and finding yourself .
not as exciting as one might expect by today's standards , but it has some good old Hollywood spirit to it	Captain Blood isn't the best film by far for Michael Curtiz or Errol Flynn - the latter made his big Hollywood debut here - but it's a surefire Saturday matinée program all the same , a good one considering that it's from the early days of Warner Brothers's ' on-contract ' pictures , where a stock company of actors and crew would go from movie to movie to movie . This first collaboration between the ( future ) star and director , a volatile one , is a swashbuckler of mostly the light order ; it's a tale of a slave of the title ( Flynn ) who escapes his enslavement to a bourgeois woman ( de Havilland ) , and rallies a bunch of men to become a pirate captain , soon merging ( and breaking off ) from French captain Levasseur ( Basil Rathbone , maybe the best or just right actor in the film , which might be saying something ) , and then going off to attack the British . It's a high-spirited sea adventure with some dramatic moments in the last third of the picture , which comes mostly due to Flynn quitting his smirking and grinning - a sign of his early star charm but also that of inexperience at playing a pirate - and some classic Hollywood grace in showing great character actors play their parts finitely . There's also very entertaining scenes of a pirate ship attacking a seaside village ( the one where Flynn and his men overtake the ship ) , a montage with inter-titles telling in bold how they became sort of official pirates at large , and best of all is the climax where things become close to too complicated , but never do . It's a blast to watch Curtiz get such conventional material into a form that is sometimes silly and usually with an accessibility for anyone aged 5 to 80 . It's not anything very revealing as far as in true artistic terms ; you won't read too many ( though I'm sure there are some ) scholarly papers about the methods chosen by Flynn and Curtiz and the crew and so on . But in its own simple and direct and carefree desire to please with a tale of a swinging anti-hero , it trumps a more charged and stylized but complicated modern work like Pirates of the Caribbean .
part crafty and topical satire , part crazy ' feminist ' horror story	I was a little worried about this going in , even as I loved the joke that was the premise : a vagina with razor sharp fangs inside the walls . How much could be done with something like this ? As I found out , a lot more than I expected , but especially surrounding it as a nifty satire on the world of abstinence pledgers in high schools . There can never be enough room to make fun of these ' abstinence-only ' folk who wear the " Promise Rings " and are amid a self-made desensitized cult that , in essence , dissuades those who do have romantic connections from giving in to their desires . And there's mythology to boot ! If anything , the burgeoning relationship between Dawn ( Jess Weixler ) and Tobey ( Hale Appleman ) shouldn't be something they should ever have to avoid . But they do for " purity " sake , despite each others ' curiosity about each other's bodies . The first attack is the most savage , and perhaps though the most anticipated , and with a sweet twist : it's a shock to each of them , as she has no idea what is " down there " ( all the sex-ed textbooks have the vaginal area censored , this despite the penis right in diagram , a possible reference to how it turns out in visual-style in the picture as men may grab their crotches in unified pain ) . To be sure , some of the satirical jabs and slight plot twists aren't totally effective . While the brother character ( effectively played as scum by John Hensley ) is needed to move the plot along at a crucial point , there's never much explanation to how he's such a sex-psycho with a big dog . There's also a touch of familial drama that feels a little forced ( though , again , as part of disbelief that must be upheld throughout ) . What I liked , and at times even loved , as the pure abandon , like a talented filmmaker tackling the sexploitation genre with some juicy under-cutting to the society that this springs out of . Somehow this guy in his 50s - his first feature no less after years of acting gigs - has crafted some of the funniest penis jokes that could never be fathomed by , um , most people . To say it's a guilty pleasure doesn't do it justice , be it the most obvious jabs or the visual gags and symbolism ( the cave opening , the phallic rocks , etc ) . One more note : this is truly a " breakout " performance as Weixler plays Dawn for all its worth as a character who truly has an " arc " , if you could call it that . Whether it's the sexually confused innocent early in the film , to the totally mind-fd soul who realizes an old myth called Vagina Dentata may be why she has this via nuclear radiation , and then onward as someone who can use that tunnel of love for all its worth . She's someone to look out for in the indie world , and leads this film along like it's worth every minute .
it's less than great , but I liked watching it as a kid	I wouldn't recommend the Disney animated 70s movie of Robin Hood as essential Disney , but I have some great memories of it as a kid anyway . If there's any one thing I could probably criticize it's the song numbers - they just don't work and lack the fine polish of the Sherman brothers collaborations . Looking back on it it's very dated in that respect , sort of serving to the kids of the moment in part , and even to the point of reusing actual dancing bits from the Jungle Book ( if you've seen these movies as much as I have you start to notice these things ) . And as far as energy goes it's sometimes pretty lackadaisical . This being said , I also found a lot of it to be very funny , with the interplay between Peter Ustinov and Terry Thomas is fantastically good - they're such laughable villains , yet when they do strike their irons down it goes pretty dangerously . Of course you wont find anything at all in way of getting at all into the character underneath their basic demeanors - Robin Hood and those on his side , good , Prince John and those on his side , bad . But within those boundaries there is entertaining stuff going around , with the first robbing of Prince John through the very cheap disguise Robin puts on one , and another when Little John disguises himself as a Duke . Again , nothing immediately noteworthy , but as a kid I found a lot to go on it , with the more cartoonish aspects of the villains and side character outweighing the weaker sections of music and song , stale Robin and Mariam parts , and so on .
two-thirds of a fantastic dark comedy on the nature of sexual insanity , though not as successful as later Almodovar	It's safe to say that even in a film by Pedro Almodovar that is only marginally successful within the margins there are some good , steamy , questionable times to be had . I can just imagine Pedro sitting in front of his notebook just figuring out ways to mix sex , film-making , kidnapping , and other lewd exercises into some kind of cohesive single film . What makes a very good chunk of Tie Me Up , Tie Me Down exciting satirically is that Almodovar never gives in to making anything TOO serious . Which is perhaps what ends up transitioning the situation Ricky ( Antonio Banderas ) and Marina ( Victoria Abril ) are in from the absurd and flirtingly masochistic to the ( ironically ) conventional and quasi-sweetness that is obviously deep in Almodovar . Perhaps the tying up and re-tying becomes part of a metaphor on the filmmaker's part , that despite it being something very dangerous and totally provocative it's also inviting in ways that would be elusive otherwise . Then again , that the material does ( mostly ) work , by being so disturbing in the bluntness and perpetually deranged mind-set of Ricky , but then in the human connections that are enhanced all the more . If only the motivations - even in such loose and wacky-Almodovar circumstances - were a little more convincing . Nevertheless , I liked a lot about Tie Me Up , Tie Me Down up until it goes off the rails with its logic turning into knots ( simply , I just don't buy that Marina falls for Ricky just like that , even if she was an ex-junkie porn star , and Ricky's advances are like that of a uppity , headstrong but shy 13 year old , a slight reminder of A Life Less Ordinary's bizarrely innocuous kidnapping turned romance ) . Chiefly , the performances and the usually arty-yet-trashy style from Almodovar and his crew . Banderas is , by the way , in one of his best and funniest performances here , a near emblem of the male ideal for a life with a woman , and a with an innocent yet fervent attraction to bondage , with that perfect look in his eyes detailing all even in brief moments . Yet there was something about his stay in the mental home all those years that did something to his ideas towards sex and what it is to live , and Banderas captures this mix of intense sadism crossed with the heart of an old Hollywood-studio leading man who will do anything to brush the leading lady off of her feet . Abril is always believable too , even when Almodovar gives her character a turn around into something more akin to an exploitation film , however sweet it tries to be . While she decides to underplay her immediate fear of her kidnapper , it works to add a level of comic timing to Ricky's own odd-ball ways . They make a great pair , really , especially when it comes to that ' turning point ' , where Almodovar uses his unique style to get five ceiling-mirrored shot of a pivotal scene . There's also a fantastic role of the director of the film Marina is starring in at the start of the film , the aged Maximo Espejo ( Francisco Rabal , who's been in countless films including the Eclipse and Belle de Jour ) , who has the ideas burning and changing around at a beat as to what his ending will be for his actress - death , being saved , something else ? His moments on screen display a richness that lies often in Almodovar's script , where the surreal pressures of shooting the movie for Maximo somewhat carry over - and sort of dissipate as the characters become vulnerable - into that realm where reality and un-reality cross paths . This is heightened , and made a little additionally conventional , by the musical score , which like many of Almodovar's work is a tip of the hat to Herrmann compositions and old Hollywood romantic classics . There's even an emotional upheaval when Ricky and Marina meet again on that balcony overlooking the vista . The wildest thing about the picture is that one does become absorbed in the push and pull relationship between ' kidnapper ' and ' kidnapee ' ( I quote that for its a little redundant to use those terms as the film goes on ) , and that these fed up people are practically the most average couple you'd ever meet . There's sensational comedy stacked in there too , in Ricky's behavior ( moustache ) , the film within the film being shot ( that strongman character is amazing ) , the random TV commercial about Spanish retirees , and just the consistent absurdity in the repetitive , ritual-side of the tying up and down . But there's something missing in Almodovar's third act to live up to the better parts early on , and he chickens out on really making this a much better , more challenging effort . I'll probably watch it someday again though , if only for Banderas and Rabals ' performances .
contains both the conventions and convictions of good thrillers , with a ' tour-de-force ' performance	It would be one thing to make the pat statement ' this is worth seeing if only for Forest Whitaker as dictator Idi Amin ' . For some it will be , and in fact some may just go to see it based on the hype he's been building up in the awards season ( not that it's undeserved ) . But the director Kevin MacDonald , along with his DP Anthony Dod Mantle ( behind the modern classic as 28 Days Later ) , gives the film an edge to it that might have been lost on a technical crew less interested in getting part of the psychology into the style . In the core of the Last King of Scotland , which is purportedly based on the true story of Amin and his doctor Nicholas Garrigan ( James McAvoy ) who becomes soon an adviser and soon like a " son " in Amin's bi-polar mind , is a thriller that does thrill , and also pulls into question what it means to practically become a participant in the madness of a brutal dictatorship . Garrigan randomly picks Uganda to go to after he graduates from medical school in Scotland , tries to be a doctor where needed , but somehow becomes enveloped in the world of Amin after a chance encounter on a road-side . He becomes charmed by Amin's upfront likability and candid manner , plus his vulgar humor and promise of both peace for his people and excess in his domain ( he has three wives ) . But soon this turns to become sour when Garrigan sees the darker side to Amin - a paranoid fear-monger who can flip on a dime on his closest advisers . He knows he has to get out , but it wont be easy , at all . It's a shame then that such pungent subjects - of the towering force that is Amin , portrayed by Whitaker with a look in his eyes that always perfectly conveys what the scene should feel like , and towards the end becomes absolutely chilling in both his rage and even his amiability . Even McAvoy is able to rise to the challenge of his counterpart , as the guy who inspires more in Amin to be " Scottish " , but also becomes wayward himself . His plot line though becomes a little mired in bits that don't seem truthful ( who's to say if they are , as it's based on a book likely based on what happened ) , with his romantic asides the most unconvincing portions of the picture . The whole sub-plot with him and one of Amin's wives ( played by Kerry Washington ) becomes a little soapy , and puts such realism into the realm of near contrivance ( I also would've liked to see , aside from the one scene where Garrigan sees the pictures , the furthest extent of his murderous ways on his people ) . But when pit into the reality of Garrigan's situation , and the environment around him , it becomes a richer picture . It does have the goods with being an engrossing entertainment of course , and of the two films out now ( this and Blood Diamond ) set in turbulent Africa I'd recommend this a little more for the style and acting . That it isn't great isn't ever a fault of Whitaker , however .
If not a great movie , it is a good one , stirring up questions of Good vs . Evil	Of the filmmaker Werner Herzog , I've heard and read strange things about him and his films . That two of his works , Aguirre : The Wrath of God , and Fitzceraldo , are two of the most bizarre modern European films . That he once ate a shoe from a bet with Errol Morris , and made a documentary about it . That he once said ( and I'm paraphrasing ) " some people make movies with their minds and hearts , I make them with my ( expletive ) . " So , when I saw this film at the rental store , Invincible , and the image of Tim Roth in a truly Gothic pose on the cover , I expected it to be a dark , brooding film about pre-war , pre-dictator Hitler Germany . In a way it is , and in a way its not . Although the film is rated PG-13 , I would imagine that for the die-hard Herzog fans this is like his family film , or at the least kids might not be too freaked out to watch it . Surprisingly , Herzog brings a fable out of a true story , about how each side of the coin is a certain way , black or white , and whichever role you choose defines you , though there can be an exception . There was one sequence , however , where I saw that Herzog brilliantly had a kind of surreal , one-of-a-kind filmed scene that I expected amongst the more typical dramatic scenes . It involves a dream of Zishe's ( played by near unknown Jouko Ahola in a mostly one-note performance ) where he walks around on a rocky beach . He is surrounded by bright red crabs , and steps around on the rock trying not to knock them down or get snipped by their claws . But he does so casually , with the searing Hans Zimmer / Klaus Blaudet music in the background . This dream occurs again towards the end of the film , as his younger brother leads him by the hand through the crabs on the rocks , somehow giving him strength . These are powerful scenes in a movie that could've been even more powerful . Take Tim Roth's performance - it towers above all the others because most ( aside from Udo Kier whom I recognized ) are non-professionals . It's to Herzog's credit that he makes these people in Poland shtetels and in Berlin to be believable , but he's not a great director of them like the neo-realists in Italy were . And because Roth , as this brooding , tragic anti-hero witnesses what happens with his strongman from Poland , is so good and subtle at his role , he out-acts pretty much anyone else in the film . Watching him is fascinating , especially when he's quiet and subtle , or in the scenes when he's on stage performing his acts . It shows how versatile he can be in this film . I just wish it was the same for the others . ( strong )
a Linklater travelogue where it's about alienation and meandering around ; better on a second viewing	There were moments watching this narrative experiment - the first of many for Richard Linklater - where it comes about as close to being totally mundane as can be possible with the camera . It probably wasn't a problem for him to get his shots , as it looked as if he was making his own personal ' home movie ' with him either on the train or in stations or just bumming around Austin , Texas . In that sense it's almost close to being a documentary even though , according to Linklater , it's not really quite himself on screen even as it is himself . In real life he isn't this mundane and sort of drift-less , however does admit that the feelings are in him , and were in him then , and it's on a second viewing that a sort of pattern emerges from what looks like bare-bones storytelling . Unlike Jarmusch's Permanent Vacation , it doesn't necessarily try to relate some sort of ' character ' in the sense that it's something created by the actor , and then surrounded in the typical indie-movie easy-going scenes . Here , Linklater is showing how such everyday things like traveling on a train , walking through a town , getting stopped by someone to see your t-shirt , watching TV , watching movies , reading , doing laundry , doing dishes , reading a Kafka quote , driving , listening to music , so on and so forth , can have some kind of interest in the initial disinterest in seeing this . On the one hand the narrative is lax , and unlike Slacker there isn't even the framework of a bunch of characters in a small town . But on the other hand out of all of these seemingly random shots of a guy going through the motions in life , dealing without a job , the ' whatever ' attitude of hanging out with friends or a girl , taking care of a car , becomes a narrative itself . It's experimental and as Linklater also has said certainly not for a large audience to see ( and many haven't until the DVD of Slacker was released with this film included ) , but the visual language is rich in its detachment , and at the least is a curious effort that doesn't just keep the audience on a sort of line away from typical emotional involvement but is about the same thing . Far from being any great success , but for a real " student " effort ( self-taught student ) you could get much worse . Watch for a Sterling Hayden tribute in one scene and a sense of dissatisfaction with 80s TV .
Lennon the peacenik vs Nixon the warmonger paranoid ; a bout that's given good , not great , treatment here	The central premise of The US vs John Lennon ( the latter as described in the Departed , of all movies , semi-sarcastically as " the president before Lincoln " ) is that public figures are always up for grabs if they come out on either side of the fence . Lennon was fervently anti-war - if very unsure about going all the way into the dangerous political zone ( hence not going , wisely enough , to the violent demonstration that happened at the 1972 Republican convention ) - and because of his connection with various people like Jerry Rubin and Abby Hoffmann , as well as questionable ties with the Black Panthers , he was monitored openly , and threatened with deportation for a bogus pot arrest in 1968 . Nixon , meanwhile , was one of the all-time nut-job presidents when it came to the military , who ran in 68 on an " I'll-end-the-war-honorably " ticket and instead kept the war going for years , including invading Cambodia . Many of the facts brought up in this documentary aren't new , especially to those who were alive during the time it happened and the media went all over Lennon ( so it goes in today's tabloids as well , only here it was some kind of real news ) . But they are presented compelling enough so that they can offer up some bits of insights for newer audiences to Lennon's music and politics . To be sure , it is a slanted argument , but slanted for the right reasons ( you're bound to not find anyone in a doc like this saying " oh , Vietnam , not so bad " , unless maybe Liddy ) . Yet the argument holds strong throughout , about the nature of political practice and the ideals of changing things not going well with the establishment . And there are questions raised for the audience , if not directly : should Lennon , who technically wasn't American , be apart of a movement that was going on , or just stuck to doing his songs and music ? ( The filmmakers , by the way , wisely cut out much at all to do with the Beatles , albeit they kind of skirmish past the whole issue of " Beatles bigger than Jesus " when it's presented more as a footnote of the outspoken side of Lennon than connecting to the main focus ) . It's interesting though to see the footage of the " bed-in " , when Lennon and Ono did almost a kind of tour of protest-by-lethargy , and had the press in there as part of the ironic-not-quite-joke of the matter . And there's also fascination in seeing Lennon describe , candidly in archival interviews , the toll the media blitz and upheaval from the government had on him . Only towards the end do the directors start to waver the attention a little bit , even as it is , to be sure , part of the story of Lennon and his eventual tragic death in 1980 . But the core idea behind the documentary is one that will always pose something that the viewer should look for : what is it about two unlikely connected figures - popular celebrity musician-cum-activist and one of the craziest presidents this country ever had - that still seems relevant today ? Can people take away anything from Lennon's struggle with the powers-that-be ? It might be a little obvious ( i . e . getting past apathetic stances and doing nothing to just trying to do ' something ' ) , but the point is made nonetheless in the film , and not in a manner that is too schmaltzy or heavy-handed . Just make sure you don't have a BS drug bust to worry about .
fun to watch for some of the actors and the ' character ' of the fog , but lesser Woody in my book	I could enjoy Woody Allen's Shadows and Fog without really taking it in as being as superior a work as his other 1992 film , Husbands and Wives . Both are a bit like cinematic experiments , H & W being a very loose and improvisational-feeling take on couples in the style of something like Cassavetes or Bergman , and S & F being an all-out homage to expressionism in Germany , with touches of Kafka , horror and film-noir ( hell , that's all the film is , the latter I mean ) thrown in for good measure . But watching Shadows and Fog becomes a little more tedious as it goes , and a laugh or two and the usual heaping pile of Woody wit doesn't compensate for there being only the ingredients for a story , not a connection of one . We get Woody Allen as Kleinman ( or is it Klienman ) , who gets woken up in the middle of an ultra-foggy night to find a killer , but then finds himself on the other side of the investigation after the murder of a doctor ( Donald Pleasance ) . Meanwhile sexual liaisons go on with John Malkovich and Mia Farrow's characters , just not with one another ( one with Madonna and one with John Cusack ) . All the while scenes go in and out , and Allen is without a doubt very much in love with the period , actually the period put to film , and uses style to its excesses . One example of this is Farrow's visit to a whorehouse , where Allen's camera repeatedly goes around and around in a circular move around the women in profile . There's no real reason to do it just for the sake of having a 360 shot , and this is part of what's good but unfulfilling about the picture . The style is laid as thick as the fog , where motivation is totally lost for the sake of a more ' moving ' change for the characters , like Malkovich and Farrow finding the baby . There's a nice lot of whimsy with magic towards the end too . But seeing Allen in his usual nervous talky mode doesn't match up as well as he thinks it might , or that his intention might have been . It's not spoofing , because there aren't good enough jokes out of the atmosphere . I liked the Kafka side to it , and its all-star cast gets some points for sticking to the material , but it doesn't stir up much thought , or act that memorable in the way that other comedies by the filmmaker work . It's neither boring or dour , yet a trifle compared to Allen's other ' experiment ' that year , which aims for much more within its limits .
a cool batch of 90's indie pathos	Four Rooms was concocted like one of those many , many collaborative efforts from directors in the 60's and 70's ( i . e . The Witches , Ro . Go . PaG , Boccaccio ' 70 , etc ) , except this would revolve around a bell-hop on New Years Eve . It disqualifies itself as being any kind of masterpiece or classic in independent film-making , and sometimes the filmmakers ( Alison Anders , Robert Rodriguez , and Alexandre Rockwell , and Quentin Tarantino , the last two also serving as executive producer ) look like they're relishing too much in their ( limited ) clout and exuberance to concentrate . As was with many others who viewed the film , I found that the first two segments were the lesser ones , and the last two were the best ones . It all comes down , in this case , to which two were funnier . So , let's break each one down : Allison Anders ' film is a quirky , quasi-lesbian take on a coven of witches , featuring the likes of Madonna and Lily Taylor , are the first to shake up ( perhaps for the better in this one ) Ted the bell-hop . Ted , by the way , is played with a continuous , nervous-type of fervor that goes from being innocuous , to annoying , and then acceptable again . It's also interesting to see how his character goes through different motions when under each director ( for example , in Rodriguez's film he's more of a cartoon-type of character , and in Tarantino's film he hearkens slightly to his previous collaborations with the director , quieter , on edge in a particular way ) . Some of the laughs are surrounded by a kind of attitude put forth by the director that seems a little off . Maybe I'm the wrong audience for it , though - the women in the audience may appreciate it , or rather amused by it , more than I . I give it a B-Alexandre Rockwell's The Wrong Man is my least favorite of the bunch , as Ted gets stuck with a couple of crazed fetishists ( David Proval and Jennifer Beals ) . The problem here lies with two things - the fact that the comedic timing / chemistry is a little iffy / off with the three actors , and that the writing doesn't come off like it's naturally funny . When Beals ' character Angela runs off about Ted's private parts , this could be funny , but it's more ' ho-ho ' than ' ha-ha ' to me . Some of the tension from Roth brings some laughs , but not enough to compensate the uncomfortable atmosphere around the whole segment . I give it a C-The third segment , The Misbehaviors , displays how clever and quick Rodriguez can be with physical comedy ( slapstick ) as well as in getting laughs from kids ( as he did here and there in his Spy Kids movies ) . It is also a boost that the whole segment comes off as though it's like a live-action Looney Tunes short - it's so ridiculous that in some scenes I burst out laughing ( i . e . Ted's reaction to the corpse ) . The set-up with the parents was also amusing in how Banderas and Tamlyn Tomita act towards the kids . Then the pay-off knocks it out of the park . Then we come to the closure , featuring the indie wunderkind at the time , Tarantino , as he takes on two sources of inspiration - Rohald Dahl's " Man from the South " short story , later translated through Alfred Hitchcock's television show . It's a smart , hip little piece of Hollywood satire from Tarantino , as he himself plays an overly obnoxious Hollywood filmmaker , with two guys by his side ( Paul Calderon and Bruce Willis ) , as they take a gamble right after the stroke of midnight . It took me a couple of time to watch this to really get into it , but when I did it was even more promising . The camera-work in the scene ( via ' Dogs ' and ' Pulp ' cinematographer Andrzej Sekula ) is deliberately paced , and it's perfectly leisurely for the pace of the last segment . That much , if not all , of the dialog is funny it's because of the skill and chemistry between the four of them . Plus , a little prologue with Marisa Tomei and Kathy Griffin gives the indication of what insanity is in store . Grade - A . So , is this film a success ? For it's time , I'm not sure . With the power of four million off the success of each director's previous efforts ( Tarantino with ' Dogs ' , Rodriguez with El Mariachi , Anders with Gas , Food , and Lodging , and Rockwell with In the Soup , all from the 92 Sundance place ) , they did whatever they wanted , and it's not the success it could've been . On the other hand , when one looks at the films in perspective , it could've been a lot worse , and it wasn't . At the least , it works as one of the quintessential party movies for fans of the 90's " new-wave " crop .
the ' best ' Sandler movie in about five years ( which still means its only ' good ' )	When I was younger ( i . e . back in the last decade ) , I was an unashamed Adam Sandler fan , as he was made for the kind of target audience ( young teens ) that I was in . Then , as time went on , his comedies got a little bit stale , with only one or two exceptions ( the best , of course , being his role in Punch Drunk Love thanks to PT Anderson ) . As of late , sentiment , or just poor scripts , have gotten in the way of anything that's done it well for me , though I still hold him at the least as being a guilty pleasure . Now comes You Don't Mess with the Zohan , and I'm happy to report that it's overall very funny , probably his funniest since Anger Management ( which was somewhat underrated at the time ) . It's got one of his oddest set-ups , and sometimes the plot kind of clicks along to a stupid tone ( i . e . a mall trying to set up in an Israeli / Palestinian neighborhood ) , but there's a real charm to Sandler's character , behind all of the outrageous gags and running goofs ( i . e . hummus , big-crotch thrusts , Mel Gibson ) . The set-up is simple enough : a bad-ass Moussad agent who can kill a person almost without trying , fakes his own death against a Palestinian kingpin ( John Tuturro ) , and goes for his dream to become a professional hair-dresser in America . He gets that dream , as well as having sex with many , many older women who somehow get turned on like in Herbal Essences shampoo ads X100 , but of course falls in love with the Palestinian girl who runs the shop he works at . There's some minor intrigue involving a cab-driver ( Rob Schneider , not as crappy as usual ) with a grudge against Zohan with a goat memory , and the eventual return of Tuturro's character ( who , I might add , is absolutely uproariously funny in this , easily his funniest part since his days with the Coens ) for a near final showdown . What makes most of the movie work though - co-scripted by Sandler and Robert Smigel for the first time in years , aided probably tremendously by Judd Apatow - is its dedication to the raunchy nature of the material , avoiding sentimentality in lieu for tasteless sex jokes ( i . e . a certain hair-down-there is mentioned ) , and even some funny barbs at Israeli / Palestinian culture . It might not be the deepest satire , as many jokes revolve weirdly around Hackeysack , but it made me laugh , which is all I can really attest to . There are also , I should add , some pretty neat cameos and bit parts thrown in , like Shelly Berman from Curb Your Enthusiasm , Mariah Carey , the " Let's Get Ready to Rumble " guy in an actual small role , and amazingly Dave Matthews as a redneck-terrorist for hire .
a little hit for Besson and Li	Usually I don't watch much of Jet Li's works ( not against what he does , just not crazy about his movies ) , but Unleashed , aka Danny the Dog , intrigued me for its premise , its writer / producer ( who could've directed it had he had the guts ) , and the surprise casting of Morgan Freeman . Li plays Danny , a quasi wild child grown up and " tamed " by an electronic collar , controlled by gangster Bart ( Bob Hoskins ) , who uses Danny to beat the hell out of those who wont pay up , and for possible future endeavors in fight-to-the-death matches in underground arenas . But a sudden car accident sets Danny on his own - and into the care and council of an old , blind piano tuner ( Freeman ) , and his step-daughter , who teaches Danny the joys of music . But there's more , it seems , than he even knows about his past . Aside from the given fight sequences , which were much better than I expected as not seeming too heavily stylized with choreography ( save for the big death-fight in the arena between Danny and the opponents ) , there's a strong base of story and characters that helps this pulpy stuff stay respectable . Besson's sensibility leans more towards making it half a bad-ass story of a " dog " breaking off from his former ass of an owner ( Hoskins is one-note but fun in the part of the conniving Bart ) , and half a kind of sensitive re-emerging into society story where Danny finds his humanity and how to reconcile his dark past . The director Louis Letterier balances out the expected genre elements and the aspects with Freeman and his step daughter for it to be an emotional trip . It might not be a Leon : The Professional for Besson as writer / producer in terms of doing what he did with that , but Letterier presents an exciting , touching movie that can appease those looking for a solid Li pic , and for those who might give a double-take at Morgan Freeman playing a blind piano tuner ( as usual , he hits it out of the park ) . Not great , but not at all disappointment , it's a minor sleeper among the annals of Besson's career . And there's some pretty sweet classical music thrown in too .
it's almost like trying to put judgment on some brave , weird , unique piece of interpretation , that only has half its limbs	Godard once said a way to criticize a movie is to just make one , and probably the strongest kind that could be made about Ralph Bakshi's take on Tolkien's magnum opus the Lord of the Rings , has actually been made by Peter Jackson . The recent trilogy , to me , aren't even total masterpieces , but they are given enough room with each book to breath in all the post-modern techniques crossed with classical storytelling to make them very good , sweeping entertainments . But as one who has not read the books , I end up now looking upon the two versions , live-action ( albeit partly animated in its big visual effects way ) and animated ( albeit partly done with actual live action as the framework ) in relation to just the basic story , not even complete faithfulness to the books . And with Bakshi's version , it's almost not fair in a way , as what we do see is really not the complete vision , not what Jackson really had ( probably final cut ) . Robbed of Return of the King's big climactic rush of the story , and with the other two parts becoming rushed , I ended up liking it more for what it did within its limitations , though as such those same limitations make it disappointing . What's interesting too , after seeing the Jackson films first - which I also slightly regret being that I might've reacted to this differently when I was younger and prior to five years ago - is that the basic elements of the story never get messed up with . Everything that is really needed to tell the Fellowship of the Ring story is actually pretty much intact , and if anything what was probably even more gigantic and epic in Tolkien's book is given some clarity in this section . The actors playing the parts of the hobbits and the other heroes , are more or less adequate for the parts , with a few parts standing out ( John Hurt as Aragorn and William Squire as Gandalf ) . The lack of extra characterization does end up making things seem a little face-value for those who've not even seen the other films or read the books and can't put them into context . But there is some level of interest always with the characters , and here there's a more old-fashioned sensibility amid the large aura of it being more . This is not a garden variety Disney adaptation - warts and all , this is a Bakshi film , with his underground animation roots colliding with the mythical world of Middle Earth . And what Bakshi and his animation team bring to the film is one that ends up giving what is on screen , in all its abbreviated form , its hit or miss appeal . Along with being not totally complete as a film , or as stories , the form of the film is an experiment , to see if something can be entirely rotoscoped . The results end up bringing what seems now to be retro , but at the time of course was something that was a rough , crazy inspiration on the part of the filmmakers . Might it have been better with more traditional drawn animation ? In some parts , yeah ; it does become a little noticeable , as was also the case in Bakshi's American Pop , that the main characters move in such ways that are a little shaky , like some kind of comic-book form done in a different way . Still , there's much I admired in what was done . The orcs , for example , I found to be really amazing in they're surreal surroundings . They're maybe the best part of the combination of the animation on top of the live-action , especially during parts where there isn't battle footage ( that's really the real hit-or-miss section , as there isn't continuity from the good and bad rotoscoping ) , and the chiaroscuro comes through with big shapes on top of horseback . It's creepy in a good way . And the backgrounds , while also very rough and sometimes too sketchy , are beautiful with the mixtures and blasts of colors together . It's almost something for art-film buffs as much as for the ring-nuts . So , how would I recommend this animated take on the Lord of the Rings ? I don't know , to tell the truth . It's certainly a good notch above the other Tolkien animated film I've seen , the Hobbit ( and I've yet to see the animated ROTK ) , and there is some real artistry going on . There's also some stilted dialog , an all-too-rushed Two Towers segment with the most intriguing character Gollum being reduced to maybe two scenes in all . And seeing something as fragmented like this ends up only reinforcing the completeness of the more recent films . If you're a fan of the books contemplating checking this out , I would say it's worth a chance , even if it's one of those chances where you watch for forty minutes and then decide whether to stop it or not . As for it fitting into Bakshi's other films I've seen it's an impressive ambitious and spotty achievement , where as with Lynch's Dune it's bound to draw a dark , mordor-like line in the sand between those who hate it passionately and those who don't . I don't .
certainly won't be one to show to all ( some , frankly , will hate it ) . but it's challenging in ways filmmakers usually shy away from	It was bound to happen that Youth Without Youth , the first film written and directed by Francis Ford Coppola in fifteen years ( the first directed in ten ) , would be lauded by the critics for not being a real " comeback " kind of project . It's surreal , philosophical , mystical , and even has a mood about it that calls as a throwback to old romantic melodramas of the 40s and 50s ( hence the opening titles ) . It's not even any kind of great film . It's pretentious in a few stretches , maybe more-so , and it takes a convoluted explanation that comes second in 2007 film only to Southland Tales for being more complex and bizarre . But unlike Kelly's film , Coppola at least has a hold on what he's doing , or what he's trying to accomplish . Coppola once said that art is all about taking riks , and to make films without risk is like sex without children . In the grand scheme of things , at least with his career , Youth Without Youth seems to be slightly minor a risk when compared to the likes of Apocalypse Now or One From the Heart . But it's a risk that Coppola takes all the same , and through the intellectual thicket ( which , contrary to some critics , isn't completely dense ) there is some truly potent cinematic expression . So , the plot , the plot . . . A linguistics professor , Dominic ( Tim Roth ) is an old man when he gets struck by lightning in 1938 , then proceeds to age back to 40 in recovery , only to then find that he's being watched - and planned for abduction - by Nazi scientists who want to use his newfound super-powers ( mostly that he can , at times , harness powerful energy , as Dominic describes as " out of a science fiction novel " ) . This might be enough for a movie alone , but there's more - years later , a woman from Dominic's past ( from before the lightning strike ) appears again , also still apparently young , and she can talk in ancient languages , so then . . . Yeah , I could go on with that . Suffice to say there's also talk about how this whole time-warp connects into the realm of consciousness itself , or what makes up knowledge or the pursuit of language , and all relating to time , leading up to an ending that flips around itself , all inspired by an old Chinese tale that goes around and around . What it means I still can't quite figure , and it at least shows Coppola won't spoon-feed any kind of easy ending ( even the whole " it's only a dream " concept has some holes to fill , leaving ambiguity as something a little more logical ) . Frankly , I've never read any of the Mircea Eliade's writings , but there's a lot to it that strikes up references to other works . I couldn't help but think the plot , and its themes , were as though Philip K . Dick was forced to make a melodrama - on his own terms - from an unpublished book . Or that there was a connection to the Fountain , or even Dr . Who or something else . The comparisons are endless . But what remains , at the end of trying to figure out what the hell Youth Without Youth will say as its ultimate message , is an original work , sincerely with the verve of a filmmaker who just says ' f it ' and makes the movie he wants to make on his own terms ( with , subsequently , his own money ) . If there is any risk to the project it's that Coppola gambles on narrative cohesion with elements like two Dominics following the lightning strike ( one of which , of course , prods the other to complete his life's work as a " failure " ) , or the power of emotion with two people in love vs . the tremendous , daunting task of unlocking secrets of language and consciousness and what time even means . Couple this with technique that veers into the abstract , with upside down camera angles and upfront anti-Nazi imagery ala Indiana Jones , and a music that strikes up the most melancholy and precise of aforementioned melodrama , and it becomes the weirdest hybrid Coppola's ever made . And yet , and yet , if Youth Without Youth is one thing above all else , it's , well . . . interesting . I never felt like getting up and even leaving to go to the bathroom much less leaving the film for good . I cared about Dominic and Veronica as I did the direction Coppola took the story ( even if pretensions , particularly in the second half , seemed to loop into the equation ) . And Roth is , not to forget to mention , terrific in the role , seeming to understand where his character may ( or may not ) be headed as he continues with his research and finds that he is sort of doomed in time unless he goes down a certain path . He even gets to dig into a certain subdued humor underneath the skin of the picture , where a few times there's some laughs to be had at the expense of what's going on with Dominic , as though some old philosopher discovered a comic book and incorporated it into his character . It's a very strange movie experience , and not one I can easily recommend . But I do all the same , and Coppola fans will either like it or , as case is turning out , they wont .
both delirious and low-key in separate measure , a decent early turn from Brooksfilms	The Twelve Chairs is not one of Mel Brooks's funniest comedies , but then again it IS a Russian based comedy , where big laughs are as hard to find as a tropical climate . This film does , however , display the director actually able to really tell a good story , and act as storyteller with characters in a plot to care about . If it is not really as successful as his other films though it is in this - I didn't really have a BIG laugh during the length of the 90 minute running time . I note this not because it is a laugh-less comedy , as I had good chuckles , grins , and smiles at the material presented . But in most of Brooks's films , even when the structure is held on a thread of sketches and bits , they become the funniest in modern movies . This time there is actually a lot of reverence to the early 20th century Russian times , even as there are some moments when the irreverence Brooks is best at pops up . Perhaps if you're die-hard into Russian history it might serve more for the in-jokes and the well-captured reality of the times . The acting is good , and the main cast is well placed , even if too not the best work is turned in . Frank Langella is definitely very good as the straight ' handsome desperado ' character to Ron Moody's crazy old man , as he is an actor who maybe pulls out one good joke in the film . Moody meanwhile delivers some of the funniest moments just based on the delirious , if repetitive , bits on his face and in his unwavering dedication to the jewels stuck in the chair . It is Dom De Louise , on the other hand , who comparatively to other work he's done ( primarily Brooksfilm work where he's genius in bit parts ) , as he really has to rely mostly on physical gags more than hysterical dialog . It becomes a running gag as the most desperate quack of the three hunting for the chair , and only intermittently ( mostly when he tries to get the chairs from a husband and wife on a wild goose chase ) is funny . And possibly some of the most memorable bits come with Brooks himself as the dim , clumsy but well-intentioned servant to Moody . One almost wishes he might pop up unexpectedly later in the film just as a brilliant goof . This is not to say I wasn't glad to finally see the often under-seen film in Brooks's oeuvre . It's certainly a good notch above the worst the director's done ( Life Stinks and Dracula Dead and Loving It ) , where unlike those unfortunate moments he doesn't shoot for jokes and gags and puns that just don't work . Here they do , and they're juxtaposed with a story that allows for some good tongue-in-cheek moments ( including a few smart moments when people chase each other in sped-up silent-film comedy style ) , while with a dramatic adventure story . There's even one or two moments where Brooks reveals a fine cinematic eye for the real locations on the character's travels . At the end , I felt I hadn't seen the great sleeper of a career , but a fun enough romp that has good intentions for something different - and what's more ' different ' than a comedy set in Russia .
certainly a better Gen-X update than Romeo + Juliet , if not great	This is an interesting if not altogether successful adaptation of Hamlet . I'd think if you're young and about to read the book in high school watching this would soften the blow of the text ( if , of course , not providing an entire picture ) . This is a little like the cliff-notes contemporary example as opposed to the 98 % faithful adaptation that Branaugh had made a few years later . The director has assembled no-less a fascinating and capable cast - I liked Ethan Hawke in the role , and loved supporting work from Kyle MacLaughlan , Diane Verona , Bill Murray ( yes , Bill Murray , who is fantastic ) and Julia Stiles - and he's created a situation and framework where the original text fits in with the 20th / 21st century business and clothes and technology . Unlike Lurhmann's wild take on the play ( too wild if you ask most , including me ) , this is a little more meditative in pace and tone , if not without any energy , and it's a fine sight to see the perennial " To Be or Not to Be " monologue spoken in a video store . Not for all purists , but a fun and strange adaptation with little hints of wonderful satire .
it's action and ' what's coming round the bend ' entertainment , nothing more or less	Poseidon is based on a novel , technically , although most will associate it with the original film The Poseidon Adventure from 1972 , unseen by me . What I do know whenever someone mentions it is that Shelley Winters is very memorable in it ( and actually when they refer to her career they bring up that film or Lolita ) . But I knew basically that this was your standard Hollywood-sized blockbuster with a man who could either hit just well enough or miss ( Wolfgang Peterson ) . What he provides by way of being director serves this material more than the lackluster Troy from two years ago . Here he's in his element doing something very elemental , however a lot of the time abandoning logic like the several passengers from the ship . It's popcorn entertainment on a scale that I enjoyed for what it was , while noticing that the investment in the characters was only up to a very small point . Then again , I'm not seeing this film for character development , and the screenwriter Mark Protosevich knows this so he just gives unpretentiously what's needed - the main cast who are all just ' types ' ( i . e . Russell is ex fireman turned mayor , Dreyfuss an architect , Josh Lucas a natural leader , and various female roles of equal strength and shame ) . While I can't completely recommend the film like I would other more successful big-budget ' disaster ' films , I can recommend it perhaps more than others , and unlike the other three big films from this month it doesn't necessarily kid itself too much or go for a way too muddled storyline . And it is actually best to see the film on an IMAX screen ( its effectiveness may actually be lost somewhat once its on TV ) , where the actual first turning point of the ship getting tossed over by the ' rare ' wave is almost worth the price of admission alone for its visual prowess and , indeed , excitement . The rest of the picture is just a series of cliffhangers ( some more literally than others ) , and a lot of running , swimming , ( some ) drowning , and heavy-handed dialog when need be . Peterson is also smart enough here , unlike with Troy , not to overstay the welcome with the material . It's compact enough to be enough of a vehicle of danger and with the technical side all intact , while the characters only get testy up to a point . Some of the early scenes are , of course , too predictable ( even if Dreyfuss's romantic side seems a little displaced and unnecessary ) , as one just wants things go forward with the action . Luckily , on that end , in the tradition of bubble-headed ( pun intended ) thrillers with all the elements of a matinée serial , it's not bad .
an amusing , small detour on the highway of life	The band , an group of eight Egyptians looking slightly stilted and uncomfortable but always professional , are dropped off at the Israeli airport , but there is no bus to drive them . They eventually get one , but it drops them off in the middle of nowhere . They walk to a local restaurant / dive that's about as empty as the rest of the small town - it's the wrong town , of course , as one letter was off in the name of the town of the band-mates inquired about . So it's time to stay overnight in this sleepy little desert town before things get straightened out to their destination . With that simple premise , Eran Kolirin creates an atmosphere that seems like the awkward , piercingly funny but " low-key " ( in other words not overly dramatic ) characters in a Jarmusch film , and despite the ' small ' nature of the story , that there isn't very much to go in its 80 minute running time , a lot can be explored through interaction . This is probably not a ' great ' film , but it is a great example for those skeptical that an Israeli film has to have some political context or subtext or whatever . The only scene that has the hint of unease between Israel and Arab is an already warm , strange scene at a dinner table where an Israeli man recollects singing " Summertime " as everyone at the table joins in . There are looks exchanged here and there , but nothing to suggest unrest of the expected sort . This story could take place in just about anywhere . By aiming things towards the little details of people relating on terms of friendly interaction , of the light dances of affection like between the boy who " hears the sea " and the " gloomy girl " at the skating rink ( probably the single funniest scene without a word spoken , all movement ) , the first-time director creates a little play on people who live and / or work in a marginalized part of the world . That doesn't mean they're poor or ignorant , far from it . But it's a sweet view into people we otherwise wouldn't know much about ( after all , who makes light , wise comedies on the misadventures of a police band from Egypt ? ) The performances are endearing , the music has the ring of not taking much too seriously , and melodrama is kept at a low ( if not , in the underlying sense , melancholy ) . Only a few scenes ( like the running story strand of the officer and the other guy waiting at the pay phone ) fall sort of flat based on the tone already sent .
it did make money over its time . . . entertaining	. . . but did Steven Spielberg's latest Blockbuster-fodder , Catch Me If You Can , have to be released now ? The two leads , Leonardo DiCaprio and Tom Hanks have already turned in their best for the year ( Gangs of New York and Road to Perdition , respectively ) , even if those performances weren't great , and Spielberg's other chase film released during the summer , Minority Report , was one of his best films . While the release date shouldn't directly effect the film itself , it might've given Scorsese's Gangs a little chance to breath without having this and that as two Leo films at once during the Christmas-break film rush . Catch . . is inspired by the story of Frank W . Abignale Jr . , who as a teen became a con-man , impersonating an airline pilot , doctor , lawyer , etc , and was finally caught in France . DiCaprio plays Frank , and tries to play him as a suave , if occasionally panicked , teen , and while there have been worse performances this year , it is very clear that the better work for him is in Gangs , not here - he's often too straightforward with his emotions and only hints to that he's someone outside of a conniver . Hanks , on the other hand , does a decent job , with a keen accent and demeanor , and Christopher Walken , who plays Abignale Sr . , turns in the best performance of the film , and shows more depth than his son in the few scenes he has . Overall , there are some moments of fun that shine through , like when Frank Jr . does his first con as a school teacher at 16 , or when he fools Hanks at the Miami airport , yet it can be seen in many scenes that more challenging material was manipulated by Spielberg and company . Still , it should appeal to the mass market of movie-goers . . . . . this is a re-edit some four years later . On repeat viewings , the film works better . DiCaprio actually works as more effective with his character , and even Hanks becomes more interesting than just ' decent ' .
the odd-ball slice of life of Altman's career , but somehow it's a good deal of fun in its schizo-storytelling	Brewster McCloud was the kind of picture I could imagine having being written over many ( count many ) joints and after not getting a career going as an ornithologist ( I might add , the screenwriter only had two or three other projects produced , and nowhere near as seen as this one is in comparison ) . It's as nutty as a Clark bar : a kid with the title name ( Bud Cort , in an immediate precursor-type performance to his Harold in Harold and Maude as an awkward , shy outsider who has a some kind of desire behind his geeky exterior ) is at the task of building wings so he can fly , and he builds it in the basement / boiler room of the Houstin Astrodome . Some mysterious woman played by Sally Kellerman is , I think , killing people that seem to end up really pestering Brewster , which include a craggy Mr . Burns figure ( Stacy Keach , hilariously one-note ) , a narc , and a random dude with a chain . I'd guess she's the killer - there's a whole sub-plot , by the way , with a police investigation headed by Shaft ( no , not talking about that one , Michael Murphy plays him here , that's right ) , who's more interested in the bird dung that keeps showing up on the deceased instead of regular police work . Meanwhile , Jennifer Salt gets off on the vibes of a half-nude Brewster doing chin-ups , Shelly Duvall with over-extended eye-lashes falls for Brewster one moment and then rats on him the next , and then there's still Kellerman doing her thing thwarting off , and . . . did I mention there's a professor / narrator who seems like a mental patient with a lot of facts about fowl ? So much of this is hard to take , and towards the end it becomes very frustrating trying to put any sense to it ( how is Duvall so good at evading the police , how is that one cop such a buffoon to read Captain America while on a stake-out , why does Jennifer Salt keep popping up and giving Brewster food / orgasms , and how much symbolic " ah , I'm a blonde angel " can we take from Kellerman ? ) But then again , why bother ? Altman is after the sly humor of the quirky as opposed to real common sense , and it's in his dedication and intelligence in following through with these characters , no matter how strange or subtle or inexplicably charming or demented they are , that makes the film work up to the point that it does . And despite a sort of unsatisfying last twenty minutes with Brewster and some of the supporting characters ( the whole sex angle is a little weak and too dated for me to buy ) , there's some experimentation for the director that would probably not come again . There's a car chase , for example , through the roads of Houston , and while it's not exciting on a Bullit type of level , it's fascinating to see when the sudden twists and turns pop up , unexpectedly ( where did the little red car come from ? ) , and there's even a remarkable slow-motion shot where , as part of a theme of the film , the cars fly above their intended plane . I also liked how Altman worked in an overly Felliniesque ending , as uncomfortable a catharsis it seems to be , with the Astrodome suddenly being flooded with carnival figures , and the main characters donned in costumes and wigs and such . Brewster McCloud is a funny bird , no pun intended , of a early 70s obscurity , a film that likely got a hundredth of the public attention that MASH got , but is probably just as strong in what it wants to deliver to its eclectic audience ( albeit , personally , I think MASH is maybe Altman's most overrated ) . And it's probably the weirdest stoner movie that the director ever conceived , portentous cloud shots included !
a minor work , but a very good minor work , about the complexities of a seemingly simple figure	I can't say how much of White Hunter , Black Heart is entirely fact or not . The source material is by Peter Vietrel , a screenwriter who accompanied ( and did uncredited doctoring on the African Queen ) filmmaker / adventurer John Huston to the jungles of Africa to witness more-so shooting elephants than shooting the movie . While I could assume that a lot of this is based on a true story - from other documentaries I've seen on Huston he seemed like a real " man's man " , with as much pride as ugliness , but with a true vision as an artist and powerful presence - I decided to try and look at the main character in the film as a character , not John Huston himself . It helped me like it a lot more , as more than just a ' this is what happened ' kind of film-making story , which on its own has its own merits and historical interest , but it would have been too much of a simple thing . I'm not sure what else is there , but Clint Eastwood taps into more than just a story of John Huston , but about what it is to be a headstrong head-case who somehow can be very charming and witty , yet you sometimes can't tell when he's being cruelly sarcastic or truthful , and at his worst can be a cruel s . o . b . There's also an artist in there too , though , even in the little moments when he sketches people around him quietly as he talks his usual words of ' elephant ' this and ' elephant ' that . And Eastwood , in this limited arena , creates one of his best performances , at least in the realm of not being just his simple ' bad-ass ' self . It's fairly self-conscious that it IS Huston ( and all one has to see is one movie featuring Huston in an acting performance - Chinatown the best example - to see what an indelible force he can be without even trying ) , but there are layers to the character that Eastwood gets to . There's a vulnerability to his mad quest , like when he reveals to his screenwriter accomplice Pete ( Jeff Fahey ) , " it's more than a crime , it's a sin , a sin that I can get a license for . " He's almost afraid of what he's capable of , which is perfectly masked by his love of cigars , drink , big talk , lust for women , and a matter of principle for him to punch out anyone who affronts him ( or , actually , might have it coming ) . Amid his flawed quest to kill one elephant , as if it were some secret holy grail , the film crew sits and waits , and waits , and there's a sense that Wilson can only go into darker territory with his persistence . Eastwood captures the strong intensity of an artist , who is all about the simplicity in art like with Hemingway , and compounds it as a director with a good revelation made at the end . A lot of this makes for compelling viewing , even if it is sort of a minor work , so to speak . It's not that fans of Eastwood should miss it , but it's an understandable point to make that it's not , and probably wont ever be , too widely seen ( oddly enough connecting to something Wilson's character says about not giving a damn whether or not the audience comes to see a movie he makes or not ) . It has an old fashioned vibe to it , which isn't ever a bad thing , but it's also only probing on its main character , and Eastwood doesn't really supply the actors that can rise to his level here . Fahey , for example , is only halfway convincing , and usually when he has to face the stubborn side of Wilson . Some other character actors fare a little better , like George Dzundza and Timothy Spall , but it's a little too standard and , well , " Hollywood " ( also oddly enough a point of note in the movie , where Eastwood tries to make a comment on how using the term ' Hollywood ' is something of an insult ) It actually is one of those rare Eastwood movies , like Bird , where it works stronger as a character study than as pure storytelling , which is usually Eastwood's forte . Still , I was never really disappointed in what I saw , and it casts an interesting light most of the time on a man who doesn't seem to notice what lies in his ambitions truthfully . It's a change of pace for Eastwood in a good direction , and shows what he would be capable of in even later years in doing subversions in types of films Eastwood became infamous for to start with . It also contains one of the funniest spouts of bile from a man to a woman in any movie ( when Wilson tells off the Jew-hater ) .
the shot where Brosnan is in the speedo walking to the pool may be cooler than any single shot from his Bond performances	And I think for that alone the Matador is worth a view , just a peek , into how something like subverting a persona can work very well . It's not even a terrific movie , per-say , so much as it is a light affair into the lonely world of killers and businessmen , who have trouble doing what they do and wind up meeting each other in dingy Mexican dives after hours . Brosnan's Julian can't be called a caricature really as he's too much of a flunkie - but a wicked flunkie all the same - and for the actor / star it's like taking the Bond figure , adding in some Bad Santa , and with a touch of Analyze This , to use some modern comparisons . But all in all , it's an original kind of performance on an idea that isn't so new : the man in a mid-life crisis , burnt-out , washed up , into excesses of drink and women . It's almost too easy , but as it is a challenge to keep fresh Brosnan rises to the challenge to make him both hilariously pathetic ( the results of his first botched job is fecal related ) and sincere in flaws . It's a good , well-rounded sort of counterpoint to everyman Kinnear and his wife played by Hope Davis , as he's also got his own past issues ( sort of a script contrivance , but it's allowable ) , as he is befriended by the subtly wacky Julien down in Mexico City . Much of the richest humor in the film comes out of the little moments of behavior , then moments when Brosnan looks as though he might trail off with his sentence , or how he goes into telling a dirty joke to " change the subject " when hearing about Kinnear's son's death . The dialog is clever without being too proud of its own cleverness , as if the filmmaker were out to make the smaller points about the characters as opposed to knock-off Tarantino slang . It starts to go into a bit familiar territory in the last act , as well as a revelation that seems to be a bit moot , but at the least there's the star and his dingy presence , giving off that air of confidence in acting like a " parody " as Julien himself calls himself late in the game . As the spy movie gets into some possible pitfalls ( more than possible , distinctly so ) , it's good to see a movie that takes on the notion of a contract-for-hire killer and to strip him down into something that's more recognizable - and friggin hilarious .
Longish , overrated , but watchable	Scent of the Woman has a story , but luckily ( mainly since it's not the greatest ) , it sticks to it's dialog and actors . Brief plot summary goes as this : a prep kid needs money so he takes a job looking after a blind old guy who lives in a cottage with his family . If that was it , this movie wouldn't have even gotten off the ground , but then something interesting happens : the old guy is quite the classic ( bleep ) . And this Lieutenant Colonel is played by Al Pacino in the ' bravado ' style of his abilities , his abilities being of his instincts , even if it is not at all one of his best performances . Too much of it is over-emphasis , close to being not even a complete person , even in the strongest moments . It's almost as if the Oscar to Pacino was more for his career up till then , not even for this film necessarily . Slade leads the young man ( Chris O'Donnel ) on a coming of age odyssey in NYC . If you take this part of the film ( like taking the entire 90 minutes of Tom Hanks on Cast Away island and sea ) , you have something quite intriguing at times , but the film also has some un-needed stuff left over from preppie-school message-movie land , and it doesn't work at all . Still , Pacino does what he can , and some supporting actors are good .
not quite as sweet as the movie , but pretty darn close - should definitely appease fans of the comic book	Hellboy : Sword of Storms is in the quality of animation no more or less the standard one might see on the average program on Adult Swim ( Cartoon Network , of course ) . Which means it's always eye-catching , if only on a kind of wacky 2-D level that is left in the dust in these days of cinema going the way of CGI . What makes Sword of Storms significant , if only in parts , is that Mignola , Del-Toro and company start to introduce a lot more surreal imagery than was seen in the first theatrical feature . Hellboy gets swept up this time in a pretty convoluted ( or just seems that way , turns out it's actually painfully simplistic in terms of the Japanese folklore played out as drama ) , with monsters and demons all under the control of a sword that if broken spells doom for the Earth . As usual he does his job well at whacking around creatures like a big turtle / lizard creature , and at the start even tackles a big beast that , until Liz - as kind of a running un-funny gag - blazes fire all over the place till the job's done - but that's not all . This time the supernatural is accentuated in the world of what is a cross between Noh theater and , well , the average Hellboy comic-book . It doesn't matter either way how much the writers and producers researched Japanese history and creatures and such ( though I'm sure they did their share ) . What matters is how effective it all is , and in the end Hellboy is also a dark comedy - how is it to see Hellboy , after spending an uncomfortable night with some unpleasant Japanese fellows , to awake to find that they're heads have been disconnected from their bodies , and are attacking him viciously ! It's even better , of course , to see the fate of the heads , pleading Hellboy to tell where their bodies lay . I also liked the little asides with the talking fox , the old lady , and of course the big-ass demons , who allow one or two quips from Hellboy as he has to tackle them any way possible . On top of the fighting heads , there's a crazy possessed researcher , which in and of itself could make an interesting issue in the comics . Only the conventions of the story ( the psychic has been seen in countless permutations of the annoying side character who's only there for moments of sudden exposition for another side character who isn't as annoying ; plus the ending with the Japanese ghosts going through a redemption moment ) drag the film really downward . Aside from that , it's from cartoony viewing , and it should appeal to anyone who's somewhat a fan , and mandatory for fans of the books ; lord knows there's only so many times we can see Hellboy in the whirlwind of samurai dreams .
sentimental film-noir with a superb cast	I wouldn't say The Long Night is a great film , and if anything it only peaks my interest more to see how much more classic the film it's based on is - Marcel Carne's La Jour se Leve . But for the time it ran , I was mostly glued to the screen , and got wrapped up in the plight of Henry Fonda's character Joe , and his predicament of his downfall from normalcy . It probably isn't very original , taking aside its connection with the French source ; it's about a factory worker , very nice guy , who falls in love with a woman whom , he finds out , was an orphan just like him . But one night he follows her to a bar , sees her cavorting sort of with a sleazy magician ( Vincent Price ) , and his perfect image of her is shattered , and grows only darker after he meets him ( he first tells Joe he's her father , which is a truly great scene between two huge stars of classic film ) , and when she tells him about her history with him . While I could never take my eyes off the screen , it should be said that for all of the strong craftsmanship with the picture ( it's one of the finest photographed ' noirs ' of the late 40s , especially for those stark scenes of Joe alone in his room with the whole town on the street calling for him ) and for all of the tremendous talent in front of the camera - besides Fonda and Price , who the former it's a splendid and rewarding if not best-ever performance and for the latter a triumph of playing sneaky and villainous , the girl playing Jo Ann ( Barbara Bel Geddes ) is very good - it only works up to a point . I was engrossed the most in the last twenty minutes or so , as the film revved up its pace and tempo to the " will Joe or won't Joe " beat . Before that , it's many scenes that mostly rely on the presence of the actors to uplift the material past the breezy and conventional air of the dialog . There's nothing especially " wrong " with the material , but it doesn't go anywhere aside from hitting its main points . The Long Night is something of a minor lost marvel - only recently did it come out on DVD in an OK print - and for Fonda and Price fans its a can't-miss kind of picture . Just don't go expecting anything that will change your perception of what film-noirs can go that don't go for the easy routes .
my least favorite of the recent Guest / Levy collaborations , which means it's still funny , sometimes ingenious	Waiting for Guffman wasn't the first Christopher Guest / Eugene Levy collaboration ( as writers I mean , it's a Guest movie all the way ) I had seen , but I think I probably would've reacted to it as I did after having seen it after Best in Show and A Mighty Wind . It's like Guest and his always inspired troupe were with a full burst of energy with their characters , even if they're all in a movie that's a little too short ( it says 84 minutes but it feels even brisker if that's possible ) and provides some characters who are funny all the time ( like Guest's flamboyantly flamboyant Corky or Levy's nerdy and ostensibly Jewish Allan Pearl or Fred Willard as Rob Albertson ) , and some who are funny only in spurts like Catherine O'Hara or Bob Balaban . It's got quirky written all over the place , but it's always endearing in it's very strange way to show these people as they are , and the characters are likable even at their most deranged and just , well , ' small-town ' . Guest plays the director of a small-town's 150th anniversary memorial play , about how a town in Missouri came to be . It's a chance really to get glimpses into the people who get the chance of a lifetime ( err , for seemingly their mundane lifetimes ) , and especially for Corky who gives prima-donna an odd name ; he almost storms off when he doesn't get the money he asks the committee for ( calling them ' bastards ' in an angry burst that's one of the funniest things I've ever seen from Guest in anything he's done ) . Then comes crunch-time for the show , as Corky has to take a part himself and Alan Pearl has to convincingly play a part he has absolutely no confidence at ( those glasses ! ) . And all the while , the ' Guffman ' of the title - ala Godot - is a near God-like figure who could make or break the perception of the production for Corky and his cast . The final revelation from this is a comic classic touch . This all being said , I didn't really get the great big belly laughs and get as sucked into the world of these oddballs ( and all done in improvisational form no less ) as I did with the other films that have the mark of Guest and / or Levy . There are some parts where I'll smile at the near whimsy of what's going on , but a line might go flat or a bit a little weak . But if it's ever on TV , I'm sure I would tune in again just for a little while , if only to see a few of the songs from the 150th anniversary show ( the ' Mars ' song a favorite ) , and for that great epilogue .
not as funny or enormously successful as past outings , but still worth seeing with well-earned laughs	If there's any one big problem in regards to For Your Consideration , the latest rip on a particular section of society by writer / director Christopher Guest and co-writer Eugene Levy , is that the targets aren't inherently wacky already . Don't get me wrong though , when I get the sense of what's going on in Hollywood , through the vanity and the hype and the reflection via the media , it's rather sickening , and it's never an unnecessary feat of comedic strength to try and skewer the whole society the filmmakers probably have to dwell in too ( keep in mind Michael McKean was up for an Oscar for Mighty Wind a couple years ago with Levy and Catherine O'Hara performing a song live ) . But this time it comes close to shooting fish in a barrel , so the writers , and the usual terrific ensemble performing the characters , have to go to even further eccentric lengths ( and in its own way logically so ) . It certainly doesn't backfire , but if it doesn't deliver for you as for me , don't be too surprised . Not to say it's not worth seeing once , far from it . In fact its probably got more than a few lines that might work better on repeat viewings . What's sharp is really still sharp and just odd as ever . The main thrust of the plot is around the making of " Home for Purim " ( the title alone makes me smile , at first heard I laughed hard ) , later turned to " Home for Thanksgiving " due to the studios interest / insistence on the project . Among the people involved are the director , played by Guest himself , who sometimes directs a scene with a pastrami sandwich in hand ; O'Hara , a self-conscious professional who becomes much more the former when she finds out a rumor of Oscar buzz ; Shearer as Victor Allan Miller , a stage pro who is possibly going to have to turn to commercials via his insistent agent ( Levy ) if this doesn't go too big ; Calie Webb ( Parker Posey ) , a young professional comedienne-turned-serious actress is also set afire by the ' buzz ' ; and Corey Taft ( John Michael Higgins ) , an agent or other sort like that who has to always bring up his Native American background . There's laughs that come and go with the characters , some more than others ( Ed Begley Jr , who was uproarious as the Swedish Jewish guy in Mighty Wind , is still great here as a make-up artist ) , but probably none more consistently and hilariously from Fred Willard . Just what his hair looks like or what get-up he has on as his character idiotically hosts one of those Acess Hollywood style shows , is funny ( especially the hair , which Willard of course never notices ) , and he helps elevate some moments to great heights . But there are other brilliant bits too , like when the writers of Home for Purim ( Michael McKean in full beard and Bob Balaban ) go on a Charlie Rose-type show , only where the question is overloaded for a whole minute with detail that gets them lost in what he was asking them . Or for the last chunk of the film , where through the awards buzz the sensitive Marilyn Hack ( O'Hara ) gets a botox injection and boob-job , which incites so much great comedic moments . Though what's interesting is how at times some of the comedy works best because its more natural , and other times more based on the performers . It's not the first time Guest has directed a non-mockumentary movie ( and though I've yet to see his obscure 80s film the Big Picture , it's miles ahead of Almost Heroes to be certain ) , but what's lost has to be made up through better construction of scenes . The improvisational feel is still there , but curiously an actor who usually is most dependable - Levy - is actually not as good in comparison with some of his co-stars . In terms of the comedy being natural though , it came out really best during the actually Home for Purim scenes being filmed , where Jewishness met with a kind of Bette Davis kind of film in the South . While a good deal of it , actually a lot more in comparison to the past Guest films ( even with the heap of it in Might Wind ) , is based on probably ' getting ' a lot of the Jewish jokes , the whole sense of spoofing a style of film is probably much more richer in satire than the actual behind-the-scenes moments they show . Though not to forget , it's always a killer seeing Harry Shearer in a hot-dog costume . From the way I described some of this , it sounds like a mixed review , but it isn't . For Your Consideration is a good , biting stab at an industry that takes itself way too seriously and trades in art for commercialism and the hype of an awards show . Maybe too , like with the most recent mockumentaries , it might get funnier on repeat viewings .
a pleasantly buoyant and personal Spike Lee film that only feels disconnected in the last act	Crooklyn has that subjective texture by someone of the New York independent school of film-making ( which means it's a cool school more often than not ) , where personal expression through the medium leads directly into , or out of , the creator's own life experiences . It's a direct approach to call it autobiography , which I would imagine it is for not just Spike Lee ( who could be seen , more or less , as the one Carmichael kid who wears big glasses and is obsessed with the Knicks ) , but Joie ( the lead Troy perhaps ? ) and Cinque ( one of the younger kids I'd suppose as the youngest Lee sibling ) , who all wrote the script . It's about a family getting by and going through the struggles of the small kind ( change the channel , turn off the TV , don't bother your sister / brother , did you steal that from him , etc ) to the larger issues ( parents arguing over money ) that many families in urban sections of the cities have to go through every day . Only here the family is sassy , rude , cool , a little square , a little hip , and very identifiable in one aspect or another in just how siblings relate , how the neighbors get on nerves ( in this case with a slight racial edge , it is a Spike Lee movie after all ) , and yet deep down lots of love all around . The Lee's inject a good deal of humor and warmth for a good of the film , even when Spike moves the scene down south where Troy ( Zelda Harris ) has to stay with relatives for a little while , and Lee takes off the widescreen anamorphic process in order to make it a consistently distorted image . This is actually quite a cool move , if at first a little uneasy , as it goes in and out sometimes of looking like its distorted and then it will look like the characters and set pieces are skinny and such ( the fate of the relative's dog , by the way , is one of the biggest , if cruelest , laughs in the whole film ) . At Crooklyn's best , there's a whole feeling to the proceedings , much like Do the Right Thing - and going back as well to the early work of Scorsese - where just a small section of New York city opens up to the viewer as being as vivid and true as possible that the lack of a usual plot doesn't matter much . Sometimes a scene might not work quite as much as another , or one of the many songs Lee lays on ( and there are many , as it's one of the best soundtracks he's presented ) overrides what could do without in the scene . But in general these are small quibbles . The biggest problem that the film has - and it's not without truth to Lee's real life - is the death of mother Carolyn . It happens as soon as Troy comes back from the south that she's in the hospital , and two scenes later she's gone . It's a sudden shift in the story that doesn't really feel as true as it could , almost as if Lee and his sibling writers don't know where to go once Troy gets back except to go towards sentimentality . It's still well-acted , particularly by Delroy Lindo , who overall gives one of his best performances to date as the struggling father of the family , but it's an odd jolt that doesn't rightly click ( especially with a bit where a funeral scene is interrupted by what looks like a dream scene involving Spike himself , sporting a big afro , as a target of Troy's ) . And yet , I wouldn't stop anyone from seeing the Crooklyn , if they want to get to see some of the less politically charged and more personal and bittersweet side of Lee , and for those who have fond memories of New York ( and TV or the Knicks ) in the 70s .
safer than Lost in La Mancha , though only because Tideland was finished	Getting Gilliam is a fascinating , if brief , film-student examination of what is the directing mind of Terry Gilliam , who works here on Tideland , his crazy movie - and much crazier than one might even typically expect from him . Vincenzo Natali follows along on the slightly bumpy ride of the production of the film , wedged between a production stalling on Brothers Grimm , and little by little we get pieces of what Gilliam is about as a filmmaker and just as a very humorous but focused maverick . He allows for inspiration to hit at any moment on the set , he sets the mood , good or bad ( bad only comes , not too oddly enough , the day Bush is re-elected , as he makes Brazil comparisons to present-day ) , and he's one who can sway between moods of total delight , inner peace ( laying on the ground in the dark ) , and controlled frustration at the little quirks of film-making . It's not Don Quixote , of course , so things of tragic and Biblical scale don't happen , but the little problems and little sudden peculiarities of film-making get some fine spots put on , like when Ferland gets bit on the lip by a bug or Gilliam admits what he can do when a light and a prop doll-house get in the right positions , or in the simple change in weather and its consequences . So as a countering to the very easy productions - in comparison to past Gilliam films - Natali also tries his best to probe into one of his film-making Gods ; he straps a little camera to Gilliam's head to see what it will be like to see the world through Gilliam , as he describes his style as impossible to see , " like looking at a writer contemplating before a typewriter . " It doesn't last long though , and Natali is only a little good at mimicking Gilliam's animations to tell of his troubles in creating his films , which was done better and quicker in La Mancha . But if you're a fan of Gilliam , as I am , it's a very worthwhile side-trip on the DVD for Tideland , especially to see a little moment when he trails off talking to Ferland about a book report into bashing Roland Emmerich , and even Gilliam's mother .
Shcnabel gets us inside the head of " locked-in syndrome " , and has an often absorbing , experimental picture	I'll have to admit , I can't go completely with how the mass opinion has been about the Diving Bell and the Butterfly , the third film by painter-turned-director Julian Shnabel . I don't think it's any towering achievement overall , and if not for the experimenting with style and mood and nuance it wouldn't connect quite as much ( even if , also arguably , Schanbel's own stylistic overhaul of the ' triumph-of-the-spirit ' biopic goes a little too much towards the end ) . But this being said , I wouldn't at all tell anyone not to go see it , especially for those who want a spike of difference in a story of true human adversity and the trials and tribulations that go with something taken always for granted - communication . It's a brave effort , and one that I would probably revisit in bits and pieces when on DVD or on TV . There is a quality of artistic perseverance that Schnabel is attempting here , and it's probably just as admirable as Jean Dominique Bauby's own personal success at freedom from his own uncontrollable prison . Bauby , an editor for French Elle , got a stroke and consequently had " locked-in " syndrome , where he could still think , remember and imagine , but had next to no physical movements . Through a system of communication by blinking , letter by letter of the alphabet , Bauby got his sanity and will to live back , and wrote a book of the film's title , where he wrote about his memories and time in the hospital . Ten days after the book released , he died . What we get right off the bat , as part of Schanbel trying out and changing to the unexpected , aside from one or two cuts to flashbacks , we don't leave Bauby's first-person POV - a fragile , out-and-in-focus view , with voice-overs of Bauby's sarcastic and impinged thoughts , and it's daring . Only when he leaves his point of view does he finally accept he needs to move on from his self-pity and thoughts of death does the point of view change ( though he goes back to Bauby's one-eyed view every now and again ) . From there , we see his recovery , not in the physical sense but in his consciousness , of visualizing all sort of things elsewhere in the world , and of his past faults ( i . e . a trip with a girlfriend to Lourdes , where his Catholicism catches up with the awkwardness of romance there ) . In the emotional sense , Schanbel and Harwood do get it right , most of the time . Some of the best scenes of the film are the ones featuring Bauby's father , played by Max von Sydow , who is also somewhat locked-in , unable to leave his apartment to see his son in the hospital . If only for a few minutes , Bergmanian sorrow drifts into the proceedings . And Schnabel has two interesting cards at his disposal : Mathieu Amalric , who even with one eye often has a talent ( if that's the word , ' soul ' might be too sentimental ) that is perfect for the part . And , Janusz Kaminski , who is up for experimenting with lighting and different lenses , and tries to keep up with Schnabel's ideas in expressing - as Herzog might put it - inner landscapes . Perhaps it's simply on a first-viewing that certain things , for me , became too baffling or repetitive . We're given surrealistic visions of a crumbling hospital , an Empress running around , glaciers , other visions that almost stretch to be too literal coming out of the book's narration via Bauby , and during these ( plus what veers to an over-the-top wavering camera leading up to Bauby's actual stroke shown while he's driving ) , one almost wants Schanbel to get back to the more heart-rending moments , of the nurse or other looking straight-on at Bauby , sometimes going into tears , at the words he comes out with letter by tragic-comic letter . But Diving Bell and the Butterfly works , at least , in putting a viewer through an experience that is inspiring , that does what many biopics only do in spurts or not at all , which is to use style to elevate substance to the level of art . My complains about the film are practically outweighed by the core emotional impulse of Bauby , who will live on now by way of his creativity and ingenuity - like his favorite book , The Count of Monte Cristo .
looks pretty promising ( for the CW anyway )	Reaper caught my attention for two reasons : Kevin Smith was directing the pilot episode , and Ray Wise ( Leland from Twin Peaks , his performance on the show a milestone in TV acting ) playing the Devil . Watching the pilot it almost looked like a not totally distant cousin of Dogma , only this time a little less on the philosophical debates and more on slacker dialog and special effects ( make no mistake , Smith can direct an action sequence , least a little better , and maybe not entirely as jokey , as in Mallrats ) . Sam Oliver ( Bret Harrison , who looks sometimes like his hair , or even face , changes from scene to scene ) finds out after a horrible day at work where he magically saves his would-be crush ( Missy Peregrym ) from a mishap , gets chased by dogs , and gets payed a visit by the man downstairs in the backseat of his car . Turns out his parents made a pact with the devil that on Sam's 21st birthday his should would be claimed , and he'd have to do ol Lucifer's bidding . Whoops ! Anytime Wise pops up on screen - particularly the scene at the hockey rink , which for Smith ( who's an admitted Twin Peaks die-hard ) might be his own Black Lodge with a spotlight and random Zamboni machine included - he steals the show , even when he has to point out expository information like " don't fail me . " Meanwhile , Tyber Labine fills in the big-time slacker quota for Smith - albeit Smith didn't write the pilot it feels very much like a Smith-esquire character , maybe conventionally so - and his funniest bits come at just acting like a total ass ( " hey , think fast " as he throws a can at Sam to see if his powers will block it ) . And then , as it looks like might be the pattern on the show from here on , Sam has to fight a being from hell on earth and capture it / him ala Ghostbusters ( exactly like Ghostbusters , down to the containment system at the DMV ) . Ghost Rider the show is not , however ; it's usually witty enough to pass by any pit-falls with a premise that easily fits into the disposable CW billing . Not to put down Smith's skills at picking projects , or at the writers , though it's slightly disconcerting to see that the episodes are on the channel at all - how long it'll last is a question that should have an easy answer , which isn't much ( like many a show on the channel , the acting is just OK , as Peregrym , on first glance only , looks a bit bland , and Labine is a good but derivative take on a Jack Black dude ) . But for the time being , Reaper has the skills and humor of a cool little Tuesday night main program - it should appeal to Smith's fan-base and just to those wondering what it might be like to have Ray Wise as the devil : a proposition no one I know of could pass up to see in all glory be told .
not as subject-heavy or thematically engaging as the first two , still as entertaining	It's hard to call The Enforcer the best of the Dirty Harry pictures , but it isn't a disappointment at all ; the quotable lines are still there ( this time the repeatable line is " marvelous " ) , the chases , the the male-driven humor , the ( slight ) political undertones , and the notion that the hero will get his man ( men / women ) . This time Harry is partnered with a rookie female cop ( Tyne Daley , good in some scenes and in some a little aloof ) , and with the time given in the film not much is explored with this kind of idea . It's good that not too much is weighing the film down with the ' radical ' idea that a woman can be a partner with a cop from homicide , and in a way it sort of matches up with the less weight given to the plot-line involving the ' Liberation-front ' group as the film's villains . Both could've been developed more in some ways , though on the other hand at an hour and a half it makes the film tight , even when some scenes feel a little looser than they should . A highlight for me , and one of the great sequences in any Dirty Harry film , is Harry's roofs-top / alley chase of a suspicious man . The expectable 70's ' action ' music is there , but not distracting , and there are enough surprises to bring a few big laughs among the general excitement of it . The climax to the film , in a way , isn't quite as exciting , it gives what we expect and not too much more ( aside from a very unusual and cool weapon used by Harry at the bad-guys ) . While it's been a few years since I've seen the Dead Pool or Sudden Impact , this feels to be generally more of the ' Hollywood ' Dirty Harry film , with Eastwood giving no more or less than his usual , and the story having just enough meat to keep one watching . Nothing great , but nothing too shabby either .
on the failure of the hippies . . . featuring Pink Floyd !	I would be interested to hear from the director , Barbet Schroeder , as to why he decided to make More his first film , and more specifically what his interest in hippies - or rather this form of the Euro-hippie paradise - and about their demise . The film is , at least , true enough to keep one interested , but in its own kind of truth it's strange , biased . It's a given heroin ( aka , " Horse " ) is awful stuff , rotten , the conclusion for many a dumb-headed drug user that sees that as the be-all-end-all , because it basically is : after that everything else stops , that becomes the life , and it's either a continuous run for more of the same or death . More starts off as something concerning a romance between a New York girl and a German man , but it becomes something else , for better or worse ( sometimes both in the same scene ) . It's basically about two " young " people , Estelle and Stefan , who meet in a city where Stefan has come as a sort of wanderer away from his home country . She's wandering too , sort of , and is maybe too friendly with a big-time pusher named Wolf . They end up on a remote island somewhere nearby and , after a somewhat daring grab for some " horse " by Estelle , they also find a pad in the form of a seemingly remoter house along the seashore . Schroeder's comment on youth and sex and drugs isn't too simplistic , which makes the film actually lucid and intelligent so many years later . It's both direct and subtle , more about the characters and then about the fact that what he's depicting could in other hands just be a propagandistic hippie-exploitation picture . Perhaps most pleasantly , and this is just a guess , Schroeder uses as inspiration the sort of long sequence from Bergman's Summer with Monika : two kids in an inexorable connection , some good some definitely not so good , set against ( too ? ) perfectly shot landscapes . On the one hand , I should mention that there are problems , some big ones in fact . The performances aren't very convincing throughout ; a few scenes strike some power or have the actors in a good connection with one another , but Klaus Grumberg overplays himself even if he is an ornery German by nature ( in that case I would've preferred Klaus Kinski in the part to make it crazier but deep enough for the subject matter ) as does Farmer to her own degree . And there's gaps of naiveté in the screenplay that keep it from being as deep as it really thinks it is . On the other hand , there are two big things going for it : Nestor Almendros , the great cinematographer ( i . e . Days of Heaven ) is DP and is a big boost for a first time director like Schroeder . Nearly every image is seen with an awesome purpose or artistry , be it a shot of the cliffs by the sea or sun or something as simple as the seemingly natural light of a room . The other thing is Pink Floyd , probably the main reason I and many others have heard of the film in the first place ( years before I knew really who Schroeder was I saw the " More " soundtrack whenever I looked up Pink Floyd albums ) . It's very good music throughout , occasionally the mind-blowing variety that gives them the reputation they deserve . Some of it , too , is a little tedious , even as it is a movie that concerns free love and lots of drugs and sometimes both at the same time . I wouldn't rank it anywhere near as high as a Meddle or Animals , certainly not Dark Side , but it too helps to elevate the subject matter another notch , particularly when one least expects it or in low tones or floating in and out of buildings as Stefan or other walks on the streets . It's almost better atmosphere than the movie itself deserves , but overall More is still worth watching as a period piece - dated , but potent , like a less ambitious but more substantial Zabriskie Point .
the basketball equivalent of Scorsese's Shine the Light - a look at the action with amazing coverage	Here's the deal with Kobe Doin ' Work : if you're just a basketball fan , let alone a Kobe Bryant fan , this is mandatory viewing . After seeing this at the Tribeca Film Festival it was clear who this document of a basketball game , not even so much a documentary , was aimed at . For example , my brother would watch this and be hooked minute one , while my wife would steer clear faster than you can say blueberry pie . Spike Lee had a goal here and he executed it masterfully , but it's not an all-around crowd-pleaser unless , as mentioned , the whole crowd digs the Lakers and Kobe Bryant and the methods and sportsmanship of basketball in general . As someone who is neutral I had a good perspective of it , enjoying it and being interested for what it was , even as I knew I might not watch it again when it comes time for its airing on ESPN . This is to basketball what Scorsese's Shine a Light did for the Rolling Stones - setting up dozens of cameras , we're given so many points of view and angles and set-ups on a straightforward 4-quarter-long basketball game between the Lakers and the Spurs . That it also gives unlimited options for editing and creating texture and speed and variance is a bonus for the interested viewer . At the same time there's another twist Lee implements that is clever : an audio commentary from Bryant ( with occasional snippets of questions or observations from Lee ) on the game , all of the decisions made in strategy and the practicality of the game , or just some of the little things that one wonders about how a player does the work on the court , the cues the player picks up from the others , the cues gaged from the opposing team , little lessons learned , mistakes , and of course goofs . On top of this , Bryant has a microphone on his jersey so we hear everything he says , from mundane to down-n-dirty leadership , throughout and even in the locker room . I was never bored by any of the action , and Lee's little flourishes of style added some verve ( and of course that typical jazz score as well placed about during the game ) but , again , it's a niche thing . The same viewer who was fascinated by Inside Man may not immediately go to Kobe Doin ' Work . And yet I can recommend it without a doubt in my mind for its intended audience , the sports geeks and guys and girls who live for basketball . It's made by a fan for the fans . For everyone else , it's a fun viewing once , with a little of the personal side of Bryant sprinkled at the end . It is what the title says , and it's damn proud of it .
quick and simply and funny , if not Chaplin's very best	This is the kind of shtick put up to please those paying a nickel ( or less ) ' back in the day ' when seeing this for nine minutes could amount to a decent time . What Chaplin is after here is just straight up pantomime , and this is both the strength and weakness of the short . It's great to see bits like Tramp and the man switching hats in the wind , or Tramp and the woman cavorting on the beach , or the " fighting " that ensues between him and a huge handle-bar mustached man . But it seems a little too quick , as if it was shot in a day ( or less ) and done mostly to cash in on good lighting on a beach . I chuckled throughout , don't get me wrong , though I'm sure there are better ones out there starring the Tramp .
a good satire with more laughs in spurts than overall	Thank You For Smoking does two things in particular - it shows it's writer / director , Jason Reitman ( son of Ivan ) , should have a good career ahead of him , with this being a promising debut ; it also shows how casting decisions do make up then crucial framework for a film like this , where its ensemble form needs the right people . The satire comes in the form of it's lead character , a lobbyist for Tobacco ( Aaron Eckhardt , one of his better performances ) , who has a crises in the midst of a reporter's investigation ( Katie Holmes ) , his own son , and in dealings with a super movie agent ( Rob Lowe , one of his very best roles ) , and even the old Marlboro man ( Sam Elliot ) . His main opponent , from the cheese-head mainstay state of Vermont , is played by William H . Macy in another key role - if there's one thing this man can play it's smarmy and antagonistic , while seeming very professional ( i . e . Fargo ) . It's with this parallel of the two sides of varying hypocrisies , of the tobacco's side and the fervent anti-tobacco side , that Reitman loads his guns , not to mention with the alcohol and tobacco sides represented as the guy's friends ( there scenes in the restaurant are some of the funniest in the film ) . If there is a problem , at least for me , with the film in the overall is that as much as a satire can be clever and have aims , it's needs to balance out its comedy with its storytelling . After the first twenty minutes of the film , which contain some really big laughs ( if not by the actors , i . e . JK Simmons , then by the cool style of Reitman's ) , it goes into its story , and becomes more or less in the realm of being entertaining , but not necessarily as funny as it should or could be . In a way this is one of those films I admire more so for having me grin at a lot of what's going on , and that the shots at the societal tennis match of the tobacco issue do work . There's nothing per-say I can say that should dissuade you from seeing it , and it could very likely become a comedy cult favorite along the lines of the Christopher Guest films ( albeit a different sort of cultural satire ) . That it's less than great though when it becomes sincere , and that the sincerity isn't as matched up with its clever side , is more of an observation than a stone-cold criticism . After all , it's hard to turn down a film that features Lowe in a kimono on a sleep-only-on-Sunday schedule .
simply a fun escapist heist movie	Ocean's Thirteen unfolds not in an excellent great-movie way but how subversive heist movies should - being entertaining while also showing some chutzpah on the part of the filmmaker . Although not reaching the level of tense joy of the original , it does go past the tedious self-consciousness of the second film to be , well , still self-conscious , but in that way that puts Soderbergh to task as someone who can make lots and lots of exposition into the equivalent of a great drink in a pricey bar . From the title cards to the angles that reveal even the smallest angles the characters are playing at ( or maybe are not playing at , or are again ) , to the big $ numbers over the heads of everyone in the casino in the climax , and to how he gets such Hollywood Lotharios into bad wigs and mustaches and noses , it's a minor master's class in being hip and accessible for the mall crowd while still being splendid for simple genre admirers . This time , as well , it's not so much a tale of a heist for the sake of simply putting many millions into the pockets of the thieves , but as a matter of pride ( a shake of Sinatra's hand is a point of merit for the older characters in this world , and it is sort of a world , of Las Vegas ) . Reuben ( Gould ) gets a heart attack after finding out he's been screwed over by Bank ( Pacino ) , who is some-pun-intended an insanely wealthy man who's opening a new casino Reuben was supposed to be partner on . The Ocean gang decide to strike back at him the worst - letting the house lose , big time , for all the high rollers in attendance on opening night . This time , even more than the first and second films , the heist is elaborate , maybe too elaborate ; there's a whole sub-plot devoted to Mexican factory workers who get riled up by Virgil and Turk to rise up against their bosses , despite the fact that they need to keep working to send the fake dice to the casino . Every side is covered , or almost every one , and there are no spots open in this one for romantic entanglements or much else . The element of Reuben bed-stricken is at the heart of the film , and everything else is , simply put , guilty pleasure hijinks of the subtlest kind . And , naturally , each character has their moments to shine . The aforementioned nose bit from Linus is one of the funniest gags in the whole trilogy , as obvious as it is . Don Cheadle gets to break out of his singularly English bit as Basher to go into daredevil garb to act as a pure distraction to Pacino . On the flip-side , Reiner becomes a prissy English high-roller . Some outsider running gags come in with David Paymer as a board member put into a purposeful bad luck blender . Even Pitt and Clooney get in on the fun , with Rusty donning a ridiculous get-up as a concerned seismologist . Overall , Ocean's Thirteen doesn't make for a very substantial dramatic feat , or even a very great comedy ( Bernie Mac isn't as up to snuff as in the first film , and the moments with Oprah are more touching , ironically , than anything laugh-out-loud ) , but it is in its own superficial and too-cool-for-school way a must-see .
Lee's sophomore effort is far from great , but it's a fine effort nonetheless	School Daze isn't something that is exclusive to those who went to all-black colleges , despite what some other commenters have said on IMDb . Coming from an average state school , there's still nothing big in the movie that comes from specifically being all-black , as there are many things like fraternities / sororities , male and female camaraderie , sex , fashion , insults , sports and rituals in general that are common to any college experience . Spike Lee captures that , when he's at his best here , very well . If you did go to an all-black college ala Lee's alma mater Moorehouse , then I'm sure it will have more relevance . But in general , Lee's made a solid , technically wild college comedy / musical / drama , with some major missteps . There are some messages thrown about in School Daze , mostly around sexism , not so much racism ( there's barely a white person to be seen in the film so it's not really an issue to deal with per-say ) , but they're all used in relativity with the story and characters , which is good . We're given Mission college , an all-black college down south , where classes are pretty much moot and everything revolves around cliques of various sorts : the Greek frat , which Half-Pint ( Spike Lee ) is trying to join , and his cousin Dap ( Fishburne ) who definitely is not and is defiant against a lot of things on campus , which nearly get him expelled . There are also the jigaboo's and the wannabes , two sets of girls on campus who are certainly opposed ( as we see , brilliantly , in one of the better musical numbers ) . While Lee's plot isn't always connected together , there's so much that works when he keeps the dialog moving along . He has a great sense of the characters , the BS that binds guys together and how the rhythm of a conversation with these 18-22 year olds goes , and about the ambivalence between the opposing sexes , leading up to the dramatic climax . Even most of the actors , close to all of them their first time in a Lee joint ( Esposito , Davis , Bill Nunn ) , are terrific when given the chance showing off how absurd and , in retrospect in life , abstract all of this becomes . What keeps it down from being a lot better - and , sadly , what makes it look a lot more like an exercise in style ( which , granted , was Lee's first movie with a budget above 100 grand and for a studio ) - are the padded musical performances , and specifically those that don't contribute anything to the story . The first sequence is dynamite as the actresses all perform in an energetic performance about the differences between the sororities . After that , it's more or less ( more for the one scene with the singer intercut with the sex ) just filler that is shot well but empty . Nevertheless , School Daze shows a filmmaker ready and hungry behind the lens to try and do things and show us bits and pieces of life that haven't been much in American movies , and at best it's riveting and entertaining . For this it's commendable , but it's also a stepping stone for Do the Right Thing .
Imperfect and spotty , but has more human interest and fun than most movies out now	One of the curious things I found about Robert Altman's new film of Garrison Keilor's A Prairie Home Companion was how , like in some of ( if not most of ) his other films , is the absence of dramatic or comedic expectations . There are some moments where there are minor tragedies laced in , and a few good belly laughs ( and some small ones as part of Altman's wry sense of humor ) , but it's really showing Altman having the utmost confidence in all of his actors , for better or lesser degrees , in just showing how it ' really is ' backstage and on-stage at one of these variety shows on the radio . The significance of it being the " last night " of the show on the air , and the characters reactions , is mixed in with a later event of one of the characters passing on in a back-room . There is also symbolism laced in , and sometimes this kind of drowns out the better aspects of the film , which are what is captured on stage and the few really precious performances among the many very good ones . Garrison Keilor himself stars as himself , leader , performer and storyteller of the Prairie Home Companion program , which reaches into nostalgia all abound like its right in the air at all times . And as usual there are so many bits and pieces to take from the all-star cast that some of the flaws in the film will usually be overlooked by the viewer . Meryl Streep and Lili Tomlin have great rapport together ; Woody Harrellson and John C . Reilly are quite talented together with their songs and dialog off-stage ( the song about Bad Jokes is maybe my personal favorite out of all of the songs in the movie ) ; Kevin Kline gives maybe the most genius of the performances as Guy Noir , who never goes on stage but has such an un-canny presence in and out of the situations of the characters ; even Lindsay Lohan delivers the goods in a half low-key half superb way with her talents . Other sprinkled about like the two Jones ' ( LQ and Tommy Lee ) and Virginia Madsen provide their skills for the project . And many , if not all , of the musical numbers are quite enjoyable in the folky , foot-tapping kind of way . If I do have any gripe , or gripes , with the film though it would be that it is likely to appeal more to fans of Keilor than Altman , or vice versa depending on your tolerance of the constantly , unyielding moving camera and constant use of music whether on stage or off . But there are some scenes that also just flat out didn't work for me , at least when up against the better scenes of the film . I liked the tenderness of the scenes with Streep , Tomlin and Lohan , but those were kind of left flapping around at times . Guy Noir's role had enough weight in its area , but then there is the opposing side of the angel ( or ' Dangerous Woman ' as she is billed ) played by Madsen . She kind of puts the film to a halt at times with her one-faced personality ( even if as an actress Madsen is always good ) with the overbearing symbolism of this angel - over - the - death - of - things adds something to the film that arguably just wasn't needed . While not a horrible side to the film , it is a deterrent . There is so much else going on her role just seems like a tittering fly in the ointment . And some scenes in general half to walk that Altman line of having true emotion in the behavioral connections or of not having any sense or meaning to it , at all . All these little criticisms aside , I would still recommend the picture , if not as a great film then as a very fine film for a time when there is practically nothing but the remakes and sequels in jackhammer fashion this month , where there is a simplicity and wholesomeness among these characters who are apart of a great tradition that can only hold on for so much longer in the 21st century . . . . ( EDIT ) And now following Altman's death , it's actually quite the fitting coda .
weird , dirty and a little crazy , just like Polanski at his best but not quite	This is one of the oddities in the career of Roman Polanski . It was a project he wanted to do for years , tried to get funding with different actors , and finally settled on Walter Matthau as Captain Red and ( relatively unknown ) Cris Campion as his bumbling long-time sidekick Frog . It's a very weird movie in a respect , which is that Polanski puts his own print on what is a big-old swashbuckler . It owes itself in spirit to the Errol Flynn pictures and other on-the-sea programmers of the 30s and 40s , and surely plot is sometimes crazy and convoluted enough to fit the bill . . . but somehow Polanski makes it work for himself , if not as one of his best . It's sometimes as dark in tone as Cul-de-sac , and other times almost as light as Oliver Twist , but it's also its own kind of movie bird , anchored by an uncharacteristically over-the-top Walter Matthau performance , some good stuffy co-stars like Damien Thomas and Ferdy Mayne , and there's a lot of action to go around the place as well . From its opening scene on ( which is , actually , a really amazing opening scene ) to the final one which sort of wraps everything around , Polanski tools around with the conventions while trying to please himself , so to speak , with the formula . I wouldn't say it would be really great for those hungry for more after the ' Caribean ' movies ( frankly , it lacks a Jack Sparrow in its midst ) , but it should appeal those who want a strange brew of art-house adventure .
turn off your brain for the good " good - God - do - they - expect - me - to - believe - that " Besson production	On facebook there is an event coming up I believe in June which is called " National Man Day " , which will be a day for all men everywhere to feel and act like " Men " , whatever that is . If there are any screening rooms available for this kind of created event , Taken could be a good choice as a movie to screen . It's a preposterous action movie fantasy that has a good dosage of Jason Bourne and surprisingly , and not offensively , some conservative connotations in it . Yes , conservative : where else will we get a France-is-evil tome that also includes a sex-slave trade ( which , apparently , is based on real things going on in Europe right now ) complete with deflowered girls the highest marker - yes , American girls , go to France and you will be sold into the sex trade - for Albanians or whomever the immigrants are with the can-do American government bad-ass with one step removed from Jack Bauer and a penchant for torture when it suits best . Sound not like your cup of manly kill-kick-ass tea ? Then look away and read no more . But if you're still with this , well , you know what you're in for , sort of . This is another vehicle by Luc Besson , as writer and producer , to use Paris as a backdrop for a crazy plot designed to give whoever star it is - usually Jason Statham - a run for his money for the good of the entire audience as super-violent escapist fare . The plot , with Liam Neeson's retired government agent who has a strength comparable to both Jason Bourne and Batman having to go to France after his daughter is kidnapped along with a friend , is of not much consequences as we've seen it in other molds and folds before , sometimes in sleazy packages or straight-to-video deals ( one may wonder where Chuck Norris is when you need him ) . But the plot actually becomes a little more believable , or at least acceptable , because of or in support of the presence of Liam Neeson . He's such an underrated presence today in movies , popping up when a director has the right mind to use him ( yes , he was even pretty good in Phantom Menace ) , and in this case director Morel and Besson have here an action hero who shows weariness and real conflict on his face . He's not the first person you'd think to play Brian , but he's the right person for what he can bring to the part . He's tough as nails but isn't chiseled or completely stone-cold like Daniel Craig . There's something else going on , like he's thinking and makes us think with him as he crashes through glass and kicks and punches and shoots and strangles and bamboozles dozens of gangsters and baddies . He helps make Taken something of a wonderful contradiction : believably unbelievable all the way through . You know this guy can do these things because , frankly , he just can . As my own mother , God bless her , said after seeing the movie : it gives a good enema to the brain . She meant that as a compliment , I suppose .
A truly fantastical experiment , more than a typical film	That the final result of the Piano Tuner of Earthquakes is not really a great movie is a given when taking into account that the style of which the Quay Brothers have gone to almost perfectionist lengths to attain is always leaping ahead in strength when compared to the dialog or the performances . The story itself is meant as a pin-point line for the Quays to relay their staggering mix of mediums . After an opera singer , Malvina , dies during a performance ( though not really ' dead ' but captured by Doctor Droz , the not-quite-Phantom of the Opera of the story ) , a mild-mannered piano tuner who is sent out to Droz's estate , but not to fix pianos . Rather , he's sent to fix an automaton , and soon discovers what is going to really happen - the staging of a crazy , other-wordily ' opera ' with Malvina , and decides he has to save her . The Quays ' choices in actors - Cesar Saracho as Felisberto ; Gottfried John as Doctor Droz ; Amira Casar as the helpless lady of the film , Malvina ; and Assumpta Sera as Droz's caretaker / sometimes seducer of Felisberto - are more based on their appearances and movements in scenes than really for ability in speech and emotion . Not that they don't have a moment or two when they get to connect with the poetic dialog ( John gets a good deal of this at times , like when he is shown plotting away with his own agenda at hand ) . But it's really seeing them , with their distinctive looks , Saracho with his bony figure cast alongside the beautiful Casar , in relation to what comes forward on screen . To say it's a feast for the eyes is an understatement , and to try and describe much of what comes out in the Quay's design could make this too revealing and long a review . Yet it's the abandon of the usual logic and going head-on into this world that earns their comparison to the likes of Cocteau : we're given a look , quite often , at the automaton and its movements , the gears and wheels churning in titled compositions , and cut against the other seamlessly stop-motion movements . But more importantly , this is set against the actors , and then with other visuals such as inexplicable stop-motion creatures like a woodcutter , or figures in the opera scenes , and if one were to watch it with the sound turned off at home it wouldn't make much of a difference with the visceral impact of it all . Their design attempts to keep the audience in this world from the moment we see Dr . Droz's castle , which is a computer-generated creation , but a much more intricate and detailed kind of set-piece , cut and chiseled in rock and steel . With many of these scenes , set against the music of Duncan and Slaski , which is as a given atmospheric and creepy , and a very unsentimental and moving ending , The Piano Tuner of Earthquakes knocks it out of the parts on technical terms , and should not disappoint the die-hard fans of the Quay brothers ' previous works . It's also of no surprise now seeing it why it's the only film that Gilliam has ever had a producer credit on that has not been one of his own directorial efforts - for the kind of mind that loves what can come about through in holding on to an idea and seeing it through in a fantastic manner , it's a marvel . Just don't try and make sense of it all though .
moves like a good little bebop number , but only hints at what would come	At this point , I wager , Wes Anderson and Owen Wilson weren't entirely sure how their Bottle Rocket feature would turn out . As a means of getting support for it they made this short film which won over James L . Brooks at Sundance and got them a movie deal at Columbia pictures . Their plan worked . . . except that their short film had only the smallest of substance - heavy on style , of course , even in the grittiest possible for anything by Wes Anderson - and they spent more than a year or so writing and rewriting the feature until they got it to where it worked , brilliantly . So , as someone who loves the 1996 Bottle Rocket , I have to say that this one was just alright . But alright in that sense that does get you excited about a couple of things . For one thing the Wilson brothers , however airy their delivery , already have an interesting rapport going on , and certain scenes are identical to how it came out in the feature such as the robbery of the house , or of the shooting of the cans with the guns ( the Charlie Brown music is an especially funny and awesome touch ) . I also liked how they introduced the book-store into the story , how the bits and pieces of visual information were kind of " stolen " shots probably taken when no one was looking in the aisles and around the corners . It overall is something slight , but it works for a 13 minute short with a sort of abrupt ending .
pretty goofy and transparent homage , but it's very good for kids	Frankenweenie is Tim Burton's first live-action short film , shot for Disney in the mid-80s , and has enough imaginations to overpass some overbearing cheesiness at times . It's a sign of things to come for Burton , and the story and some of the side characters remind one of Edward Scissorhands ( no one understands this ' creation ' , and becomes an outcast despite good intentions ) . As a fable it ends on a pretty silly note , almost too much so to take . But it's got a genuine heart to it though , and it's probably a very personal work for Burton aside from being a clever homage . The beginning of the film , for example , showing a movie made by the son with the dog Sparky , seems like it's taken autobiographically from Burton's life as a kid . The story , just in the cover art on the VHS tape ( the original one , albeit a cut version ) , tells all about what needs to be known . What is then remarkable , and what makes it a lively and funny trip of a quickie for kids , is how visually creative it is . The shots taken from Frankenweenie's POV are downright charming , and the physical reactions from the neighbors to the new and improved dog almost makes the film worth seeing just for those parts . The lead boy , played by Barret Oliver , is actually quite bland for the lead and doesn't do much except sulk , or act quasi-happy , and not very well either . But his work doesn't matter in the end as much as the side characters , or the parents ( Duvall and Stern ) who are good enough for what it's worth . In the end , Frankenweenie is kind of like an expensive student short film , where a style is emerging but not fully formed , and at the same time there's real entertainment to be had . As a kid , more so than now , I watched it with more enthusiasm , but years later it's still a fun ride .
well , at least it's better than the remake	Which maybe might not be saying much , as the one-line summary suggests . This was the first of the series of Chainsaw films that would follow with part 3 ( Leatherface ) , and the first quasi-remake years later . And , perhaps my default , I found this to be the best out of all of them . Maybe that isn't saying much though - this is a trashy , wretched , violent mash of a horror film that injects in dark comedy that borders on being too-much of a crazy thing , while still keeping true to the delirious , paranoid nature of the first film . This time , as well , in one of Dennis Hopper's three films of 1986 , there's a star anchor that is almost not even really there to give the film any more prestige than it could have . The film's real stars are the guys who have come back to play the family again - the father , the brother , and ol ' Leatherface himself ( this time Bill Johnson not Gunnar Hanson ) . And , of course , Grandpa is there too . Now , to be sure , the film's real enjoyments are those of it being so over-the-top and outrageous horror - one gets the sense already of what the tone will be from the opening when Leatherface uses his skills on a freaked out car driving alongside . The music in this scene is harsh and strange , and sometimes even the funniest moments there on in have a dangerous quality to them . The performance of the brother , too , with his wire-hanger obsession , adds some weird interest . Invariably , to say that the story itself is as good and tense as the first one is probably not true at all . This time it's got to do with Hopper's character , out for revenge for the deaths in the first film , and a female disc-jockey caught up in the delirium of cannibals and the insane production design . So , as a film really as ' guilty pleasure ' , I'd say it was good enough for what it was meant for - lots of still crude ( even with a bigger budget ) scenes of action and attack , and an un-hinged quality that makes most of the performances work well enough . But it's also lacking that gritty , immediate post-Vietnam war feeling of ultimate dread that made the original a classic of its kind .
Last Year at Brideshead	Among many of the most prestigious literature selections , not to mention mini-series , Brideshead Revisited not only wasn't on my radar , I didn't even know if it would be the kind of well-regarded literature or mini-series I intended to watch . But as this newly revised picture , now a mere 136 minutes vs 10 hours , it looked interesting if only as a kind of " handsomely made " picture ( you know the kind , along the lines of Atonement for recent comparison ) . I was also intrigued by the allure of a huge , sprawling mansion here called Brideshead , as it reminded me of Alain Resnais's film Last Year at Marienbad and how memories and recollections and lost love and hope is explored in the spaces of this dark , cold region of exquisite luxury . Some of that is explored in this film , and some of it . . . isn't . It's for the most part a fairly tragic story of a young man , Charles ( Matthew Goode , charming and suave but also subtle and down-beat , a really fine turn ) , who enrolls at Oxford and meets a meek / ' fey ' guy named Sebastian , and through him he's introduced ( reluctantly in point of fact ) to Sebastian's family , including his sister Julia , and his very cold and strident mother ( Emma Thompson ) . Sebastian really wants Charles all for himself - it's a friendship that goes just a nose-hair's length into admitting homosexuality but never really goes that far despite all appearances to the contrary - but he becomes apart of the fold , and as well falling deeply in love with Julia against ' other ' wishes ( mostly the matriarch's over Charles's religion ) . There's a lot of the fragility of the bourgeois on display here , the arrogance and detachment that's shown very closely by the director for maximum effect . Unlike a Resnais he's not about to get too experimental with the camera ; he's a careful craftsman more often than not , allowing for just enough wonderment of the whole Brideshead atmosphere to really sink into how it could be a double-edged sword of perception . And as is bound to happen with material this sprawling ( at one point time jumps back 10 years , then ahead 4 years , until we kind of know where we are ) , a lot seems to be cut out . While it altogether makes a coherent and entertaining enough picture , I wonder how much more of a benefit this would make as an epic , where we are absorbed more fully with the Oxford school or Charles and Sebastian or even the parents ( who , thankfully , are played wonderfully here by cold-as-ice Thompson and fascinatingly guilt-ridden and subtle Michael Gambon ) , or how the wealth structure even works here . Indeed , I found myself not so much involved with the Charles / Sebastian stuff , even as it's fairly well-acted and well-shot enough , as I was with the themes of religion raised in the picture . This caught me off guard and hinted at something deeper being expounded upon . Yet , again , we get just tastes of what's offered more than likely in the original text , tastes that are powerful like a ' last-rites ' argument , and the tortured state of being raised from the cradle with an intense , overbearing Catholic conscience .
a tragic-comedy boosted by Zero Mostel's performance , a fairly sharp script , and a tailor-made Allen character	The Front isn't on my high list of Woody Allen movies to recommend , but then he didn't write and direct it . It was directed by Martin Ritt and Walter Bernstein , very talented ( and as Ritt says , talent with something to show for it ) , and also previously black-listed . They have here fashioned a somewhat conventional tragic-comedy about the dilemma of the potential squealer in people in the entertainment world , but a squealer for gain of the committee at the time that wanted to get the names more based on the principle of it than actually having the names for a purpose . The symbol of the blacklist in the world of TV and movies made for a wretched one for anyone just remotely connected with it . And it's this that Ritt and Bernstein get at with the story of Howard Prince ( Allen ) , who acts as a ' front ' , a middle-man for a friend ( Michael Murphy ) and then his fellow writers who need to get work somehow . It soon works quite well , even a she sees alongside him a famous , clownish actor ( Zero Mostel ) getting the harshest treatment of all - and for an actor a blacklisting that will stick harder than he can imagine . There are the moments of humor that get struck up ( the concentration camp joke with the tie-in to the gas company is very funny ) , and for Allen it's definitely a part made tailor made for him , if not a whole picture as such . He is , per usual , playing a ' version ' of his character , in this case an illiterate who fumbles and lies his way into being the top listed writer Howard Prince as opposed to the indebted-to-betting cashier , and it ( naturally ) involves a woman too . This part is a little more hit or miss in believability , and inevitably leads Prince to have to be questioned before the committee , with the big question looming ' what to do . ' This has been seen in several films since , even if at the time it must've seemed like something new . On the other hand , the most tragic section of the picture comes with Mostel's character , and Mostel's performance brings out some of the best in range he has to offer , with bits of the gleeful insanity from the Producers , but a more pragmatic side too . The guy's got to work , and this is made painfully clear in the scene where the club owner wont give him the money promised . The character also has to contend with the greatest pressure of all , though more than just that . It easily raises the Front from being well done but slight to being something memorable ; it's practically unfathomable that he didn't get a nomination for best supporting actor for anything aside from one . Featuring a sweet book-ending with an opening montage with the " 50's " put to Frank Sinatra , and then an incredible ending with Prince at the questioning ( which actually shows Allen to be a really gifted actor ) , it's an even better film to see if you're after the subject matter - it's a fascinating , dark period in American history where such a term as ' Un-American ' could be used as a pathological excuse during the Cold-War . As drama and comedy , however , it is really just a good movie , no more no less , with occasional brilliance .
" Cut it ! Cut it ! Cut it ! Save the film , strike the broad and kill the babies . "	It's funny , sort of , that Return of the Killer Tomatoes actually lives up to ( err , goes to the depths of ) the original parody of schlock horror Z-grade movies it's coming from . It knows what it is in its bones , and still has a hell of a lot of fun getting to where it's going - which is almost nothing . I couldn't help but laugh through much of the flick though , especially after having seen the first one . After starting off the picture ( and reminding me for a moment of Python's Holy Grail ) with a whole other picture ( unintentionally ? ) with girls taking off their tops on a beach , we get right into it full-throttle . John Astin , usually a very professional theater actor , plays Professor Gangreen in the other wild over-the-top horror comedy of 1988 ( the other is Don Calfa in Chopper Chicks in Zombietown ) , and he's got a plan - create killer tomatoes again , but this time not REALLY tomatoes , but just regular tomatoes that can turn into killing machines Rambo style ! But the professor also makes a woman ( sexy Kara Mistal ) for himself , and she strays away with her little fuzzy tomato , or FT , and meets Anthony Stark's Chad , a worker in a tomato-sauce-less pizza parlor with his friend Matt ( George Clooney , yes , half a decade before ER if you can think back to them ) . Things then start to get a little wacky . . . Well , actually , wacky is such a little word to use . Return of the Killer Tomatoes , a movie that does not feature one real killing tomato ( though potential quasi-killers they may be , and once in a while suicidal ) , is by and large one of the funniest horror-movie parody type sequels of the 80s . It takes itself about as seriously as you might expect , which is not at all . In fact the tongue is so placed firmly in cheek , it comes out the other end during scenes when writer / director John DiBello breaks the ' fourth wall ' as the shooting of the movie ( and massive , continuous , " elaborate " product placements are put in at every turn after a while , years before the gag was used in Wayne's World ) . I probably had bigger laughs during moments like these - with some random outbursts of ninjas fighting cowboys in a diner - than I did during the first Killer Tomatoes flick . While the original still does garner points for being as audacious with its stupidity and with a smaller budget ( not that the sequel doesn't make fun of the budget at every other turn ) , the zany spirit of the first film remains strong here , and deliriously so at times . When you got the doctor's assistant of Igor looking like a wrestler , you get the idea . It's a wild and crazy ride , with a 20-something Clooney with a full head of dark hair and basically in a role that requires him just to act as himself to a much more condensed range ( i . e . ladies man , which includes a great gag involving him getting girls to go on a date with him , though saying as if he's Rob Lowe ) . Its got plenty of stuff for fans of the first flick , including the Ewok of the series with FT , who has his own sort of merchandising going towards the end too . By the way , stay through till the end of the credits - it's not just because the director's mother said so !
a minor work from Hitchcock ; however good it is sad that it was his last	Family Plot is about a con-psychic , her cabbie boyfriend , another con-man / thief , and a diamond thief as his squeeze , who all come together unwittingly in a yarn surrounding a search for a son , a 10 grand reward , and some diamonds , plus lots of other small-time shenanigans . In any other hands this would be a very respectable , even near excellent feature ( or , as a TV movie , a big one for the mid 70s ) . And it is , on its own terms , a good , light thriller with a few laughs , some strong if two-dimensional characters , and solid dialog ( some of it , unlikely usually for the director improvised ) . But this director , of course , is Hitchcock , and after the flawed but monumental craftsmanship of Frenzy he falls onto material that is , frankly , not quite up to his level of sophistication and mastery of the medium Then again , maybe that's the way he wanted it , which is just as well . By this age of his mid-late 70s , he probably wanted to work on something that was only so much demanding , and could have some relaxing time while still having his total control over the production ( and at that age and after so long , he did earn the right to a few minor works , albeit after a slight slump in the late 60s ) . There's some good laughs to be had by way of Hitchcock's casting - Bruce Dern is always great , and Karen Black and William Devane and Barbara Harris put in their bits of effort too - and there's even a couple of near-brilliant scenes and flashes of the Master's style ; the cut-away from couple 1 ( Harris / Dern ) in the car following the start of the movie to the " blonde " Black walking across the road is a great little narrative leap . The climax , however ' old-hat ' it might be for some , is also sort of thrilling and with a final wink that says " hey , it's all in high spirits . " Nothing great , and almost , if you're a purist , a disappointment for the die-hard Hitchcock fan . But if you've got nothing else to do on a Saturday night , pop it in and see what it can do .
one of the most beautifully photographed films of the 90s , though if amazing imagery isn't lacking , plot is	I always wonder what it might be like to have a film set in a location that is explicitly specific , with this film , as example , the Sahara desert and outlining areas of North Africa , and to not have some kind of Lawrence of Arabia kind of epic story attached to it . It's a challenge for a filmmaker to attempt , and Bernardo Bertolucci did attempt it in 1990 with the Sheltering Sky , based on the book that seems to be massively popular ( though un-read by me ) . Whether he succeeded completely or not will depend on how much the viewer can take seeing characters sort of engulfed by the director and cinematographer's own adoration of the strange and bizarrely exotic locales . The story is boiled down , probably more-so than was in the Bowles novel , about a husband and wife ( Malkovich and Winger ) , and their friend ( Scott ) , who go to " travel " in North Africa . For what precisely is uncertain , but it is clear that the focal point is that of their marriage failing after years together ( both sides sleeping with others , distanced , not altogether honest in conversation ) . But this changes , of course , once Paul gets typhoid and has a fever for the middle chunk of the film . After this , when a change of events occur , The Sheltering Sky gets even more surreal and sensual then before , if still slightly obtuse in how to really relay a good story . And it's not that Bertolucci is whacked out , like with La Luna , as a storyteller per-say . He actually progresses what there is involving the characters pretty well , and Malkovich and Winger are up to the task of playing people who are sort of bourgeois malcontents who get their respective states of mind altered through their travels of the fly-ridden villages and poor towns in the Sahara region . But it seems like material , even for someone who hasn't read the book , to be more evocative as prose then as filmed , and the many customs and many little details of the villagers are left as more-so poetic aspirations than things relevant to the narrative . This all being said , The Sheltering Sky may possibly be Bertolucci's most astoundingly shot feature , with it coming right behind Goodfellas as the best cinematography of 1990 ( via the great Vittorio Storaro ) . Shot after shot looks like it could come out of a truly exquisite book , and the dedication to compositions and long shots and how a close-up can be just as meaningful cinematically as a view of the desert , is the best that Bertolucci has to offer . But then again , like with Antonioni when he's at his most scatter-shot , without characters who even subtly convey a lot , or with strong enough themes aside from the despair amid an alien environment ( to the characters ) , it becomes the textbook case of style over substance . I'd recommend it , especially to fans of the director and DP , but I can understand the dismay that fans of the book had at the adaptation , despite the convincing performances and ( as a given ) the wonder of seeing places not seen before , like the not-filmed-before-this-film location of Niger .
certain things - like an uncommonly bad-ass Keanu Reeves - make this better than it has any right to be	I'm not sure if Francis Lawrence is really up to par to make any kind of great movie , having now seen his first film Constantine and his mega-hit follow-up I Am Legend . But he can make a pretty entertaining spectacle of the dark and supernatural , and add a certain edge that comes most likely for those who are thirsting for it after being out of the desert of Man vs . Satan pictures . In this case John Constantine - inspired by a comic book from the 80s ( which had the hero looking like Sting and Satan looking like David Bowie ) - is a demon hunter , an exorcisor , and also a hardcore chain smoker who will probably kill himself from lung cancer before getting snuffed by some out-of-the-dark demon . He is called upon by a cop ( Rachel Weisz ) to investigate what appears to be a suicide of her sister ( twin , not too oddly enough ) but is really murder . How will Constantine find out ? How will she ? What will she be needed for ? If you don't put a whole lot of thought into some of the logistics , obviously , Constantine is a very fun movie , and chock-full of ultra hellish special effects , some keen one-liners ( " Everybody leave now . . . go to hell . " ) , and an unusually cool and on-spot performance from Keanu Reeves . While he might've given more of his somewhat limited worth for the Matrix movies , it's here that one sees him trying , and nearly succeeding , a Dirty Harry imitation in the form of a kind of Christopher Walken ala the Prophecy character . It helps since there's some very good supporting work from Weisz , Tilda Swinton as a vengeful angel , and Dijmon Honsu as a witch doctor ( Shia Lebouf appears as a driver and is probably the weakest link ) . The coup is casting Peter Stormare as Satan , however , appearing in only some make-up and a heavy ham-bone performance . So for all you looking for plenty of action with those that come from hell , this is a good flick to catch now that it's showing a lot of cable . It's fast-paced but takes its time as a story , and it has atmosphere coming out of its ears , probably the best gift that Lawrence can bestow ( he also has it in spades with I Am Legend , albeit the visual effects are actually better HERE than in the Smith vehicle ) . It would be a guilty pleasure to rank with Ghost Rider if it weren't somewhat pretty well crafted .
as complex as it is conflicted , and full of artistry that doesn't fully work	In a sense , I looked at David Lynch's adaptation of Dune on the outset for a while like Stanley Kubrick's Spartacus . This is the filmmaker , usually in total control of his work , putting himself out there for an elephantine production early in a career . But in this case , after having seen the film , it's perhaps not totally clear whether or not the director was compromised by either the producer or the studio . If one were to ask also of me to say if it is too long or too short I'd also be hesitant to answer . At two hours and fifteen minutes , the story feels like it's nearly three , but it isn't . This is a credit to what is done visually in the film , but there are problems afoot . Perhaps one of them is that I , unlike a good many who've written on this site about the film , have yet to read one iota of the book ( s ) . So my approach is not really through the vein of Frank Herbert's work but through Lynch who is maybe more of the reason to see the film . As it is , I'm not sure when I'll get a chance to read the book , and frankly on a first impression it's not on a short list of one I'll read anytime too soon . Because , at least for me , the story ( or perhaps , unfortunately to say a part of the storytelling aspect ) has a certain glitch to it that reminded me of the Da Vinci Code adaptation , though on a slightly different plane . " Show , don't tell " is usually the policy in writing a screenplay . But unlike that example , Lynch , up for the challenge in and of itself of the 45 million dollar production - relatable to the amount of a summer blockbuster of today - tries to add a novelistic approach to the film without necessarily being true to everything in the source . Impressions of this world are paramount for him . Many of the characters are given voice-overs for their thoughts , as they suspect , decree , wonder , and reveal feelings that could perhaps just be on their faces . And as apart of Lynch's way of abstracting in directing his actors , we're given the impression through out of oppression . All of this works , up to a point . On a first viewing maybe it IS all too much to settle into , as the importance of the little things should add up more than they do . The cast - assembled with many knowable faces in a bizarre and curious stretch from Max von Sydow to Sting to Kyle MacLachlan - do what they can , but only a few really give the goods for what they're worth in the framework of their characters . This all being said , Dune's met obvious mixed reactions for many years ( which have become even more known to me than the novel itself ) and its understandable why . This is in one respect an old-fashioned film , with ( again with Spartacus ) a Roman-epic aspect , where there are thousands of extras , lots and lots of dramatic action , and a story filled with betrayals , a need for a hero to rise up , and even a religious aspect with MacLauchlan's Paul being a ' Messiah ' to the world . There are interesting ideas floating afoot , but unfortunately some of it is lost , and maybe more if one's sort of connection to the film gets severed at some point . So , if the storytelling side of things as Lynch in adapting it attempts for one filled with powerful depictions of the forces of good and evil is likely not a success , the side of the visuals usually , for the most part , is . Even when I ironically had only a vague idea of what was going on ( perhaps due to an overload of exposition ) , I couldn't look away from what he , cinematographer Freddie Francis , 2001 production designer Anthony Masters , and even most of Barry Nolan's special effects were doing for the material . Dated in a couple of parts , this is overall another feast for Lynch fans , as certain creations and work on character ( i . e . the Baron ) are fantastic , there are dream sequences and other things done to enhance the inherent surrealism of all of this dark fantasy . To put it mildly , Dune is not a very simple film to digest in any denomination . Unlike Star Wars , there aren't any quick starship battles or bits of comic relief . But it does fit into that pantheon of science fiction films that shouldn't be tossed away completely . Here in even one of Lynch's least successful works , maybe his fault in some respects and not in others , there's a lot of brilliant and sensational moments and sights and sounds . There's something striking about how the film is presented , and sometimes how it takes off , that keeps it from not sinking into the otherwise likely situation of an epic running totally off the tracks . And as a general admirer of science fiction the writing that backs up this work from Herbert is not completely lost on me . At least for one thing about the film is certain - this is the only time on celluloid that you'll witness a knife fight between , yes , Sting and Kyle MacLauchlan . In short , DEFINITELY not for everyone . Features also other good actors , by the way , like Brad Douriff , Patrick Stewart and Jose Ferrer .
maybe the most mixed-bag kind of film I've seen from Fellini yet ( and I'm a big fan )	I have to think that with a production like Satyricon , co-written and directed ( and practically ring-mastered ) by Federico Fellini , he had a couple of things he had to adhere to in what he could or couldn't show ( not sure what Italy's policies were on nudity or violence and such ) . But overall , this seems to me to be the kind of film where the director had such carte Blanche and freedom to do with whatever he wanted with the material , no one ever even tried to reel him in or ask ' does this make sense ? ' Maybe that's what makes Satyricon the flawed plum that it is , but it's sometimes a slog getting through it . It's a shame to say things as pat about Fellini Satyricon like ' it's meandering ' or ' it loses cohesion ' or ' I asked ' who is that character again ' too much ' , but they pretty much do apply , even if you are a really big fan of the movie . In a sense I am too , but not exactly at the same time . In the purely visual sense , it's what the word spectacular really comes closest to in terms of personal Roman epics . Surreal or bizarre or debauchery comes to mind as well , but really if this was a silent film ( and it comes to mind a couple of times that Fellini would have risen to the likes of Lang or even Eisenstein if he had been making films in the silent era ) , it would be in my top ten of all time . Through one of the great Italian master cinematographers , Giuseppe Rutono , Fellini glides and pirouettes and makes his Roman epic with the mad ideas and persistence to not back away from keeping the vision consistent . At the least , Fellini never makes it a drag to look at , and his production values - the designs and mix of real locations with expansive Cinecitta sets , usage of colors , costumes , props ( including severed limbs and heads ) , and adding to this Nino Rota & company's strange musical accompaniments - are just as superb , if not even more extravagant , than those for his previous color film Juliet of the Spirits . If the visuals and the look and style of the film help make this world of Rome where there's no real authority and sex and power is up for grabs , the actual substance then has to be taken into account . I understand too what Fellini was after , in terms of not just the period of Rome at the time ( I'm not sure totally when , but in the apparent absence of senators and the republic ) , but also in the sexual and political revolutions going on across the world . There's madness in every direction , just as , at least seemingly , in real life . But what Fellini is lacking is a portal for the viewer to really latch onto with this travelogue of Encolpio ( Martin Potter ) , who starts off with a slave , loses him , tries to find him , but ends up with a friend Ascylito . There's big fights while slaves themselves on a boat , decadent romps with ladies , more fights - to the point of them being gladiatorial - and only brief moments where Fellini lets the viewer take a rest from all the large pomp and circumstance . There's a lot of energy to many scenes , sexually charged in fact , and the first half of the film flows really well . Yet after a while , the narrative thread - or what may be left of it can't be made this loose for too long before not feeling as satisfactory as the images surrounding it . In a sense , I realize , this film could even make a comparison with Antonioni's Zabriskie Point as two films from Italian directors who take on the complete abandonment of morals and social order and relish ( and sometimes recoil ) in the thought of it actually taking place . If neither director is totally successful , it's no wonder why the term Carte-Blanche and wild auteur filmmaker only once in a while mix excellently .
If you suspend all disbelief you'll like it , maybe even love it , despite some confusion in the film's structure	Hero , translated here in the states as Ying xiong , is the kind of film that must've seemed either one of the great post-modern epics for their country ( called " Our Land " the film tells us ) , or a flamboyant , ultra-dramatized version of the true events . At the least , Hero is helmed by a talented painter of the canvas , Zhang Yimou ( responsible for the classic Raise the Red Lantern , a film about repression in Chinese society ) , who in-between and sometimes during the highly stylized ( in the new Crouching Tiger movement of getting the characters flying high in the air as they fight ) , gives splendorous colors and landscapes , faces , settings , and moods . Along with cinematographer Christopher Doyle , at the least Hero aspires to a technical mastery , and it does work most of the time . By keeping the story in a tale of legend amid what was based in truth , the characters can believably be suited in the palettes Yimou puts them in . What gets the film down , for me at least , is that it's not entirely comprehensible on a first viewing . It may help it to some that it's dense and achieving a level of wonder in the non-linear structure , sometimes I didn't know who was dead and who wasn't , and perhaps in the Rashomon sense it was effective . But to lose track of the story when the technical side is trying to be moving , by default , creates style over substance . This isn't helped by the practically emotionless Jet Li as the " nameless " one , and with a constant use by the director of slow-motion in the fight scenes . The supporting cast gets put to some good use , which includes such Chinese film heavy-weights like Maggie Cheung , Donnie Yen , and Zhang Ziyi ( the actor who played Broken Sword , Tony Leung , may have been the best out of them from my perspective ) . And by the end , the story thrusts them into the reign of the tragedy , and it almost becomes like another character , one that isn't completely honed as it should've or could've been . When I walked out of the theater I knew that despite not being all in tune with the story ( as it moved around I knew where it was going and not at the same time - a few scenes did make me start to lose interest until the next fight scene came ) Hero asks to be seen more than once ( maybe both times of cable , no ? ) . On the level of the pure imagination , the film aspires to something it reaches , and it is in and of itself an epic . I just don't think it is a great one . The string sections by Itzhak Perlman are a nice touch , by the way .
not too surprising it's an HBO film , but a good one nonetheless , with a terrific lead in Moll	I had a vague idea of who Bettie Page was , partly due to her appearance in the very wee days of Playboy ( apparently , when she got her photo taken of her and her Santa hat , just that , she didn't know what the mag was ) . The movie , co-written and directed by American Psycho's Mary Harron , fleshes out the key parts of her life well enough . A southern belle of a church goer has some bad experiences and leaves them behind to seek better times in New York City , where she gets into modeling , and from there a lot more . Soon , she becomes the underground pin-up sensation , with bondage the obvious ( and " notorious " of the title ) trait attributed to her . The actress Gretchen Moll portrays her , and gets down the spirit of this woman about as well as she could , which is really a lot of the success of the film . She's not a simplistic character , even if at times her ideas of morality are questionable ( " well , Adam and Eve were naked , weren't they ? " she comments a couple of times ) . Apparently , the filmmakers leave out the later years of Page's life and leave off with her in a kind of redemptive period , leaving behind the photo shoots for Jesus . In all , the Notrious Bettie Page is not much more than a kind of usual bio-pic presented by HBO films , albeit this time with the stamina for a feature-film release . The best scenes that Harron captures are Page in her " questionable " positions , getting photos of her in over-the-top poses and starring in ridiculous films of whips and chains and leather uniforms . This adds a much needed comic relief to the film's otherwise usual nature . It's not that the story behind it is uninteresting , which involves the government's investigation into the ' smut ' that came out of such photos and underground magazines . But there isn't much time given to explore more of what is merely hinted at , with Page and her complexities or her relationships or to sex and the fifties . It's all given a really neat black and white look and sometimes it seemed as if Harron was progressing some of the black and white photos to be tinted more as it went along . It's a watchable view if you're not too knowledgeable of Bette Page , and probably for fans too .
one of the most elaborate , yet shallow exercises in 21st century epic style you'll see this year	300 comes way of Frank Miller , the ultra-famed comic book artist and author ( behind the neo-noir Sin City ) , and Zack Snyder , who brought us the remake of Dawn of the Dead ( not a shame nor not a necessity from the original ) , and it's what movie audiences probably salivate for when it comes to action epics from a time period dozens of centuries ago . But because it's Frank Miller , and he's never one to skimp on being garish , gory and a tad shallow with his take on certain topics , be they 40s pulp-fiction clichés or Batman or a Spartan battle like here , it's the farthest thing from naturalism . Snyder knows this , and decides to go for broke , albeit extremely faithful to the source material ( and I say this having not read this graphic novel but having read other Miller works ) , and it becomes another case of a comic-book getting pumped up like some kind of wild cinematic toy , in this case probably with steroids . But to say that it pretty much becomes style over substance would be too easy , because the problems that come up in the film are not just in the substance , but also in what starts to hit the viewer over the head . Not that there aren't a good many memorable , bloody and exciting images that could only come from the fed up mind of Miller , but there is still the all-too basic qualities to the substance too . I know I shouldn't make too much of an issue with something like substance in a film that supposes right away what its audience is : men , more than women ( although I wouldn't count them out as fans entirely ) into seeing men be MEN , warriors out for the kind of glory that comes with legends . The basic legend for the battle of 300 is that there were about 300 Spartans , led by Leonidas ( Gerald Butler ) , who was the ambitious king who decided to take on the king of Persia , who claimed to be a God , instead of submitting Sparta to the rule of the Persian empire , and with it going through extremely brawny moves to not stop till the last Spartan laid to rest . More or less that , anyway , as Miller throws in certain , or make that extreme , ' peculiarities ' with both sides . The Spartans , for example , consult an oracle , who is some girl that contorts around like she's in an emo music video , and there's a deformed hunchback-outcast , who turns on the Spartans and tries to bandwagon with the mega-pierced , sexual-maniacal ' heathens ' that are seen as the Persians . The Persians , by the way , may not have the greatest / most blood-thirsty of warriors , but they do have ninjas with masks , and a rhino , a deformed-barbaric homunculus , and a few " clumsy " elephants . Plus , that king / God , who's ultimate shame is that he's proved by his own people to not be a God , I guess , by Leonidas's last throw of a spear . So , as one might gather , there is a lot of ' things ' going on in 300 , though as far as stuff with historical pertinence , not so much . There's a fairly predictable and straightforward sub-plot with Leonidas's wife ( Lena Heady ) back in Sparta having to put up with a traitor in her midsts , though one she succumbs to partially . But for the most part , we're submerged into characters who redefine what it means to be ' one-dimensional ' , and while the acting is never actually all that bad , even from the usually barking Butler , the words Miller gives them don't do much to make it sound anything more than , well , a comic-book . Which is OK in bits and pieces , until the feeling of being practically detached from reality wears thin , including getting inundated with narration , lifted by Snyder likely from all those narration boxes one sees all the time ( and somehow seemed to work better in Sin City ) and during some of the BIGGEST dramatic action sequences . It may sound like the substance is a bit too much to bear and that I , as part of the audience , took it all too seriously . This is not exactly the case , really , as the storytelling in and of itself is fairly strong and worthwhile to tell - it's just that not taking it seriously makes it enjoyable in the shallowest ways possible . This is sort of amped up to 11 by how Snyder puts all of this together technically . It's another stepping stone for the world of combining CGI and live-action , where blood and body parts and heads roll off in a disgustingly enthralling way , and where environments are almost TOO dark & / or lush . There are actually very great images as well , unexpected ones , like when we see some of these walking abstractions of violence and mayhem from the Persians , or some kind of goat-man during the Persian's strange orgy scene . Even the battle scenes , sometimes , are worthy of the best parts of Braveheart and Gladiator . Yet sometimes there is too much , as with the narration , of pushing the boundaries with the style - slow-motion , for example , gets about of the attention for all of the battle & / or anything remotely action related in the film , and Snyder's tactic with his DP and editor is to speed up for a moment , then slow down , speed up , slow down , over and over during a battle scene . It comes very close to completely abusing the usage of 32fps in action , for no good reason no less . All this aside , I'm still glad I saw 300 , at least the one time on a gigantic IMAX screen where the contorted camera angles , machismo-rousing moments , and the epic sweep of a production done in such a weird way made it a fun , gory trip . And yet , it doesn't inspire to go back to it more than once , and its pleasures , however in a guilty way ( I couldn't help but getting a kick out of the dead-pan manner of some shots and exchanges between the characters ) , are brief and not very lasting .
not everything works , but when it does it's some riveting , tragic stuff	One of the big achievements of Un Secret which must be noted is that the director , Claude Miller , doesn't entirely sympathize with his characters or make them out to be all completely good Jews . They're not . This is a film concerning the holocaust that doesn't just make a blanket statement like " Nazis = Bad " . No , there were Jews who were in denial , and tried to cloud over the horrible fact that was upon all of Europe , and indeed it's when the film takes its most dissecting view at the flaws of these characters that the veneer is stripped away of completely innocent people being swept up in the maelstrom . While Miller obviously acknowledges and shows the horror of anti-semitism in France ( one brief scene in a classroom showing Night and Fog is especially startling ) and of the rise of Hitler , he puts his eye on the Grinberg family and what really happened between François Grimbert's parents ( name changed when he was a kid ) before and during World War 2 . Miller's approach with Un Secret is a tricky one structurally , and it doesn't quite find it's footing until a third of the way into the film . He tries to find a back-and-forth-and-back form of dealing with three periods of time : 1930s , 1950s / 1960s and 1985 when everybody is older and it turns to black and white ( an opposite touch that works , for a moment ) , and it's only effective in about the first five minutes . I became wary of those sudden jumps to the 1985 portion of the film , where we see an old Maxime Nathan Grinberg ( Patrick Bruel ) grieving over the loss of his dog and his son trying to find him , and found it didn't strike anywhere near as well as the 50s scenes . On top of this , after all of the film has ended , that huge chunk of the film with the focus on that first marriage of Grinberg's with Hannah and his very obvious but eventually-acted-on infatuation with Tania ( very sexy Cecile de France ) was far more effective dramatically and tonally than anything else in the film . This is not to say Un Secret doesn't cast a very fascinating look into this particular boy's lack of perspective and of his father's determination to compete on a physical level with the Germans , to almost " be " one in a perfectionist sense athletically , and how this one secret is part of scarred memory , attachment to one's faith and religion and who they are , and love and lust . The cast is generally excellent , with Bruel , De France and Sagnier delivering work with nuance and exquisite , painful emotions that resonate from one into the next scene ( Sagnier is so good she gets us to feel repulsed , or at least taken completely aback , by what she does while in hiding ) . And the moods of joy and despair in a Jewish family circa 1930s and 1940s - and the subsequent self-imposed shame of people in Europe even after the war ended - is captured with some real power and accuracy . But Miller also can't completely fix together his narrative ; he feels the need to jump around as if it will create a really intriguing rhythm , where if he stepped back and told it without sudden jumps or surreal bits like the " brother " in the boy's bedroom at night the film would benefit . There is also a lack of a real resolution ; the 1985 scene just didn't cut it for me as far as an unspoken father / son thing , and despite it sounding conventional a confrontation of the boy to his parents might have brought something more interesting than the uneven subtlety of the ending . A lot of this is so hearth-breaking in its true dimensions and probing of the subject that the only real disappointment is how it doesn't fell . . . complete with itself .
works OK as a melodrama , sometimes better than OK , but it's still a Bunuel film	Even as a " minor " work , I was a little surprised to find out that Luis Bunuel didn't care very much for the experience or final product of Susana ( aka Devil in the Flesh ) . It is , I'll admit , not something I would rush out to tell my fellow Bunuel friends to see ; part of that is practical , since it's only available on a VHS from the mid-80s and isn't in great condition even if found , but the other part is that it takes a real fan to appreciate it as a Bunuel film . Like Robinson Crusoe to an extent , though I think here more-so , it relies a bit for the audience member to understand what it is that attracted the great surrealist to the project . Temptation , pure and simple : this is at its best a story that allowed for the filmmaker to bask in a long-favored pastime , which was ticking off the uptight religious fanatics and purists who couldn't stand to see any kind of sensuality on the screen . Sure , it definitely pales in comparison to the desire and temptation on parade and blasting at 11 in Un Chien Andalou or Viridiana . That's because Bunuel is keeping it on the down-low , which has its advantages and sort of disadvantages . On its own Susana is simply a melodrama , a story of this girl Susana ( beautiful and talented if two-note Rosita Quintana ) who escapes in one of those fun Bunuelian twists from a mental asylum to wind up on a rainy night in the care of a pretty religious farmhouse . She fits in with the chores and such , but also does her best to tempt the prudish on the farm ( when she's asked to cover up she does , until no one's looking relatively ) , but winds up in a real pickle when tempting the wrong man . And , on its own terms , it's a pretty decent melodrama . Some good performances , a few very good scenes of dialog and tension , but also on the scale of a very good soap opera all the same . I can see where Bunuel might have had some tension during the making ; it feels and is a studio production , and as such he had to stay well within the limitations of the subject matter and low-budget . But it is worth seeing because it is still a Bunuel picture , with moments like that scene at night where the two men look on , tongues practically dangling out of their mouths , watching as Susana simply brushes her hair in silhouette , or a few moments where the twisted humor ratchets up a notch or too ( it's rare , but worth it , if only in the unintended or just dated " scandalous " nature of the content ) . It's safe stuff coming from the director of the Phantom of Liberty , but it's not at all a bad movie either .
clever in some ways , with a formidable cast , but it doesn't hold up as well for me as others	I have to credit Robert Altman's breakthrough film MASH for at least one thing - it's one of the few films from the 70's to look at those in war not as overly anxious and gung-ho military types , but average shlubs working a particular kind of job . In this world of the military medical sidelines , where soldiers get the help they need after battle , the camaraderie is never too false , and the cast assembled is the first prime example of Altman's policy of casting being 80 % of the job . The film is put together in a piece-meal kind of way , with about as loose a plot as dialog construction , where the sense of humor from the main male characters ( i . e . Elliot Gould and Donald Sutherland ) is the kind of juvenile , sarcastic humor associated with its time . This is likely the kind of film that John Landis must have seen at least a few times before making Animal House . But the problem for me , aside from the film's strength in breaking conventions and having such a varied cast ( Sally Kellerman and Robert Duvall in the same movie , not to mention Tom Skerritt and Bud Cort ) , is in it working as a comedy . As a comedy in and of itself its just , well , alright . The humor and jokes in the film are a big step above the television show's lot that followed in the 70's ( then again , I'm not a fan of the show anyway ) , but the attitudes of the characters , and the little understated bits that happen , miss marks of satire I would've liked to have seen . There's some of the human comedy that Altman's obviously been influenced by Renoir to showcase , yet I wasn't laughing at it as much as paying attention to what the conversations were going on . It's a kind of high-brow / low-brow concoction that has its moments , and then does not at the same time . Perhaps I was expecting a little more than I ended up getting from the Golden Palm winneing , smash-hit film that jump-started the prolific director's career . And it is a good movie , no argument about that , and it has been created and performed enough skill and enjoyment that marks as important for all the actors involved . I just don't think it's a masterpiece .
Bush's " Greatest Hits "	Some will say - actually a lot have said - that Oliver Stone's new film on the public history of George W . Bush , the man and the 43rd President , will be slanted or with scenes that show the clear bias of the filmmaker . What happens in W . is that it is and it isn't a sign of bias . Unlike with Nixon , who was a complex man and could be treated in a different way , Bush is actually fairly straightforward as a person , as a leader , as a son , as a ' rehabilitated ' servant of the Lord . The portrayal of Bush is , actually , is not unfair , but in the process it shows the George W . Bush to be exactly what he is to any and all audiences , and this makes it more interesting and ( somewhat more ) challenging . If you feel like Bush should be impeached and / or ' taken out ' for all of the atrocities upon atrocities he with his administration has committed in the past eight years , you'll think it's not enough shown in the film . If you're on the other side of the coin , whoever you might be , it's kind of cruel and lampoon-like . To me , it's a finely stated psychological horror story with gallows-humor . Does this mean that W . is a great film ? No , it's not . Stone indulges from time to time in the kind of stylistic choices that veer close to being a TV movie - nowhere near as much or as sappy as the Hallmark-channel spread World Trade Center , but with a couple of obvious music choices - and the criticism put on the movie that there's nothing really new that those reasonably informed about Bush's past and his first term is not completely unwarranted . But , again , there is the expectation going in that this will be the be-all-end-all of lambasting , or on the flip-side that it's too soon an analysis of a man still ( not too arguably ) crippling the country away in his last months in office . What Stone has done , occasionally brilliantly , is compile a Greatest-Hits of Bush trivia and scenes that are either spot-on to how they likely played out or are based very accurately on what is at the date known about what happened behind closed doors with Bush and Cheney and Rove and company . On top of this is a story of , in a famous-movie comparison , what would happen if Fredo Corleone got the chance to be a mob boss while his disapproving father was still alive and smarter brother got more respect ( it's not beyond comprehension to hear the echo of " I can run things , I'm smart ! " from Godfather 2 in certain scenes with George and his father ) . While this could possibly fall into , as just a movie , into cliché , Stone and his casting director have , not entirely without coincidence , compiled the best casted Stone picture since 1995's Nixon . Josh Brolin is clearly now on the A-list following last year's mix and match of thrillers ( Grindhouse , American Gangster , No Country ) , and his performance solidifies his reputation as an actor so convincing and in touch with the not-quite transformation of George W . Bush that he makes him , if not entirely sympathetic , understandable and human and not some complete villain . There's also a gallery of who's-who in the acting pool : James Cromwell , Richard Dreyfuss ( exceptional ) , Jeffrey Wright , Ellen Burstyn , Thandie Newton , Toby Young , even Rob Corddry from the Daily Show , all of them are spectacular in their parts , adding interest to scenes that require presence , strength , and from time to time nuance and care in finding that line between playing a character and parody ( which , actually , Newton verges into a few times ) . It's also been said that W . is actually a funny movie , maybe one of Stone's few outright comedies . The trailer and the TV commercials have made this to look so , and I laughed a bunch of times at them in that context since they were in skit-format . In the context of the film , where the weight of very current history and wars still being waged and blunder and horror accumulating , a lot of the humor is either by a quick goof or what comes off like , as said , gallows humor . This could in fact be a crazy American Bunuel picture if it weren't true ; it's the kind of dark bourgeois horror-comedy in a sense that you laugh almost out of exasperation , but at the same time stuff one might find funny out of context ( i . e . choking on a pretzel ) is treated with an amount of actual gravitas . It's not that I couldn't see how it's maybe too simple a task to show a lot of what we already know - the power-hungry conflict in the administration , the Bush / Bush Jr conflict , the dangerous change-up from all alcohol to all Jesus - but at the same time it's revealed in the best kind of pop-melodrama , as a serious story of a man who is , in all actually , not at all complicated . It won't be a popular movie by any stretch , but it took some guts to present it as such .
obviously repetitive , but it has its moments , primarily as an act of rhythmic poetry	They talk so fast that you need ears like a super-hawk to really decipher what they're getting at , but it's this speed at going about selling goods that interest Werner Herzog so much . He's said in interviews that it's almost like " the poetry of capitalism " , as these high-stakes auctioneers , selling off cattle within a matter of seconds , are in a unique little world unto themselves and their small audience , mostly full of small town yokels and Amish . This doesn't make his documentary on them particularly exceptional , however , as it's a little too long and a little much without a lot of human interest ; we don't know who most of these ultra-fast talkers are . It is , however , quite funny at times to see them go this fast , perhaps in a sort of detached way ( then again , how can one who's never been to a cattle auction know anything about what it's like to see mouths go at a mile a minute ) . It's great to see when he's interviewing one guy and he starts explaining how he auctions , and at first in regular speed soon as a sort of reflex goes off into his ultra-fast speaking voice . I also liked getting into the groove of the competition , as it were , seeing how despite it being still at lighting speed with numbers and calls it can be understood which ones are the slower ones . Although Herzog fares a lot better using the auctioneer in his fiction film Stroszek - Scott McKain is the one featured in the scene where Stroszek's items are sold off in an immediacy that is purely staggering and , as it's so unexpected following the pace of that film , is one of the most hilarious scenes of the 70s in cinema - it's a fine little portrait of a group that is somewhat representative of the fun that's missing in more run of the mill acts of commerce . You're not going to see this kind of auction at an art gallery in midtown New York , only in a Herzog film .
an unlikely epic blockbuster done in CGI meant for 3D ; it's brutal and fun	Robert Zemeckis and his Imagemovers team and CGI people and ' motion-capture ' folks have turned out another following the Polar Express in 2004 : once again the technique of a fully realized animated feature wrapped around real-actors performing only animated over . It's a little like a mix-and-match method of Who Framed Roger Rabbit , only this time with Toontown completely bleeding over LA . Speaking of bleeding over , Beowulf is not the kind of movie that will work well for the wee kiddies , the ones who maybe just have gotten a taste of Lord of the Rings ; despite the PG-13 , had it been animated by someone else like Ralph Bakshi , it would definitely get an R . While not on the same level of relentless video-game violence of 300 , Beowulf does contend to bring in a similar contingent of an audience , while also likely alienating many who might have loved the original epic poem in the murky middle-English text . Transformed into a tale of a flawed monster killer who keeps on reminding us over and over " I-AM-BEOWULF ! " as he ascends into a position of total power as a living legend , Roger Avary and Neil Gaiman leave it more as a director's film , making little moments of nuance and strength in the epic action-movie sort of way . To be fair , Beowulf isn't very complex , which is just as well for many of the people who will go see it . There's also not much intended humor either , albeit somewhere in the similar ballpark of unintended laughs as 300 ( if , perhaps , with a slightly better filmmaker at the helm ) . Story : Beowulf ( Winstone , who's voice is about as commanding as imaginable ) is called by a Danish king ( Hopkins ) to slay Grendel , a man-monster living in a mountain , who comes down to demolish all the people in his path based on noise vibrations that tick him off . He does slay the beast , and when Grendel's mother finds out , she goes also on a rampage of some slaughter . When Beowulf goes to confront her , he knocks her up ( and why not when it's portrayed by a consistently nude Angelina Jolie ) , and she bears a son ( not quite ) unbeknownst to him . Then his son is born as a dragon , who also as Beowulf is an old king ravages the town . Take 3 ! Inbetween this there isn't much else story , save for a tiff between Beowulf and Malkovich's character , and some allusions to adultery in the King's marriage to the Queen ( color us shocked ) . The reason to watch the film isn't for it's poetry in language , anyway , but for the rip-roaring sensationalism of the piece visually , as a kind of pop-art throwback to both folklore and video-games of the present . Luckily , Zemeckis has gotten rid of the " dead-eyes " syndrome that plagued the Polar Express . It doesn't mean from time to time the characters come off a little wooden , even if it is behind layers and layers of silicon detail . What works best is seeing Zemeckis and his technical team make it as something of a marvel : when watching the shot where it pulls back all the way through the village , through the woods , and to the mountain and cave where Grendel groans in agony , the shot and the audio of the dissipating banging and singing in the King's hall makes as much of a stand-out as anything in Zemeckis's arsenal . Add to this the imagination in the fantasy elements : Grendel is one of the great creations in the realm of computer animation , right up there with Gollum and the new-and-improved Yoda ; he's an abomination , with no skin and lots of deformities all very close up in 3-D , but there's a very real human quality to him too , tortured and retarded , led on by the ( as a contrast ) slick , golden , and attractive mother . Then back to the dragon in the climax , who is a combination of all three , and even if somehow the dragon doesn't quite work as well as Grendel , it comes close . As a piece of drama , it leans towards the silly and pompous , including a five-minute fight sequence where the animators avoid an R with the dreaded shot of Beowulf's crotch . As a piece of skillfully controlled work of eye-popping maneuvering , it almost completely makes up for the flaws in the material . It's a must-see in the sense that you should see it on a big screen , with the glasses , and as close as possible . How it is with flesh and blood characters is just so-so .
veers towards being TOO subtle and stuffy , but remains a good view into coldness of 1930s Hollywood	For a little while as I watched the Last Tycoon , I thought I could understand what the critics said of this film when it first came out ( the majority of them I mean ) . The screenplay , written by Harold Pinter from what is supposedly a much richer ( albeit incomplete ) text from F . Scott Fitzgerald , stages many scenes like how one would see on a theater stage , with only one or two little directional differences with Elia Kazan's take on the material . This , plus its slightly ' dry ' style ( i . e . very little musical score , limited camera movement , performances kept without much , if at all , improvisation ) , makes things seem almost too much in the realm of the naturalistic , of drama kept to a minimum of interaction . But as the film went along like this , I started to notice something : the sort of coldness , almost a loneliness , with the character of Monroe Stahr , is what actually makes a lot of the movie work for all its intents and purposes . It has the veneer of being a little distanced , of not having the full driving force of drama and comedy ( although it does have both of those in bits and pieces , more as little familial or romantic drama or one-line throwaways ) like an 8 or the Player with dealing in the problems of a professional in the film industry . But because of Stahr's method of practices , of being as Mitchum's character describes " like a priest or a rabbi , ' this is how it will be ' " , when he's told ' no ' it shatters him . As a film about loss , and the very calculated realization that his code in business spills over into the personal , the Last Tycoon does work . Maybe not very well , but work it does , as storytelling and as a character piece . Sure , it might not be De Niro's best , but he does deliver subtle like it's as second nature as breathing ( kind of a twist on his other 1976 character , Travis Bickle , whom he played subtle but also crazy , where as here it's subtle and empty ) , and he's got plenty of backup . There was some critical flack for the actress Ingrid Boutling , playing the nearly obscure object of Monroe's desire-cum-demand , but she too is better than she was given credit for , at least within the range she's allowed to work in ( which , granted , isn't as much as one might think , but she's seen not as a fully-fleshed person but as someone with hints of a reality she needs and a fantasy world of movies she doesn't ) . Then there's Nicholson , showing up in the final reels for a couple of amazing scenes sparring with De Niro , barely ever raising voices for a low-key one-on-one as a movie exec and communist writer organizer . Not to forget Mitchum , in maybe his last good performance , and Theresa Russell in also an underrated turn as a woman grown up way past her years . Did I mention Jeanne Moreau ? She's Moreau , that's about it , playing a completely self-absorbed star for all its one dimension is worth . Only Tony Curtis , with his libido problems isn't par for the course , and Donald Pleasance has a shaky ( if darkly funny ) scene as a scorned writer . Does the Last Tycoon have some problems as feeling like compelling historical drama ? Sure . But does it somehow get into the atmosphere of its character in the context of his profession , revealing all that's absent for him every day coming home to his Asian butler ? Absolutely . It's a mix and match that will disappoint some , and for those who want to take the chance on a somewhat forgotten 70s film - Kazan's last and Spiegel's final ego-tickler - might be even more impressed than I was .
a romantic black comedy of the most light-hearted / sinister psychological ideals	I wouldn't say I really clicked into Harold and Maude entirely on a first viewing - maybe I may never will . It almost has something to it at times that I found a bit unique for that un-trustworthy brand of cinema known as the romantic comedy . It's not the last time it's happened , but what I found fascinating about the psychological interest the character of Harold ( Bud Cort , dead-pan to the point of inertia sometimes ) , is that we see really what is going on inside Harold's head in the midst of the actual scene as it's playing out , subjectivity in the guise of objective , cold shooting . The best example ( s ) can be found when he tries to commit suicide - more than once as it were . It's actually kind of manipulative , and if you've ever known someone or even been a survivor of suicide it might be very off-putting to see it put on such bizarre display here . But it adds to the perverse fun of the picture to see that hopelessness is really the only thing from keeping these fantasies going on as Harold's head-strong , perpetually bourgeois mother ( Vivian Pickles , a perfectly one-track performance ) , keeps trying to set him up with women . . . or else it's off to the army . It's a creative cinematic trick , though it might have even worked itself greater in a short film , or even as an actual novel where Harold ( and Maude for that matter ) could be revealed even more with their psychological insides and emotional bearings and depths . So in a sense Harold and Maude only sometimes gets under the surface . But said surface ends up making for the kind of unusual movie that doesn't give ' unusual ' a bad name at all . It was the second feature directed by Hal Ashby , and his acute sense of the visual with the purity of either eccentric / bottled-up people , or just stiff rich folks , is uncanny . His strengths at keeping Colin Higgins rocky , predictably unpredictable screenplay in check is also a plus . Yet Harold and Maude , for all of its successes at making some uproarious comedic moments as Harold keeps himself systematically detached not just from his mother , psychiatrist , and crazy army-lifer uncle , but from the proposed ladies as well ( there is one , the last one , who is an actress who actually ' gets ' what Harold is doing with a Kari-Kiri ritual , is maybe the funniest of all ) , doesn't do as much as I thought it might in really getting underneath this young man and old woman . There's an interesting split of the two sides of life - despair and joy - that make up the sort of existential mishaps both characters get into , and likely draw one another to each other as mutual funeral crashers . If only it wasn't so quirky all the time - sometimes too much whimsy can backfire . Still , the bit of unease I felt from the film's mis-fires in its broad strokes at black comedy ( my least favorite being the one with Harold , the uncle , and Maude as a " protester " on the rocky cliffs ) , there was enough that was attained by the actors to make it worthwhile and at least worth one viewing . In fact , I'd say I would watch this again just for Ruth Gordon , who we learn just from one quick shot ( a tattoo on her arm , don't miss it ) about why perhaps she is who she is at this age , and it's maybe too quick yet crucial to understanding who she is . She is , on the surface , a kind of overly bright , near-crazy fire-fly burning on into that crossroads of 79 into 80 . She also is a wonderful contrast to Cort , who along with his dead-pan qualities down pat , can also have fun too in doing his weird little suicidal moments ( I loved the bit in the bathtub ) , or when he has to get more emotional revealing his first brush with death . In the end , I'm reminded of a line from Scorsese's the Departed : ' death is easy - life is much harder ' . We may never know if Harold becomes joyful , especially with such a sad ending that ends up coming , but there is a slight skip to his step as he plays the banjo , which is a kind of catharsis from seeing this glimpse into the lives of these two ' made-for-each-other ' characters . Harold and Maude , with its sweet and puffy folk songs by Cat Stevens , and fine cinematography and editing , is a very good effort at stretching what is expected out of the dreaded ' rom-com ' , by giving something completely different and still sticking to a template of love conquering all . . . in a manner of speaking . Not Ashby's best , but far from his worst either .
a more than decent soap-opera with bits of uproarious ' making-movie ' comedy	Fall Guy is advertised on the front of the recently released DVD as " a comedy from the director of Battle Royale " . That last part is true , but it's not entirely a comedy . I was expecting that , and in the first fifteen minutes it is that , incredibly and with total personality-laden hilarity as a Japanese movie star , Ginshiro ( Morio Kazama ) is a prototypical ego-maniac who is furious that there's stalling on building a gigantic staircase for an action sequence and then proceeds to get drunk and complain about not having enough screaming fans . Up to this point it is a comedy . . . and then it suddenly starts to unfold deeper , and we meet the characters Konatsu ( Keiko Matsuzaka ) , Ginshiro's presumed love interest and father of her unborn child , and Yasu ( Mitsuru Kirata ) , a close friend and would-be low-level stuntman who may be the father of Konatsu's baby by " default " , and it becomes a soap opera . To say soap opera isn't really to decry it , as one might imagine ' soap opera ' to be something already to be wary of . It isn't quite melodrama , though it edges it in some fiery scenes ( my favorite was an explosive bit where Yasu rebels from this existential conundrum of doing a non-death-proof stunt down the stairs ) , and a lot of it surrounds taking care of an unborn baby , marrying someone who might not be the right one and a shady ex-lover who is obsessed with his scenes being cut from the current martial arts movie . So it's all stuff you could possibly catch on daytime TV . The difference is , thankfully , director Fukasaku casts his actors based on impressive personality , on lots of intense emotional power , and he interweaves the personal love story with an absorbing look at the making of Japanese martial arts movies ; just watching Yasu in the montage of doing various stunts for 5 to 10 thousand Yen is funny but also a small love letter for the movies . It's also topped off , I should add , with a climax that has been building for about half of the movie and pays off , incredibly , and is in a way a better climax than some of the rest of the movie deserves . In a way a director like Fukasaku , a seasoned veteran probably not too unlike the director character in the film directing the film within Fall Guy , is needed to imbue the screenplay with real dramatic force and a sense of how to slip in those wonderful bits of comedy . At the least , if you love Japanese cinema , it's worth watching once . At best , it's fun romantic pulp .
not one of the best of the " serious " Woody Allen films , but it's still underrated , with superb acting	Another Woman demonstrates Woody Allen at going , perhaps even further than Interiors ( and we know how far he went with that ) , into his Ingmar Bergman homage realm of drama . Of course , this is never a bad thing if done right ; Bergman was the " Mack Daddy " of dramatists in dealing with the human psyche , fragile human relationships , and the disintegration & / or deconstruction of the human condition involving intellectually cool but emotionally crippled folk . In this case Allen has a character that might fit in well with Bergman , or even with one of the old Swedish playwrights Bergman loved so : Marion Post ( Rowlands ) , a philosophy professor on leave to write a book , who started off her relationship with Ken ( Holm ) as an affair he was having with his wife , who had cancer . There's more infidelity to come in the story , and more past ghosts as well ( revealed , also in Bergmanian fashion , as a dream with the visions of the past on a stage in a theater ) . But Marion , left to her herself during the day at home , finds that the next door psychiatrist's office is within ear's reach , and she can hear everything being said - notably by a fragile case , played by Mia Farrow - and it becomes a private obsession which triggers a whole host of new feelings , or an awareness of the wasteland that's formed around her and within her . So , yeah , deep stuff . And to be sure there is a good load of Allen's usual notices of the soul stripped away under the garnish of the upper-middle class bourgeois of New York . And , as always , Rowlands is terrific in digging under the skin of this character , giving her so much revelation to the audience , even ( and especially ) when she's just listening to the conversations which may or may not be taking place next door . But there's almost a line Allen crosses here that starts to blur the line - as the argument often goes with Tarantino and his films - of homage and ' rip-off ' . As I said , there's material here that does come from Allen's creativity in branching out as a dramatist , of taking a deeper glance at people he usually skewers comically in farce or satire . But the style , filled with narration that feels like it would work better in a novel than in a film , starts to make the style feel clunky , leading up to that somewhat predictable climax with Holm and , subsequently in a sense , Hackman . This isn't to say it's a good , solid drama that tries to pierce the empty spaces of a person like Marion who has loads of intelligence but a confused spirit , tarnished by her affairs and loves lost and her rocky past with her father and brother . And with Sven Nykvist around as DP it's hard not to get a few memorable shots in there . It's just short of a ( possible ) masterpiece is probably the only complaint .
solid storytelling , almost like a heist movie , minus emotional attachment	Bryan Singer's latest film , Valkyrie , is a step-up from what was a long ' slog ' of a movie-going experience like Superman Returns . His direction here is more in line with the X-Men franchise , oddly enough for a movie about Nazi's scheming to kill Hitler . He has what amounts to a well-oiled machine via Christopher MacQuarrie's script , and his cast assembled is a gallery of who's who in British film ( yes , British people playing Nazis , without German accents , as well as Tom Cruise with his Tom Cruise accent ) . If only one felt a stronger bond with some of these characters like Cruise and Bill Nighy and Kenneth Branaugh play , there might really be something special about what amounts to a great idea carried out to the extent of great failure . If you haven't seen Tom Cruise's character , Col . Stauffenberg , explain it in one sentence in countless commercials and trailers , here's what the plot amounts to : a small group of completely fed-up Nazis plot to kill Hitler and implement operation Valkyrie which , in effect , will put the " right " Nazis back in power and end the war by negotiating an end to battle with the allies . This is the premise , and it is executed in a not so strange way much like the plot of a heist movie . We see the masterminds ( Branaugh , Stamp , etc ) , bring in Stauffenberg to use his expertize and hatred of what's become with Germany as a means to pull off their plot . They also bring in some other possible ' friendlies ' to their cause who will have various odd-job type tasks ( i . e . Eddie Izzard's officer will make sure the phone lines are down from Hitler's operation station after the bomb goes off ) , and everything has to be planned and operated to the last T . But , of course , as in a heist movie , we know that things wont turn out very well , or as well as anyone might like . Matter of fact , considering that instead of robbing a bank or jewels that it's taking out Hitler and his regime and implementing emergency procedures throughout Europe , it is what we expect it to be : a glorious try at something unattainable . What does make the movie fascinating is the execution of suspense as in any good conspiracy thriller ( watching the tension during the first war-room meeting Hitler has with his men and as Stauffenberg awaits confirmation to set off the bomb is intense ) , and the striking quality of the performances . The actors all do good work - even Cruise who has the double burden of acting with one eye ( or a crazy lazy / fake eye ) most of the time - this in spite of or despite the fact that they're not given much in way of motivation aside from the obvious . I liked seeing the character of Stauffenberg go through the motions of executing the complex plot , but there's not much there for me to care about the human being . This may not be the case for some , and if so all the better . This really is , to Singer's credit , one of those real WW2 movies with strong men played by terrific actors that . . . is not really great . In the right frame of mind it could , however , hit just the right spot . Valkyrie is slick , efficient storytelling .
an example of performances making the biggest difference	The Merry Gentlemen has the makings , and perhaps even the trappings , of a predictable neo-noir involving a hit-man ( Michael Keaton ) , a detective ( Bastounes ) and the woman that they're both eying ( Kelly MacDonald ) , and the elements of crime floating all about . But Keaton brings to the table as a first-time director an absolutely unbreakable grasp of what makes the scene ( s ) work from an actor's stand-point . Ironically for an actor who usually makes his mark in movies as someone with a lot of nervous energy or something that makes him quirky or mysterious ( i . e . Batman / Bruce Wayne , Beetlejuice , Jackie Brown ) , here he's subdued , almost like Alain Deleon in Melville's movies . He doesn't say much , but when he does you listen , especially as his character Logan has pneumonia or carries a Christmas tree . On his own end Keaton's got his character covered wonderfully . That leaves the other two , and one other actor that should be noted . MacDonald is quickly becoming an example of a perfect character actress . It's hard for me to see her becoming a full-blown A-list star , even a decade or more after she hit the scene in her debut in Trainspotting , but when she comes into a role , usually in the supporting variety ( most recently No Country for Old Men and Choke ) you feel her presence incredibly . She's so vulnerable and adorable , so keen on how her character should be in every moment , as someone who's fragile , been messed with by her husband , but wants to have her space while at the same time being friendly to both the lonely hit-man and the desperate cop . It's hard for me to see a flaw in her performance , and maybe helps elevate things another notch or two . Ditto for Bastounes , one of those actors you swear you've seen somewhere else but actually has only been in one ( or none ) features before this . He , too , makes a mark playing off both MacDonald like at the restaurant or Keaton in a pivotal scene at the tailor . There's another actor I should also credit , though at the moment I forget his name : he plays MacDonald's character's husband , and he appears out of the darkness in a scene , a recovering abuser with a newfound Jesus addiction who tries to win back his wife's heart as she holds a knife to him . It's one of the best , creepiest dramatic scenes I've yet seen this year . And while I praise his and the other principles performances , the rest of the film around them is . . . well , good , watchable , though nothing wholly remarkable . At times Keaton is still finding his footing with style , keeping some shots engaging and others just doing a big pan or reveal where it wouldn't be necessary . It's competent work , though , and I would hope to see something else from him ; at the least he reveals himself such a fantastic director of his fellow actors ( not least of which himself , though as Eastwood shows that's easier done than said ) that he may have found a new calling . It's an A-grade acting job amid a decent little B-movie .
a trifle in Woody Allen's career , but a good and amusing one all the same	I don't think Woody Allen was aiming very high with Mighty Aphrodite , and it's just as well that his targets are lowered onto one of the most " light " comedies ever made about a prostitute and a sports writer , with a Greek chorus in tow . You know the Greek chorus , chiming in at those moments when drama might need a little heightening , and if needed adding some unintentional humor to the process of a story like Antigone ( actually , it's not a very funny story , but besides the point ) . Woody Allen combines with a fair amount of his usual wit a film that plays upon the big moral quandaries that are juxtaposed by a it's own built-in audience within the story ; occasionally , one of the Greek chorus members ( F . Murray Abraham especially , in one of his funniest roles ) comes directly to Woody's character telling him ' what are you doing ? ' in a scene of near-classic Woody-nervousness comedy . It almost leans on becoming a little too goofy to deal with , as the story itself should have enough weight on its own to go without a sidebar of fantasy . But it does help garner some big laughs ; where else will you see Zeus with his answering machine on ? Woody Allen plays the aforementioned sports writer , who's married to a preoccupied art curator ( Helena Bonham Carter ) , and together with her has an adopted son . He starts to get curious about where his son originally came from , as he seems very bright and an above average kid even at the age of five . After some prodding and searching , he comes upon the mother : Leslie , aka Linda St . James , aka Lucy C ( Mira Sorvino , in a somewhat deserving Oscar turn ) . A prostitute and sometimes porno actress , she soon goes under Woody's character as a new woman , breaking away - slowly and with some trouble with her " business manager " - into a normal life . Although Allen does go to some lengths to make Linda , and even Carter's character , pretty well-rounded characters , he himself sort of stays in a narrow role as either the usual Woody nebbish with many a quick wisecrack ( i . e . first meeting Linda at her apartment , surrounded by a screwing pig clock and cacti with genitalia , and his run-in with her ' manager ' at a seedy bar ) , or as the surrogate match-maker for Linda to go on with a new life with a new man . A lot of this leads to funny scenes , not least of which surrounding what is in the subtext rather sad , of the situation of how she gave up her son for adoption and that it's never said outright what the truth is about Woody showing up to her , and there's somehow through what is potentially troublesome material some laugh-out-loud scenes . A scene that is meant , conventionally , just for character development like at the race track where Linda bets on the " Eager Beaver " is a riot , as well as the arranging of the first date with her and Michael Rappaport's dim-witted farmer / boxer . And Allen even attempts for a wallop of whimsy at the end when irony is piled up high , and everyone is seen , simply put , being in a level of bliss with their respective lot in life . If it isn't totally focused as a better Woody Allen picture , it may be because it works a little better when around the Allen / Sorvino connection , as opposed to the whole side-story involving him and his wife , which could be picked out from any random Woody Allen movie ( and not necessarily a very involving side-story either ) . There's a good few laughs , a couple of brilliant zingers , and better than average performances turned in . Like Bullets Over Broadway it's a successful attempt at presenting dramatic subject matter in a light-hearted fashion , if not as deep or layered as the former .
the plot isn't what works - it's all about actors , timing , awkward pauses , realistic dialog	I Love You , Man may feel like another Apatow company production , but it's mostly because some of its " stock " company players ( I put quotes as it's both a loose term and just about right ) like Paul Rudd and Jason Siegel . They give the air of using the screenplay as the easiest of diving boards into just shooting-the-hell-of-it with one another as two friends . Rudd plays a guy about to get married and is embarrassed to find out , from all those around him more than anything , that he doesn't have many , or really any , true friends . He meets Siegel at an open house for Lou Ferrigno ( he's a real estate agent and Ferrigno fills the oddball cameo choice , it's a great choice though ) , and the two hit it off as a " bromance " develops . It's this " bromance " that makes I Love You , Man a little interesting as a double-edged romantic comedy . It's already about Rudd and his to-be played by Rashida Jones , their little moments of fun and their arguments too ( there's a cute running gag involving Rudd's imitations of the band Rush sounding like an Irishman ) , but then it's also got plenty of innuendo to this being really about the guys , how Siegel gets attached to Rudd in that way that surely isn't gay but is more than just casual acquaintance stuff ( see his " investment " plan unfold ) . But truth be told it's not even this that makes I Love You , Man so funny . Rudd and Siegel are simply funny guys , but naturally so ; there's a new trend to put a somewhat straight face on gross out gags in these movies , Apatow or its spin-off groups ( one can equate it to the good rip-offs of Tarantino in the 90s to a certain extent ) , and it works very well here . It's like a sweet blending of Curb Your Enthusiasm awkwardness ( if , of course , nowhere near the genius of that , especially with story ) and some of the low-brow Adam Sandler stuff and joyfully useless banter and non-jock male bonding . It's not any better or lessor than recent stuff from Siegel and Rudd ; you could watch this with either Forgetting Sarah Marshall or Role Models and be satisfied about the same . Again , plot is not at all the strong suit , but if you just want some cleverly obvious comedy dialog it's a good detour . At the least , we get one of the funniest lines of the year , or just in years , near the very end : " I love you . . . Broseph Goebbels ! "
somehow straddles the line between being legitimately good and just bad-good Italian sex-horror flick	I don't know how I could explain that I like Werewolf Woman . It doesn't work logically as a movie , but does one go into a movie that's about a schizo who craves the company of men and then kills them at the instant they try and have their way with her expecting great art ? It's a little like a rougher , more sexed-up cut of Cronenberg's Rabies , only here the dead or injured don't come back to life . This time it's Annik Borel , instead of Marilyn Chambers , as the perplexed anti-heroine of the story . The catch with her is that she has werewolf ancestry in her blood , and after a cruel rape ( which we may or may not see on screen , I can't remember ) she goes on a killing spree . The dubbing is bad , but maybe deliberately so ; Leone didn't have dialog so bad that it made the voice-over actors cringe as they said some of their lines . And sometimes the director and crew get creative with blood and various colors : there's a shot when Daniella , after attacking a nurse whom she's snuck into the car with , gets out of the now crashed vehicle , and the first shot seen looks as though there's blood everywhere , though it's mostly just the seats and a jacket . For a moment or two , Werewolf Woman carries artistry ( not to mention during a particularly steamy sex scene as Daniella watches with hungry , jealous eyes of a friend getting it on with a friend ) . When all is said and done , Werewolf Woman does teeter between a hot and exciting half-farce half-serious / pretentious drama on a woman's descent into madness and murder , and it doesn't amount to any kind of ' statement ' except that , um , crazy women with a disease passed down through the generations can't be stomped out so all men with penises have to pay . Yeah , that's it . But even with the laughs that are had - including a bit when Daniella is in the hospital bed and an over-affectionate nymph comes in trying to have her way with the taut were-woman that probably inspired the P Wagon scene in Kill Bill 1 - it's not a badly made film at all , which adds to the appeal . It's not some stupid movie put together in very cheap soft-core ways . If there is any strength to the best sex scenes it's that they seem actually erotic and not as some tedious pornographic exercise ala Porno Holocaust . And , relative to other cheesy horror flicks of the 70s ( the Italian horror 70s ) , Annik Borel isn't too shabby an actress , with a quality reminiscent of Sondra Locke from Clint Eastwood's films ( only , perhaps , a better actress ! ) She adds just that little bit of fun and danger to a part that needs it to sustain its tone wavering between exploitation and sincere horror . So watch it under a full-moon , make sure you're tied to the bed ( without any crazies around to untie the knots ) , and keep all sexual organs on stand-by - Werewolf Woman is a bite !
Funny look at odd characters but with lots of heart	Woody Allen does not have his best film here , but it ranks up there as being a very fine straightforward romantic comedy . He's got a sharp script for most of his cast , even as his nebbish-sort of usual character , in the form of Danny Rose , is more limited this time around . I also thought some of the material with the mobsters and the Italians were a little undercooked . But it makes for a lot of good solid laughs most of the way through , like when we see Danny's disastrous work via a hypnotist ( " if she never wakes up , I'll take you out to lunch , do you like Chinese ? " ) And there's also Mia Farrow , who is in a different role this time around , with a tough-as-nails kind of gal who only so often lets her guard down . She's the most ' alive ' character of the bunch . Woody plays Danny Rose , who is a manager in the cheap theatrics who finds with Joe ( Nick Apollo Forte , a great big shlub character played well by Forte ) a once famous singer who wants to make a comeback , and Rose to help him out by showing his girlfriend the biggest show yet . But when things get dangerous with said mob ( it's actually very funny seeing the accusation that Danny sent white roses just by his name being Rose ) . It ends up being technically accomplished , though not as strong as Willis's other work , and is amusing but not very memorable . But if you have nothing to do on a Saturday afternoon , it makes for some good times .
like any other line of product , you get what you pay for , more or less	Snakes on a Plane has been written and written about online , with the " buzz " forming around not just the idea of such a B-movie conceit of the title explaining the whole crux of the horror and suspense of the picture , but Samuel L . Jackson's part in it . Maybe , however , such hype almost can come back to bite , no pun intended , on the audience at large . Maybe that's why I didn't find Snakes on a Plane tremendously successful , because as with any product that's more of that , unpretentiously so , than art , I just went in without expecting too much . David R . Ellis , the director , does after some build-up in the first half hour that's a little too typical ( after all , a lot of these passengers aren't the plane shouldn't really be considered characters so much as snake bait with very predictable caricatures ) , finally make good on the promise of the title . These scenes in the main chunk of the picture , where we get both live and CGI snakes , of many shapes and sizes ( I had a good laugh when the 22-foot long Python did his / her work ) , is very entertaining to the extent it serves . This is basically the best part to turn off your mind in B-movie fashion and just let the expected / un-expected bits do their work . But then there is , as mentioned , a little of a drawback to such a movie that is set-up for the camp crowd like a bubble-gum pop-star would be set-up for MTV . Too many months now , for example , I've known of the much anticipated use of the mother-f-er line in the film by Jackson , and when it does finally come up in the movie it's almost anti-climactic ( and , in all honesty , the only time I've found the actor's usage of that certain big-gun curse word is in Pulp Fiction ) . His work in the movie is very dependable with the rest of the ensemble , as almost every convention or cliché with characters & / or scenes of this type are filled in by mostly professionals ; one or two do get annoying ( Keenan Thompson anyone ? ) So , at the end of Snakes on a Plane , hearing a hip-hop theme song put to it over the end credits , after seeing multiple counts of ( creative ) deaths and other mayhem , plus a level of logic that's barely countered by a snake expert character , I had my fun . It's not a great B-movie , but it should make the rounds of becoming ' cult ' level even as it's already meant to be so by the filmmakers - almost blatantly so .
visually a real trip . emotionally something else	Nicholas Roeg is a little tricky at times when it comes to narrative . Sometimes he experiments with it excellently ( Bad Timing ) , and other times he slightly dulls the senses in an experimental kind of way ( Dont Look Now ) . The Man Who Fell to Earth seems to be told mostly in a linear fashion , and there seems to be something of a story going on , but . . . I never felt it completely click . Maybe that is part of Roeg's point with the material , to create a kind of alienation that the alien , no pun intended , feels whilst gathering up the billions he needs to get supplies back to his home planet . But something just doesn't feel like it goes the way it should , even when things are fascinating in a scene , maybe even brilliant , and the actors do end up trying their best along with Roeg's knack at capturing a mood in a specific , strange but bewildering way . It isn't totally clear where the plot could be headed , aside from the usual oblivion of the protagonist to the wretched TV , excess of alcohol , and some drugs to boot . Which is fine as a route of a plot . But it's perhaps that there doesn't seem to be a sharper satirical stabbing motion being made in the context of the story , of what Bowie's " man " is doing on Earth , except in bits and pieces . Perhaps he's a reflection of how some of us act right here on our planet , or that there's even a sorrow to the state of affairs with Thomas Newton , who is sensitive , sometimes weak , and at least a little unnerving in his detachment via the almighty dollar . Maybe there are some valid points made in connection with the suffering of a human being , in what it does to his soul the longer they're on some strange planet , by way of a horrible and dehumanizing marketplace . But the way it's presented , to once again pop up a word that gets tossed like a beach ball at a concert , in a pretentious manner . Or , to amend that with another tired cliché : the parts are better than the sum or the whole . I did enjoy very much just looking at the Man Who Fell to Earth , with some scenes , some shots , some transitions , some jabs at " real " cinema , displaying Roeg's natural gifts as an auteur at the peak of his powers . Just seeing that New York skyline , for instance , is a minor thrill , or in the cutbacks Newton has to his old world . Hell , even the sex scenes , much lauded in some of the more negative reviews , have a certain messy charm to them . And who doesn't love seeing Rip Torn as some smart but dangerous scientist who moves on from a penchant for young students in the sack to Newton's possible rocket-ship ? Seeing scenes with Bowie and Rip Torn are , indeed , exciting in their indescribable link ( Bowie , of course , so fits into Newton it's hard to figure anyone else in the part ) . I even loved the quirky , old rock and roll / jazz type of music Roeg used , when the first assumption would be Bowie would glam-rock the whole place up . If there's anything that keeps the Man Who Fell to Earth from being a truly spectacular cult item though , if only for this reviewer , it's a certain mood overall to the piece , an uncertainty as to what to do with everything in the book and how to make it so unusual a piece of science fiction that its own alienation could potentially affect the viewer in unexpected ways . It's got guts to go where it does , to be sure , but it's a tough journey along the way , with romance , wonderment of the unknown , mental deconstruction , and corporate fables all entwined . Whatever you have to say about it there's nothing else like it .
not quite as fantastic as the series at its best , and nowhere near as bad as most critics say	To be upfront , I didn't think the first X-Files movie - Fight the Future - was any kind of great movie , and at best was a very good bridge between two seasons of the show back in 1998 ( very good in that if you're a fan you'll still want to check out the movie repeatedly when it comes on TV , oddly enough ) . So my expectations for the sequel-cum-addendum to the end of the series , a kind of reprieve for those who screamed bloody murder over the lack of a worthy closure , weren't very high despite being a big fan of the show at its peak best ( i . e . early-late 90s ) . Luckily , my expectations were exceeded just a bit ; when it's at its best , I Want to Believe reaches those classic , twisty , dark and noirish and fing weird depths that Carter's creation could reach . This is , in actuality , mostly in the central plotting , which works in cool detective-movie mode as Fox and Scully ( Duchovney and Anderson ) are called back to action , more or less , following the disappearances of some FBI agents . When Carter and co-writer Spotnitz stick to this strange story of Euro body and / or organ snatchers , and their crazy experiments that verge between Silence of the Lambs and 50s B-movie with their methods , the movie works very well , pulling in scenes of thrills and suspense and done with some great verve for chases and snooping around and , finally , wallowing in the horror in the operating room . It's also cast well , with Billy Connelly going for a not-quite camp performance as a pedophile ex-priest who sees visions ( or maybe not , who knows ) , and leads Mulder and Scully and the FBI along to who knows what . It's when Carter and company try and go for more " messagy " ground that it gets slightly shakier . It's not too hard to see the connection of the title itself with what essentially Carter's themes are here , which is believing in higher powers or , at the least , oneself to do something of value . Stem cells are a big part of the movie , and we even get a jokey bit thrown in with a close-up of George W . Bush and J Edgar Hoovers ' portraits in the FBI hallway with the theme music briefly chimes in . This subplot , with Scully pushing against all odds to cure a boy's seemingly incurable ailment , is nowhere near as interesting as that of the main plot , which is juicy and pulpy and at the least is never really boring ( if , sadly , not always with great dialog or delivery from the likes of Peet or Xzibit ) . Luckily , Duchovney and Anderson still got the goods in inhabiting their quintessential characters , and it moves a lot faster and with enough gusto to even keep some non-fans alert and ready for more . This all said , it's definitely just enough worthy for recommendation , and not much more . You'll never see it on a top 10 list , and some might even call it total crap . For me , it's another , possibly final , chapter in the saga of Mulder and Scully , and it works just fine .
imaginative entertainment with some trippy images and a very good , ET-style heart	The Last Mimzy doesn't pander needlessly to its core audience , but at the same time it also has a good accomplishment in that it also has an appeal to adults , or at least those that have passed that age of adolescence and look back on childhood with levels of nostalgia and relief that it's over . It delights as well as gives special meaning to putting a level of belief in what is unknown at a time when the rest of the world relies on hard facts and rigid control of personality . It also puts ET to a certain test : can the little creature from another world that needs to get home kind of story hold up to quasi ( actually precise ) psychedelia ? Pink Floyd shirts and Roger Waters aside , this may even have a secret appeal to stoners just as much as your little boy or girl at the movie theater , who will obviously see it in a different life , that of light , efficient irreverence and lots of neat special effects . ' Mimzy ' tells the story of a boy and a girl , Noah and Emma , both at least under the age of 10 but old enough to be articulate enough as well as appropriately secretive in the fantasy they hold paramount , who come upon a strange rock from the ocean . In it lies a bunch of fragments , and , oddly enough , a stuffed , fluffy , cute bunny named Mimzy , who Emma takes as her most important possession . Noah meanwhile becomes transfixed with the new powers that soon come to him via these rocks : he can hear the smallest insect , and is transfixed by obscure designs . This strikes up the attention of his parents as well as his science teacher ( Rainn Wilson ) , who also knows of the symbols Noah makes up . But after a power outage - it also happens to be a generator that Noah conjures - gets the attention of the government , not sure what exactly is going on . Emma has a problem , however , in that Mimzy , her closest confidant and " teacher " is dying and needs to get back home . That's the basic story , anyway , as there are little ins and outs as the story goes on , including a great product placement for Sprite , and a montage-free example of each child's new abilities . Some of this may be a little preposterous , even goofy , but Bob Shaye and his team bypass the obvious but still perilous pit-falls for filmmakers investing themselves into children's movies . No truly stupid gags , nothing with bodily excretions , none of that really , and if anything the humor , of a little wild and over-the-top in variety ( some of which I was laughing at alone while the other kids were silent ) , is innocent and sort of knowing of the split of imagination between children and adults . The two kids are also very good at playing their parts , with Wryn as Emma very adept at being vulnerable and smart , and O'Neil being almost too close to looking like the boy Elliot in ET , however not without his own strengths . Shaye sometimes lets his control slip in just simple things like cinematography or making a fitting enough ending ( too many futuristic hippies me thinks ) , and the goofiness does teeter on becoming a little too much . But I responded more to how the power of taking a long repeated idea , of kids becoming changed by outside forces in a very real world , and there being a sort of little twist to it all . It's not just about making friends and gaining in some alien intelligence , but in figuring the significance of the future , however weird it might be . It's definitely the finest children's movie , non-animated , to come out so far in 2007 .
a delight for linguists and fans of words , not bad for everyone else	Crossword puzzles , and the many people who make them popular , are the focus in Wordplay , including the editor of the NY Times puzzle ( the most notorious of them in the USA ) , celebrities and politicians , and the general public obsessed with them . As a documentary Wordplay is good , not great , film-making about its subject with a couple of montages and interlocking scenes that are weak . But the subject matter , and usually how its presented , sparks a fine interest even in a non-crossword puzzle player like myself . As words are all that we have to work with in communication and just everyday discourse , it's also attached here to the idea of testing , of competition , and how different and varying crosswords can get . Like the documentary Spellbound from a few years back , the director is also after the kind of irony of making such an isolated experience of finishing a puzzle into an event with hundreds of players once a year with friendships and acquaintances - a social event as much as a match-up . Many parts are amusing as well ; we get interviews from Jon Stewart , Bill Clinton , Bob Dole , and the editor of NY Times Crossword himself , Will Shortz , and they all give some insightful , funny little bits of interest into making the puzzles and playing them . But for the most part we're into the mind-set of several key players , real people whom will all come together for the tournament in Jaunary . What makes all of this work , and what actually makes crossword puzzles become good enough for cinema , is watching smart people , un-cluttered for the most part with problems , who can focus all of their attentions on this one activity , to the point of obsessive compulsive behavior . It's really fun , in a nerdy way , trying to guess some of these words ( or rather watching them guessing the words ) along with the players . And the way the puzzles are created sparks a little interest too , as it's one of those parts of life I myself could never , ever accomplish . Worth a look , though probably more so for fans of the activity .
takes a while to get going , and nothing groundbreaking , but it's scary	Takashi Miike , in 2003 , decided to take on two very different projects , one Gozu , which was maybe the greatest surrealist-yakuza movie ever made , and One Missed Call , a commercial project ( or rather , not as ' art-house ' or X-rated for the main cineplex theaters , at least in Japan ) for teen fans of the ' grudge ' type of horror movie . In all fairness in seeing this film , I have not seen many , or even a few , of these kinds of 21st century ghost stories with the ante upped on gore and things that suddenly spring up out of the darkness . This being said , it was an admirable effort from a filmmaker who's still experimenting even when he's making something for the ' kids ' ( the theatrical trailer shows this , as it advertises for teens and junior high schoolers to come see the movie ) . The premise is as follows : teenagers start receiving cell phone calls - from themselves . Soon after , they die , based on what is heard of in the voice message of the person saying something , screaming , and that's that . At first it seems like it's just suicides , but Yumi ( Kou Shibasaki ) thinks something else is up , something much darker . When the secret starts to reveal itself , there's more to the picture than just a simple ' grudge ' . There's a family-history element to One Missed Call that Miike properly exploits more in the second half of the film , and it's by this point that it turns into a ( properly ) ghoulish spectacle . Although Miike does stop for a moment to make a comment on media hoopla over supernatural occurrences with the TV show that turns Yumi and her friend into fodder for ' specialists ' , including something like a zen-master or something , he's doing nothing more than helming a story of spirits from the dead - and very scorned dead - going back after the living . His main set-piece in a dilapidated warehouse / hospital is maybe the strongest for pure chills , as Yumi goes through the halls and doesn't see the ghost crawling up on the ceiling behind her . There's even an almost tongue-in-cheek , yet tender , scene involving a green corpse who may or may not be Yumi's mother . But aside from this , there are other good moments of the kind of horror that made Audition the classic that it is , and an ending that puts a very bleak twist on the whole story ( and a " it was you all along " kind of connotation that reeks of being lifted from other movies ) . It's nothing much of a great horror film though , because despite the possible interest in the more horrific side to the story , the one involving child abuse , is not given much clarity - save for a scene in a classroom - until the last twenty minutes of the movie , where lots of emotion spurred on from the actual cell phone ring tone comes out . This being said , it's a recommendable effort for its main genre fans , a very worthy knock-off that is , oddly enough , soon to be another of the many , many , many other American knock-offs of the Ju-On type craze in Japan . It might have even better production design and effects ( and for a movie from this director it has quite the nifty lot of both ) , but I doubt it will have half of the ingenuity of Miike .
fairly smart and intriguing , but wouldn't be as powerful without that set piece . . .	Tom Twyker picks his projects with an eye for something that will bring him in on something really significant , even if it's just ( or maybe because of ) one sequence . Previously we saw his adaptation of Perfume which had that incredibly strange and erotica and absurd climax with the orgy in the arena . This time we get a gigantic shoot-out set-piece at the Guggenheim museum in New York . What leads up to this exactly I wont say , not because I would be too spoiling but because it's almost inconsequential . From the lead-up to this , which is just suspenseful enough , all the way through the execution of all of these rounds fired off , hundreds and hundreds of bullets in the walls of one of the most well-renown museums in the world , Twyker makes such a remarkable sequence that it stands up to some of the best I've seen in years . If nothing else , it can be counted as an equal ( only this time with a straight face ) with Clive Owen's previous vehicle Shoot em Up . As for the rest of the movie . . . it's good , but not totally altogether remarkable . It's an unraveling-conspiracy story where a whole network of international bankers are using tons of money in under-the-table arms deals with some " nefarious " elements . This also leads to things like assassinations , and with determined and ragged Interpol agent Louis Salinger ( Owen ) and a Manattan DA ( Watts ) on the trail . Some of it you have to pay attention to closely - it's one of those not-really spy like thrillers - but at least it pays off in some satisfying conventional ways . Twyker can handle suspense pretty well , as well as having a couple of strong leads and a couple of notable supporting players like Armin Mueller-Stahl . We get wrapped up in this story of corruption and worldwide espionage , even up until an ending that is average in its bittersweet tenacity . But at the same time it doesn't really stay with the viewer - that is unless you're affected by the recent disasters going on in Wall Street . But if nothing else , truly , all you movie fans out there , just watch the film for that Guggenheim scene . It is , for lack of a worse or better cliché , a knock-your-socks-off sequence .
Hawks and Grant and Rogers and Monroe - good , not great , " youth " comedy	It's been hard for me so far in viewing the bulk of what's considered Howard Hawks ' best work ( i . e . Big Sleep , Rio Bravo , His Girl Friday ) to be disappointed . Monkey Business is no disappointment , either , but it is kind of lacking in being a really great story or with truly memorable characters . It's a solid comedy , with a couple of intriguing points raised , and only left so much cooked , about truthfulness in marriage and the wackiness and total inhibition in childhood . It even has a screwball set-up , if not quite the overall pay-off : Cary Grant plays a chemist developing a new substance meant to not only stop aging , but to reverse it and make the person young again . He's unlucky for a while , until an industrious young chimpanzee escapes the cage , mixes and matches just the right chemicals ( because , eyes roll , the chimp knows just right ) , and dumps it in the water cooler . From then on Grant and wife Ginger Rogers keep taking what they think is the right mixture , which it isn't , with a chaser of " bitter " water . Can you say " wackiness ensues ! " loud enough with exclamation ? Yes and no . Yes , Grant immediately gets a " poodle " hair-cut and rides around ridiculously stunning and bubble-headed Marilyn Monroe around in a young-person's car , speeding and crashing . Yes , Rogers wants to dance and dance despite her poor husband ( who can only see without glasses with that youth juice working full-tilt ) , and goes maniacal with it . And yes , the climax - which is , arguably , the real howler of the movie and one of the funniest set-pieces of Hawks ' comedies - features Grant in ridiculously racist Indian garb scalping the man he thinks kissed his wife once . But then again , there's some scenes where it's just the typical plot moving along , and with some scenes of the screwball and just plain cutesy variety becoming a little grating . When Rogers finds the baby after waking up , thinking it's her dear husband , she panics and takes him / her back to the laboratory to see if she can give it a nap and re-emerge her brilliant husband . It's all too silly , and also distracts from that otherwise amazing finale . Maybe it's a case of Hawks ' motto - three good scenes , no bad ones - being taken to a somewhat logical conclusion : no bad scenes , just OK ones . It's standard fun that isn't very ambitious , and relies heavily on its two stars , who are , thankfully , very well-suited in their parts .
not quite long enough to really dig into it all , but as a term-paper-type look , it's not bad , and even funny	How do I talk about a film where I can't even mention its title in this review ( in the IMDb comments the word of the title of this film cannot be put in , unless in the form of fck or sht ) ? I can talk mostly then about how the filmmakers go around the use of the word fck . Fck is the word that gets everyone's ear up , and depending on the context or meaning behind it can get some people riled up enough to do something about it - like reporting to the FCC on violations if done on TV or radio . The hypocrisies and oddities are of course on display , like with the now legendary George Carlin ' Dirty Words ' case where the one and only person to report that the segment played on the radio was wrong was on the Decency board in the 70s . Or , of course , Lenny Bruce , who also had a fight that he ended up losing miserably , however much he paved the way for everyone else in his field . There's also a good segment done on the f word in politics and religion , even in poetry ( I'll have to look through Ulysses now to see where it's at ) . But even with the laughs that are obvious to come with such a given for scandalous material , including various movie clips featuring said word ( Pulp Fiction , Punch-Drunk Love , South Park , Scarface ) , and even with the Presidential utterances and sound-bytes of the word ( Nixon's the most obvious yet still unnerving ) , and even with some of the interviewees really giving some food for fing thought on the subject ( Billy Connolly is arguably the funniest , with HST being low-key and observant , and Allen Keyes and Pat Boone delivering very straight-laced answers ) with the two-side arguments , there doesn't seem quite enough here to be totally satisfying . In fact , the structure , however hokey and joyful in its wicked little ways , has to start delivering on more interesting grounds . Maybe it's just me , but by around the 100th time one's heard the word in such a span of several minutes , the word has already lost all of its power ( albeit given context by a scene of coitus on a music stage , a very controversial story at the time , among others ) , and there should be even more dirt available , aside from the usual historical asides . For example , I would've liked to have seen more on the F-word in music ( where's the MC5 when you need em ? ) , or the section of children , which should be a topic that could at least cover a lot more of the film , especially since the filmmakers obviously want to leave it as something of a climax . . . so to speak . Yet , if you want a successfully shallow , goofy take on the subject that might raise some eyebrows and just be another night watching a DVD for others ( who knows if the record setting 800 times is just another night at the bar for some guys ) , it's worth the rental . I'm glad the filmmakers took the equal-time interviews for those who are in it all-not that it occasionally preaches to the choir - and that the bases covered are given enough coverage to get a full understanding of how such an infamous word can become even more so in the 21st century , under a government that has raised the ante on the conservative agenda within the free speech guidelines , and that the censorship ends up spreading to other areas as well . Bleep , I say .
Bertolucci's Portrait of the Virgin at 19	Stealing Beauty is a character piece , not so much ever really driven by plot , and which makes it a particularly European-flavored entry in the Bernardo Bertolucci cannon of films he's made . This shouldn't be a surprise ; the guy's been making them this way for most of his career , save for when he can't not have some semblance of a story ( i . e . 1900 and Last Emperor , which were epics ) . It's got some purely luscious cinematography - thanks , in part , to the equally luscious and vibrant locations out in these Tuscan fields and villas and vineyards and homes , all secluded like in an over-elaborate dream - and some brilliant moments , though in the end it's almost something of a minor work for the director . The most admirable aspect is that he's able , in short , to make a contemporary movie that doesn't feel stuck in time . It's a 90's movie , with a hot-young-talent in her first role ( I think it's her first ) , Liv Tyler , and in a way it works that she's not all that great in the part . Her awkwardness , her moments of sadness over her character's loss of her mother and the confusion over who her father really is , and the girlish and nearly overrated conundrum of still being a virgin , works to her ability as a ' first-timer ' , so to speak . And , luckily , she's surrounded by much better actors , people like Jeremy Irons who has a presence that is immense and cool even when bed-ridden for much of the film ( thankfully it doesn't turn out how I originally thought the set-up would be with him wooing Tyler ) , and Rachel Weisz in one of her early roles as a woman who has reasonable suspicion her self-absorbed American husband is a lying / cheating louse . There are others as well , like the one who plays the old Frenchman ( I forget his name ) , who's incredible as the old crank who can't bear to be where he's at . If it does feel like a minor work , as I mentioned , it's that Bertolucci - working from his original concept with a screenwriter - doesn't give very much depth to the situation , or to some of the characters , until a little more than halfway through the movie . For a while it feels like a shallow enterprise , the kind of " will she or won't she " attitude towards sex that should be above him . But at some point there's something that opens up a little bit , then a little more , and all the while as Tyler's Lucy becomes more aware of what matters the central conceit starts to become less and less like some big hurdle and something more natural . As well as this , Bertolucci does litter his film , which is uncharacteristically good in the present setting ( he blends musical choices very well , from alternative rock to old R & B and classical and jazz ) and has a couple of really tremendous scenes . The bit at the party where Tyler and a possible-father dance and the dancers all choreographed and strange come in , it's enthralling . Fans of the director should check it out , as should for those of the actors , but this being said it's almost kind of a light work . Lacking really hardcore dramatic tension , it's mostly predicated on a 19-year old girl's quasi-coming-of-age . Which is interesting , up to a point .
three filmed plays with equal amounts of character insight , good acting , and run-of-the-mill moments	Three half-hour episodes were produced , two from David Lynch as director and Barry Gifford as writer , one from some random guy , James Signorelli , I never heard of ( though , according to IMDb , directed an Elvira movie , and surprisingly helmed Easy Money ) , each set in a hotel room in a particular year in time : The first segment , Tricks , set in 1969 , is a story of a man ( Harry Dean Stanton ) right about to get some from a stoned prostitute , who gets visited at that moment by an old white-bearded friend with some dark past history . The acting is good all around , particularly from Stanton during a monologue about his first sexual encounter . But it also doesn't really lead much anywhere , even through touches of Lynch's usual twists ( the appearance of the ' friend ' , the final twist that does cleverly wrap around old relationship ties ) . It also tries to be funny , and it isn't , which makes it a little awkward when the subtle wit doesn't work . ( ) The second segment , Getting Rid of Robby , set in 1992 , is like some slightly sleazier , less witty episode of Sex and the City ( if you can imagine that ) , with very lame would-be-clever dialog , and the only redeeming aspect being Griffin Dunne playing a man who's breaking up with a woman who usually ' takes care ' of him when he comes by during business trips . Not sure why it was here , even if Badalamenti puts in a groovy jazz song over material that isn't worth it ; it's not necessarily a horrible short , but it has no real entertainment value except for people who can't distinguish fake-feminist-trash from quality product , and it is a significant drop in comparison to the other two shorts . ( ) Blackout , 1937 - Probably the closest that Lynch has come to doing full-on Bergman , via Gifford's script , by ding very simply shot but emotionally complex character studying . Crispin Glover plays a small-town guy who stays in the same hotel room from the other two shorts with his love , played by Alicia Witt , who's sort of slow and affected mind-wise , but has a lot to say about Chinese fish and seeing things like their future children . Witt has a look like the classic Bergman actresses , and the dialog even goes further than Bergman , maybe back to Ibsen , in capturing the tense but always powerfully human tradition of characters who are disconnected from one another , but wanting to be close as possible , through revelations in behavior and stark details . Glover , in a rare instance , plays a guy who is the straight character ( straight as possible anyway ) . In the Barry Lyndon-esquire candle-lit lighting , Lynch makes this all so spare that it seems like the farthest thing removed from an quagmire like Inland Empire . But in its own way , Lynch is experimenting just as much in getting inside the nature of a character's psychology , and it's refreshing to see him let the actors find their own beats in the performances . ( )
interesting slice of life , or rather slices of a life , on a naturally happy person in a strange world	In Mike Leigh's Happy-Go-Lucky he has a protagonist who I would classify , more or less , as plucky , a naturally happy person - occasionally , maybe , verging on " is-she-high " happy - who is the way she is with anyone she meets . This doesn't always provide very good results , though usually it gives Poppy a surfeit of friends , the sometimes lover , and some good times . The question is also posed to this character : Are you really happy ? Who can really say about anyone , which may be the more intellectual point for Leigh , but thankfully it doesn't take this deep thought about true human happiness to find Happy-Go-Lucky amusing an interesting . To be clear , it's not a film I would side with a lot of critics on - who , at the moment , are pouring on the accolades and praise like it's a masterpiece . Maybe it may be for some , but at the same time I find it just " good " , I would recommend it very much as a fun and flavorful rental . I know women like this , and if you do too it may provide a nice smile on your face seeing a person like Poppy in her " lifestyle " as a school-teacher , chatter with other girlfriends , ( uintentional ) flirter , and even a possible flamenco dancer . It does help that Hawkins makes Poppy believable , which is tricky since she's a character who could be in the wrong hands a " character " , too much to believe . And , perhaps , she may be ; in one scene it comes close to being too weird and random a thing as she goes up to a rambling homeless person at night and tries to converse with him , but Hawkins makes it oddly touching . Why she does this is not entirely clear , but it is who she is . What is a little less clear , perhaps , is how the driving instructor ( Eddie Marsan , very talented as evidence just by here ) keeps his job for so long ! In the only part of Leigh's film that comes closest to avian a plot , Poppy's bike is stolen at the start of the film and so she must get a driver's license to drive . She takes lessons from an angry sod ( as the Brits would say ) , who sees about to burst in every lesson . Eventually , as the climax of the picture , he does , and there's a level of emotional honesty that is kind of cleansing . It provides a possibly obvious but nevertheless captivating counterpoint to Poppy's natural state of being : she's not being the way she is to get at the instructor , but to soften the situation , or more-so just how he is naturally , too , as a person who can't chill . Watching those scenes it seems like " things " happen , but that's not entirely Leigh's point with the picture or in showing this character in her walk of life . After a little while early in the picture when one gets over wondering of a real plot or whatever takes shape ( which it won't , not in the usual way anyway ) , one can settle in with the character . Or not , as case may be , or maybe as well love her to pieces . Certainly Hawkins makes it a very watchable affair , with a sweet smile and adorable way of making Poppy seem alive and warm , even if , sometimes , we might wonder if it's a cover for something else . If I do return to Happy-Go-Lucky it won't be because it's entirely a great film , which it isn't , but to experience this woman again , to be in her company , as she wears on one after an initial " too-chipper " impression . Sometimes people need happy people around , and Happy-Go-Lucky has that person .
" do the hokey pokey . . . "	Chinga isn't one of the very best episodes from the X-Files , but as a piece co-written as the only one by Stephen King , it gives more than few obvious but quite entertaining moments . It's all predicated on something that has been in other King works - the girl who is more than a little ' off ' . This time , however , her anger and hatred gets channeled - or just put into place - through a doll that was discovered by her ( viciously made dead ) father . It's also another in the crop of about 85-90 % of King's work taking place in Maine , where Scully gets involved while - as she repeats to many - on vacation . The episode is basically for King fans like a short story not made into some overlong movie but a 45 minute film with lots of style trying to mingle with the very ( not always necessarily ) sly dialog and , of course , lots of violence . In fact this might be one of the more violent ones in nature , as the special doll sometimes goes on cue based on the girl , or through a song " Do the hokey pokey " , which in and of itself is kind of hokey too . Lots of harsh deaths involving clawing eyes out and ends met by witchcraft of some sort . While there aren't any scenes ala Child's Play with the doll running around doing the murders , there's still something sort of missing from other episodes that Chris Carter as co-writer doesn't quite get into it . If not for King's involvement it might've fared even less . But as it is I was glad I saw it , even out of order from watching all of the episodes now season to season , and there's some dry funny moments involving Mulder back at FBI headquarters with his theories and endless time to kill ( I loved the little pencil gag at the end ) . Worth it for fans of the author , if only for the tongue-in-cheek bits , though X-Files fans thinking his name might mean brilliance might be disappointed .
lots of Nazi resistance-fighting intrigue , an ideal cast , good but bulky thriller	Paul Verhoven isn't ever known so much for subtlety as a director , and Black Book doesn't really make any big steps to change that . It is , unlike his films from the past dozen or so years , not intentionally sleazy or overridden with lots of gruesome carnage . There's even a sense that he's probably quite passionate about making a film loaded with gripping history and lots of ' cinematic ' characters ( not totally real , not totally fake either ) . But it's also one where melodrama reigns over real incisive dramatic skills , and unlike the recently re-released Army of Shadows there's almost an exhausting quality to the twists and turns , the core being more about direct audience manipulation as opposed to more subdued theatrics . Not that this is the worst thing a director like Verhoven can do , and Black Book is loaded with the kind of entertaining goodies that other directors would shy away from . That it's not a great film - like it might think it is - is hard to ignore . Carice Van Houten puts in a breakthrough performance ( breakthrough in that it calls for some greater things for her in Hollywood ) as a Jewish woman who loses her family during a shooting via the Nazis . She joins up with the resistance , and her part in it will be , primarily , to sleep with enemy to get information . A little implausible ? Not quite , as it's supposedly based on true events ( whether it was a Jewish woman sleeping with the enemy or just in the little details of the Dutch resistance is up for argument ) , and soon the story unfolds in double-crosses and criss-crosses where you're never too sure after a while ( and after the war ends ) who's really a good guy or not , as for the most part few are . In general , Verhoven puts these double crosses - which end up making the film slightly bulkier than it needs to be - as a cynical but poignant point about loss of trust and all morals in times of war coming to a head . Rachel " Ellis " Stein ( Van Houten ) also falls into what the script entails , of her falling in love with the main commanding officer she has to sleep with , which is rather circumspect in logical terms . But then again , after a while , looking at Black Book , ironically for it's veneer being that of an old-fashioned good versus evil story , things become subversive for a reason . The resistance itself , for example , is quite corruptible even with its higher ideals of eradicating all of the Nazis ( the ugly side of which personified in the character of the portly Franken , who originally killed Rachel's family ) , and even have a double side to dealing with the Jewish people ; does one value a Dutchman over a Jew becomes one of the central questions for the resistance fighters . And throughout Verhoven is on top of his game directing scenes strongly , with just what is needed for each scene , however convoluted , and the performances usually right on the money ( The Lives of Others ' Sebastian Koch is a believable Nazi turncoat ) . It is , more often than not , a satisfying entry in the filmmaker's career , and even a return to form after running out of steam with his big Hollywood sci-fi productions . That it's also quite shallow , and with more than one or two really ridiculous scenes ( one scenes subtext might be ' is that a gun popping under the bed , or are you just happy to see me ? ' ) , is maybe to be expected considering the track record of the filmmaker .
A story of a man's life , told backwards , with both lots of good and some not-so-good at all	David Fincher is a truly gifted storyteller , probably one of the most talented and inspired that have come from that much hallowed age-group of early 1960s born American filmmakers ( i . e . Soderbergh , Tarantino , Linklater ) that rose to prominence in the 1990s with their groundbreaking work . It's a shame then that one year after directing a picture like Zodiac , where with a 157 minute running time ( almost the same as this film ) not a minute was wasted , he should have a film like The Curious Case of Benjamin Button : filled with so much promise , delivering in some brilliant bits , it's overloaded with a particular storytelling device that flat out doesn't work and doesn't help mask what also doesn't work in the actual story itself . I say this admiring this picture , admiring Fincher's work , the cinematographer immensely , the make-up artists and especially the visual fx crew ( who , by leaps and bounds , should get the Oscar this year if it means much in those circles ) , in criticizing it heavily . This is one of those pictures one wants to work wonderfully so much that its bloated length is the cause of a central problem : the script . While not entirely the fault of co-adapter of Fitzgerald's story as a quasi-remake of Forrest Gump ( the similarities are many , too many for here to note ) , the framing device used to wrap the story of Benjamin Button around - his story told from a diary he wrote read by his daughter ( I'll get to that later ) to her mother Daisy , who lies dying in a hospital bed in the middle of an oncoming hurricane ( also get to this later ) - is relentless and pointlessly repetitive . Imagine how annoying it would have been if Winona Ryder's old-lady version of her character from Edward Scissorhands kept popping up to tell the story and you'll get the idea of how it a ) just is mundanely acted overwrought by Blanchett and Ormond , and b ) it doesn't progress the story save for one or two of the flash-forwards . And as for the actual story of Benjamin Button , born on the night of the end of World War 1 as a baby aged 90 years old and aging backwards until he's a little boy with old-man dementia and Alzheimer's ? It is , as you watch it , pretty entertaining , at best engrossing , and provides the viewer with so many rich ideas that are only followed upon a couple of times . Button lives a fairly uncomplicated life for someone who should be , by the look of the trailer , to have something extraordinary happen : he becomes a sailor when he turns 17 , he sails the world bit , befriends and has an affair with a Brit ( Swinton ) , does some minor combat duty in the Navy in WW2 , and then has an on-off again relationship with Daisy , and then that is mostly the rest of the picture . Like in Forrest Gump , to make a quick comparison , Button has some of that whimsical fortune put upon him , brought on by a slightly sad circumstance : instead of Gump becoming a shrimp boat captain by a promise of a dead war-buddy , Button is abandoned by a father who runs a big Button-making corporation ( Button's Buttons , cute , huh ? ) , to which Benjamin is the sole heir . Only , we don't see him work at the factory , he sells it at one point for extra cash , and it doesn't have much prominence in the story . Maybe Roth or Fincher or whomever thought buttons wouldn't be very interesting to the story . But , hey , why not try it ? This is a case where the parts are better than the whole , if not greater . Some sequences are brilliant , really wonderful , like Benjamin's explanation of all the clockwork-type of events that lead up to one of those life-changing accidents for Daisy , or when we see Benjamin walk for the first time , or even just simple things like bits of montages . It also goes without saying it's a technical marvel , as mentioned , and is gorgeous to look at - just as , I should add , it's two stars , who give very good performances ( albeit not as good as Jesse James or Bob Dylan last year respectively ) , as people who have to cope with aging with each other , and have to grapple with death and the lingering sense of oncoming loss that leads to a decision of the way through the picture that should be better handled , but isn't . The way I'm describing it , from the daughter ' twist ' that shouldn't be one at all and is handled like one of those mean contrivances in movies that is unbecoming of a production like this let alone Fincher's , or the Katrina angle ( which I wager was Brad Pitt's idea , noble but out of place ) , or just little things in the story that don't work , you'd think I would rate this lower . But it is a kind of flawed marvel , a work of mainstream movie art that is tainted by an excess of unnecessary storytelling in a film that requires that it be strong throughout . It takes a lot of guts to pull off a picture like this , and I'm glad Fincher made it . That it's not something I'd watch ever again from start to finish goes without saying .
the ' Snakes on a Plane ' of the year , which goes without saying it won't hit everyone like a bullet in the , erm , everywhere , but to fans it's aces	You know if you'll want to see Shoot ' Em Up by the trailers alone , and probably by some word of mouth , which is probably how it works for ' cult ' films that somehow get left behind despite high box office expectations . Maybe it needs to start slowly in building the audience , because those that see it will like it a lot - like myself - in the guiltiest of guilty pleasure ways possible . Shoot ' Em Up is a tasteless bonanza of excess gun battles , lots of them , in circumstances that cram as many clichés into a big cement mixer , then once put into a solid charged with explosives and let loose into the theater . Sound cheesy ? You haven't heard the dialog yet ! " What's the difference between a gun and a wife ? You can put a silencer on a gun . " Just crude work there , but crudeness can work to a big advantage if it's as self-conscious as possible , and Michael Davis has made such a flick for the audience as to laugh at every illogical escape attempt and outrageous kill from star Clive Owen that by the time the first big action sequence ( which is less than five minutes in , which includes such things as riding on an oil slick and shooting rapid-fire to Nirvana's song " Breed " , among other things that happen then ) you'll know what you're in for . The premise is right out of a grindhouse movie , and in fact might have faired a chance at being included as a double-feature ; Owen is Mr . Smith , a mystery man who has as much power with guns and ammo as he has hatred for , well , quite an arbitrary and petty though understandable thing ( i . e . people who don't turn on their blinkers , mothers who threaten to spank their kids in public , and criminals who rob fast food joints with gangrene feet and piercings ) , and comes across a woman giving birth to a baby . After making the delivery in a send up that rings chillingly and totally uproariously from a similarly visceral scene in Children of Men ( minus the shooting of the umbilical chord , almost for no reason aside for a laugh ) , the mother dies from gun-shot ( naturally ) , and Smith goes to investigate further with the aid of lactating prostitute ( that's right ) Monica Belluci . The foe : ex profiler Paul Giamatti , who has a yarmulke that is never explained and a family at home he never seems to ever see despite it being the kids birthday . Then as the mystery of the baby , and other babies and dead mothers , come to light there's intrigue with a senator , an arms deal , and enough violence ( about 75 % of the film , easily ) to keep the story going along as almost being like a series of MacGuffins . But there is some element of depth , perhaps , the whole gun-trade deal that does seem to make it more significant in substance than last years Snakes on a Plane , which was concept delivered completely through attitude , pizazz , and often perfectly corny humor . Then again , who's paying attention to all of the specifics about what happened with what cover-up or what scandal or who the guns are going to , when there's a spectacular parachute gun battle as Owen and various nefarious guys duke it out ( maybe the best in the whole film as far as comedy and pure adrenaline go , which is saying something ) , and then as he gets to the ground an aerial shot sees the dozen or so people he killed while in free-fall . And the actors are all game , even if one of them ( Monica Bellucci ) is there as simple eye-candy in a one-note performance ; one might almost wonder why there isn't a couple more lactating jokes after her ' style ' is introduced . Quite honestly , I know that it should be something really deranged to enjoy otherwise serious actors like Clive Owen and Paul Giamiatti in roles like these but . . . damn it all if they aren't some really fun parts that they tackle like they're going for Oscar gold ! Owen goes for a turn similar to that of his part in Sin City , only here with more idiosyncrasies , and a much more lethal disposition - not to mention a hilarious running gag involving carrots . And Giamatti , who veers into the danger of making it both too over-the-top and nearly too dead serious for the character's good , usually makes his scenes to chew all the way to the core ; Smith might be the bad-ass , but Hertz is a cold-blooded , wickedly joking mind-fer , and his tone is one that makes it sublimely goofy and rotten to the core . It's probably just as enjoyable as his best work in American Splendor and Sideways , and for certain genre fans it'll be a Godsend . Very fine for a matinée , or very late at night as an excuse to stay up , Shoot ' Em Up is cinematic cotton candy flavored with hot-fudge and tossed down with a super-Cinnabon shake . You won't gain much at all intellectually from it , but who goes to see Shoot ' Em Up for philosophy ( aside from , well , shoot-em-up philosophy ) ?
A good , not great , early Godard - a film with earnest , sweet qualities in youth	A Woman is a Woman was described by Godard as his " first real movie " . While Breathless to him may have seemed like a ill-born experiment ( he said of it that it didn't turn out like he expected ) , this film displays his skills as a filmmaker that would later bloom out with My Life to Live , Contempt , Band of Outsiders , and Alphaville . This may not be as good as those , and perhaps it shows Godard , like with Fellini , as an artist who would evolve with the more experience with the techniques and actors . As it is , however , this film is , much of the time , a jubilant , tongue-in-cheek " musical-comedy-tragedy " about a stripper ( Anna Karina , looking and acting as she usually does - gorgeously ) who has that feeling kicking in to pound out a tot . His boyfriend Emile ( Brialy ) is reluctant , and thinks it's stupid to rush into it . Their mutual friend Alfred Lubitch , ho-ho , ( played by Belmondo in a performance that makes me want to look back to see if he was so bad as I though it Breathless ) would be happy to oblige , if he could find a connection of love somewhere . This story , much like with the story of three friends planning to rob a house in Band of Outsiders , is just the beat the actors and the directors sing and dance to . Meanwhile , the film takes of its own life-force as the filmmaker takes on a kind of criticism on the genres he's participating in , loading it with in-jokes . Sometimes the in-jokes can be a little irksome , as can be the actors portrayals in spots . There is so much irony , so much fun , so much delight in being able to make such a widescreen piece like this that they sometimes forget what it is they're doing . Perhaps I have not seen enough of , or at least comparable to , the kinds of 50's musical-comedies that Godard must have eaten up like gummy bears . But it is clear to me that he , along with his actors Karina , Brialy , Belmondo , relish in their youth in this film without completely over-doing it . The literary / movie references are funny in most spots , the music by Michael Legrand is used by Godard with a touch of genius on both ends . And just when you think , like I did the first time I watched Breathless , that it might get surprisingly boring , it bounces back to get the viewer's attention with some unusual joke or song or element to catch you off guard . Any way you look at it , A Woman is a Woman is an essential piece of the French new-wave oeuvre , even if for me it was imperfect .
is it a remake or just another version of Cain's text ? you decide	I say that one-line statement having yet to read James M . Cain's original ( short ) book , or the 1946 film starring John Garfield and Lana Turner . So I have now seen the Postman Always Rings Twice directed by Bob Rafelson and starring Jack Nicholson and Jessica Lange twice now , and see it on its own terms without much to really compare it to . Perhaps my perceptions could change once I see the older Hollywood film ( even though Luchino Visconti's own version of the book , Ossessione , is one of his masterpieces ) , but for the moment this is a fairly competent , sometimes exciting , and usually sensual story of lust , murder , thick plots and a few tight twists and turns . Nicholson's Frank Chambers is a sort of blue-collar wanderer who wanders into the life of Cora ( Lange , rarely been sexier ) , who is married to a gregarious , overbearing lug , Papadakis ( John Colicos , perfect in a character-actor bit ) , who with his wife run a little restaurant . Chambers works his way into not just Papadakis's good graces as a worker , but Cora's undergarments as well , so to speak . Soon a plot thickens between the two lovers over what to do with the other . Right out of the best film-noir , there's quite a sequence that spins as their scheme unfolds , which includes money as well as each other . That everything doesn't go quite to plan makes this film both captivating and cool , while sometimes frustrating . Here Rafelson has his cast really locked in place like it can't go wrong . Nicholson as a street-wise tough guy who falls for a woman with whom there's immediate , sexual magnetism , but also has some flaws that come with the package - almost too easy for him but not a bad performance . Lange brings some dimension to a character that could be either a real prize or a true femme fatale . And character actors like Michael Lerner ( only better in Barton Fink ) and even featuring Angelica Huston in an early performance , add some good weight to the cast . The sex scenes years later are still enticing , and the ending is a true whopper that is part of the story's best catharsis , though in its own formula still tragic . If then it doesn't feel really as successful as the best noir of the 40s and 50s its almost hard to say . Sometimes scenes kinds of come and go , and the flow of the story sometimes gets jammed up after the midway mark goes by . It turns more into a domestic drama than something more exciting in the suspenseful turns early on . Just when Rafelson has his crew working to put life into some scenes , a few are a little flat in comparison . Still , even if you have seen the original 40s takes on Cain's novel , it's never less than interesting what goes on thanks to the nature of the story . It's a look at very flawed , psychologically cruxed people who attempt at happiness in ways that change them for worse and for better ( possibly more the former ) . Occasionally the sex could be in danger of veering off the more stylish side of the lust in the 40s noirs into soft-core land , but it's balanced out by its general professionalism and the acting randing from so-so-to-better-than-average . It's a like it or hate it film .
gives a good , cliff-notes analysis of the many facets of Wal-Mart	Wal-Mart : The High Cost of Low Price , is a somewhat valiant attempt by Robert Greenwald to put into a coherent picture what it is that makes Wal-Mart such an overbearing presence as a conglomeration and ultimate capitalist ( or maybe more likely fascist ) entity . It goes something like this : the independent businesses that serve at the pleasure of small towns can't keep up with the competition that a HUGE Wal-Mart imposes and closes down ; the same towns , in the subsidizing that goes on , end up losing out on what makes a town a town , and it even encroaches into education ( schools shut down ) ; the employees work for crap wages , get no real medical insurance or health-care , and there is discrimination as well as no real care for what the wages should be as opposed to cheating the workers of overtime pay ; the international impact , workers in factories in China and Wal-Mart employees in Germany ; and finally the impact of the consumer's safety within security camera sight in the parking lots . In shot , Greenwald's expose is meant to be a bitter , bi-partisan pill to swallow ( albeit some conservatives , of course , will look at what Wal-Mart represents , as did the Republican National Convention which invited the CEO to speak ) for anyone interested in what may be dangerous about something as immense a profit-machine as Wal-Mart . Through all of this , Greenwald gets usually impassioned testimonies from past workers , small-town farmers and store owners that had to close up and look elsewhere for money , and even those who succeeded in stopping Wal-Mart coming into town . His stylistic tactics might be a little less gripping as the people he gets on camera ; his editing taste is pretty simplistic as a documentary filmmaker , and unlike other documentaries he's made his taste in music choices are a little emotionally over-bearing or too manipulative for the moment meant to be caught . There is also something that is sort of lacking in the documentary which is a more incisive look at why the consumer gives Wal-Mart so much business . Is it truly the low prices ? I think it's something a little more complex , and it is maybe wisely kept to a subtle level given how much Greeenwald gets in 97 minutes : there is a comfort factor , something almost meant to condition the consumer , with a Wal-Mart . Who needs to go to this place and that place and the other in a town to get everything done , when a Wal-Mart has everything needed , from groceries to auto work and hardware ? It's a level of complacency that isn't always totally comforting , however , as those who've been victims of crimes in the parking lots would say ( and just in 2005 alone ) , or those in other countries who work slave wages for said comforts at home . Bottom-line , this Wal-Mart documentary doesn't present many things that most informed about what the corporation is all about won't already know ( certain things , like the subsidizing and its full effects , or the environmental damage , are fresh and appropriately critical ) , but it does act as a meaningful portrait of the truths that the ads would never live up to , and if anything contradicts everything in a typical Wal-Mart ad . What it lacks in anything striking visually it compensates with its relatable human drama on the levels that should matter to Wal-Mart , but never will .
has awesome moments of horror and bizarre humor , the rest of it . . .	Cemetery Man is the kind of horror flick I know I SHOULD like a lot more than I do . It certainly is clever with a premise that doesn't give a whole lot to think of will happen : a ' cemetery man ' Francesco ( Rupert Everett , a surprise casting choice but one that works ) and his assistant Gnaghi ( played by a very strange actor François Hadji-Lazaro ) , shoot the dead as they arise from the graves . They're not quite zombies , per-say , in that they don't eat flesh and turn those that have been eaten into zombies ( well , actually , they do bite , but you don't get infected apparently ) . It's almost a ho-hum kind of deal , as the dead come crawling and walking into Francesco's home , and without batting an eyelash he shoots them in the head . This is , until , he meets a woman who does the whole ' turns his life upside down ' trick , and after sleeping with him a grave , and getting bitten , and thought by him to be dead and then shot , though not dead , he goes into inner turmoil . There's a lot more things that happen here , and some of it rather strange and delirious ( perhaps my favorite bit is with the fat assistant growing attached to a young girl's un-dead severed head , which he keeps in a television until her father - the mayor - hears her and gets subsequently attacked by her ) . But here and there it's almost kind of . . . dull , that is until you can feel yourself saying " oh , this is getting even weirder now than before , if that's possible . " I'll give the director points for that , for keeping some of the bizarre humor going along , such as Francesco's freak-out at the hospital ( not very outlandish , more like a simple shots fired at one or the other while demanding to know why some guy copycatted his crimes ) . And sometimes he even rises to the crazy operatic levels of horror that his contemporaries of the 70s and 80s had going on . But at the same time , knowing that a good deal of the movie is awesome and even original as it looks at a guy's psychological and moral disintegration ( to kill the living , as bad as killing the dead , hmm ) , it also doesn't make sense a good portion of the time , as a lot of Italian horror tends to lean towards . Particularly the ending , which I won't reveal aside from being very similar perhaps to the ending of the St . Elsewhere TV series , is a head scratcher and meant to get the audience talking long after the movie ends . While it's a lot of fun , and with a ( anti ) hero to root for , and with a sidekick that's truly an oddity , I'm not sure it's worth the kind of discussion many cult fans use to discuss the likes of Fight Club and Donnie Darko . It's not very complicated , it just thinks it is .
I used to think this was it - not one of the best , but a cool prototype anyway	Oh when Americans first pillaged foreign product for big mainstream gains . With Godzilla , King of the Monsters ! we see the beginning of a franchise in all its fractured , cheesy glory . After finally seeing the original Japanese version , Gojira , I also went back to the American version too , which I had seen when I was younger . The impression left by the Americanized version isn't very large , but when compared to the CGI 98 Godzilla at the time - I saw the first around the same time as they played the old ones over and over to build up publicity - it's a spring chicken , err , radioactive lizard to be exact . Seeing how its cut together here again , I'm a little surprised of how noticeable it all is with Burr in the scenes , but I don't mind terribly much ( I can always think , well , it could be worse . . . it could be one of the Godzilla movies from the late 60s that time forgot ) . Ultimately , what makes the movie exciting and dumb fun are the attack sequences , especially Godzilla's destruction of Tokyo . Also , as a kid , there's something very effective with the black and white , as it almost comes off as being darker than the other color-film Godzilla movies of the early 60s ; one can see the ash all rising around , and a shot or two looks like it could've been lifted from the old newsreels following the end of WW2 . Actually , Godzilla is , originally and with ' best intentions ' , an allegory for nuclear destruction . The American version doesn't stress this nearly as much as Gojira , and what is cut out now gets felt on a repeat viewing . But I could think of worse things to do on a Sunday afternoon .
a well-knit and taut thriller with some liabilities	I wouldn't stop watching Ransom when I saw it recently on TV , not necessarily because it was an ultra-gripping thriller - even as it comes close to being that - but because I wanted to see what would happen in the story next . By turns the story is really only plausible in mostly ' movie-logic ' , but in the veneer of this being something that could actually happen . I'm not sure if ransom cases happen this way , where the father of the child changes his mind and takes away the ransom to make into a bounty on the kidnapper's head . But it makes for a pretty neat contrivance that is unfortunately surrounded by a couple of others that are pretty glaringly insipid . If there is one reason aside from the hit and miss storyline , it's the acting , with Gibson being his conflicted hero role of the father , who just wants his son back as his only need . Sinise , playing the villain , is a little less believable but does what he can in a villain role . He's really quite nuts , in fact , as he hides it with his veneer of professionalism - it's " his " show , he tells his underlings-in-crime ( including Lili Taylor and Liev Schreiber ) - and will stop at nothing to get HIS money from a guy , as he says , " pays up " . Sometimes there are great scenes even when Sinise isn't really as good at playing this kind of role as he is playing a conflicted good guy himself ( or shattered OK guy ) like in Forrest Gump . One I really liked a lot was when Gibson had to drive to drop off the money the first time , and as Sinise follows him he goes on and on talking through his walkie-talkie , with a dead-pan infliction on the voice about the film the Time Machine and how it relates to him and Gibson's character . It's not the usual thing I would see in a movie like this . The scene that follows this though , when Gibson suddenly realizes what's ' really ' up with these guys - that they won't pay up - due to Wahlberg's character's folly ( should've remembered an address ) , is a little more typical with helicopters over a setting like a coal-workers area , with the music pumping hard and fast . It's interesting to see a director like Ron Howard working from one very good scene to just a standard one , but then again Howard's better with actors and characterization than he is at doing highly-charged action set-pieces ( see the DaVinci Code for more details ) . What drives Ransom to be a better fare than it could've been , and why I kept on watching , was it had a solid cast ( aside from Gibson in his determined and headstrong role where he goes through a big change , there's Russo as the upside-down mother of the kid and Delroy Lindo who might be the best of the group as the main hostage negotiator-type person behind the scenes ) . What we end up with is a film that isn't totally satisfying , but has many emotionally charged scenes and moments that do connect , like the aftermath with Sinise and his " partners " after the first bothced attempt to get the money . Or , more crucially , the final phone call between Gibson and Sinsise - the " GIVE ME BACK MY SON " scene - that does really stretch the bounds to get manipulative with the audience . So , the problem then ? Logistics really ( and this is why I have a spoiler warning up ) : why would Sinise go back to Gibson's HOUSE , as opposed to somewhere else like his office ? Wouldn't he think his son - whom he got back to him via killing off his underlings and calling it in - would be there and might recognize his voice at least ? It's a really iffy bit that sets up the ultra-violent climax that I irked me . That being said , it's worth checking out Ransom to see , at least two-thirds of the time , how to do a professional type of thriller where psychology is meant to take as much precedence as the suspense . We get a good shot of that , if maybe a little too slick for it's own good .
" I create nothing . I own . "	Wall Street is at the least a pretty convincing take on an era , a time that may or may not seem to be caught in that near-decadent time capsule of the mid 80s when the President still had part of the country in the mind-set that business was booming , big-time . Oliver Stone , in taking cues from his ( late ) father , also a stockbroker , took on this insular , mammoth system using story and characters that are not , unfortunately , as powerful as the actors in cast . I'd say though it's probably one of the director's most accessible pictures , where the information is in your face and as clear as day . It's even absorbing , to a fault , for someone like myself who was too too young to know what was going on in the insider trading scandal ( s ) around this period . The sense of corruption is always in the air somewhere in Wall Street , and towards the last third it gets amplified , and it leaves the characters in the end ( the two main male leads I mean ) with nothing good going for either of them . It's the kind of world where one side eats the other , and then back on the other again . Not that Stone's points in the script , which isn't one of his best , don't give some good signals at times . He has a fine premise - an ambitious kid , Fox ( Charlie Sheen in his innocent-turned-hot-headed form here ) , in a stuffy firm tries to bag an ' elephant ' , Mr . Gordon Gecko ( Michael Douglas ) , who has more money and connection than any ten middle class people might have . Soon , through various dealings working his way up , Fox gets Gecko's attention - and in its own twisted form trust - and also gets rich , very rich . But at what cost becomes the real question , as Fox's father ( Martin Sheen , a surprise cast choice for a real life father / son turn but still excellent here ) might lose everything he's worked for at a little airline company . The filmmaker here , perhaps in reflection of his subject matter , makes his film in a slick fashion , but not in the wild and sensational style of his best work ; here he's a little restrained , but in a good way nevertheless . There's even a multiple screen scene where a deal is shown from various angles , in four places in the same frame . As for character and the like , it's really up to the actors here to fill in the gaps . And the gaps , for me anyway , were that the script felt a little weighed down by predictability . Gecko is a character that could ( or at least should ) be seen through within the first few scenes . The seductive power of this to Fox isn't unconvincing , though it becomes a little trickier when an undercooked romantic sub-plot is thrown in with Darryl Hannah's two-side playing dame . But to say that the actor's end up filling the gaps is almost a compliment to Stone . Maybe he knew that he needed people who could make these conventional asides real and affecting to an extent , and it's a credit to Michael Douglas that he makes it one of his towering performances as an actor . He's ultra-slick , even cool in his sort of dastardly way , and there are at least three scenes he plays in that are always striking where it's hot ( the famous ' greed is good ' speech , the scene where Sheen confronts him about the airline stock betrayal , and the final scene in Central Park ) . Sheen , as well , delivers the goods here , and is especially noteworthy in scenes with his father . If there are some expected things in the story , and there are , the ending at least leaves things with a bittersweet note of interest . And Stone does raise some good questions about how morality , if anything of it , can work its way into the world of Free Trade where the sky can't even be considered the limit anymore . It's not as powerful a punch as say JFK or Born on the Fourth of July or NBK , but in its own right it holds its own as a very good piece of cautionary drama . ( strong )
nifty but not very memorable extra / short-doc on Hollis Mason's " Under the Hood "	Like with the DVD release of the Dark Knight , though this time much earlier to coincide with the theatrical release , DC put together this short documentary as a companion piece cum extra to the " source " of the film , which itself is a take-off on the in-between chapters of the Watchmen book . Hollis Mason , the original Nite Owl in Watchmen , writes an autobiography chronicling the history of the costumed heroes that are a big deal in the 40s , then becoming less of a " fad " in the 1950s and then being outlawed , all with the prose of who was originally a NYC police officer . It's a series of interviews doen in faux 1970 style TV ( even includes a few " vintage " commercials , one of the three actually quite funny ) , with an interviewer who gets the actors playing the characters to improvise ( or maybe it's all written , I can see that very well being the case as well ) on the subjects posed and raised . It's fun to watch and a little clever , but is mostly a cookie - it's got not much else really substantial out of it unless you have read the book . Certain characters pop up that are not in Snyder's theatrical cut of Watchmen ( i . e . Captain Metropolis ) , and it doesn't run too long to over-stay its welcome . This said , the other little ' goodies ' presented by Snyder and company - the other fake news segments on the likes of Dr . Manhattan that appeared online - were better .
If you haven't seen Rickles's stand-up , you don't know the art of the comic-insult	John Landis's new documentary on Don Rickles , Mr . Warmth : The Don Rickles Project , works best when focused squarely on its star attraction . Every so often Landis gets distracted in telling ( or rather showing other people like Bob Newhart ) go on about the glory days of a mob-run Las Vegas , and it starts to loose a little of its focus . And every so often he takes a misstep with the editing . But since comedy is Landis's strong-suit as a director , anyway , it's fitting that his film works best when his subject is given the full-treatment , either in clips of his performances , his old Johnny Carson appearances , or with some of his adulators telling it like it is : he's one of the funniest stand-up comics of his time . And still today he kiss : watching him completely skewer every single race and both sexes in a Vegas audience is dynamite ( sometimes you just wait for him to drop his microphone in ironic disgust ) . Just hearing the man tell stories , or talk about his wonderful ( and wonderfully Jewish ) mother , or doing lovingly stupid imitations of his wife ( the tongue is what clicks it ) , is entertaining . He's a man who takes his fame completely in stride , but not for granted . He tells of a cruel prank done on the set of Run Silent Run Deep involving him and Clark Gable ; he goes overboard as host of the Tonight Show by breaking Carson's box or whatever , and Carson goes right next-door to the set of Rickles's show , where after he apologizes he says " ladies and gentlemen , Johnny Carson ! " And then the testimonies themselves bring up laughs ( Sarah Silverman comments how Rickles taught her what black people were like living secluded in New Hampshire ) , even if it's just repeating old Rickles lines . His is a very precise shtick where finding the line and only going across it so much is like an art - you don't want to make it into a totally sensationalist exercise , but the audience still has to have a good time at not only others ' expenses , but their own . It's a kind of all-inclusive comedy , be it the schmuck who's 300 pounds and with a dopey wife , or the president , or , of course most brilliantly , Dean Martin . It's not exactly a great documentary , but it's a fine showcase , and the kind of remembrance for one of those old kings of comedy that haven't yet kicked the bucket , like ( unfortunately ) so many in show-biz have in recent years .
a good piece of humanist comedy , nothing more , nothing less	The Terminal is sort of like a a Frank Capra tale spun into 21st century America , with it a sort of divide between the naive innocence of ordinary men , and the cynicism of the outside world . It also is akin to E . T . as being about an outsider who comes into a strange situation , gets befriended , but in reality is really all on his own on his quest . There is a sweetness to the film that works well , even when all plausibility at times goes right out the window in return to try and make shamelessly entertaining product . Steven Spielberg here has a film that is meant , in a way , as THE film for airline movies , as it can be geared for kids and adults , though like airplanes its not always the best experience . Tom Hanks is genuine for a lot of the performance , and at least a little fascinating , as Viktor Navorski , a refugee from a country made up for the sake of the film ( though , apparently , his accent is for real ) . He's stuck in the airport , not able to leave into New York City or back to war-torn home . So , he sticks around , he meets the janitor , he runs into a emotionally weary flight attendant ( Catherine Zeta-Jones , not the best she's done but cute enough ) , and gets to become familiar company around the huge terminal . It's a huge place , with adversiting that almost makes it like a insular Times Square . During this Viktor goes from befriending the workers , to befriending the attendant , which leads to some romantic interest - or maybe not . Who knows with Viktor's true intentions to stick around for his chance to get into New York City . The reason he ends up telling is , actually , one of the most touching moments in the film , maybe even in the better of Spielberg films . This isn't , however , overall anything great in the filmmaker's cannon . Maybe not a ' minor ' work , but it's often with too much whimsey . Or maybe not ; it is a film that is meant as a crowd-pleaser , or a heartwarmer , but at times isn't too sure how to balance between some of the believability the script needs at times ( i . e . why is the focus sometimes squarely on Navorski , when its a security station meant to focus on everyone at the airport ) . The visual styling is impressive , with some cool camera sweeps and tracks in the immense set . But it doesn't add up to anything that marks it as a great film . It also doesn't hold up as well as Spielberg's other films on repeat viewings ; on a first go-around it is sheerly entertainment , but once seen again certain scenes bring out some groans . It might be even more enlightening or fun for kids , as it is on that sort of E . T . level . And Hanks ' performance , which only shows some dimension towards the last twenty minutes , is good enough , though could've been more . I guess in short I'm saying that the Terminal is reccomendable , especially as a ' date ' movie of sorts , though I wouldn't say to start off with it as the first Spielberg ever . That being said , Kumar Palau ( the janitor character , also a Wes Anderson regular ) , is the best thing about the movie .
a big book of a film with some invention and strong acting that is too long	I got to hand it to the filmmaker , Arnaud Desplechin , at least on one significant point : A Christmas Tale is like a big book faithfully adapted to the screen , only in this case non-existent , and it has that wonderful if imperfect feeling of surrounding oneself with the world and atmosphere and attitudes of a family where the dysfunction runs deep and clear , emphasizing Tolstoy's classic " no one unhappy family is the same " credo . His film is also sometimes a big melodrama , folded around a cancer story not unlike a more serious ( yet sometimes lighter version of ) The Royal Tenenbaums , and centered so firmly around the family around that crazy but loving-despite-everything time of Christmas you'd swear Desplechin watch the first hour of Fanny & Alexander too many times to count . At the same time A Christmas Tale is very much a French film , is attitude and approach to narrative and occasionally nearing that dreaded P-word ( pretentious ) in being 2 hours of incidents and confrontations and little details and twists . A lot happens with the Vuillard family over a few days , but in it uncovers a whole can of worms involving a banished son ( Mathieu Amalric , who thankfully is maybe the centerpiece of the ensemble in terms of being the black sheep like Anne Hathaway in Rachel Getting Married ) , a depressed daughter ( Anne Consigny who , despite being effective in a one-note performance , is also so shrill and cold as a character it's hard to feel anything for her , at all , despite her plight of losing her older brother as a child ) , and a cousin who has loved his cousin's wife ever since he got him , Ivan , the youngest Vuillard brother , to hook up with her so many years ago . Meanwhile , the mother ( Catherine Deneuve , who may not exactly be a great actress but is the greatest living female French star which carries a lot of weight as a true beauty ) , has cancer , possibly terminal , unless a donor comes forward . So there's a lot here to work with - maybe , perhaps , arguably too much , though it's almost a credit to the director that I can't say exactly what ( little things , for example , like the Christmas Eve sex scene are deliberately paced but for good reason ) , and he laces everything with a curious jazz score throughout , sometimes to great effect and sometimes not . But , at the least , it's wonderful to see so many good actors in one place , particularly Amalric who is quickly becoming a truly fantastic talent with a lot of range in the work I've seen him in - one day he's a subdued intelligence man in Munich , next he's paralyzed except for one eye-blinking in Diving Bell , and even a 007 villain - and here goes further in a scene stealing performance ( one such scene is his toast at the Christmas dinner , a scene actually shocking and hilarious and sad all in a thirty-second split ) . He and Deneuve and the underrated Jean-Paul Roussillon as the husband of Junon almost make me want to rate the movie higher . But alas , it is what it is : a very strong take on a familiar subject - crazy and light and dark and tragic and unnerving times with a family at Christmas - and standing it on its head , while also the things I mention above . Did I mention it's French ?
definitely not the best nor the worst in Stoker adaptations ; Langella makes up a lot of the appeal	Frank Langella - that's almost all I might need to say to get you interested in watching this 524th adaptation of Bram Stoker's quintessential vampire novel . He doesn't have the Euro-creepiness of Bela Lugosi ( nor the eyebrows ) , and Christopher Lee is by many accounts the definitive Dracula , but Langella is something a little more subtle , more menacing with his seductive calm . That might sound contradictory but just keep an eye on this man's face , his eyes that just kind of twitch if a little alerted , and a voice that cuts through any BS and can reel in lady Van Helsing or lady Seward for a passionate tryst in the guise of a typical blood sucking ( yes , it should be the other way around but for Langella it is not ) . If for nothing else , in as with Frost / Nixon a role he originated in recreating on Broadway , he's the reason to see the movie . John Badham's film , by the way , is by no means disreputable or a bad movie . It's actually pretty cool with its period production design and spot-on casting of supporting actors Laurence Olivier ( as , of course , Abe Van Helsing ) and Donald Pleasance . The only real complaint I might have about the production is that . . . it kind of lacks soul or that certain " umph " ( " umph " I should add is hard to describe , though the difference distinctly between this and Coppola or Browning's versions is just that ) to make it really a classic or something worth telling someone to seek out right away . Badham creates some cool atmospheric touches , and unlike the Lugosi 32 Dracula this one at least has a halfway decent bat to use for special effects . There's even a dated but absorbing scene between Dracula and Lucy that had chills running down my spine at how it was directed with the red spiral vortex or whatever behind them . Perhaps it's also in another comparison not entirely as impressive : in 1979 Werner Herzog released Nosferatu , an imperfect but nonetheless major work of an artist channeling his own style through a much-told story of the vampire and those that try to kill it before it kills and / or turns more female victims . When stacking up the two it's clear that Badham is the more conventional choice . However , if it's all that's available at the video store , it's not at all something to turn down . In fact if you're a die-hard Dracula fan or looking for a less obvious / tongue-in-cheek portrayal of the Count on film ( or as least obvious as it can be without it being a Jim Jarmusch film ) this might be just what you're looking for . It's classy and well-acted , just not carrying that certain artistic push to make it something more .
both slyly self-aware and an enjoyably serious movie about ill-fated bourgeois	At this point in Claude Chabrol's career one might expect him to cut loose and do something just totally crazy and not to give a hoot about his consistent style as a director . A Girl Cut in Two , for better or worse , is still disciplined and carefully constructed and directed , and maybe because of this once in a while suffers from not wavering in its approach ; it's kind of like That Almost Obscure Object of Desire . But within its set terms the film is enjoyable and even has a kind of biting underlying wit to the proceedings . I would think this film might appeal more to the middle or lower class as opposed to upper class and wealthy as the former can perhaps relish in this tumultuous love life of this weather girl Gabrielle ( very beautiful Ludivine Sagnier , kind of a prettier Chloe Sevigny ) and the classic " turning the men's worlds upside down " formula . As for fans of Chabrol , and this goes without saying it's not a great film , it's a sign that , like Woody Allen , he isn't going anywhere and still has some ideas kicking around . It's about the effect Gabrielle has on a man twice her age , novelist Charles Saint-Denis ( Francois Berleand in a quietly powerful and thoughtful performance ) , and a spoiled and possibly emotionally combustible guy more her age , Paul ( Benoit Magimel , very good in that his performance is narrowed to being this creepy person ) . She really is head over heels for the older man , who sadly is also ( happily ) married to his wife of many years , while Paul does all but wave a sign saying " pick me , I'm free , pick me " ( with the line " I get what I always want " crossed out save for when he's drunk ) . It's like a double Catch 22 situation , leading up to a marriage , a murder , and other occurrences . Chabrol presents all of this in what appears to be a straightforward style , which usually suits him best , and within this comes out the moral complexities . This could be enough for a decent movie , if maybe a little slight in the mostly bourgeois atmosphere , but Chabrol heaps on some social commentary to boot : it's not just Paul but also Charles that put up a kind of front of complacency that is hard to crack for Gabrielle . It's slightly playful , mostly harsh , but always controlled satire , not of the laugh-out-loud kind but where one might chuckle or raise an eyebrow at a plot point or scene of specific acting . It's an interesting approach which isn't entirely effective but never makes it boring . A Girl Cut in Two is acted just as it should ( Caroline Silhol particularly gives a deliciously icy performance as Paul's mother ) , and is written and directed with a knowledge of its audience .
a good subjective approach to the many strands and off-shoots of an under-looked genre of music	Actually , to say that heavy-metal music is just a genre of music is almost insulting in some circles . As someone who's too eclectic to really be solely a metal-head , but has been in the realm of the metal world to see how it goes , I can empathize with Sam Dunn's main intention with the documentary ; this music should not be seen as just some goofy , crude , offensive , or dangerous off-shoot of old-time rock n roll ( not that the last one doesn't apply in one or two cases ) . It's to show how personal this music , and how this ' way of life ' can be for a person , and how it affects personality but not necessarily in the perceived negative light . Dunn , of course , has his head totally together , which is how he can go head-to-head with metal legends & / or notorious sorts like Tony Iommi , Bruce Dickinson , Lemmy , Alice Cooper , Dee Snider , Dio and Rob Zombie ( Geddy Lee is also among the big known interviewees , though it's strange to see him here when he's not really ' metal ' , at least in league with these guys ) . But through him and his collaborators , he is able to get inside not just the off-shoots and specifics of the world of heavy-metal . The look , the style , the attitude , the controversies both domestic ( i . e . Dee Snider's battle with Tipper Gore ) and foreign ( a superlatively done look at the Norwegian black-metal scene , which is both tense and hilarious ) , the women bands in the world , and how it helps some people really get better on with life either to hear it or play it or , of course , both . Dunn's look is good if , by necessity perhaps too , too brief , as he at one point lists a kind of heavy-metal family tree of sorts - all too quickly to really see every single one - and barely scratches the surface in the 96 minute running time . Maybe there is only so much that can be covered in a feature-length film , but the subject matter serves to be even more looked into ; VH1 had also done a heavy-metal documentary , and it lasted four hours . On the other hand , Dunn and his people actually do get some material here that is more precious , and more enlightening . The juxtaposition of the ' true believers ' and horrors in Norways black-death-metal scene with a band like Slayer , who are bad to the bone and have fans who go toe limit , is interesting . It's the kind of documentary that really does work for that it's worth , but not enough of a good thing is explored for fans . Non-fans may get just enough that they can handle , a mix of the basic facts and key points ( i . e . the coining of the term ' metal ' , the roots in the blues , the devil horns , and a look at outrageous album covers ) . It's good subjective film-making , though edging a little much on trying to get enough history along with the personal history .
not quite prime-cut Larry David material , but enjoyable all the same	Although it's been a long time since I've seen Sour Grapes , the experience of seeing it - preferably alongside another Seinfeld fan - was fairly pleasant , in that biting Larry David tone . This was the only time David wrote and directed a film , and it does show that he's trying to work through telling a total story within the framework of a feature all the way through . But somehow it's quite an entertaining piece of quietly ( or not so quietly ) deranged satire on envy , sexual frustration , and the condition of a principle of something . The premise is simple - two good friends go out to Las Vegas to gamble , one friend asks the other for a quarter for a slot machine , and via the quarter in the slot machine the guy wins a helluva lot of money . By the friend with the original quarter's estimation , a part of that change is his , but the friend now says that it isn't . A likely Seinfeld sub-plot is stretched out so that the ideas are given a little breathing room , even if one recognizes that , perhaps , it would be a masterpiece if it were simply a Seinfeld episode , or more appropriately a Curb Your Enthusiasm with even more acidic humor and total unease thrown at the situation . Around the premise , David also tosses in a supporting character who has one of his testicles removed - the wrong one by the doctor , who is one of the friends - and despite his now high voice ( ho-ho ) he seeks out some payback . That's one of the clearest big gags , as obvious as it is , is the moment when the ' testicle-man ' , as one might be tempted to describe him , is told by the doctor that the wrong one was taken out during surgery , to his immediate fainted response in a cut-away . On top of this , David experiments with some stupid sex humor ( not that there wasn't at least a little later on on CYE , eg Jeff's mother's ass at a stoplight ) , like with Bierko's character in the self-humiliation of not being able to , um , ' service ' himself in a certain way , under the stress of the tear in the friendship . As mentioned , none of this really makes for the kind of classic comedy one might expect , or crave , from maybe one of the only geniuses ( yeah , I said it ) working in comedy today . But as almost something of a fluke , it does its job well .
funny , gooey , predictable , outrageous , gleeful , nostalgic , warm , romantic . . . did I say gooey ?	These are some words I would describe for Kevin Smith's latest film not quite from his ' Viewaskewniverse ' ( if that's really a word ) , only this time out of New Jersey and in Pittsburgh ( acually , the Dawn of the Dead cit Monroeville home of the Monroeville mall , an hockey of course ) . It is in all basic terms about the title character doing what it says . . . doing it , and filming it and filming other people doing it with a little camcorder in the place where the two intrepid 20-somethings ( Zack , Seth Rogen , Miri , Eizabeth Banks ) work . But it is also about Kevin Smith , making a very ridiculous and profane and occasionally ( appropriately ) gross movie while at the same time also delivering something , well , personal . He gets to have his cake and eat it , while also indulging towards the end in some more romantic-type stuff to fill out the ending . Not that we don't want to see these two characters falling in love and spending together together - on paper . On screen , however , Smith is cribbing ( as maybe too many critics have noted ) from the Judd Apatow school of comedy . And it's not simply with the casting of Rogen , one of Apatow's sacred bunch of super-talented average-Joe funny-men . It's in what is , t me , something of a sitcom-type of conceit with a man like Rogen , who is not bad looking or ugly but approximately what he appears to be , and pairing him with a very attractive blonde - first , Katheine Heigl , now Elizabeth Banks . One could go on about wanting to see more of a realistic scenario , with Miri not being a super-hot girl but more . . . s , ' realistic . ' How cruel that may or may not sound I don't know , but by the third act , which does contain some of Smith's most ( succesful ) romantic dialog since Chasing Amy , doesn't carry the same weight if just because of that notion of a funny / chubby shlub together with a . . . well , Elizabeth Banks . And yet , for its predictability and moments of pure schmaltz , Zack and Miri Make a Porno is a funny movie , sometimes incredibly funny movie , because Smith has it in him to know what works for not just his own skills as a filmmaker but for his audience . He is , as others have also noted , a kind of Woody Allen for his time , in a sense , which is that Kevin Smith likes to live the life of Kevin Smith and make Kevin Smith movies . Not many can write with both wit and crudeness equally and make it work ; sometimes only one on its own will do . But just watch , in a slight throwback to Clerks , the montage of Zack and Mirir trying to come up with porno-movie title names , leading up to ' Star Whores ' . Or what makes for half of the flat-out most uproarious scene in the whole running time with Justin Long and Brandon Rouths ' characters ( Long especially shows how brilliant he can be in the right setting ) . Or even throwaway scenes with Jason Mewes - yes , he can play someone other than Jay , very well . It's all , in any approximation , good stuff . At the least , for the first half , before it becomes more or less emphasized with romance and conflict of the variety one isn't unfamiliar with in Chasing Amy territory ( if only slightly less mature and a tidy ending ) . It isn't one of the best of Smith's now 8 films since Clerks , but as far as Smith movies go it's true and fun and occasionally deep , which is what counts with a Gen-X auteur like him .
Come on ride the train , come ride it . . .	Before you start asking - no , it's not porn , gay or otherwise , though those were the first words out of my mother's mouth when I told her I would be going to see this now cult-ish horror movie . This is another example of Lion's Gate acting nefarious with their distribution . They probably aren't as ' wtf'-like as Fox at the moment , but while they bask in their self-imposed glow of Saw flicks and Jason Statham vehicles , they dumped Midnight Meat Train in a manner not unlike ( speaking of Fox ) Idiocracy . The film was technically released in about a handful of ( i . e . 100 ) theaters this summer , practically all of them in 1-dollar joints in towns I've never heard of and nowhere near my digs in North NJ / NYC . It's made $34 , 000 in its theatrical run , which is somewhat impressive considering a ) the total lack of any real advertising , either around the " from the mind of Clive Barker " angle or just that it's a kick-ass-looking horror flick about a guy killing people on trains , and b ) it opened in 1-dollar theaters for a very limited run . So suffice to say it's a bittersweet coda to this dumped-on movie from Lion's Gate that it finally screened for two aptly scheduled Midnight screenings at a theater in Manhattan - ironically costing us all about 8 or 9 dollars MORE than it did those lucky dozen or so that caught it a couple of months ago - and at the same time , thankfully , is a worthwhile midnight-movie . Kitamura's adaptation of the Barker story ( un-read by me ) is a slight throwback to grisly 80s serial killer flicks ( while I couldn't think of one after it ended , with a friend of mine repeatedly stating " it's like Saw , only good " which I could understand , I'm sure there are suggestions open to comparison ) as it unapologetically takes its time showing us unnecessary killing scenes with lots of blood , gore , meat and Vinnie Jones as the killer . It is , in all actuality , a definite must see for every geeky horror buff you might have ever come across , or are yourself . It's about an aspiring photographer ( Bradley Cooper ) who is trying to impress a chic , artsy curator ( Brooke Shields ) with his photographs , but she wants more - more of the actual blood and guts and other things that he hasn't captured yet . After clicking at the right time and right place with a model almost being attacked and raped , she's finally impressed - but she wants more . This leads Cooper to finding a subject coming out of the subway one night : a man in a business suit , crew-cut , and a stare that could cut glass . This is Vinnie Jones , uttering only one word in his entire performance and thus making it perhaps his most bad-ass yet ( which considering that it's " I'm the Juggernaut , Bitch ! " , it's saying something ) . Now , saying that this is a kick-ass genre flick doesn't exactly mean it's a very good movie . It's not . It's got some pretty blah dialog , the characters are only interesting when serving the ( bleeped ) - up nature of the plot , and there's even some poorly shot CGI of the trains moving through the tunnels . You'll also be saying " wtf " every few seconds in the final act , though that's a big part of the fun . It's not for the squeamish : this contains countless bodies strung up by meat-hooks , blood flowing so much that people usually end up slipping hilariously in the train , and even some whacked-out creatures reminiscent of The Descent . . . only , of course , these wait for their flesh in a slightly different manner , and end up raising some questions for the viewer once it ends . Midnight Meat Train is kick-ass for all the reasons that people love pointlessly violent horror movies that occasionally feature the likes of Ted Raimi getting beaten to a bloody pulp with a hook . If you are that kind of horror fan , who wanted something aside from complete unintentional hilarity and abhorrent contrivance with the Saw movies and harkon longingly back to crazy butcher-themed flicks ( and , perhaps , are looking for some influence of Blowup from time to time ) , this is for you . It's certainly , at the least , one of the most overlooked movies in years .
mostly a ' fly-on-the-wall ' approach to the former President . . .	. . . but despite some of Jonathan Demme's techniques to making Man from Plains , which are either interesting ( the skewed camera on the television screens , the title cards listed in big font above the locations in some scenes ) or off-putting ( the usage of music is overbearing ) , his movie should be called the proverbial ' fair and balanced . ' There are few issues in the world that ignites the firestorm of debate like Israel and Palestine land and peace talks ( the abortion issue is right up there ) . Jimmy Carter placed himself into the pit of controversy a year and a half ago with his book " Palestine : Peace , Not Apartheid " , and director Demme does his best to reveal not simply Carter defending his points on various interview shows and programs , but to get the other side's voice as well . Carter isn't let off very easily , and rightfully so . But had Demme gone too far either way in depicting the reaction to the book , then the documentary would get damaged by the effect . This might make Man From Plains seem slightly ' safe ' , but its strongest points are just revealing , without pushing a whole lot of stylistic fervor in the way , this man in his complexity , conflicts , resolve , and in his comfortable position as about as well-respected a ex-President one could ask for . He has a lot to boast about with some of his past accomplishments ( some which we might forget as what he might have not done ) , but a lot of his output and speeches and very concise answers are based on experience . It's easy to pin down Carter as he's labeled - anti-Semitic , plagiarist - without either reading his book ( s ) or seeing what is really going on past the veneer of the media's depiction . Just seeing the interviewees ( with some exceptions ) repeating the named " apartheid " for incisive affect is enough to see what can be taken out of context . Does this mean that Man From Plains reveals everything that could be about Carter on this book tour with the amount of depth one might hope for with an ex-president ? Maybe not . But for what it's worth , Demme delivers two hours of potent coverage , and even creates a narrative around his detractors / protesters ( i . e . rabbis / Dershowitz / Brandeis ) that adds a little weight to what would otherwise be Demme's equivalent to Moore's the Big One . As a portrait and a compact look at a hot-button issue , it's very good if not mind-expanding .
tough call	A documentary like Easy Riders , Raging Bulls should be the kind of documentary I should like more . It is chock full of interviews and choice information about the time period ( 60's-70's ) in American cinema that changed everything , for a lot better and some for not . But there are a couple of problems that become inherent . If you have read the book which spurred on the documentary by Peter Biskind ( also author of Down and Dirty Pictures , a book about the 90's independent film movement ) , it's kind of like reading a masterpiece in the trashiest sense . There is a lot more in-depth information in the book , however much of it at the personal expense of the filmmakers , writers , producers , and others that are written about ( a good deal with gossip , interestingly enough on the special features of the DVD some of the interviewees speak out against the falsities in the book , Paul Schrader being one of them ) . The other problem is that the same year this documentary was released on Spike TV ( then later to DVD , which is where I saw it ) , there was the great documentary in the similar , more satisfying vein , A Decade Under the Influence . It might be unfair to compare the two , however if one were wanting in the first place to get a video history - by way of movie clips and interviews - about the years that changed movies a generation before , I would go for ' Decade ' due to it's more obscure film clips , and a few more revealing and insightful interviews . In fact , over half of the people in one documentary are also in the other , like Dennis Hopper , Paul Schrader , Peter Bogdanovich , Ellen Burstyn , Roger Corman , and Monte Hellman among others . It's not that this documentary in and of itself is not insubstantial . On a base level you get the lowdown , about how as Hollywood's studio system was on the decline , filmmakers who were coming up in Corman's enclave ( Coppola , Hopper , Bogdanovich , even Scorsese ) , along with some other key outsiders , infused European ideals into their personal statements , making great art and some money in the process . On the level of just giving forth the information , it's not a bad telling of tales , and has a couple of interviews I wasn't expecting . But , again , my sense of proportion was out of place ; I could sense that the doc , much like the book , was more interested in some of the more ' seedy ' details ( i . e . the stuff about Julia Phillips , or Bogdanovich , which is practically a quarter of the book ) than in the actual cinema-contexts of the work . You also don't hear as much about the power of the influence on the filmmakers , which was an appeal of ' Decade ' . It's not too tough a call to make , and if you've seen ' Decade ' before ' Easy Riders Raging Bulls ' you may agree . I liked it , but it's not saying much when the book , which itself was readable mostly for the sake of history ( some worthwhile , some not ) , was better .
" Hmm , Rosebud ! I'll get to the bottom of this yet !	Russ Meyer makes his films , when they're at their best or most brilliantly deranged , like the dream of some sexually charged sixteen year old who's seen his share of pornos and 70's era exploitation films . They're crazy visions of women with ( usually ) nothing lower than 36-C cups , men with third legs ( wink wink , nudge nudge , say no more ) , and enough fornication to blow the head gasket of any puritan viewer . That being said , Meyer isn't exactly a real porno director . He makes sex films in the same way that Robert Rodriguez makes wild action or horror or kids films : as a do-it-yourself-auteur ( i . e . writes , directs , produces , edits , DP's , even camera operates ) , he's all about getting a pulpy sensibility of what would otherwise be typical trashy material . Meyer also is gifted with a wonderfully cringe-worthy sense of humor . To give just a brief example - and maybe as one of the quintessential scenes in any exploitation flick - the scene where two completely naked women , one Eva Braun Jr with a knife and screaming maniacally about the fall of Nazism and the plight of his ' father ' , run after one another trying to kill each other in the woods . So Up ! is in another in a whole body of works where Meyer turns the conventions of the usual in movie-making , like a kooky member of National Lampoon , but at the same time I'm not sure it's one of his very best . It's a little scatter-shot in the story , if there is one closely to even follow with the Greek Chrous ( Kitten Navidad ) where in every time whatever semblance of a story is taking shape we're led off by this narrator and Meyers's editing which takes us into a strange loop of sequencing of events and images ( which in and of themselves are good , but distracting ) . But when Up ! does click , it works very well . Mostly this involves the early scenes with Adolph Schwartz ( ho-ho ) , who gets masochistic sex from a dominatrix and a man with a huge thing , and then gets killed mysteriously in his bathtub . Then we're thrust into some backwoods group , including a shifty but well-intentioned sheriff ( Monty Bane ) , a big , uproarious homunculus in Rafe ( Bob Schott ) , and of course Meyer's ' harem ' of girls . It's fun , in all basic intentions , to see these girls have fun and go into exuberant glee doing their scenes , as opposed to the more degrading XXX features that get pretty boring after a while . This is where the dream facet comes in , where everything is just so surreal ( the frolicking sex out in the open , wherever it is , the Nazi stuff right out of a typical exploitation flick from Europe , the double-climax that combines sex AND violence ) , that you just have to go along for the ride and laugh with all the craziness . What helps is Meyer's great cinematic eye - yes , great - as he shoots and edits as though every image has to be just next to perfect . While the actual content is sometimes all over the place , like with Rafe's rape scenes , where he turns into a true drunken gorilla , the actual quality of the film-making is nearly flawless . Which is to Meyers's credit , as what is in Up ! could be the makings of a much more lewd and crude effort . Hard to find ( had to look deep on line ) and not without little dips in real strength in the comedy , Up ! demonstrates some great Meyers ' product : beautiful , voluptuous , and mostly funny women ( loved the one woman who's voice sounded out of femme fatale noir ) , total horn-dogs and beasts in men , and a bit of vicious satire to boot . More beer !
not the best X-Files has to offer , maybe , but quite watchable	I don't profess to be an avid watcher of the X-Files ( i . e . I don't own the DVD box-sets and know details involving episode 3 . 14 or whichever ) , but when it is on it reminds me of what constituted memorable television back in the 90's . The show , which here is transferred into big-budget Hollywood form for the big-screens , has a good lot of its credit in due to its main characters , Mulder and Scully ( David Duchovney and Gillian Anderson ) , who are of course professional , more often than not slightly paranoid , and occasionally amusing in their straight-forward way . That they have a good connection as actors and play off each other like its second nature goes a long way to help make many of the strange oddities and sometimes more off-beat stories seem fairly credible . It's basically like the Silence of the Lambs as a TV show , only substituting the disturbing gore and violence for stories somewhere in the Twilight Zone area . In short , pulp entertainment with an intelligent twist . If the movie may not match up to the best episodes , or if it does depending on how much or how little you watch the show ( it could go either way , and I speak as a little more than a casual viewer ) , it might be due to the grander scope given to the story , how ideas and character traits maybe are taken a little over the edge here . It may not be much of a spoiler to say here that , yes , you do see aliens , and other interesting , if not 100 % successful , suspense sequences . It's also one of the most ' wordy ' of the late 1990's sci-fi summer blockbusters . A problem though in maybe not knowing enough , or likewise knowing too much , are that the supporting characters are not given enough background . That much has to be explained in the film for non-fans that has already been explained on the show ties up certain things in the story as well . But certain gripes aside , the X-Files film , even during some scenes with some weak dialog , does provide a story that is involving , and doesn't coattail to the Independence Day crowd . Mulder and Scully this time are on the trail of a mystery following a mysterious hole is un-earthed in North Texas , meanwhile as a building explodes in Dallas . Certain evidence leads the two into a cover-up involving a virus , entailing a huge room full of bees , a run through a corn-field , and finally a trip to the frozen tundra for an amazing discovery . If some of this already sounds routine , it really isn't a lot of time . Martin Landau , for example , has a good , small role as an undercover author who meets up with Mulder , giving little points of Governmental paranoia . The scenes inside the ' Dallas ' building combine the tense prospects of a Hollywood action scene and some cleverness behind it . Only the climax in the tundra , ironically , is no too satisfying . Apparently , the film is connected in-between two of the seasons of the X-Files that were running at the time . Would it be better to see those last episodes of the season before and first of the season after for guidance ? Is this really just a big-studio pumped TV movie ? I'm not sure to either one ( maybe more of a yes to the second one ) . But I didn't feel too cheated , unlike other blockbusters of the time .
good look at some semi-obscure and well-known Hardcore-punk acts , but not the definitive one	Frank Pavich has directed a fairly absorbing document on what is , in small part , the New York Hardcore scene . It was around and in NYC , as well as parts of New Jersey , that Hardcore ( as we learn here a mix of Metal and Hip-Hop ) is a " way of life " that also by nature includes punk to a certain extended extent . While I would probably recommend pictures that include more ' true ' music and wider perspective like American Hardcore , or just plain better craftsmanship like Decline of Western Civilization , it's certainly not a waste for the people looking for something new ( or rather semi-new , it just got released on 10th anniversary DVD ) and a couple of acts that might seem either obscure or just strange . Bands like Madball are not unknown to me , and I might have even watched or listened to them in the past ( I'm not a huge hardcore fan so most bands in this film are new to me - sometimes , frankly , perhaps for the better ) . It's a fascinating mix of ridiculously tattooed lead singers , black guitarists who have real ' street cred ' that has probably left them scarred , and even a Hare Krishna who thinks Hardcore will soon open up more doors for Christian ideology ( ! ) The actual musical performances range depending on your taste in hardcore : we got one vocal out of a bear cave , another that is quick and energetic , another remorse and more in line with a Staind group , or with just plain attitude to burn . More often than not the interviews give more to offer than the actual bits of music on stage , which is probably a disappointment , but for all its minor faults its still a small time-capsule type of window into what was remaining of that dedicated Hardcore scene in NYC following its big explosion in the early 80s ( we mostly hear from Roger Merit's little brother as opposed to actual Agnostic Front themselves ) .
An Italian in California : a technical masterpiece with sub-par substance	There aren't too many times when I see a film and go , " huh , what ? " , but this was one of them . Maybe after seeing Zabriskie Point I felt much the same way Woody Allen felt after seeing 2001 - he only liked the film after seeing it three times over a two year period , realizing the filmmaker was ahead of him in what was going on . Michelangelo Antonioni , in one of his few tries at making films inside of the US ( after Red Desert , he did Blow-Up , this film , China , and The Passenger , all filmed outside his native Italy ) , I could sense he almost tried to learn about the ways of the country through his own mastery of the medium . The results show that he doesn't lack the means to present images , feelings , tones , colors , sounds , and a visual representation of this era . " A director's job is to see " , Antonioni once stated . Whatever that means , he doesn't disappoint for the admirer of his post-fifties work ( I say post-fifties since I've yet to see any of his films from before L'Avventura ) . What he does lack is a point , at least the kind of point that he could bring in Blow-Up and The Eclipse . You get the feeling of what is around these characters , what the themes are bringing forth to their consciousness , however in this case the characters and the actors don't bring much conviction or purpose . Antonioni , coming from the school of hard-knocks , neo-realistic film-making , does do what he can with his mostly non-professional cast ( those who look most like real actors are subjugated to the roles of the corporate characters ) , but the two stars Mark Frechette and Daria Halprin seem as if Antonioni's under-directing them . Perhaps that was the point . The story's split into three acts , thankfully not too confusing , as Mark escapes his existence around the boiling , dangerous campus life going on in the circa late 60's LA area , and Daria is sent out from LA to drive to Phoenix for some business meeting . They meet by chance as Mark's plane ( how does he know how to drive , maybe a little background info there ? ) and Daria's car meet up , and they spend some time together in an existential kind of groove out in the desert . Aside from a stylistically mesmerizing if bizarre sex scene , much of this act isn't terribly interesting . The two leads are fair enough to look at , but what exactly draws them to each other outside of curiosity ? The ideas that come forth ( in part from a screenplay co-written by Sam Shepard ) aren't too revealing , except for one brief instant where drugs vs . reality is brought up . Then the film heads towards the third act , as Mark decides to do the right thing , under disastrous circumstances , and Daria arrives at her boss ' place , only to be in full disillusionment ( not taking into account the infamous last five minutes or so of the film ) . Although the film took its time telling its story , I didn't have as much of a problem with that as I did that the story only engages a certain kind of viewer . I understand and empathize with the feelings and doubts and fears as well as the self-confidence of the " anti-establishment " , but maybe Antonioni isn't entirely fully aware of it himself . In some scenes he as director and editor ( and the often astounding cinematography by Alfio Contini ) find the scenery and backgrounds more enlightening and fixating than the people in the foreground . Not to say the technical side of Zabriskie Point isn't involving to a degree ( this may make some feel drowsy , as Antonioni is probably far greater as a documentary filmmaker as he is a theatrical director like say Francis Ford Coppola is ) . The deserts , skies , city , and even the faces in close-ups are filmed with the eye of a filmmaker in love with the art of getting things in the frame , bringing us in . The soundtrack is equally compelling , with a master stroke including a sweet Rolling Stones song at one point , and then a crushing , surreal Pink Floyd song ( re-titled from ' Careful with that Axe Eugene , one of their best pre-Dark Side ) in the explosion sequence . If only the performances weren't so one-sided I might find this to be on par with Blow-Up or The Eclipse . It's an unconventional stroke of genius on one hand , and on the other a boring take on what was the hippie / radical movement of the late 60's . But hey , what may be boring for an American such as myself born in the eighties may not be to others outside the US , such as say , Italy . And it does ask to not be discarded right away after one viewing .
Good animated entertainment ; not as good as I remember it	: : RE-EDIT : : I recall I wrote this line in a review for Titan AE back when it first came out : " I love films that add or have computer animation ( especially when the film itself is animated ) . . . Great stuff here to see . For any one , kid , animation lover , etc . " Comments like these should make me put a paper bag over my head in shame for their ineptitude and naiveté , and my only excuse was that I didn't know much better . Seeing the film again , I'm still impressed by a good lot of the animation , and the story still works almost in spite of the very thin story . The voice work is also top-notch , which helps , especially with an unlikely villain in Nathan Lane . Unfortunately , it's nowhere near the level of quality and artistry that Don Bluth had with his 80s movies , and if it is his last movie as director it wouldn't quite be the best note to go out on . And yet , if you have a kid , or are one , and are browsing through the video store for something visually appetizing once all the PIXAR and other Dreamworks CGI movies are swallowed up , this one can suffice .
has the good old B-noir spirit of Fuller , with a couple of flaws	I had fun through most of House of Bamboo , Samuel Fuller's second widescreen , first filmed out-of-the-US picture , even as I knew at the end it wasn't too special . It's got some memorable scenes with the two male leads , the kind of seemingly hard-boiled actors that probably wouldn't shake much if you hit them with some punches . And the whole plot line of the American crime ring in Tokyo in 1955 gives enough room for Fuller to realize some of the acting , camera and editing possibilities at his big-studio disposal . Robert Stack is in one of his best early parts as a would-be big crook undercover for the US army who infiltrates Robert Ryan's ' organization ' , where its tightly run to the point where Ryan's ready and willing to kill his own if wounded in the moment of crime . On top of this , Stack falls for a ' kimono ' who was married to a late-member of the crime team . But will the deceiving remain ? The majority of the film works under the crime parts of the story , where in some scenes ( maybe or maybe not in the new cinema-scope style ) Fuller just keeps the camera on the scene without cutting . This room and space and time does create the right tension - and occasional humor - in the right spots . And Ryan is also up to task as the cold antagonist . Yet if there are parts of the film that are lesser than the bulk of it I'd say it would be with the ' Kimono ' Mauriko , played by Shirley Yamaguchi . Her part in the story is mandatory to be sure , but it is just so-so in the writing and delivery , as far as such a formula would allow . And it is probably more of the writer's fault and even on Yamaguchi's end , arguably , than Fuller's . There are also some typical , dated bits of ' lost in translation ' moments that may be part of the deal in making the very first Hollywood movie filmed entirely in Tokyo - they're of doing the job for the entertaining parts of the picture . Nonetheless , House of Bamboo is a more than decent example of what can be done with other material from one setting into another ( both from a 40's noir , Street with No Name , and from US to Japan ) . There is also a sweet , if not greatly paced , climax in a wheel machine on a roof . It's gritty machismo with fun , with enough pure Fuller to suffice the studio standards .
slightly genre-confused , but still a good comedy / horror show	Shaun of the Dead has of the most ingenious British comedy of 2004 , or for that matter the past several years , and even has that appeal that romantic comedies only wish they could achieve in their timing and believable characters , however slacker-ish they are here . Then there's something interesting that goes on as Edgar Wright gets enveloped in making a pure zombie movie , and , for me , odd as it sounds , it doesn't totally work . I could understand why the shift comes , as danger looms in with the un-dead taking over the British village Pegg and Frost have to defend at all costs . At the same time , it's not quite as fulfilling as the razor-sharp satire and visual wackiness that went on in the main chunk of the picture . This being said , it's the kind of " cult " movie that works at its best because it feeds off of said previous " cult " movies like a flesh-eater on an intestinal tract ; it knows how stupid it would be , however entertaining in an abstract way , if the un-dead started to rise and took over a little town or suburb or other . " Let's go to the pub " isn't too far of a stretch for these guys as the mall was in Dawn of the Dead . As it stands , from having seen the film quite a while ago , it stays fresh in your mind for a while , for what works wonderfully in its violent and absent-minded glory ( hmm , what's really going on here , is the tone for the first part ) , as well as a plum supporting role from Bill Nighy , and from what doesn't quite work . The last section , unfortunately , doesn't quite strike up the same level of delirious humor that it should , and ironically compared to the original Dawn of the Dead's last section , it's dead-pan without being hilarious , and just a straight-forward horror-fest . Which is fine , but the shift is sort of jarring and something that I didn't think quite recovered by the end of the film , albeit with the nice wink in the final shot . It's the kind of good British comedy that works best with a bunch of friends and a totally tuned-in sense of humor . . . or , perhaps , just someone looking for a different level of social satire with their zombie movie .
captivating as a subject , so-so as documentary	I got introduced to Slavoj Zizek through his under-seen Lacan-style analysis of cinema called the Pervert's Guide to Cinema , and was immediately taken in by his very sharp mind , oddball sense of humor , and dead-on analysis of the nature of cinema and the Freudian psychology . This little documentary by first-time director Astra Taylor basically follows Zizek around , usually without much control visually ( her main tactic is to get her in close-up , which isn't smart since he's always animated , if still controlled ) , but always obtaining what Zizek is all about . He gets a person's mind moving about so many subjects : the super-ego and it's ties to capitalism , the need to associate oneself with ideology and the dangers with that , how to use philosophical ideas meaningfully , and what belief plays a role in politics and psychological interpretations . Not limited to these topics are all on Zizek's mind , and all of his points reveal him as a man with unlimited intelligence , even as his mind goes so fast it becomes something of a task to keep up with him . Little moments Taylor captures add idiosyncrasies one might not expect from someone as such a Marxist and Lacan-follower ( however NOT a Dogmatic Lacan-follower as he says ) , including showing off his son's toys , and shopping for movies at Kim's Video in New York City , or how he tries to look for a restaurant . But for the most part , Zizek ! at it's best - and it's best to look at for its substance , not its style - brings to mind the nature of philosophy for the individual , how politics ends up feeding into the public's consciousness by way of wanting more " enjoyment " , or what enjoyment really means . It's almost TOO short , and one who becomes fascinated by Zizek's theories and very straightforward interpretations of subjects that should be more complicated by how he describes them sees that sometimes he gets cut off from what is such a long and amazing description or drawn-out thought . But if one is interested already in the man , it should provide some fun and food-for-thought seeing the man in down-to-earth form for the cameras , and newcomers may or may not take to the man's theories . Like Pervert's Guide , some things will fly over your head , but what sticks makes for some of the most insightful commentary in recent years .
I'll say it - it's a fan-boy movie , no more no less . as a short shot of guilty pleasure , not bad	I saw this online recently and it was not quite what I had expected . First off , the production quality is , if nothing else , rather , surprisingly top-notch . It obviously would have to go through a lot of arbitration and legal wrangling to legitimately be shown anywhere ( think of what Warner brothers and Fox would do in order to get this out there , which might not be much since they already protect their own franchises ) . But there was a good deal of money put into it , and it looks terrific in terms of the creature design , location , technical aspects on all various fronts . It certainly isn't some kids with Party City costumes floating around with a camcorder on a street . That being said , lets call a spade a spade : it's a fan-boy movie . It starts off with a heated one-on-one with Batman and Joker ( not bad actor playing the dark knight , though the one playing Joker , dare I say it , goes a little over the top too much ) . Then an alien from the FOX comes along and kills joker , and then Predator from FOX also comes along to fight Batman , and this is what ends up mostly being the short . It's action packed and with , well , lots and lots of predators as the film goes on . In the sense of being a guilty pleasure , of watching it and enjoying it even as the better sensibility says that it's pretty stupid , it's really not that bad . But it's definitely not what some people have put on such a high pedestal , which is that it's better than ANY other Batman-related feature ever created . Nice try , but there needs to be a STORY , not just a bunch of crazy franchise-cross-pollinating .
sometimes kind of ridiculous , but it holds the attention and stirs the pot a little	I didn't go into Street Kings expecting a masterpiece , and I didn't get one . What I did expect is what I got , more or less : a competently made corrupt cops drama that throws on some heap-loads of stereotypes ( not just racially or ethnically but just movie stereotypes , which may possibly be true to form them ) , and even crazy hysterics . If there is any significant achievement it's in taking the cop movie into such depraved depths it's like looking at a very entertaining infected boil : you know it'll pop any minute , and the pus might just run out a little bit here and there till there's more to squeeze out . There's almost an underlying current of hopelessness that gives the movie some intellectual lift , but at the same time it's such a time-waster that unless you're hardcore fans of the actors it's just about worth a rental . Keanu Reeves goes from wooden to soggy-bottom wood as a cop who has been doing some dirty tricks to catch the bad guys lately ( like setting up two Koreans - who are bad dudes for sure - by having them jack his car and then catching up with them to pop caps in their behinds ) , and he might be ratted out by his former partner . But when his partner is killed in very conspicuous circumstances , he goes to investigate it further while on a quasi-probation for even being at the scene of the crime ( the crime , by the way , has one of the cheesiest " don't die on me " moments I've ever seen , laughably bad in how it's executed , no pun intended ) . Now , the conclusion shouldn't be at ANY surprise to anyone in the audience who's at least seen ONE other work by James Ellroy , the film's co-writer . What does give it just a bit of extra lift is the extreme quality of the conclusion , how things seem so ridiculous that in any other hands this would be total nonsense . David Ayer , the director ( and writer of Training Day , the perennial new millennium corrupt-cop saga ) , does have a good handle on the material though , even with ham-bone performance ; Forest Whitaker is one of them , sadly , as he basically retreads his persona from The Last King of Scotland as the " King " of the corrupt cops . There is some not too shabby work , like a nearly phoned-in-from-House performance from Hugh Laurie ( not unappreciated if you are a House fan ) , but it's mostly from supporting players like Jay Mohr in odd mustache and Common , the rapper , as one of the ' thugs ' . It all kind of blends together as a pulpy orange of a B movie , good for something to not ponder too long over , but not as horrible as you might expect for a genre piece . It's a flavor of the season .
a Woody Allen scripted screwball sex comedy , and it works	This swinging ' 60s comedy of crazy manners was Woody Allen's first screenplay produced - with himself playing a role that he definitely wrote specifically for himself - and it shows how a writer can pour out all idea into one form and make it work , sort of . It's all over the place and not altogether successful , but I liked it . It's a screwball farce about a perpetual womanizer ( Peter O'Toole ) who can't keep one woman walking on another let alone one woman alone . Therapy doesn't help either , as his therapist ( Peter Seller , hilarious in a stupid haircut ) is as addicted as he is . Soon it's all out blitzkrieg of women , from one end to another , and it's a laugh ( almost ) a minute . It does veer on becoming more than a tad confusing - which woman is which ? Maybe one can tell the difference on repeat viewings , on who O'Toole is surprised to see next , who may ( or may not ) be the one who wants to marry him , and who he may pick up at random in night , with or without Sellers's unconventional doctor , and spend the night with . Some jokes just fly over one's head , as they're meant to be fast as hell with the dialog and a little strange with the physical movements . O'Toole , in an odd way , is even more apt at playing a clumsy yet successful womanizer than he was at playing an epic hero in Lawrence of Arabia . Sellers , donning an accent similar to that of his Dr . Strangelove character , is dependably nutty as the doctor who tries his best to help out his patients , but is almost too desperate - i . e . suicide attempt - and finally comes around back to the screwball fold . There's not much of a plot , but it doesn't matter ; as long as you know what to expect - O'Toole and company ( including a first-timer klutz Allen who gets one woman to fall asleep on him with the drink he fixes her ! ) are up to the challenge of making a silly farce that has aged only somewhat decently . It's not really a ' must-see ' , but for fans of the actors , specifically Sellers and Allen ( who share a great scene on a riverbank ) , it's worth the while of a couple of hours with a few drinks .
has a satirical appeal that isn't razor sharp , but good enough ; Lohan's best starring role to date	Looking past all the media hoopla , maybe not as deserved at all as some people might think , to the star Lindsay Lohan , she does have enough talent past the sweet-natured personality and beautiful looks . And for her skills she is put to very good use in the film Mean Girls , not as vicious and confused as its 80's comparison Heathers , but with a much more clever view comedy wise on high school life - particularly among teenage girls - than any given teen comedy of the past half decade . Screenwriter Tina Fey is most to credit here , as she is able to take adapt this tale into something that can be appealing to more , possibly , than the typical just-teen-crowd . Does it reach even further into other satire of life like Election ? Not as much as one might think . It's a little too goofy for that , and it is this that also gives Lohan and the good supporting cast some room to make some laughs . It's a look at a class system in the high-schools of the movies , where the teen-girl upper class ' click ' ( called the Plastics ) are what Lohan's character wants to take down alongside her new friends . But much as in a kind of corporate environment , she gets involved deep undercover becoming a ' plastic ' , and its inevitable wretched side involving a ' burn book ' . Some of the steam that's built up in the first half of the film starts to fizzle out towards the end , even as there is a hysterically funny moment involving Rachel McAdam's character on a road outside of the high school . And , without a doubt , some of the jokes fall flat . But Lohan herself is a big part of the success of the movie , as her personality , with all the appeal of the better teen-girl stars of the post-modern age ( a little more sultry than the John Hughes girl but with a certain fresh side as well ) . There's also a perfect scene involving the plastics at a talent show , in complete Santa-suit regalia . It's a fun little drip of a teen comedy that I've watched a couple of times on TV since it was released two years back , nothing special but certainly not forgettable either .
lacking in some ways and stronger in others , it's a good - if mixed - Eastwood bag	It's a strange thing to see a film where some scenes work rather weakly ( if only in comparison to other films in its legacy ) , and others in a ' sub-plot ' or supporting story are surprisingly provocative and strong . Sudden Impact is one of those cases , where Clint Eastwood as star / producer / director shows when he can be at his best , or at his lessor of times when dealing with a crime / mystery / detective story in his Dirty Harry fame . We get that ' make my day ' line , and un-like in the first film where his ' do I feel lucky ' speech was playful and cool the first time and the second time at the end tough as nails , here it's switched around . He gets into another shamble with the department , as usual , when he tries to fight crime ' his ' way , in particular with a diner robbery ( inspiration for Pulp Fiction ? ) and with a high speed pursuit with a senior citizen bus . He's told to ' take a vacation ' , and that's the last thing on his mind . This whole main plot isn't very convincing aside from the expectancy of the story and lines , which just adds to the frustration . But soon his story merges with the sub-plot that Eastwood develops from the start . Enter Sandra Locke's character , Jennifer Spencer , whom we soon learn after some ( appropriately ) mysterious scenes that she and her shy sister were victims of a cruel , unjust sexual assault ( err , outright rape ) , and is sleekly , undercover-like , getting revenge . Her scenes and story are the strongest parts of the film , the most intense , and finally when it goes into Callahan's storyline ( he's getting facts in the same small town she's in on a murder ) , the film finally finds a focus between Eastwood's classic form of clearly defined good vs . evil ( though sometimes blurred , to be sure ) . Eastwood films the flashbacks , not to say too much about them , expertly , in a fresh , experimental style ; the trademark Lalo Schifrin score is totally atmospheric in these scenes and in others . It almost seems like a couple of times an art-house sensibility has crept into Eastwood's firmly straightforward storytelling style , which helps make the film watchable . It's a shame , though , that in the end it goes more for the expectable ( or maybe not expectable ) points , and until the third act Callahan doesn't have much to do except his usual ' it's smith . . . Wesson . . . and me ' shtick . However , with Locke he gets out of her a very good performance ( more subtle and touching than the one in the Gauntlet ) and an exciting climax at an amusement park . In a way I do and don't agree with Ebert's remark that it's like a ' music video ' in Eastwood's style here . I admit there is comparisons with the simplicity of both , the directness , but the scenes where Eastwood does break form are superior to those of any music video . It's cheesy , it's hard-edged , it's not up to par with the first two ' Harry ' pictures , but hey , there could be worse ways to spend a couple hours with the master of the . 44 .
this is quite something , and whatever it is the Mothers might be able to say what it is . . .	I need to watch this again . That's something of a compliment , I think . Maybe I shouldn't think regarding a movie - so called - like 200 Motels . It's the kind of picture where the term ' freewheeling rock & roll comedy ' would pop up as an example in the dictionary . As I recall there's nothing by way of plot to describe , except that the ' Mothers ' , Frank Zappa's band that he had early on his career , have to deal with the stress and issues of the road . This is interspersed with live musical performances ( not just music played and then with other music dubbed over it , but live on film , er videotape ) , and some other odd little tidbits . But to use the word ' odd ' with 200 Motels is too kind , and in fact just too bland . Maybe for some fans of experimental cinema it's still too rooted in trying to be funny to really accomplish anything truly groundbreaking . And to others it might just seem like Zappa is whackin it cinematically onto videotape . But it's hard to discount the ' period ' value of the movie too , and I did have quite a few good laughs at some of the ( as a given ) random stuff that occurred throughout . There's even a spot-on cool turn by Ringo Starr as the " fake " Frank Zappa . Also , the music , which is what many will seek out 200 Motels for - not least of which Zappa's fans , of which I am more or less depending on the album - is pretty awesome and delightfully whacked out , even if it's a little much into the ' riffs ' as opposed to Zappa's more well known tracks like Nanook and Montana . The Royal Symphony Orchestra accompaniment allows for Zappa to go ambitious with what he intends , which is not hard at all for him really considering that he IS more of a composer than a typical rock n roll guitarist . If I can't recommend the movie as much as I might want to though it's because it is the kind of experimental 60s-70s ' lets-go-wild-with-style ' picture that does meander in spots , or rather because of its lack of sense if not in the right frame of mind ( possibly one not under stimulants ) it'll seem like trash . I do need to see it again to completely take in what specifically I liked in what scenes . Yet if you happen to come across this by chance in your video store or in some other markets , just read the back and you'll get an idea . If you take the chance and watch it , you might find that it's got some of the most bizarre , deranged , kooky and just plain weird fun type scenes in any non-traditional rock movie ever . That Zappa was a fervent anti-drug musician makes some of this all the more unique , or stupid , or both . This may also put off some of Zappa's fans who like the music but can't stand visuals and gags almost stuck in a time capsule . I dug it though , and I hope to ' dig it ' again .
not my favorite Nick Ray film by far , but it's worth viewing as a " essential " from the 50s	I put quotations around the words " essential " in that one line because , really , I'm not totally sure what essential means really when it comes to seeing films from that decade . The general consensus - on which one might dub a film like Rebel Without a Cause overrated - is that this film is THE film on teenage angst and dislocation from the adults of the period , and that it's essential because of James Dean , or that it might be considered director Nicholas Ray's best film . For me though , " essential " is a very subjective term , and one person's essential being this film is another one's essential being Bigger Than Life or In a Lonely Place , films that get some notice in the film circles but not enough when placed against a film like the one here . It's the kind of picture I end up recommending , but not exactly under the terminology of how I would find it to be essential or not , because I don't really . It's not a sort of seminal , staggeringly entertaining and artistically satisfying work about being an outsider in the 50s like On the Waterfront or even one most people wouldn't think of like Ikiru . From a historical perspective , however , and for the significance of James Dean , it is worth a viewing , at least once , if you want to know at least what the industry leaned towards in the 50s . Now , on to the actual film - it's the story of Jim Stark , who is disaffected and with a sort of glow about him ( if glow is the word , maybe just , um , malaise ) , and its more of a reflection on his parents ( Jim Backus , who is actually quite good here , and Ann Doran as his mother ) than on society as a whole . Not that society doesn't have a part in Jim's emotional downward spiral . He's a kid who ends up getting connected to violence ( ' Don't call me chicken ' is coined famously , and maybe unintentionally amusingly , by Dean in this film ) , and all the while Dean plays him very calmly and coolly , with his big emotional bursts strong and piercing . But as I've yet to see his other two big cinematic roles in East of Eden or Giant , I can't compare one to the other or not . On its own , his turn today almost borders on being too melodramatic , even too stuck in the period ( Brando , as mentioned before , had the ' normalcy of detachment and cool ' down to a T unlike Dean here who is good if not great ) . He's followed along by compelling supporting work by Sal Mineo and Natalie Wood , as equally disaffected youth , but in different ways that end up clinging the three of them together . The story , as much as it tries to , isn't really as convincing as it tries to be , and unfortunately to me doesn't hold up like it should . The convincing bits are still there , and some scenes are revelatory into the little things about teenagers , like the trip inside the planetarium - no matter how tough they think they are or act or anything , they can still be amazed by some things , the unknown that is . And the fight that happens after-wards - along with the ' chickie ' drag race at night that leads to a tragic turn of events - are classic Ray-directed moments . But the classically trained style of film-making by Ray , with the level of subversion still there under the surface of the immediate context , isn't as fulfilling when given to the story and characters and acting . Some characters are just outright silly or so one-dimensional that you can't believe someone like Dean's character would have to deal with them at all . Even an emotionally complex scene like the " it's tearing me apart " speech doesn't hit quite as hard as it might have in 1955 . By the end of it all , I knew Rebel Without a Cause was worth viewing , but as an immediate masterwork of the Hollywood system ? I'm not really sure on that , and certainly not if one's talking about essentials from the director .
Hitchcockian in ( most of ) the ways that matter ; predictable , but entertaining	Wes Craven's had an interesting year in 2005 , among a handful of directors that are ( perhaps unintentionally ) having two films released in one year . And both films are homages , or at least linked somehow to another style of film-making . His Cursed , the flawed but satisfying B-werewolf movie was one , and his Red-Eye is another . I mention Hitchcock because 1 ) Craven acknowledges Hitchcock's major influence in a doc on the ' master ' ( so it's not like his style in the film is out of thin air ) , and 2 ) it is something of note to finding the success of the film . For an hour and a half , Craven puts the audience on a thrill ride that actually delivers the goods , and even in the last fifteen minutes when the plot goes into average Hollywood-chase / action mode , it's still doesn't go for the easy shots in the formula . In fact , there is much that is linked with the kind of thrillers that made Hitchcock world renown . He presents us with our stars : the woman being beautiful , intelligent , on her feet but not above showing her vulnerability ( Rachel McAdams ) , and the man being charming , alluring , and above all very dangerous in a realistic , if theatrical , way ( Cilian Murphy ) . Both are perfectly cast as the story unfolds - the heroine's father ( Brian Cox ) is in the cross-hairs of an assassination plot , being partly orchestrated by Murphy's character . The two of them are seated next to each other on a plane , where the tenseness of these scenes are upped by not just the claustrophobia of the location , but by the choices of close-ups on the characters . In a way Craven tries to leap off on methods and angles in Hitchcock's films and make it his own , and he does , usually for good results . Another aspect to the film that kept it entertaining , as would be in a ' master's ' film , are the supporting players , the kind of swell of humanity that is on the plane ( the little old lady with the Dr . Phil book ; the two kids with a pen missing ; a very smart little girl ) that helps to give a full feeling of the real suspense . Although Craven ( and the writing ) aren't as keen with the sense of humor - which was one of the flaws of the film for me - the parts all seem to fit when it has to , and by the end I knew I didn't have to take it too seriously . It is slightly different territory from the crazy horror films that made Craven go from a cult hero to a Hollywood star director , but nothing is too out of place , and for a Saturday matinée serial I could have done a lot worse considering this summer's selection . It's a short ( maybe too short ) , effective genre film that should also work for those in the audience who have no idea whom Craven is tipping the hat to . For fans of the ' master ' , it's not a cheap knock-off style-wise , either .
even the lesser of Harry's is substantial as B-action fare	The biggest liability for me with the Dead Pool is that there isn't , at least for me , the kind of balance between the savage wit / irony and the hard-boiled drama and action of the earlier films . There are some laughs of course , in particular with a young Jim Carrey as a rock star ( also , likely the only time you'll see him as a junkie on film ) , and with some good jabs at Harry's ' kung-fu ' style partner . But sometimes the humor isn't as sporadic ; anytime Liam Neeson tries to be amusing , he isn't , and his curiously is not one of his better performances . The story has some interest : Harry , as usual against the system and more and more against the scum of San Francisco , is up against a ' dead pool ' of names of celebrities picked to die , him one of them . This brings on a series of scenes , and not without the cohesion of the previous films , but something sort of missing or replaced in shape of it . There aren't any real compelling underlying statements about society , aside from the movie business stuff , which isn't as striking as say corruption in the police ( Magnum Force ) or a woman's own sense of justice ( Sudden Impact ) . The highlight , however , is definitely worth watching for the film - a car chase that involves the most clever little car ever devised for an action film of this sort ( the direction , surprisingly , is of a much higher quality in this sequence than in the rest of the film , aside from the music video shoot perhaps ) . Sturdy enough of a film , but far from greatness .
a bleepin ' funny movie . . . the kind that might make you say bleep a lot , or join LAIR	There's a joy to watching smart writing with totally tasteless dialog , and Role Models fulfills that joy even while staying fairly predictable with most recent comedies . Anybody familiar with the " Apatow formula " ( in quotes since there isn't really one unless you've not watched many comedies ever ) knows the shlubs or outsider characters put into an extraordinary ( or untenable or just strange ) set of circumstances , there's some bonding or growing closer romantically or just emotionally , the third-act kicks off with a conflict that is understandable but all connected with the plot mechanics , and everything ends pretty close to a purity of ' tidy ' . Luckily , the director , David Wain , has his own way of doing things , not too dissimilar to Apatow's bunch , which is to fill in these plot points with fantastic comic actors and enough improvisation to impress the Upright Citizens convention . So , in short , the movie is very funny , sometimes so much so that you'll laugh for several seconds just about what you just laughed at ( the Marvin Hamlisch line in this instance was one of those , plus anything having to do with KISS ) , and features Paul Rudd in another good disaffected-character turn and Seann William Scott's funniest in so long as I can remember . The premise , which is slightly thin but fine nevertheless , is that Rudd and Scott play kind-of friends working for an energy drink company ( the truck itself is a larf aimed at the Minotaur ) and after a particularly bad day Rudd drives the truck through a horse statue and the two of them get sent to community service looking after awkward / deviant children . Then , as want to happen , they bond with the kids ( one a curse-a-second black kid and a young teen dork with his obsession being LAIRE role-playing ala D & D ) and one or two lessons are learned on love and friendship and so on . This premise could work with just Rudd and Scott , who are capable actors , but the minor genius here is to surround themselves with funnier or just go-for-broke people . Jane Lynch , for example , not only steals every scene she's in but threatens to steal the entire movie as the ex-coke head manager of the ' Wings ' center for the kids , as she has replaced all of her drugs and " BS " for , well , the children . On top of this is also Superbad's McLovin ( Mintz-Plasse ) as Auggie , the role-playing nerd who brings out the best ( or just the un-tapped de-cynical ) in Rudd , and the newcomer ( Thompson ) who plays the young kid with the libido of a 20 year old ( or would-be libido ) and the mouth of a two-ton sailor . For the latter , he almost becomes a little wearisome with a kind of " shtick " of the kid saying ( insert f bomb or crazy insult ) every few seconds - and yet , this , as with the LAIRE fighting and the gratuitous sex stuff ( there's an Ambien joke that kind of rocks , plus a quick one-liner about a child sex-trade that's a bleeping winner , scuse the language ) , doesn't get too irksome of corny or whatever . If you need to watch a dirty comedy with kids and crazy nerd stuff and fake medieval fighting and another good Paul Rudd performance - ye turn here .
great on imagery , but some of the actual story is . . . lost on me	For sixteen minutes Czech animator and filmmaker Jan Svankmajer does his job well with getting a real terror and doom and gloom and deconstruction of the house of Usher , one of those quintessential spots of horror of Poe . In just watching the images go by and the stop-motion utilized in creative and unexpected ways involving the house and walls and pools of water and mud , it's amazing work . But the problem for me was in the actual translation of the story itself . Perhaps it's being only most familiar with English , so with the DVD subtitles going by at a quick clip that it's hard to keep up with keeping an eye on all of these dark visions put on the screen . That there's also a complete lack of any actors ( unless one counts a sole raven among the cast ) is also a deterrent since the story features all of these characters decomposing along with the damned house itself . It's an expressionist experiment , somewhat reminiscent of parts of Last Year at Marienbad , but it's only successful in part because of the director's dedication to the imagery . It's great pictures put to a so-so execution of " story " if there is much of one at all ; maybe I'll learn Czech one say and it'll appear better .
goes from being really stupid to some kind of brilliance . . . and then stupidity again	If you asked me what compelled R Kelly to make Trapped in the Closet , I wouldn't the foggiest clue . Maybe it was a call from Jesus , or some higher power that only comes to people whilst on the heaviest of psychotropics . But whatever it was , this is a work where you can never be completely sure whether or not Kelly was serious or not with what he was going ( in some interviews he takes himself perhaps far too seriously than someone with his reputation ever should ) . He absurdly takes the angle of infidelity to one crazy step after another , until we're met with a very scary notion of a midget in a cop's cabinet . Did I mention the music ? Yes , there is , of course , God awful music that doesn't vary in the slightest for the entire 45 minute running time ( filled with sounds of droplets and , well , you'll have to hear it for yourself in all cringe-worthy glory ) . Everything is sung by Kelly , playing over all the parts , and it becomes clear very quickly this is some kind of vanity project taken to a whole other level . First we have the man himself , played by Kelly , trapped in a closet of his mistresses , then there's the mistress's husband comes home , THEN the husband's man mistress , followed by R's wife , then . . . Should I keep going on , or will it kill the suspense ? How much you enjoy this series , basically , depends on how much you can take R Kelly singing out a wretched soap opera , like some Z-grade director with aspirations to be legit , and at times the circumstances not making any sense whatsoever . In fact , I probably did deep down really dislike this series , but somehow I couldn't stop watching , and laughing my dumbfounded head off . I applaud R Kelly for this achievement , but against all my better reasoning .
HR Giger as creative consultant , hmm . .	Killer Condom is the kind of movie that goes below the belt of B-movie ( though above the Z-movies that Troma usually churns out like butter ) , and somehow through its German-made / set in New York ways it's actually watchable . Or , to put it another way , it's what the VH1 channel might dub as ' awesomely bad ' . You know the kind of awesomely bad movie - it's when something is up on screen that is really despicable and horrid and , as others have pointed out , trashy , but at the same time it's also done unpretentiously in its quasi German art-house sect . I'd almost imagine if Wim Wenders had to fill a quota for Lloyd Kaufman by gun-point this might be it . Or maybe not . Maybe it's just an idea for a movie that gets cross-bled with a gay love-story involving a cop - Udo Samuel as Luigi Mackeroni ( yeah , the only Italian-name pun that has surpassed what Nintendo did for Mario ) - who in the midst of investigating multiple cases of a certain creature of the picture's title taking away genitalia , is in the cross-hairs of not only a male love-triangle with Bob ( err , Bebette ) , but also a random guy that always calls him ' Cop ' . That he stills pines for Sicily doesn't help matters , especially with something personal of his , which I dare not reveal , that he loses early on in a very inane , odd way . Director Martin Walz is adapting from a comic book apparently , but I wondered when watching it if how much was taken from the book and how much he just threw in on his own cognizance . It's a stupid movie , when you think about it , but it's the kind of stupidity that I actually don't mind watching , at least in 80 minute doses . And at times individual scenes take on a kind of brilliant absurdism that's a combination of just seeing the condom go to town ( and just move around in general ) , the reactions from those around it with either disbelief or malaise that no one really gets what's going on , and the Gay material that goes past making fun of itself and almost becomes endearing in its all-too-what-the-hell ways . Don't look for logic here , is what I'm saying , particularly in the last twenty minutes as the filmmakers go to lengths to explain how the killer condom phenomena occurred , even as it comes closest to justifying Giger's involvement in the project ( there is an uncanny relation to this and some of the Alien movies , particularly with what's almost a ' Queen Condom ' ) . Killer Condom is many things , but great art likely wont be one of them . But unlike some other horror movies that have terrific titles , this one wasn't as much of a disappointment as it could have been . At the least Samel is consistent with his character's tough but sort of sensitive character , and what's laughably dumb about it goes alongside the director's more lofty visual ambitions . As it says on the front cover , it's both a Troma video release AND an entry into the Berlin Film Festival .
this works because of two things : Steve Carell , and Mel Brooks inspired zaniness , among some minor factors	Get Smart is fun stuff , and a lot of it can be credited to its star , Steve Carell . If you find this guy funny , you'll like the movie , it's about that close to simplicity . What's great about what he does in the role is that he doesn't so some retread of the original character on the old Get Smart TV show , but makes it all his own . ' His own ' in that he injects what many of us love about him on the Office ; this is basically Michael Scott as a secret spy running missions across the world . This means that he's not exactly bumbling , or even too stupid , on the contrary he's actually usually pretty smart and surprises everybody ( mostly Agent 99 played by sexy Anne Hathaway ) with his intelligence . He's not a simple buffoon , but someone who keeps fouling up along the way but somehow staying oddly lovable in his tomfoolery and one-liners . Carell's a master at this stuff . The director Peter Segal , however , works with a predictable work-plan . Get Smart doesn't have that ingenious of a plot , and matter of fact pretty much all of the plot twists are predictable . Get Smart doesn't work for plot but for character and over-exaggeration , and for a certain zaniness that we can all thank to the Godfather of modern spoof comedy , Mel Brooks . While he was only the co-creator of the original series ( and a " consultant " credited alongside Buck Henry ) , his influence can be felt in the best parts of Get Smart . Aside from certain bits of comedy that are simply raunchy and crazy ( to list all would go on too long for this review ) , there are just things like certain names ( the one that stuck with me was Nudnuk Shpilkis , which is hilarious if you can get the Yiddish present ) , or in possible one-liners delivered with deadpan accuracy ( I fell on the floor laughing at an Alan Arkin line regarding a swordfish through a windshield ) . What Segal might lack in direction then , the actors and the spirit , if not the body and mind , of Brooks come to the rescue for the proceedings . It's always amusing if not laugh-out-loud stuff , and the spirits are always high and cool even when things could get sluggish with the story . Bottom line , when you get Bill Murray in a bit part as an lonely agent working out of a tree , you know you're in good hands .
the memorable Golden Years of Walt Kowalski	Seeing Clint Eastwood now is like looking at a face weathered away on a mountain ridge . The crevices go so deep on his face that one has to put that right alongside the voice , which is now so growl-like ( indeed Eastwood's Walt Kowalski does growl in some scenes ) that he would be a dead-ringer to play Batman if Frank Miller's Dark Knight Returns ever got adapted ( yeah , he's in his 50s in the comic book , it's not a stretch really for Clint when you think about it ) . At 78 , you wouldn't want to cross his path down a dark alley , or even just in a diner , without paying some proper respects . It's his presence , if nothing else , that makes Gran Torino compulsively watchable . It may be flawed with some of its dialog and plotting , as well as some key performances . But it's Clint Eastwood directing and Clint Eastwood the star acting in a near perfect two-dimensional performance ( it works best as that , anything too much explained actually defeats the strengths of Kowalski for the audience ) , which makes it a minor must-see . But there's more . Gran Torino showcases , in some scenes that have blistering comic effect , a rarity in movies : a drama about racism that focuses on a main character who is a kind of dying breed of pre-Baby-Boomer era racist blue-collar white workers who love drinking their beer , cursing out minorities ( sometimes just kidding around or what amounts to kidding around , sometimes definitely not ) . It is in that sense kind of like a Dirty Harry picture , in that Eastwood's character is an equal opportunity offender . But he also is wearing a similar hat to his Million Dollar Baby persona , complete with a pestering Priest and a protégé in Thao ( Bee Vang ) . He's a curmudgeon , and the kind that audience's eat up . At first , indeed , it's instantly comical , like a more parody-like take on the old-man Eastwood persona , grumbling around during his deceased wife's after-funeral dinner and while , well , sitting on his porch chugging Pabst Blue Ribbon and getting his shotgun out at those punk Asian gang-bangers having fights on his lawn . This leads to the obvious point that what Eastwood does as an actor makes it so watchable because it's layered : we get the " Get off my lawn ! " line that made the trailer look as funny as it is - this is , at least for a good half of the movie , a kind of comical Eastwood performance without ever breaking a sweat - and as a soul who can't seem to figure on knowing how to live since knowing death is kind of easy as a veteran . And yet , for all of the joy in watching an icon like him on screen , and for some of the memorable scenes that make it enjoyable ( oddly enough , since it's not as good a film as it , more enjoyable conventionally than Changeling from just two months ago ) , its not up to snuff with what Eastwood's done this decade at his best . In his 70s he's been more or less on a roll , making masterpieces like Mystic River and Letters from Iwo Jima and even near-excellent pics like Million Dollar Baby . Gran Torino , sadly , isn't one of them ; for everything that Eastwood has going for him as star of the picture , he doesn't cast the bulk of the supporting parts well : Vang is actually dead-flat or just flubbing a lot of this character of Thao , and his sister Sue ( Her ) doesn't far much better . The Father ( Carley ) is decent but ineffective , and these kinds of average pieces of acting surrounding Eastwood magnify some of the phoned-in qualities in the script . While it goes without saying Gran Torino is nowhere near as hackneyed as Crash or lame as Guess Who's Coming to Dinner , for every powerful scene dealing with racism in the picture there's another that's just a little too tidy . It works best to see Kowalski not changing much by the picture's end , being still pretty true to who he is as a good person and a mean SOB , as opposed to silly scenes with the Korean gang who are gone for very long chunks of time from the story . For everything that doesn't work with the picture though it's just a lot of fun seeing Eastwood as this character . I'm not sure it is his last performance , as I hope it wouldn't be ( as an optimist I'd hope he could find just one more icon-defining-and-redefining role before he moves on or retires ) , but it's not at all a sucker's way out of his iconic place . That's the way Clint , like Walt , would like it .
Not a top-shelf work of Wilder's , despite an iconic image and good dialog	Billy Wilder , as a Hollywood director , has done better than the Seven Year Itch , though I could think of worse ways to spend a Saturday afternoon with this film on TV . Perhaps one goes into the film with a misconception that it will be squarely a Marilyn Monroe film . But aside from a couple of small , enlightened appearances early on , this is really the Tom Ewell show as the star of the film . It's an extremely tongue-in-cheek , widescreen 50's comedy about a middle aged man who maybe has , much as he reads over a few times , " the repressive urge in the middle aged man " . Despite having a usual wife and plucky kid , who are off on vacation , his urges perhaps get the better of him with new neighbor Monroe living in the same apartment building . Aside from that iconic image that almost everyone familiar with Monroe knows - the shot of Monroe walking on the sidewalk and getting her dress blown up from the smoke below ( a sexual image that hasn't dated TOO much ) - this is more of a sexual comedy that has less laughs then it thinks . The problem is that unlike some of Wilder's other films , the script here just isn't as sharp as it might like to be . It's a little too ' audience-friendly ' in some respects , and despite some really funny bits as Ewell's character has his out-loud dialog going on by himself ( with his images of himself as a would-be ladies man ) , it isn't as successful as it might have been back in Hollywood-code era 1955 . This is the kind of role that would've been perfect for an actor like Jack Lemmon , not totally fulfilled as it is . Still , it's a good example of the appeal of Monroe , and some of the likability of Ewell . Just don't go into it expecting a masterpiece of 50's Hollywood , rather a sturdy , amusing piece of memorabilia as it might be .
has the makings of something greater , but it's too under-stated and secretive to really let a viewer in	I really wanted to love the Good Shepherd , but maybe like the main character of Edward Wilson it's a hard one to love even if one can admire / respect it in some ways . It's a film cluttered by being both too long and too short , where the pace feels plodding at times and with some unnecessary beats , and at the same time not developing quite enough on the points that could be more interesting . It's one of those films about a government agency ( in this case it's inception ) that I ended up liking more for what good things I saw than for the overall whole bang of the picture . I do have to give credit where it's due , however . Matt Damon , on a roll it seems after Syriana and the Departed , is at his most under-stated ( and rightfully so , probably taking cues from Robert De Niro , a man who has under-stated sometimes as his bread & butter ) in the role of Wilson , a man who sacrifices his own sense of truth for the honor of protecting the country , even if it means putting his own family into complete doubt about his character . Psychologically I was always in tune with what was going on , and like last year's Munich there's a good sense of demystification that goes on with how an organization is run / starts up . And De Niro has assembled such a top-notch cast it's hard to complain on that front ( with great character actors like John Tuturro , Michael Gambon , Alec Baldwin , Billy Crudup , William Hurt , Joe Pesci ) . What ended up tugging me away from seeing this as a better film was the storytelling , or the sort of pull from really feeling connected with the material . Things diverge around in sub-plots , and sometimes it's gripping ( like the torture scene with the Russian where LSD is used to try and reveal his name ) , but sometimes not so much , as with Wilson's affair with another woman . This side of it is a little murky for me - Angelina Jolie's character has an interesting start , with her practically jumping all over him when they meet , and once they marry and have a kid she becomes the dour note of his existence , even as he loves his son . I would've liked to have seen more about her , why she decided to be with him in the first place aside from the ultra-ambiguous " you look like husband material " line . It's also saddening , on the character-actor front , to see Joe Pesci ( who hasn't acted in 8 years ) in such a thankless part ; I thought he would be there for more scenes , but it seemed like De Niro added him in as an afterthought . What is compelling , however , does show De Niro as a very smart director with enough class to not spoon-feed the audience ' things ' that happen . It's got a main part to it that is worthwhile to tell , which is Wilson's connection to his son , and Wilson's connection to a Russian counterpart to his CIA operative as a Russian operative nicknamed Ulysses ( there's one scene I love that involved a violin , I won't say which ) . A lot of what the Good Shepherd brings makes for some good talk after it ends , but more so about what didn't work then what did . It has the makings to be one of the finest epics ever made in this decade , but sometimes even someone like Damon almost becomes TOO understated in his part - bordering on wooden - in being secret to the point of inertia . In the end , the Good Shepherd gives enough to subvert the spy film specifically on choices of mood and character , but it's also confused in how it decides to spend its time getting to the story that really counts .
solid fantasy for kids and Greek-God buffs , OK for everyone else	If you notice the credits listing , the film is directed by Desmond Davis and written by Beverley Cross - both pretty competent at directing and writing duties respectively - but if mentioning Clash of the Titans to someone , it would be most likely recommendable as a Ray Harryhausen picture . While he was only co-producer and creature of the special effects and creatures , its his mark that is most indelible and , frankly , the best reason to see the movie . If you're already big into learning and loving Greek mythology ( Zeus , Aprhodite , Medusa , Poseidon , and Zeus's son Perseus ) , then it should have some appeal as a mix-and-match of stories and lore strung together . It's about how Perseus has to save his future wife Andromeda from the Krakken ( not from Greek mythology , but it'll do ) , and has to get Medusa's head ! Luckily , he has the help of a little mechanical owl from the Gods , but he also has to contend with the monster son of Thetis , Calibos , and the ultimate task at hand . To say the least , it's one-dimensional acting and plotting and characterization , which maybe is accurate to the form of storytelling in the Greek days . Zeus is acted by Olivier as if it's a walk in the park , Maggie Smith is there for some OK work as a mad-God-mother who sets the story off , Harry Hamlin has the charm of a log , and Judi Bowker is beautiful as can be ; only Bugess Meredith injects a little life here and there as the poet / playwright Ammon . And yet , even with this , Clash of the Titans is entertaining as a fairly well directed adventure film that had I seen it for the first time as a kid I would've been impressed ( and yes , parents , show it to your CGI-addled tots and see their eyes light up at the cute and awesome owl and the terrifying Medusa ) . Most of all , it's another triumph for Harryhausen , where with clever editing , lots of dedication and craft , he makes these creatures and setting come alive in a kind of reality of fantasy , if that makes sense , that wouldn't be possible to capture in computer animation . Is it a little dated ? Sure , no argument there ; it was a kind of last hurrah for Harryhausen with this brand of sweeping mythological epic film-making , though it would still be another 10 years before T2 and Jurassic Park changed everything . But for what it's worth , it's rollicking fun for a Saturday morning .
the Making of Breathless , seen 33 years later by something of a " fan "	Hosted by French TV personality Claude Ventura , Chambre 12 , Hotel de Suede at first concerns the host / co-director staying at the same hotel and the same hotel room where Jean-Paul Belmondo and Jean Seberg stayed at in one of those quintessential man / woman in hotel room scenes in movies in Breathless . Then it goes into what it's really about : finding people to talk about how one of the most revolutionary films made in is time got made , the clashes , the little triumphs , the sense that " something " was happening even as the film got a bad reputation even before it got released and blew almost all people who saw it away . It's filmed by Ventura and a co-director in black and white , mimicking exact shots from Breathless ( to be fair , he is a geek for this stuff and shows it which is fine ) and including clips , perhaps pretentiously , on a little hand-held TV set . Some of the narration bits where Ventura continues to contemplate the " challenge " from Jean-Luc Godard , when he talked to him for 15 seconds on the phone and told him " Dream on " when he asked if he could ask questions about Breathless , don't stick entirely well . But thankfully this is only intermittently , and enough for Ventura to do what he's really good at which are the interviews . He gets Claude Chabrol , who was a " technical adviser " who actually didn't really do nothing much except give name power for Godard , Raoul Coutard , who reveals there was some pretty tight friction on the set , Jean-Paul Belmondo , who says there wasn't from Godard but admits the film didn't get the best reputation before it was released ( i . e . erratic shooting schedule , angry but fair producer de Beauregard , no sound shot during filming , weird editing process ) , and some minor players like Roger Hanin and even an old friend of Godard's from Geneva who admits that many little things in the film , character names and gestures are taken right from Godard's time in the Swiss city . A lot of this information is useful and entertaining if you're the kind of film buff who loves to watch documentaries on a making of a film where the people behind it don't hold much back ( especially in something as retrospective as a film made 33 years before ) . But even those who come across the doc who have just seen the film or are just getting into Godard and picked it up with the Criterion DVD will dig it . It gets to why Breathless was made at a real crossroads of the French film industry , and what made it so different from most films around ( even Truffaut and Chabrol's first films , which immediately preceded Godard ) . It's no A . K . or Lost in La Mancha as far as " making-of " docs go , but it's pretty good .
an uncommonly heartwarming film from Ingmar Bergman , splendid music and footage	The Magic Flute is a special kind of movie that may work better for fans of Mozart , or work better for fans of Bergman . And in general if you like opera it might hit your ' wow ' button as being something different . Before getting to it , I was almost taken aback as I watched it , as I thought perhaps Bergman had picked this opera due it being incredibly tragic or emotionally draining ( as I didn't know much about the opera aside from it being a Mozart one ) . It turns out this might be one of the only operas - maybe THE only - one I would consider ever watching again , or even hearing . As I'm not that big a fan of the kind of music ( unless it's being done by Visconti on film or Woody's Match Point ) , it was a pleasant surprise to see Bergman make the opera right on the stage , putting all the artifice where it belongs . The very beginning of the film is particularly striking and interesting , with all of the close-ups suggesting this could be something different than it is - maybe something more ' heavy ' - as it is once again lensed by Sven Nyvkist . But it isn't ; this , along with Smiles of a Summer Night , are the most light-hearted films ever made by the usually tragic and introspective filmmaker . Mozart's tale is that of any given fairy tale , the kind that you either give yourself completely to as when you were a kid or not much at all . Sometimes one of the problems that comes when I try and watch an opera is really ' getting ' a story out of it when I'm more focused on the singing and pageantry . But Mozart's story is simple enough - about a man ( Tamino , played by Josef Kostlinger ) trying to find a woman ( Pamina played by Irma Urrilla ) who has been offered to her by her mother the Queen , even as a bird hunter follows him . It could be a possible deterrent , too , with having the opera in total Swedish ( sometimes glancing down at the words , all simple to a level little children might sign at ) , but I didn't mind that much either after a while . This is partly due to Bergman and Nykvist ( and the production design and costumes and such , all lending to the more wonderful theatrical productions that Bergman was always capable of ) keeping a good , lush hold on the production values and mood . But it's also due to the performers being rather good in their archetypal roles . Along with this , Bergman incorporates this as being a production going on by once in a while going backstage as the opera goes through its motions , more or less , with ease . It's a nice send-up to have that , as Bergman recognizes that through all of the cheesy bits of sets and lights , the actors are really what counts . And , of course , the filmmaker also shows a genuine affection for the music , and it becomes one of Mozart's most memorable , lively pieces at different points , providing moving melodies and songs , and even some doses of comedy with the couple Papageno and Papagena . It might not be for those who just can't take opera or classical music , and it might be strange for some Bergman fans to see right after Cries and Whispers or Shame . But if you give yourself to the material , and realize how beautiful escapist it can be , Bergman still kicks in his own style , without too much getting in the way , and it often fits together without conflict .
Not one of Woody's best , but still . . .	Woody Allen has some misfires in this film and the documentary style might not always be perfect in this for a comedy ( then again , it is a Woody Allen finding his legs , with his short story and other writings being the most prominent kind of humor . But ( and a big but ) , there are various gags with Allen that are definitely some of the funniest from his early films . One involving him having to play cello in a marching band , another with a gag in jail , and his best scene , the " gub : stick-up scene which ranks among the funniest scenes not just for a Woody Allen film but possibly in just any modern comedy in the lengths it stretches to . Images like his parents in the sunny glasses and nose get-up is silly , but hard not to at least giggle at . And the sprinklings of the awkward Allen of countless other romantic comedies is present here , in a kind of amusing , rough-sketch form . So that's the thing with Allen's first movie , as long as you don't take it too seriously , it is quite memorable in the bits that do hit you .
rather sweet ; left me with a smile when I first saw it	One might call Cookie's Fortune a ' minor ' effort from Robert Altman , a filmmaker who once commented that each film " is all part of the same picture " , or rather one long movie with bits and pieces making up a career whole . But it has enough going for it through its very competent cast and interesting script to keep it afloat from being the kind of small film little old ladies might watch on TV during the day . In that sense it isn't as ' heavy ' as some of Altman's other work . It is also cool enough to treat the subject of a mystery around a suicide with enough humanity to make some scenes smile-worthy . Considering some of the darker elements in the script , Altman depicts this to the point where - get this - Cookie's Fortune is sometimes shown on the HBO family channel ! Is it really a kid's film ? I'm not sure , but it isn't work for only one age group - its appeal from its cast of a collective of small towners is appealing to most in the audience . That the cast - Glenn Close , Liv Tyler , ( especially ) Charles S . Dutton , even Chris O'Donnell - gels and plays some of the dialog sincerely even when its meant to not be taken seriously at all , is a credit to the filmmaker . That it also might not be quite as memorable as some of the director's major films is and is not a fault . It is a fault because the subject matter is sort of stuck in a certain genre realm . It is not because the subject mater is also very much more intelligent than would be expected at times . I was also fond of certain scenes and interactions with the actors , the rhythm of it all , like early on with Dutton and the actress Patricia Neal who plays the old lady . I also really like the climax . So it's a good work about the rumblings and eccentricities of a small town , the good in people as well as the lesser parts , and parts of greed and death seen through a light that is not aiming for anything ' cheap ' , so to speak .
would be a masterwork of pure fantasy cinema except for a repetitive flaw ( and a minor complaint )	Jan Svankmajer is certainly one of the most imaginative minds to ever touch stop-motion animation . He puts his mark with such a distinctive presence , with such a fever-dream aspect of nightmares of the child-like and bizarre , that he can certainly have the ' one-of-a-kind ' stamp on his lapel . Alice is an example of his virtuosity and ingenuity , even if , sad to say , it's not overall a great film . It definitely reaches for greatness , the kind which only a select few who go into animation and surrealistic film-making can hope to achieve . His take on Alice in Wonderland is warped and lacking the kind of verbal punch of the original Disney cartoon . But at its best it's a lot like a pure disturbingly poetic cinematic expression , like someone's own interpretation that goes off into many different fields visually while never straying from the intent of the source . In this case - and of course it's already on a silver platter - it's through the looking glass . Alice does what we know she'll do , which is to follow the white rabbit , who appears at first nailed to a piece of wood and then puts on his clothes ( with some very chilling eyes and teeth like some demented doll ) , and then follows along through the various portals , growing big and shrinking small ( in this case for the latter as a doll ) , and then finally on trial by the king and queen of hearts . This is all handled in a dazzling production design ( sorry , got to use ' dazzling ' for this one ) , where things feel cramped and ethereal and always , always strange and coming out of some organic method or something almost un-dead ( i . e . the skeleton creatures coming out of the eggs ) . It's both very funny and also very frightening , and if you watch as a child it's about as unsettling as anything imaginable in stop-motion . This is the days before CGI ; everything is build and molded to exact construction . The only big problems for me were in a method of narrative devices Svankmajer chose and omitting a crucial character . For the former , every time Alice thinks something or another character says something he cuts to an extreme close-up angle of Alice's lips ( you know , Rocky Horror opening credits style ) and Alice says " said the white rabbit " or " thought Alice . " It's a major detraction from what should be seamless narrative ; it doesn't help as well that on the most current DVD release in America there are no options for other languages or subtitles , and we're left with a very poorly dubbed English girl's voice . Had Svankmajer gone for broke and not had any character said a word ( well , then again , " why is a raven like a writing desk " is the best line exchange in the text ) , it might have been a really brave step . On top of this , the Cheshire Cat , an iconic piece of the story , is regrettably missing , which not only would have been an ample opportunity for Svankmajer to up the ante on the surreal approach and horrific craftsman approach to the characters , but it would've given a beat to breathe between all the crazy action between Alice and the white rabbit . And yet , Alice remains 20 years later a near masterwork , a film brimming with invention and visual wit , and has at least a few images I'm sure might return to me out of nowhere in a dream .
Better than the first - Sam Raimi proves his cool knack for balancing elements of action , drama and comedy	Spider-man 2 , at least , accomplishes one thing above all else - this time , when the Spidey flings himself through the air , it doesn't look as fake as it did in the first film . If anything , this time I did feel the exhilaration that the filmmakers intended . They , being the team at Edge FX , have taken the huge lot of profit from the first film , which became the smash of smashes in the comic-book movie genre , and on that end the film is a success . But even on the human front with characterization the film is a bit of an improvement , which is always tricky for a sequel to do . Two major action sequences involving Spider-man ( Tobey Maguire ) and his nemesis , Doctor Octopus ( Alfred Molina , in a compelling turn ) , are shot and edited to a wonderful , creative impact . And , in an interesting bit when Doc Ock escapes a hospital , echoes of Raimi's Evil Dead comes through with subtle , if grin-inducing touches . The work done on the villain as well as the hero shows , and it helps that Ock is a sleeker , more threatening presence with his mechanical arms than the weird madman in Willem Dafoe's performance . There are also other factors that give Spider-Man 2 it's worth of entertainment , even as if follows story turns that we as the audience have seen in plenty of other movies ( comic-book or otherwise ) from Hollywood . There's a nice dosage of humor to tip the scale on the romantic / non-romantic drama , courtesy of J . K . Simmons ' added time as the over the top newspaper editor , and as well to a few bits of business in dealing with the problems of being a guy in a costume ( plus , there are a couple of fun cameos from some Raimi regulars ) . The performances aren't bad by the leads , but they haven't improved too well , and with the script that they're given some of the lines don't work as well as they should . Some are appropriate in their corny quality , some aren't . One of the key performances that comes through is Rosemary Harris ' Aunt May , who's the most effective of the dramatic parts to the story . So , is Spider-man 2 as great as everyone's saying , that it's one of the great sequels and comic-book films of all time ? To me , almost - it actually gets even more engrossing and interesting in its comic-book atmosphere on repeat viewings . It has a fresh appeal as a mainstream , thoughtful action film and , like Raimi's Evil Dead trilogy in the horror genre , it will live on when other superhero movies bite the dust in the video market .
American quasi-remake of the 39 Steps with a few twists , not least of which the Statue of Liberty	It goes without saying that Alfred Hitchcock repeats himself , and he wouldn't want it any other way . Like some great big old rock band that goes out on tour and lays the same songs with only minute variations in the set-list , Hitchcock's films carry so many similarities - not least of which the running " Wrong Man " theme , which was even a title of one film in the 50s - that it's easy to point out how much Saboteur resembles the 39 Steps for good chunks of time . Even more-so than North by Northwest , which I was sure was the next-generation knock-off of 39 Steps , Saboteur posits the everyman hero , played by Robert Cummings , being set-up to take the fall for a murder , and all authorities are on the alert for his presence . He somehow narrowly gets away from a car while in handcuffs and gets through a river , holds up very briefly in someone else's cabin out in rural area , hitches along with an unlikely blonde beauty ( Priscilla Lane ) who wants nothing better than to turn him in , and then finally the two become both the heroes . Sound familiar ? That's mostly the set-up for Saboteur , and it's sad to say that even with a bigger budget , Selznick and Universal studios backing , and some minor star power , the 39 Steps is still better overall in this variation on a solid Hitchcock tempo . In Saboteur , despite the changes made for war-time pride and the enemies being dangerous threats ( i . e . tantamount to terrorists ) and very well-acted threats by Otto Kruger and particularly Norman Lloyd , Hitchcock relies a lot on strange supporting turns to keep things interesting on the cross-country trip from Los Angeles to New York . Sometimes this is interesting like with the blind cabin owner , who's also Lane's father . Sometimes it's just ho-hum like with the truck driver ( charicature at best ) . And while Cummings and Lane make a good , typically Hitchcockian couple , Cummings is no Robert Donat , and is only good in that conventional wrong-man hero kind of way ( to be fair , it also wasn't Hitch's first choice ) . A couple of short monologues about war-time pride also feel a little dated , also sadly . This all said , when Saboteur works , and it often does , it displays its director going to town on expressing his " camera logic " , as Norman Lloyd quoted Hitchcock in an interview . Which is to say that everything makes so much sense with the style here , with how to tell the story , that it becomes a wonderful surprise to see how much Hitchcock does experiment , making things just a little more abstract like with the fire near the start of the picture ( that shot of the black smoke rolling in on the background is just fantastic ) , or how he deals with Frank Frye reaching for and finally touching the button and setting off the explosion at the docks . But , without a doubt , it's the last fifteen minutes or so of the movie - from right after the explosion , through Radio City and the dueling gun battle on screen and in the theater , to the ferry to the Statue of Liberty , and then that wildly successful sequence up at the top and clinging on for dear life - that make it something close to a must-see for just cinema lovers in general . Somehow , Hitchcock has a way with making quintessential sequences like the Liberty Statue , and it even found its way into North by Northwest being close to a collection of the hits . Saying Saboteur isn't one of Hitchcock's best films is taking into account the picture from start to finish as it does have a derivative story and characters , even for the Master . But this also goes without saying that it does contain some of the sharpest direction , and some of the most stunning even-for-21st-century " how did they do that " suspense , in the director's career .
Now I know why this is a Rolling Thunder re-release , , ,	Switchblade Sisters , apart of the more or less dozen films in Tarantino's Rolling Thunder pictures collection ( re-released exploitation flicks and foreign films ) , was worth the watch for a past midnight time of viewing . It might even be Jack Hill's most entertaining movie ( though I haven't seen Coffy in a while ) . There are really a few things that he gets really right , amid the obvious camp that comes with a movie like this . He uses some tough , interesting B-actresses for the parts of the Debs-turned-Jezebelles , with Robbie Lee and Joanne Nail and Monica Gayle as the main three ladies of the bunch all turning in cool , un-restrained performances ( one thing they don't lack , aside from some sex appeal , is spunk ) . Another thing that makes the film really work is that , more often than not ( which was also the case with Hill's Pam Grier pictures ) is that it's very , very funny . Sometimes it was just by some unexpected stuff ( the guy in the elevator early in the film , or stuff during the climactic battle in the streets ) , or just by some of the creative dialog . But really what helped make the film work for me was that it had a great marriage of ' exploitation ' ideals ( just look at the prison scenes ) with spots of realism , or at least things that seem realistic in the Roger Corman school of writing . These may be larger-than-life character , but that's part of the fun in it , that it's an action fantasy where we can root for the rough , take-no-prisoners gals of action , who also aren't completely in-human . Hill , who has mentioned in interviews how part of his film-making comes from being a musician , knows the rhythms of scenes and dialog ( as stupid as it can get at times ) , and even has a little style to show off amid the patently 70's times . That , in the end , it's really a lot of fun helps out during some of the more ' dramatic ' parts . And what an awesome last line !
a little crazy and manic , but a very satisfying detour for SW fans , and animations fans probably too	Gene Tartakovsky's style with drawing characters had me a little apprehensive from the outset to watch the series he had directed ; the characters on the surface have the immediate appearance of not looking very rough-edged and more appropriate for a kids show . Upon finally giving in and watching the series , it becomes all the more apparent that this an assumption that's not totally true . The style actually has a little more than a bit to owe as part of a tradition in the small but captivating realm of Star Wars animation ( most specifically from the Boba Fett segment from the much maligned Star Wars Holiday Special ) , and so Clone Wars can be seen as a kind of logical continuation of back-story getting a good hit of invention and visual surprise . Here we're submerged into the details of the clone wars , that time alluded to in the original trilogy and basically is the filler between episode 2 and 3 . Characteristics remains pretty similar ( Anakin's arrogance , Obi-Wan's total control and lack of ego , Count Dookoo's duplicitous nature , Yoda's total wisdom , and , elaborated on , Mace Windu's total ' bad-ass ' appeal ) , but what's changed slightly is that the use of animation - which is already bountiful in the prequels as most of what's usually around the actors to one degree or another - is put to a potential that makes things move even faster , allowing for more imagination to flourish . One can't help but start laughing at times with how it's almost too hyperactive , like a big battle scene where Mace Windu faces off against an entire army of destroyers . There is a feeling that things are all too closely aligned with Cartoon Network animation , which isn't a detraction per-say as much as it is something that has to be taken with a grain of salt . This isn't Heavy Metal we're dealing with here . At the same time , the battles , in space with the many , many , many ships , and the awesomely dynamic light-saber duels , get an extra boost from their being no limits to what can be done with the characters , masters of the light and dark sides of the force , facing off in the height of Jedi folklore ( we even see what happens during a battle in rain ) . There's even a creative tinge of anime - maybe more than a tinge sometimes depending on the movement of a sequence - in the proceedings . History and lineage , albeit par for the course in pleasing the " geeks " with Star Wars , is also paid good attention to , creating some cool new characters ( a dastard apprentice of the Sith as one of Anakin's fiercest foes also makes a mark of character development ) , and some recognizable ones ( General Grievous's story is a little amusing and also even more dangerous than seen in the third film ) . So , how does it play out ? It may depend on what the attitude is towards the animation , but if one gets into it long enough , its brief appeal as a short-lived series can be appreciated even by casual fans of the franchise . It's fun and sometimes thrilling , and the work that's done calls for better things to come in the animated SW world .
a laconic , sometimes-great take on iconic Western figures	Sam Peckinpah really is not the full problem or liability with Pat Garret & Billy the Kid , though he's not totally innocent in what shortcomings come with the film . The story by Rudy Wurlizter provides a mix of extraordinary scenes and some all-too laid-back ones or scenes that don't feel like there is any real dramatic pull or total interest in the dialog . The other great scenes , which make up the most memorable bits of the film , provide Peckinpah with enough to put his distinctive visual style and subversive approach to character dynamics and conventions of the Western genre , but the parts end up becoming greater than the whole . The version I saw , the 2005 cut , doesn't seem like it would do any more or less better with fine tuning , and it does feel like a Peckinpah movie more often than not . The story is simple , and has been told more times than one could try to count unless in historical context of the genre : Billy the Kid is a murderous criminal out on the lam , and Pat Garret , the sheriff , is out to get him by hook or by crook . The twist that Peckinpah provides at the core is that it's not a completely intense thriller with a lot of chases , but more of a journey where the two men - who before becoming Dead-or-Alive Wanted-man and newly appointed Sheriff were sort of on friendly terms ( as first scene shows well and clear ) - are not in a big rush to meet their fates , even if the whole experience is starting to make things all the more embittered . Pat Garret & Billy the Kid does provide , at the very least , some very great scenes throughout - some of the best I've seen in any Peckinpah film - and is a reminder of why the director was an important figure , and remains as such , in American cinema . Scenes like the river-side bit where Pat Garret shoots at the same bottle floating in the river as the guy with his family on the river-raft does ; the astoundingly dead-pan shooting scene between Billy ( Kris Kristofferson ) and Alamosa ( Jack Elam ) where they sit down for a peaceful meal and go to it without much of a fuss in front of Alamosa's family ; the scene with Garret getting the man to drink in the bar too much as Alias ( Bob Dylan ) reads off the products on the other side of the room in order to shoot him down ; the scenes ( in the 2005 cut that seem fairly important ) showing Garret and his attitude towards women , either with his wife or with the prostitutes . It's a shame then that after the first twenty minutes or so , which includes that unforgettable shoot-out ( one of the best in Peckinpah's Westerns ) as Garret first corners Billy at the hide-out and drags him off to a not-quite jail before his escape , it then goes sort of up and down in full interest . It's not that I wouldn't recommend Pat Garret & Billy the Kid , far from it , and especially for fans of the genre looking for a grim turn of the screws on one of those old-time mythic Western stories . The only main issue is that , in an odd way , the other side of the coin that Peckinpah and his writer are working with here - subversion - has the side of almost being too at ease with itself , of being too comfortable just rolling along . This might be in part due to the leads themselves ; Coburn , to be sure , is a pro as always and is especially good in the almost anti-climax at the Fort , but Kristofferson is not very well-rounded , and comes off as being sort of all grins and smiles when he should be living up a little more to his reputation . It's so against-the-grain of the old-west that it comes close ( though it doesn't , contrary to what Ebert said in his review ) to being dull . Luckily , Peckinpah never lets it get too uninteresting , and there's always something to look forward to , like the touching , actually poetic final scene with Slim Pickens , and seeing the likes of Stanton , Elam and Robards in various roles . Dylan , on the other hand , is sort of a double-edged sword here . The music that he provides for the film , which includes guitar segways , lyricism and some classic songs ( with ' Knockin ' on Heaven's Door ' just the right effect when used ) , is one of the very best things about the movie . But his presence as " Alias " is not as good . He seems to be there more for the sake of being in a Western , or a Peckinpah movie , and taking aside his shtick about feeling like he was a character here in a previous life or whatever , he's almost a non-entity , and alongside the seasoned character actors and old pros at doing this it doesn't feel quite right . This being said , he's not too much of a deterrent , and it's great having the music put to scenes that wouldn't be the same without it all . And , of course , it's Peckinpah all the way , with the men in a sort of damned state of affairs , knowing deep down that the chosen paths are not very easily traveled , and always surrounded by the most distinct , brutal and realistic violence possible . It's the kind of Western I probably wouldn't pass up if it came on TV and I had a good shot of whiskey , though it doesn't reach the level of practical perfection like the Wild Bunch .
this awesomely bad sexploitation flick may have the ' Id ' down more than any other film of the 70s	Russ Meyer loves breasts , and he's a filmmaker , but it's mostly the breast thing . That doesn't mean that he's not good at what he does , which is making raucous comedies where there's a dumb , well-hung klutz ( Charles Pitts , in thankfully his only significant point in his career as Clint Ramsey ) , the dual role of the schizo-girlfriend ( SuperAngel ) and later her re-incarnation as a gas station attendant ( SuperVixen ) , and the enemy of the film , the diabolical , totally evil Harry Sledge ( Charles Napier , a classic part in a long character actor career ) . Much of this is just silly , very silly , and strange , deranged , illogical , and probably would be seen on the surface as sexist . But looking past the fact that there are a lot of naked women who continually throw themselves at Clint , there is something more to Meyer's psychology here . It would probably be something of a big point had the film been used in Zizek's The Pervert's Guide to Cinema : it's like a classic farce - yet still a somewhat truthful farce - about male desire . Take the fact that while Clint is on his ' journey ' - running from the scene of a crime he didn't commit , which was the murder and burning down of the dig that SuperAngel was living in - he continually gets into situations where the women present want to desperately ride him till Tuesday . . . but then there's always another man . There's a fascinating push-and-pull ( no pun intended . . . maybe a little ) to how the men treat the women in the picture . Until Clint agrees to stay with SuperVixen and take care of the gas station does he finally seem to relax , as before with the guy in the car , the farmer , the motel owner , all had women as their next of kin or significant others that were persona non grata . Behind the hilarity that ensues as Clint gets practically raped in a hayloft by a German girl , or when a mute / deaf black chick tries to get Clint to have his way with her in a desert , there is subtext - desire is defined by property . By the time Clint gets to SuperVixen , and finds out her man ran out on her weeks ago , it's like they're suddenly whisked away to the Garden of Eden ( rather , in Arizona , as is one of the funniest sections of the flick ) , as they run around naked in ecstasy . Freud would have a field-day . But one must not forget the Harry Sledge character who , like Hopper in Blue Velvet or Bobby Peru in Wild at Heart , is as Zizek described a larger-than-life , absurdist figure of man's libido . Maybe it was subconscious or not , but there's a lot to do in Supervixens with the idea of potency , or impotency . Harry can't get it up , the truth of it , and it becomes a sudden turn to see Harry suddenly stomp SuperAngel ( albeit , in one of the most illogical scenes I've ever seen in any movie , taunts him for five minutes while locked in a bathroom following a bad sexual experience ) and burn the place down as a means of compensation , an inherent lack of drive leading to the demise of anyone around him . While this seems to go overboard in the last twenty minutes of the film , when he returns in and becomes an ultimate terror upon Clint and SuperVixen , there's probably more one could read into in terms of symbolism than your average Bunuel movie : the dynamite shooting out of a chute , the one stick next to SuperVixen's most private of private spots , and all raised to the level of delirium . The more I thought about it after the movie ended , the more it seemed to make sense , the idea of the ID blown-up in , of all things , a Russ Meyer movie . But this will be moot to most viewers who are just looking for what it there in a Meyer movie - sex and craziness , usually at the same time . As the first of his films I've seen , it's already apparent how equally proficient and tacky he can be : he's a master at editing , and casts his actors like it's a slight step above Z-grade porn . Which , of course , adds to its hysterical attitude , as we see one of the worst male actors of the 20th century play off of girls who rarely have a dirty smile off of their faces ( save for when they're taunting Sledge , or getting caught by their daddies or husbands ) . And because Meyer , in the Mel Brooks sense , rises below vulgarity , his picture works so well even as it shouldn't . It deserves to be shown in grindhouse theaters and be found in the dirty sections of video stores . That it's an unlikely classic to be found in either of those places is hard to deny .
Tanner Revisited , now with more meta-film stuff !	Robert Altman and Garry Trudeau didn't quite hit it out of the park on Tanner on Tanner , but that's mostly in trying to compare it to the sprawling brilliance of the original Tanner 88 . Maybe part of that is because the ensemble nature ( as a given for almost any Altman production ) is broken down a little more and we're left mostly on the trail of Tanner's daughter , Alex , who is a documentary filmmaker - cum - documentary - film professor who is making " My Candidate " , a doc on her father's failed 88 campaign . In a strange way it works almost in spite of how the character comes off ; Alex Tanner can stand up right alongside Miranda on Sex and the City as the two ( can't say it on IMDb ) " B-word " - iest characters Cynthia Nixon has ever portrayed . The difference this time , I think , is in a consistency with the character's trials and tribulations as a " Mad Filmmaker " and how it's a logical extension of her original role in the mini-series . Nixon is very good in the role , even when we just want to scream " stop whining , you're at the Democratic Convention ! " As with Tanner 88 , we get a whole host of cameos ( my favorites being Martin Scorsese , Chris Matthews , Mario Cuomo , Al Franken and Ronald Regan Jr all for various reasons ) , and some familiar faces like Pamela Reed as TJ . But what's really fascinating about the TV special ( not exactly a mini-series , but not a TV movie quite either ) is how Altman digs about as deep into the psychology of film-making as he did in the Player - this time with a more hands-on approach . There's once again the young observer , quiet and with a curious eye almost akin to Altman's , filming all of the little things as Alex tries to shoot her movie , and there ends up being a scene , a great one in fact , where two women named Alex and both daughters of democratic hopeful candidates ( one Kerry one Tanner ) schedule an interview with Regan Jr , only to find they have to conduct it at the same time . This , on top of another scene where Alex's crew runs into a documentary film crew doing a documentary on documentaries , makes it about as close to " Factories in Chicago making miniature models of factories " from Austin Powers as comically possible without overstating the message . There's also some topical stuff thrown throughout , and some uncomfortable bits and some nice foreshadowing watching it four years later ( i . e . Kerry's " if he wins Tanner may become this and that " plot points , and Obama's key-note address shown as the event it was ) , and Altman and Trudeau are able to convey , often vividly , how to create a layering effect of politics , media , film-making , family and creative strife , and the pure and cruelly paradoxical nature of the political machine . If it's not quite as focused all the time , or always with a clear story arc , as in Tanner 88 it makes up for its faults with superb performances - as if sliding back into comfortable slippers - and a few bitingly satirical surprises ( Robert Redford anyone ? )
the kind of film that probably couldn't be made today , at least in how Malle does it	I wouldn't say that Pretty Baby , directed by Louis Malle , has the overall audacity of the main art-house European-directed sexual trip of the 70s , Last Tango in Paris , but it comes close , very close . It's a scathing , unflinching look at the downtrodden women of a 1920s whorehouse in New Orleans . What's most shocking of all , and what Malle understands about such subject matter , is that the best approach with this material is truthful , and to not be exploitive in the sense of manipulative characters ( situations are another thing ) . There's really not much in way of it going through anything specific in being stylized . If anything , as I recall , Malle's style here is to try and not seem apparent much , if that's possible , with a very controlled sense of pacing and how scenes should move . The implications raised in the picture are the sort that would probably get shot down in flames by the ' Religious Right , though mostly around the Brooke Shields character . To say that it's not perhaps a masterpiece is not off the mark . But it's an important work nonetheless , and one that is really hard to forget or ignore once finished . Shields plays the daughter of a working-prostitute , played by Susan Sarandon with total class and southern finesse with the men , but never too un-wise around her daughter . It's the time of jazz , at least jazz coming into a much greater bloom , and sex and general decadence is right there for the taking in such an environment that the ' pretty baby ' of the title resides . She's used to it all though , and Shields plays this character with total bravery - I almost wonder how much she was told of it all , and what she brought as intuition or having to just know the state of mind of her all-too-young character . Malle doesn't keep things totally helpless , as he has a photographer , played by Keith Carradine . He's probably the most level-headed and right-minded of any of the male characters ( aside maybe from the band members who just don't take part in any shenanigans ) . But then comes the problem of morals - Sarandon isn't the one who falls for Carradine , but Shields really . But is it really love , or affection , or just the possibility of leaving he house ? The most controversial part of all of this comes down to this really - underage sex , or rather a form of twisted , really non-consensual sex that ends up just skimming the line of bad taste . But it is in bad taste to show subject matter like this ? It's a tale of perversion , and how psychology ends up getting right into the cross-hairs of it , so such material should be up on the storyline . What's interesting is to see the ' breaking the virgin ' part takes time to unfold , and how it does , and how ugly it all becomes the further it goes along . Shields plays it right though , and her range of emotions for the character is actually stunning , and almost makes Sarandon keep up with what's going on . There's a heap load of nudity overall , including a hot bit with Sarandon and Carradine , but really Malle is after the whole insulated world of this whorehouse , and how being true to oneself ends up clashing with the un-yielding mind-set of those coming in with a wad of bills and a set goal . It skids with being cringe-worthy , and I have a very distinct memory of probably cringing at one point . It's not great , but it's really memorable in the ways that matter .
the Return of the Joker - better than the ' Beyond ' series , almost as good as Phantasm !	The first thing that stands out about Batman Beyond : The Return of the Joker is its structure . Unlike some of the other animated Batman movies ( SubZero , Mystery of the Matwoman ) , this one comes closer to the likes of Mask of the Phantasm to actually feeling , however in short running time , like a real feature-length movie and not simply four episodes strung together . This is important since we can get wrapped up in the mystery behind the re-emergence of the Joker and it feels fluid and without a cliffhanger-type end every several minutes . The second thing that marks this as above-average animated Batman fare is the quality of the history of two series , original animated and Beyond , and how sharp the writing and voice performances go along with the ( PG-13 ) action and cartoon violence . The filmmakers could've just thrown in old characters like Joker and Harley Quinn and Barbara Gordon and Tim Drake just for the hell of it . But it all fits a story that's worth telling , if only for the fans looking for that awesome coda to the first series . It's hard to try and not spoil how the Joker , fifty years into the future , re-appears with his gang the Jokerz when Bruce Wayne is now an old man and Terry McGinnis is the new young Batman . Without saying too much , the Jokerz are stealing some high-tech equipment , and something smells fishy on top of the conniving Jordan Price possibly double-crossing Wayne , who is taking back control over Wayne enterprises . But when the Joker himself crashes Wayne's party , McGinnis and Wayne try and investigate what's going on - who he really is , since he's supposed to be killed - and where he'll strike next . The writing and crafting of the mystery , and the eventual truth , is told creatively and with the kind of absorption Batman fans crave ( it IS Detective Comics after all ) , but also impressive is the animation done mostly with computers and not skimping on making the action fairly intense ( the subtraction of a good deal of the blah heavy metal music from the show is a plus here ) . And lest not forget Conroy as Bruce Wayne , always a sturdy presence , and Mark Hamill as the Joker . They're probably two of the most iconic voice actors of their time just on the basis of their work in the Batman animated saga ; Hamill especially gives it his all , and even puts in double-time on the voice of Jordon Price ( which for a little while begs the question of him being involved in the crimes ) , as the clown prince of crime and mayhem . It's such a good performance that it makes up for some standard work by other voice actors ( however fine ) by Dean Stockwell and Angie Harmon . With just his voice he projects this iconic villain for all its worth , and ranks up there with Nicholson and ( now ) Ledger as the wonderful if varied versions . Somehow , even in the drama , Hamill manages to get a couple of laughs out of the audience with this Joker . Funny , since it's one of the most dramatic Batman stories yet .
" It could happen to you " , the tag-line reads : not quite , but it is a white-knuckled ride all the way	Jonathan Mostow , before he went on to helm the big-budget U-571 and the even bigger budgeted Terminator 3 , brought out this taut little thriller and cemented a reputation he's yet to really live up to ( though some would disagree about that ) . His film has that tag-line , but it's not entirely accurate , even though it has a very familiar and eerily recognizable threat at the core : the outsiders coming in to a territory that is very close knit and practically inbred , where one wrong step could cost you and / or your loved ones lives . In this case , Kurt Russell and Kathleen Quinlan are the married couple caught in the cross-hairs of kidnapping , blackmail , and ultimately vengeance . They're moving from Massachusets to San Diego , and driving on through the desert they get side-swiped by a car , then later on after a near-altercation at a pit-stop , they move on only for the couple's car to breakdown . Help comes in the form of a trucker , who offers help for to drive the wife to get a tow-truck . No need for the truck , anyway , because the car didn't have much wrong with it . . . but what about the wife , Amy ? From there on in , Mostow takes Breakdown into the realm of paranoid thriller , then into just full-on chase / action / revenge / chase again picture . One might wonder if there could be a more noirish quality to it if the wife actually left for a reason other than abduction , though the path that Mostow takes the story is fine as it is . He keeps things simple in the story sense , with elements of the Western thrown in , but also makes it very much character-based as well . Russell's performance as Jeff Taylor is kind of the opposite of his recent turn as Stuntman Mike in Grindhouse : starting off as the average-Joe who tries to be polite , albeit from a yuppie background , he gets put to the test by the enormity of the situation , and finally becomes a real take-no-prisoners hero . Towards the very end it almost reaches the point of being TOO much of hitting over the head with payback , and there are little things regarding the nature of Red Barr ( JT Walsh , great villainous presence in a real sinister , calm way ) and his ties to the town as to whether or not things are really as controlling as they might be ( i . e . the bank scene , which is perfectly acted , though not entirely feasible in the paranoid sense ) . But all this aside , what Breakdown remains ten years after is a competent , un-pretentious thrill-ride where the dialog is never too heavy , the action is packed with real stunts and few special effects , and some of the brighter moments for Russell in recent years ( or rather , the last ten ) . It knows what it is , and has the professional temerity of a cult effort .
rock stars , gangsters , sex , drugs , suits , blood , psychedelia - all in a day's work	To say Performance is " dated " is about on the mark , if not understating it . It's a psychedelic trip into the two bellies of the underworld : organized crime ( not the Italian kind , more-so the rough Anglo-Saxon father of the likes in Guy Ritchie's movies ) and the swinging , rock ' n ' roll drug-addled bunch that first saw proper cinematic light in Blowup . But somehow Douglas Cammell and Nicholas Roeg pull off what should be just weird poppycock as only derelicts from Andy Warhol and Tim Leary's bunch could concoct into a piece of half pop art and half just , I don't know what . Roeg , I think , hovers more over the production than Cammell , which is just an assumption based solely on Roeg's other films , which , in fact , bear a great deal of resemblance to Performance's impressionistic take on time and setting and mood and a rhythm that seems to be all inside of his head . Whatever happened in the two years this was shelved by Warners in the editing room was probably all for the better ( or for the worse depending on your perspective ) . It's certainly a helluva lot more substantial than your common hippie-exploitation flick . The story runs not very deep , which is fine . Chas ( James Fox , perfect for this slightly cool , slightly psycho part ) is a full-time gangster running for an a-hole of a boss who thinks Chas goes too far with the execution of his duties ( i . e . shaving a guy to make a point while burning his car ) . When Chas gets paid a visit by some dudes looking to rough him up , the bloke has got to split fast so as to not get the in the wrath . He hears about a pad that could be a good bet to hold up in , not a hotel but just a room in the basement level of a ' flat ' . In it are Turner ( Mick Jagger ) , and a couple of ladies who live with this retired pop-star who's surrounded himself with a host of psychedelic paraphernalia and regalia : Eastern design , incense and candles , and of course the drugs . Soon Chas gets into this scene , albeit it's not in a form of exploiting the subject matter like " hey , you're square , join us , drop some acid , get high , expand your mind , etc " . On the contrary , there's almost a tone to the proceedings that is somewhat critical of this place and time , where there's total abandon of the rest of civilization and a total adherence to a controlled chaos and escapism ( or enlightenment , take your pick ) with drugs . This almost in spite of the style of the picture , Roeg's superlative camera-work as he makes his compositions into forms that look like they're not of this common movie world : close-ups merge into wide-shots , the folds of menace coming around like the cutaways to the trial early in the picture where shots seem subliminal , deranged , even satirical . But nothing beats how the editing works , which aside from Woodstock was the best editing in a movie in 1970 . Even for Roeg , who's reputation is built by his stand as an iconoclast in this arena , he makes this structure like one sees memory , association with images , thoughts , moods , colors , beauty and horrors and other madness , all through cuts and such ( just watch how he splices in the gangsters splashing the room with blood , or the mushroom shots , which seem like they influenced some shots in Magnolia ) . And let's not forget Jagger , shall we ? He goes between actually delivering a performance , so to speak , and being what one imagines Jagger , from his outlandish and sensationalized persona in the Rolling Stones , to be just regularly . He's not worried about looking glammed , or even like he's a girly with his long hair and makeup and sensual attitude , but any moment he's on screen , alongside an already good Fox and fellow cut and luscious ladies , it's hard to take his eyes off him . This goes without saying his character is sort of meant to create a lot of strange mischief , and sometimes he trails the film off further from any coherency than it already has as some experimental piece of would-be agitprop . But damned it all to bloody hell if it isn't a showstopper when as if in the midst of some Big Lebowski hallucination he becomes clean-cut ( or as clean-cut as Jagger can get ) , and ' performs ' " Turner's Song " , with an incredible beat like a lost Stones track , put to a scene filmed still in step with the rest of the movie , but great as a stand-alone effort . As mentioned , it IS dated , even with its stylistic influence on future film and filmmakers . This is its only main drawback from what is otherwise a daring act of avant-garde treatment of would-be genre material ( gangster holding up after a botched job , other gangsters on his trail , et all ) . It is , at least , a happening , and it freaks me out !
has that crackling , off-key appeal of Fuller in his prime	If you can , and it would definitely be as rare a chance as I had recently , try and see Samuel Fuller's The Crimson Kimono on the big screen , preferably with a packed audience . True , some of the dialog and mannerisms of the characters end up forty-seven years later coming off as being too funny for its own good . But then again , Fuller's style here , as in the films that would follow in the 60's ( and linked of course to his 50's work ) , is that of sensationalism yet not in a way that feels too dishonest . It's got a sharp cast of professionals , with Glenn Corbett and James Shigetta as the leads playing Detective partners who are investigating a case that somehow leads to a sort of love triangle with a witness Victoria Shaw . And Fuller is able to make the film quite entertaining with at least a few memorable moments almost in spite of the low-budget of things . The opening sequence is , naturally for Fuller , part of the excitement and close-to-exploitation B-movie-ness of it all , as a stripper gets gunned down running away from her dressing room . Even before this we get the opening titles popping out at the screen , almost being too obvious . But to say that the film is at times leaning towards tongue-in-cheek is more of an observation than a criticism . It fits the style that some of the dialog bits are really sharp and , indeed , well-written , and that as such the actors take it not too seriously as to make it heavy-handed but not too over the top to have the audience lose interest . Indeed , one of the more interesting scenes is when Shaw and Shigeta get to talking while Corbett is out doing work , as they become connected in a way that is different than how earlier Shaw and Corbett flirted around in a cool though ' movie ' kind of way . All through this Fuller pumps up the melodrama with well-shot action ( the big Korean guy getting tackled down by the detectives was maybe my favorite scene on a shamelessly enjoyable level ) and enough of a kind of mix of psychology and sociology in this cross section of Japan and America . And it's interesting how he slightly improves in flipping the situation from House of Bamboo where the Japanese atmosphere wasn't as convincing . It's probably a tough find for most , and of course even rarer to get on the big-screen depending on where you're at , but it might be one of Fuller's better ' quickie ' kind of movies where its 80 minute running time does just enough to make it very worthwhile in not overstaying its welcome . It's funny , thoughtful , and assured film-noir .
if you were born in the 80s , before The Lion King there was The Land Before Time	Like other 80s babies , so to speak , if you were born in that era before the Disney movies of the 90s - which did almost reach a mini-renaissance before plummeting towards the end of the decade - you first saw the animated films of Don Bluth more than Disney . This was one of them , and it is a film that , for a certain sort of kid ( such as myself ) can be watched countless times . It's short , maybe too short as one of its flaws ( Bluth didn't retain final cut with Spielberg and Lucas in the background ) , as it only develops this epic tale of kiddie dinosaurs going through a harsh , dangerous journey to reach the oasis , the Great Valley . There aren't any time for songs , which is a plus , as Bluth gets in more time for some very realistic - for what is available at the time - animation of the environment . The kiddie dinosaurs themselves , Littlefoot the main protagonist ( who also loses his mother , in the Bambi and Lion King vein though here even more of a shock to kids as its from nature and not from some other being to grasp ) , Cera , Petrie , Ducky and Spike , each have their own personalities ranging from heroic to goofy to scared and even stuck-up . This gives something that kids can hang on to , very simple characterizations that change only through the often used but not too tiresome ideal of friendship and group-work , etc etc . Some of these scenes , the sillier ones , do end up making it more of a movie that holds more for the kids than the adults . That years later it doesn't lose much of its power visually , however , is a real credit to Bluth and his team , who along with An American Tail here make children's movies that know what they are , but make them in brilliant uses of the medium . The Tyrannasorus Rex - Sharptooth - is an immensely imposing presence with it saying never a word , as if it was pulled right out of the sequence from Fantasia . The design of the film is also extremely well laid , in a kind of dying world that like all fairy tales becomes all the more compelling in relation to what is the final paradise-type goal . It could almost be said that it might be much for wee little ones ( younger than 5 ) could take , but it really wasn't as I remember it from first seeing it . It balances its look with its characters , making it a near-classic film of its time . Alternately cute and violent , poetic and kitschy .
straightforward war pic and damn proud ( and good ) of it	For anyone thinking of checking out John Wayne's the Green Berets . . . don't . Instead , go to Heartbreak Ridge . You might ask if it will have the same kind of action , since one is Grenada ( where it took all of about a day or two , give or take a few minutes ) and the other is Vietnam ( which , you know the story ) . Doesn't really matter , since it all comes down to taste and execution . Perhaps if you're a hardcore John Wayne fan you'll dig that piece of military propaganda , but even casual Clint Eastwood fans will find something enjoyable about Heartbreak Ridge , which embraces the Marines while also taking a good long snap at bureaucratic BS and people who get in the way of someone who is perpetually a hard-ass who gets everything right in his place . Or , to put it another way , Ridge provides us with the Dirty Harry of the Marine corp , which is enough to make it something interesting on its own . Why the comparison anyway ? Because they're two examples of gung-ho military Americana made for the masses . But , and this is the biggest but , Eastwood is the more confident filmmaker and star , and with his film as a star vehicle as well as straightforward Recon - man - whips - men - into - shape - for - battle story he takes charge with plenty of good , witty lines and a sense of camaraderie with the male characters . Hightower is Eastwood's character , someone who must have been somewhat easy to play but also a lot of fun , the only real conflict for him coming in trying to recconect with his former girl ( Mason ) and in rubbing up against the even harder-ass Major . Around Hightower are a cast of near-classic misfits and complainers - chief among them the " Ayatollah of Rock-and-rolla " played with total glee by Mario Van Peebles in one of his best roles - and off they go in getting ready for a battle which takes place so quickly it fits just neatly ( and awesomely ) enough into the last half hour of the film . It's a given to see much of Eastwood's style as no nonsense . The most we get from Eastwood trying to " show-off " as it were would be a tracking shot following two guys , or maybe a close-up or too . It's so unfussy that one almost wishes Eastwood might try something that might POP off the screen or give the final battle something to chew on . But it is what it is and it's great to see it that way , since the technique doesn't change what's already worth while in the script . While the story itself isn't without a couple of flaws - the romantic relationship subplot doesn't really work well past the " hey , we have problems that go way back . . . and it starts to get better just because it's convenient to the plot " deal - anything with Eastwood barking and quipping lines at and with his men , just some of Eastwood's classic facial expressions we know and have seen many times , make Heartbreak Ridge a fine achievement for him . It's not as devastating a portrait of the marines as say Full Metal Jacket or Jarhead , but it doesn't need to be . For Eastwood this is a chance to make a Clint Eastwood picture out of the marine corp , and it's very entertaining to see him do when it's at its best . And , unlike the Green Berets , it doesn't paint way unrealistically what it's like to go into the " LZ " . In fact , there may be a few watching who might want to join up just because someone like Clint may be a Recon leader . Crazy to say ? Just watch .
a brilliant , if all-too-brief , collaboration between Bakshi and Dr . Seuss	Who would've thought that one of the very best adaptations from book to screen - albeit small screen - in the Dr . Seuss realm would be by underground animated filmmaker Ralph Bakshi . By then , Bakshi had gone on from the more personal work of the 70s , trademarked with rough pencil and inking with wild color combos in unconventional stories , to more sci-fi / fantasy fare like Wizards , Fire and Ice , and even a hit and miss attempt at Lord of the Rings . This short work that he produced and directed , probably as a way to make ends meet as much as an artistic statement , is probably one of his most obscure works , but it might be one of his better works because he keeps his ambitions low and his targets simple enough to accomplish completely . What we have here is a story that has a level of appeal for children and adults , and like the recent Happy Feet it will mean different things for different audiences . For either age group , child or parent ( or those who are out to seek any and all works by Bakshi ) , there's some appeal . For kids , it's a bright story of what it means to have a job to do , however petty or ridiculous it might seem . The Yooks and the Zooks are two different kinds of , well , Seuss characters , who each have their own way of spreading butter on bread , one side up , the other side down . Soon there are goofy attempts by a hired Grandfather Yook ( voiced by Charles Durning ) to take on the task of stopping the Zooks from continuing on their bottom-buttered path . There are also some whimsical songs , and even some random moments of strange humor , as can only come out of Seuss . But for the older ones , those who might have any kind of political awareness , Seuss and Bakshi have a simple message to go on , which is the notion of wars being started on the most petty but fastidiously held points of merit . And , as escalating tactics go , pretty soon it's less about the actual butter itself than the point of one side being too different enough - separated by a ' great-wall ' kind of wall barrier - to ever have any kind of peace . There's details like how grandfather , however incompetent he might be to swart the Zooks , gets promoted to general , or how intricate a bomb can be made : and how it's just as easy for the other side to get the same power . It's not only how sharply and aptly Bakshi is in having Seuss's words have their impact , and the wit as scathing as it is poke-in-the-ribs playful and fairly hilarious ( I loved the ending , which I won't reveal , but has its suddenness as a point of absurdity and satirical merit ) , but in fusing in his own methods of style that make this a success . Bakshi , taking a break from rotoscoping , makes the Seuss cartoonish world come to life , and in a manner that presents it not totally smooth and finely tuned but a little scratchy and messy and with the colors usually of the lighter-primary side ( the exception , and a great scene at that , is when grandfather ventures down the staircase to the bomb-making lava-pool area ) . There's something very much alive to how Baskhi gets the Yoots and Zoots moving along , how they use oddball weaponry or machines , and how the timing is less out of Looney Tunes than out of his background as a satirist of culture . He even gets Seuss's songs , which are by turns silly and inane , as entertaining little notes in the story . If you can find this for your kids , if they happen to be Dr . Seuss fans anyway , it's a sure bet to get them into a lesser known but still worthwhile work . It's smart , vibrant , and almost cheerfully discomforting ; second only to Chuck Jones's How the Grinch Stole Christmas as the best animated adaptation of a Seuss work .
does't work quite as well as one might hope , but a lot of it sticks with you , well after it's over	25th Hour right in the title speaks to what could , or should , or would , be done in that time left or not really used in the day that a person finds beneficial , or revelatory . This 25th Hour may be shown in this film as in the end sequence , as Brian Cox describes to Edward Norton a dream-life , which becomes wrenchingly bittersweet as the real situation is sitting in the backseat of a car . But for the bulk of the picture , Spike Lee and writer David Benioff draw out a series of machismo-driven conversations , a little moments of drug-fueled bits of malaise and discontent ( and all connected to the whole existential notion at work with Edward Norton's Monty ) , and with one of the great sequences Lee has ever done stuck in the middle . Norton plays Monty with the purest kind of strength that we've seen in the best of Norton , particularly in American History X . Here his decisions that lead him to a jail sentence are not race-driven but by way of Rockerfeller drug laws in New York City . Over one night , before heading out , he will have talks , make peace , and discuss things with friends Barry Pepper and Philip Seymour Hoffman , with a girl ( Anna Paquin ) and father Cox , in the background . It's been a little while since I've seen 25th Hour , but that so much of it still sticks out long after its theatrical release and screenings on TV , is a credit to the trio at work here - star Norton , writer Benioff , and director Lee . Some shots may end up lingering to the point of exhaustion , though perhaps that might be the point ; Lee strikes up in the immediate post world a couple of really striking images that are always in the background for these guys , that something much more horrifying and delirious is at work aside from their well paying jobs ( legal or not ) and their possibly crumbling friendships . In a way it's a lot more like pulp material than Lee might really call it out as . But it still rings more or less like vintage Lee . The sequence mentioned before as the great scene , which invariably echoes moments from his masterwork Do the Right Thing , is when Norton talks to a mirror , the ' f-you ' speech , where the hate is not exclusive , but all-inclusive , including himself . Such a topic is only touched upon for so long , which is why the focus of the film - slightly scattered - for me keeps it from being as spectacular as it COULD be , as opposed to just being a very good movie . Still , out of the big cannon of work that Lee has produced in twenty years , which amounts to over two dozen films and TV specials , I'd recommend this quite highly out of the lot of em . Having Cox as the father , for example , is a very special bet , as his talents as a bona-fide character come in handy when dealing with someone who is well-rounded , to compliment the full , complex and tortured dimensions of Norton's caring - for - dog - but - not - of - much - else Monty . Pepper and Hoffman are also dependable , with Paquin sort of drifting in and out as the E'd up girl who is least likely to know what she'll want even after she snaps out of her drugged state . To go alongside that ' f-you ' speech in visceral terms , is the key moment in the morning for the three friends in the park , which I wont mention here , but attains a power that is comparable cinematically to Scorsese . In the end , Lee has with the 25th Hour a compendium of ultimate loss , combined with a city in loss , and then disillusioned hope and despair . Not very cheerful , and it almost makes it the director's bleakest film . But it's still quite memorable years down the line . ( )
a story of real people in the mafia , with parts greater than the whole	In Gomorra we get several stories , or just paths followed with characters , set in Naples , Italy , and focused on the stranglehold of the mafia . Let's use that word again , mafia , since it is what it is there , and it's such a cold and desolate and grimy environment that it makes the Godfather look like a sunny day . It takes it view on these events and characters and their not-too-sudden slip down to oblivion with such an eye for realism , so unflinching , that it's a shame then that I did not find myself fuller pulled in than I was . It's got an incredibly powerful message , one that is never really uttered above a whisper or sometimes given full weight on the audience , and that is this is an entirely corrupted society where no one can really get out , only choose sides . It's got powerful things about it , and the director Matteo Garrone doesn't make it too easy or too hip a digestion , but it's not the clearest told story , jumping around with occasional dull parts or just scenes that contain some beautifully tragic images ( be it the decrepit architecture to just some of the faces seen in quietly desperate close-up ) or something vivid and strangely affecting like the kids in their underwear firing off guns . If there's anything uniformly strong about the picture it's that the balance of young vs . old is depicted as honestly as possible : the very young like Toto are swept up in it as just something to do as work , the young adults like Pasquale want to be big-shots and gain in the ranks without having a particular boss , and the old timers ( or relatively old ones ) see a war brewing and try and just steer clear of the crossfire . Perhaps I feel like criticizing the movie more because it has such a powerful grasp on the reality of this place , of the filmmaker's concern for the real people that are more than likely living in the tenements and houses where they filmed . So , many small scenes work - the tailor having to ride in the trunk with the Chinese and seeing their sweat-shopping at work ; the scene where Toto has to bring out the woman to be killed ; when the Don brings the kids around to drive the trucks when no one else will drive them around to dump the waste . The performances range from good to just OK , and if there is something emotionally that works in its favor it's a slight feeling of numbness - the characters are almost totally desensitized that it takes a BIG surprise or something out of nowhere to shock . When one lives in a crime-infested area it becomes part of the norm , though with pockets that just leave the scars deeper and deeper . If that was the intention of the filmmaker , to heighten this numbness in the viewer watching with these people feeling the same , then he succeeded . Gomorra is a film anyone who thinks that they need an extra shot of the documentary approach in a crime movie ( or even one about an organization running like a rickety , frightening engine ) , or just to see a very good Italian film . It's not quite as great as the majority of critics have been hailing it , but it serves as a potent , flawed challenge in 21st century cinema .
quite the wheezy little entertaining comedy / thriller	Clint Eastwood's Space Cowboys is a good project . Not great , but hey ( as the character Eastwood plays says ) , " the clock is ticking , and I'm only getting older . " The characters are played so well , the few ( if any ) plot flaws are just forgotten . These characters are joined back together after a 40 year absence , when they were a air space team . There are 4 of them - Clint Eastwood , Donald Sutherland , James Garner , and Tommy Lee Jones . All of these guys are good at what they do and they show off they're acting skills here . Like Unforgiven , this film shows about people who come out of retirement to do something good . Eastwood hits the marks just right as a thriller in space and as a endearing drama . Not to mention comedy here and there ( the best is a one liner by Sutherland that he makes on the Jay Leno show ) . Fun for young and old alike , not to be taken too seriously , but also shouldn't be forgotten ( just like the actors and they're performances ) like some of Eastwood's lessor 80s projects .
gritty , truthful crime drama that takes formula and makes it gripping and incendiary	I was glad to see on the special edition DVD of Spike Lee's Do the Right Thing to see how he answered the question asked at Cannes as to why there weren't drugs portrayed in the film ; his answer , simply , was that there wasn't enough space dramatically , that it would be too much to fit drugs into a story already loaded with racism in a small neighborhood . But , as he followed , he could use what it means to have drugs in an urban environment , and what it does to the people , and have that as a stand-alone movie . He followed this up , in part , with the Samuel L . Jackson storyline in Jungle Fever , and thanks to Richard Price's novel and original script , he has here what might be his answer to that question . It's not a very great movie , perhaps , because by this time Spike Lee has so much invested in the style of his cinematic theatrics , of how the nature of the camera itself related to those of the characters , that it comes close to going over substance . But it's is a worthy attempt at putting into context , via the conventions of genre going back to the 40s , as to what makes or breaks the ties between drug dealers and their workers , and how the workers ( or ' Clockers ' as per the title of the movie ) go about their business in the streets . Clockers has a main plot that pushes along , as the murder by multiple gun-shots of a Darryl , black fast-food worker , who was also apart of the crew of Rodney ( Delroy Lindo ) , call into question who might have done it . At first , it seems pretty open and shut , as Victor ( Isaiah Washington ) comes forth and admits he did it in self-defense . Rocco Klein ( Harvey Keitel ) doesn't buy it , seems too easy , so he asks around , digs deeper , and sees that his brother , Strike ( Mekhi Pfeifer ) seems to be much more of the guilty party , by way of how he handles himself in the streets , his repore with Rodney , and as having more motive to kill Darryl . It's through this that Lee then branches it out to make it as much as character as about plot , where the ties between certain characters , like Strike and Tyrone , a pre-teen who looks up to Strike like a surrogate father , are mostly defined by how the neighborhood works out in the open . The clockers are bunch of would-be gang-bangers who talk a lot of talk , but haven't walked nearly as much as Earle , best friend of Rodney's and psychopathic murder , or Rodney himself , who has that veneer of being like the one you can trust the most - half surrogate father as well and half good cop / bad cop boss - until he gets crossed . Although Price's material , which comes through with the energy and occasional wit , is noticeable throughout , it's really Spike Lee as director and many of the actors who make this a consistently watchable movie . Lee is never one to be too subtle with the camera , and he has variations with how he deals with the material to make it very observant but also subjective . Early on , for example , we see the clockers making their deals in the park in long-shot , shaky , as if Lee's filming it far away for a reality TV show . But then we also see the 360 degree camera moves as Klein questions Strike . There's many camera moves that are practically trademark Lee shots , especially with the lighting , as Klein questions Tyrone , or when we see a flashback to Victor having to deal with some clockers . It's all very flamboyant and meant to call attention to the material , and aside from a few unneeded music choices ( it's the only time you'll hear Seal in a drug dealer crime movie ) , he's on top of things . Meanwhile , the performances are all top-notch , usually , as Keitel and particularly Lindo play their characters so well by pretty much being how we think the actors ' really ' are , even though they're not . Pfeifer has a little trickier a time with his performance , because he usually is on a very similar note : I didn't do nothing , is his usual beat . His character also has the intriguing qualities that mark him as something of an outsider however in he might be : his stomach virus , which is never resolved but always looming over him , and his love of electric train-sets . And all the while , Clockers succeeds in presenting a time and place where there should be little to no hope , and it makes the cops and criminals both pretty well-rounded when compared to other genre films . The cops are meant to be the good guys , but there's also a steady conflict between Klein and his partner : why should Klein care so much as to who did it or why ( Strike also asks this question towards the end , in one of the best scenes in the film ) ? And Strike and Rodney are not cut-outs from black exploitation flicks , but with more of a push and pull tie that is always a threat , never a comfort . There are little details that help make Lee's film interesting when it veers into being like a television serial ; the white yuppies who get entangled in the case ; the over-protective but very smart cop ( Keith David , always a pro ) who also tries to play surrogate father to Tyrone , albeit without the same care , however negative , as Strike has ; the brief shots of the drug addicts with their habits on display , as we only need to see it for less than a minute to get the nature of the bottom of the food chain , which is total despair . Lee's film , however , isn't really disparaging as it has moments of hope , yet a hope meant to be in understanding that there's no easy way out of all of this .
Guillermo Del-Toro's exciting , fun tribute to the flamboyantly cool powers of comic books	Hellboy is self-conscious , perhaps , but in the best ways possible . Actually , it's more due to writer / director Toro being very aware of what makes up the conventional bits to every sense character-wise to the world of a comic-book , but also what can be entertaining as well , than it is just to having it being a Hellboy movie where the comic-book Hellboy already exists IN this world ( guy sees the Hellboy comic , looks up , it's Hellboy ! ) . We get the tough-as-nails , dryly witty , and possibly ticking-time-bomb hero in Hellboy , a deadly serious villain in Rasputin ( yes , Rasputin , with a blonde Nazi as his evil side-kick no less ) , the young apprentice to the hero ( Ruper Evans as John Meyers ) , the hero's love interest ( Liz Sherman played by Selma Blair ) , the father figure ( John Hurt's Professor ) , and the reluctant ' boss ' ( Jeffrey Tambor ) , not to mention the plucky side mutant in Abraham ( Doug Jones ) AND a magnificent creature in that hard-ass slug . They're all there , bright as day ( or dark , depending on point of view ) , and it all works wonderfully due to Toro running with it all head on . It's not done in a way that's meant to pander to the audience , either , but just to have fun with the conventions , to see what makes them all crackle and pop under big-time special effects . It's not quite a guilty pleasure because Toro is also a smart craftsman . And craftsman just as much as director , he crafts this world where the creatures ( which were and still are Toro's forte ) are fierce and radically charged , whether they're crucial to the picture like Rasputin's rabid , rapidly hatching slug-monsters that can only be killed one or two ways , or if it's just a minor creature like the zombie Russian corpse that leads a little of the way when Hellboy and his crew are in the main hideout of the villains ( " I was better off dead ! " ) . Toro is sensitive to the characters alongside this , and makes them all pretty believable - and I say pretty cause it's all a little simple , yet effective , in the main thrust of Hellboy's emotional core being about Liz and if she may or may not go for John over him - and doesn't dumb it down too much or contrive the relationships for the audience . It's a good balance , because there is A LOT of action in Hellboy , in fact probably at least a 60 % allotment to either Hellboy fighting the monsters after him ( usually in the subway , or in the Russian castle ) , or with the possibly un-dead assassin in the mask and leather who marks as one of the fiercest forces in comic book movies . So , fan-boys rejoice , because Hellboy should , and hopefully will , have everything one looks for in a brawny , high-octane entertainment where humor isn't confused with cheesiness ( Perlman is too well focused as a possible anti-hero to get into any of that , as he makes that hugely built red lug a very real being ) , and the action isn't over-done with a tongue-in-cheek . Not that Toro doesn't flirt with having goofy things in his picture , like a moment where Hellboy has to save a box of kittens from the grasp of the slug-monster . But they're earned moments among a very tightly constructed story where human evils in history and the bizarre in what is in the facts ( Hitler into the occult , Rasputin's very long death ) into a comfortably understood framework of comic-book clichés that never get too old when done right . Bottom line , can't wait for number 2 !
It took two viewings to really get into it - and really laugh my head off	The first time I saw Terry Zwigoff's latest effort ( co-executive produced by the Coen brothers ) Bad Santa , I didn't know whether I was watching a comedy that had astonishingly funny and madcap moments , or if it was a really bad movie . At times the script felt like it was under the penmanship of demented cretins off loan of some low-rent porno company . But there were scenes and moments with good old Billy Bob Thornton that had me laughing uncontrollably , so I decided to see it again recently . Now I understand it - this is a dig-in nails , ribald , hardcore satirical look at one ( un-kept is a term used loosely ) man in the midst of Americana during Christmas time . This man is Willie , played by Billy Bob , as something of a loser , low-self esteem , boozing , cursing , and a thief , though only at Christmas time . In a sense he's a modern day pirate without a shave , though with a yearly plan to rob a large store in a given mall he's given a job at with his co-patriot Marcus ( Tony Cox , whom you may recall from uproarious bit parts in Friday and Me , Myself , and Irene ) . In one season , however , he meets a Kid ( Brent Kelly ) , who for some reason looks up to this con-man in a red suit , giving him a place to stay in turn ( never asked for ) for some advice and help with bullies and self-esteem . On the first viewing of Bad Santa , along with not knowing whether I was seeing a good or bad film , I didn't know whether Billy Bob was pushing the ' rotten-dude ' envelope over the top or just right . This may be a problem for most viewers going to see it once and not thinking of seeing it again . But I think Bad Santa is one of those movies that merits a repeat viewing - you may laugh less or harder at certain jokes and moments of outrageousness , some may fly over your head completely or make you go " eww " . Yet I think the brilliant aspect about Bad Santa is it never takes itself a bit too seriously . Even in the denouement , when we are sort of assured things will turn out alright ; it's like a denouement on a South Park episode . In fact , that's something that can be said about Bad Santa , is that it feels like a work in the vein of Parker and Stone , but since it's from the director of Ghost World it comes off a little fresher , with an appeal all its own .
cool , slick action-movie danger and excitement , if a wee bit preachy	Sylvester Stallone , when in the right context , can hold together an action film like it's nobody's business . First Blood , for the most part , is a terrific example of a man doing what a man does when put to his limitations - that is , when the man is a Green Beret with plenty of torturous , bullet-strewn skeletons in the closet . When it does come time to make its point as a " MESSAGE " movie ( message in CAPS for a reason ) , it doesn't quite make it's mark - it's also slightly disappointing , in a campy-sense , that the new DVDs lack the awesome quality of the audio as Stallone originally mumbled through the final monologue , now pristine and obviously dubbed - as far as " Vietnam scarred me and nobody at home helped . " It also isn't very nice to end the film with a sappy song of mourning for Rambo's semi-tragic end . But up until then , it's a near 80s action movie classic , a kind of pre-Predator chase movie where Stallone is , in a sense , both Schwarzenegger and Predator , attacking and evading foes like it's some kind of absurdist set of skills . Rambo gets picked up for somewhat sticking it to the Man , so to speak , in a small town up in the Northwest by a hard-ass cop ( Brian Denehey ) who doesn't like him from the start , pegging him as a drifter even though he's just in town to see a friend ( who , by the way , is no longer living , which he never mentions save to the Colonel , but I digress ) . He's mishandled by the cops , sees a razor to shave him , freaks out , and beats to a pulp his way out of prison , onto a motorcycle , etc etc , till he's in the woods kicking tail and taking names . And , overall , the picture works as hard-hitting entertainment . The direction is pretty clear and unpretentious , the music hits home the notes of an ironic pro-military war movie , and Stallone flips the switch on an image he had by that time semi-established . Instead of inspirational Rocky it's pure anti-hero Rambo , who breaks the law , kills and goes nuts in destroying the town , but possibly ( in argument only ) in self-defense . At the end you don't stand up and cheer for the guy , but scratch your head and wonder how he got to this point . If the actual dramatics of the movie don't manipulate as well as Rocky for an emotional response it should be a given with the so-so delivery of the message ( and , as well , Rocky has an obvious bit more warmth as an inspirational tale ) . But as a tome of a genuine tough guy , crazy but formidable , facing the elements , it's an example to follow in the genre .
underrated and flawed , hard-rocking & blues-filled highlights , and sideshow acts	I can't totally understand why the Rolling Stones were embarrassed by their performance here in their TV special Rock & Roll Circus . Sure , everything else you've heard about the Who outshining them is not far from the truth ( it's definitely one of the Who's finest hours with Keith Moon ) . But they're no slackers here either ( sans Brian Jones , who was on the decline and except for No Exceptions does nothing significant here with the band ) , and hearing them perform Jumpin Jack Flash and Parachutte Woman - the latter a fantastic blues tune from Beggars Banquet - is a fine delight from late 60s rock & roll . They also make sure to end the special on two high notes : Sympathy for the Devil makes for a powerful punch of music that rocks the socks off everyone in attendance and without Jagger's preening to the camera ( only to the camera is it annoying , everything else is a given with him ) , it's one of the very best performances of that song , and there's a fine little ending with Salt of the Earth . It's nothing to be ashamed of on their end . Then again , the acts that surround them both outshine and lack the punch of their performances , so maybe at the time of their heights ( and the sentimental factor of Brian Jones's departure and death from the band soon after ) contributed to the decision to keep it from the public . As mentioned , the Who are in the great ' maximum R & B ' tradition with A Quick One ( While He's Away ) , which has as thunderous momentum matched with a wicked sense of humor . Other notable acts are Jethro Tull ( featuring a slightly dazed Tony Iommi on guitar ) , Taj Mahal ( a musician I never heard before but was blown away by ) , and a one-night-only type of grouping with Lennon , Clapton , Richards and Mitch Mitchell doing Yer Blues , which actually comes very close to topping the Who's performance - it's that awesome a rendition of the song . The low-points , however , are like thorns on the side of the show , which are Marianne Faithful , who though very pretty sings like a pretty little goat , and the 2nd song by the Lennon group features one plus ( violin ) and one heavy minus ( Yoko Ono's singing , which is like nails on a chalkboard ) . There's also the creepy sense that the audience looks like it's awaiting the 2nd coming , so to speak . But it's always a lot of fun , the circus acts look cool in a kitsch kind of way , and there's a truly lively spirit going through all the performances . It's far from perfect , but it's a lot better than I expected , and will have a good place in my collection .
Harlold Ramis proves he can cook up a well-directed neo-noir . .	I didn't walk out of The Ice Harvest feeling like I had been illuminated to something in art that I hadn't seen before , like it was any sort of great film . But I did know that I saw a work by a typically above-the-belt genre director , Harold Ramis , and that it served its purpose well . I didn't quite know what I'd get with the film , walking in thinking it was a dark comedy . It was , however I also realized that if the cursing and nudity / sex and ( some ) stylized violence were cut out ( and filmed in black and white of course ) this could've filled a double bill with This Gun For Hire . As it is the film takes a couple of cool twists and turns , and stays true to its sometimes cynical but not very manipulative ideals . The story takes some of the boiled down notes from those hard-edged , stylistically shot films of the 40's and 50's . John Cusack being the " average Joe " down on his luck , looking for a way out with some stolen money ( albeit with a conflicted past ) . Billy Bob Thornton as his partner in crime . Connie Nielson as the ' femme fatale ' of the story . And with others like Oliver Platt as the brash comic relief , and solid character actors like Mike Starr and Randy Quaid as roughnecks . They're given a good script with some occasionally odd dialog and scenes , but work up well the atmosphere of a cold , wet Christmas Eve , with strip clubs , booze , with a violent undercurrent . I almost wonder if the novel the film is based on has the ' old-school ' illustration on the cover like pulp noir paperbacks . Along with Ramis delivering some unobtrusive direction , and sometimes flourishes of style that marks him better than others in his field , he has a cast playing to their types ( or against ? ) without much in the way . Cusack at times under-plays , or plays without a mis-step , with his paranoia and conflicting personality in tow ; Thornton gives a couple of really big laughs at times ( of course in the darkest ways possible ) with his shady character . And whenever Nielson came on the screen , with the light pointed at the eye level mostly , she filled in her role in fine standing within her traditional kind of archetype . It is a bit of a bleak film at times , with a rather peculiar way to make its catharsis ( and happily unconventionally so , I think ) . But that it remains entertaining up until near the end ( and quite a nifty little ending , albeit knowable ) is a credit to that this kind of movie exists right now in the theaters . It's definitely the antidote to all this already brimming ' holiday cheer ' . In short , as a pre-Christmas Christmas movie , it's best out there now ( at least for a particular moviegoer ) .
as a story and emotional experience in and of itself , it's depressing , manipulative , and highly charged drama	I've never been to Turkey , or Istanbul , and I can hold no claims as to what it must be like for a person , American or otherwise , to endure time in one of their country's prisons . But the job of the filmmaker is not necessarily to get the facts down pat and present them as such . It's to present a story and make it appropriate for the dramatization . Oliver Stone , who wrote the script for this and went on to controversy in bringing the true story of Jim Garrison's trial of Clayshaw , Morrison's life with the Doors , and the late president Nixon , knew at 31 that taking what was in the source and bringing it to a life that any audience could understand emotionally was what was important . And he , along with director Alan Parker , deliver this with conviction , if not greatness . The story of William Hayes is ugly , as depicted in the film , and despite the fact that the real Hayes has said the depiction of some of the characters in the film is not as it was , it does not deter it for myself in the pure emotional intake . The story at first does not sound like it will have a happy outcome - Hayes ( Davis , a shattering , torn performance ) tries to smuggle Hash for friends back on long island , gets caught , and is thrown in jail ' as an example ' among others in a Turkish prison . He's abused , and witnesses multiples abuses of prisoners young and old , and once he realizes he won't get out nearly as soon as he thought , he and a couple of other prisoners ( Randy Quaid and John Hurt , both superb in supporting roles ) , plan to escape , or rather ' take the midnight express ' . What occurs from there is what makes up the bulk of the drama , the hurt , and a ' version ' of the truth in the Turskish prison system . The thing to keep in mind in dealing with a film like Midnight Express , is that in cinematic terms , Parker and Stone pull off their goals whether or not they depict the ' truth ' to its fullest extent . They follow the book , and on that count they try their best to bring an adaptation . From that end , I found that it was compelling , if at times almost too heavy and , oddly enough , masochistic . But what comes through strongest , after the outright point of view of the script , are the performances . Hurt is one of only several truly convincing screen junkies in movie history . The actor that plays the burly guard in the prison is absolutely terrifying . And Quaid and Hayes fill their roles finitely . The music , ironically to me , is the one Oscar-winning drag , which sometimes adds pre-80's sounding music that doesn't fit as maybe it could've . But besides that , Midnight Express is overall a work of concentrated drama , that tries to not affect just the American collective conscious , but the world's as well . Years from now , people who have no idea what the prison system in that country or others was like , can at least have an idea , if not altogether to the truth .
not one of the best of the ' sensai's ' films , but it has many moments that are really magnificent	Dreams is not a really easy film to review , as it is an episodic bundle of various dreams from throughout Akira Kurosawa's life . So watching it is like going from one to another without a fully connecting thread . Thus , each one is like a perfectly contained short film where the director's awesome gifts of his painter's eye is put to the main test . Even when a ' dream ' isn't totally working or memorable , or if there's just something not really engaging enough with it ( even within the ' logic ' of a dream ) , it's never tiring to look at . At this point in Kurosawa's career , following the towering masterwork Ran , here his mood is more reflective , dark , occasionally brooding , happy , and hopeful in equal measures . In fact , this might be at the least a superlative example of Kurosawa's knack for color . For a man who worked more than of his career on black and white films , Dreams displays such a particular , distinctive look and measured quality for each segment it's never less than breathtaking . The opening segment Sun through the Rain , for example , which isn't necessarily one of my favorites segments in the film ( it almost looks like something , with the fox wedding , that would be more appropriate in a Miyazaki anime film ) , the shots with the child walking through the flowers is about as sumptuous as color film can make it . My favorite segments are the Blizzard , which hearkens back to the intense , silent-film-like power of Dersu Uzala ( this time with a great blue tint ) , as men try and break through a blizzard as one of them is visited by some kind of angel ; if this was the only dream it would be perfect . I also enjoyed - even if it has been criticized more often than not - the Crows segment where a man goes through Van Gogh paintings and even meets the man played with a tight , amusing turn of words and facial expressions by Scorsese . It's a little silly , but it reminds me of a dream I might have had . Sometimes , if there is anything that didn't really catch me as much , is that the subject matter almost becomes a little less than dreamlike and more didactic in nature . The last segment , for example , which does feature a pretty sweet funeral sequence , is mostly just an old man ( a 103 year old man at that ) going on about nature becoming destroyed . Indeed , some of these segments that punctuate the ' bad dreams ' become the real hit or miss parts of Dreams . For example , the segment where radiation threatens to squash a group of people is not used to the better abilities of Industrial Light & Magic ( who did the special / visual effects in the film ) where the seamless quality comes a little lost in the brief , totally bleak nature of the segment . And the dead soldiers segment , Tunnel , is only really interesting for its look of the soldiers and the dark areas . The pacing , which is fairly laconic , is not at all the weakest part of the film . If sometimes it doesn't quite connect , it's not a problem , as Kurosawa's eye for the environments never truly wanes . It's self-indulgent , true , as it is not really speaking to the powerful storytelling talents his samurai films or dramas have . But it's unique nature overall makes up for anything lost on me . In the end , I was quite pleased that I saw Dreams , as it does go to show how much a master filmmaker can be creative even when not really ' awake ' , as it were , and it probably might provide more to look for or take in on repeat viewings .
down in Mexico	It's been written somewhere that the cruelest thing you can say to an artist is that his work is flawless . John Ford thought of the Fugitive as , despite not being a box-office success , a perfect film and one of his very favorites . It's perhaps more than prudent then to point out some of the criticisms one would have of the film ( which , perhaps , is moot since he's been dead for decades ) . As a fan of the Ford work I've seen there are some times when he's touched perfection ( Grapes of Wrath and the Searchers are it for me ) , and sometimes not so much , which goes without saying he directed many films . With the Fugitive it's recognizable to me why it's split its audience : some hail it as being totally underrated and a brilliant depiction of religious allegory and suffering , and some say that it's a total crock for being far too heavy-handed and acted over-the-top . Both sides have their right points ; it is an underrated picture , if only for its technical feats of cinematography ( Gabriel Figueroa is just right for this kind of material for Ford ) and Ford's usual talents as a basic storyteller with a tendency for pure cinema expression ( i . e . lack of dialog is a plus with the emotion expressed through the camera and actors . But it is also not well-acted in a couple of instances , notably the beautiful but overbearing Delores Del-Rio as the woman living in the town who's baby is baptized by the Priest played by Henry Fonda . For Fonda , it should be said , he at least gives all he can for a performance that possibly other actors could have played with more magnificence . In fact it's for him that some of the picture is most watchable , as he flexes his emotional chops for a scene where it's required for complexity like when he misses the boat and is asked to bless someone dying only to realize there is no wine and must go to ask from a vulgarian for wine ( which , as it turns out , is drunken with brandy and all by him ) . While it might not be the Fonda we all know and love from Grapes of Wrath or My Darling Clementine he does what he can with the part , and it's a tribute to him and Ford that they make it engrossing on a very simple level that carries some complex connotations . When focusing on the actual chase and flight from the Mexican police it works very well ( particularly with a hammy but effective informer played by J . Carrol Nash ) . It's just when Ford over-indulges in the spiritual aspect of the picture , which is only made clearer towards the end , that it loses its footing . Indeed the start of the picture kind of threw me off for a little bit as Fonda comes in with the Christ-like symbolism highlighted on the wall , and the townspeople come in with tears in their eyes and a somber song to sing and Fonda blesses and baptizes others . I wondered : is this a little TOO much in the way of what Ford does best , which is telling the story ? He can be brilliant in throwing in his deep-rooted Catholic ideas as pure visions on the screen , and once or twice in the Fugitive he does . . . and then other times it falls flat or goes too high where it starts to become a full-blown religious picture as opposed to a societal thriller . Should Ford fans see it ? Of course ; even a lessor Ford picture will have something interesting . Will everyone like it ? Surely not . Yet it is usually fine , traditional work and shouldn't be completely dismissed .
a healthy reminder that sex jokes can be well crafted ; Carrell is genius	Something about the 40 Year Old Virgin and the other comedy hit of the summer , Wedding Crashers , is similar , but they are two different films in some respects . Both are romantic comedies that have that kind of over-the-top , crazy sensibility that keeps the teens and guys in their 20's along with the usual dating crowd to go see the films . Both have some sort of formula to the stories as well . But by the end of the 40 Year Old Virgin , I think I found overall it was more satisfying than ' Crashers ' . Although one can guess where the relationship story with Steve Carrell's character Andy and Catherine Keener's character Trish will go to , it isn't too basic for one to figure out like with Crashers , and the characters both leading and supporting are realistic , more rounded than most of the one-dimensional or unexplained people in the other . And , perhaps , it may also depend on how much you identify ( or just find the lunacy ) in both . The thing is some people may go into The 40 Year Old Virgin not knowing Steve Carrell as well as Owen Wilson or Vince Vaughn , as Carrell has built up his cult status on The Daily Show ( one of my favorite shows on now ) and in small but unforgettably riotous roles in Anchorman and Bruce Almighty . This is his first starring role , but it's not treated like some third rate vehicle . He and co-writer / director Judd Apatow treat the character of Andy with a certain level of sincerity that keeps the audience on his side all the way , even early on as he talks to his action figures while re-painting them . It's also a tricky line to walk on - in lessor hands this could be no more or less entertaining than the Lackluster 40 Days and 40 Nights with Josh Hartnett ( also about sexual dysfunction ) . As the title suggests , Andy is the 40 year old who is like the nice guy friend with still a little Pee-Wee Herman in him ( the opening over the credits of his his apartment is hilarious , a good sign ) . So , his friends ( among them Paul Rudd , Romany Mancoy , Seth Rogen , all very good comic foils ) try and devise different strategies and tips to finally break the sort of curse over Andy's head to pop his cherry , so to speak . He almost gets with a overly drunk woman , he almost gets with a freaky kind of girl , and almost with his own boss ( Jane Lynch , also very funny in the mockumentaries ) as a ( explitive ) buddy . But this soon all starts to fade as he gets into a meaningful relationship with Trish , who works across the street from him . As they build on a relationship not based at all on sex , one might worry that the plot gear of " how is he going to tell her such and such " might get in the way of the comedy . It doesn't . In fact , if anything , Carrell and the cast build on it to a very high degree . For practically an hour and a half of the film's two hour length , there was barely a moment I wasn't laughing , whether big or small . The big laughs though make up for not just any kind of formalities with the plot , or one or two little stray stories ( the fellow co-workers have their own relationship problems as well , Rudd's being the funniest ) . The big laughs come through because of Carrell's reactions , and that the people around him can either back up with their own sort of humor / charm , or that its with some truth . Keener gives a very good performance and makes it so that there is a genuine spirit to their relationship ( and , un-like ' Crashers ' , there isn't as much that doesn't make sense character wise ) . For someone like me who loves it when a comedian can get laughs just from the way he looks on his face , Carrell gets very high points here . And like with a Farrelly brothers movie , the more raunchy or outrageous scenes are done with total absurdity ; the ' waxing ' scene ( which was done for real , by the way ) and the sort of Aquarius musical number towards the very end of the film ( the way it comes out at first is a total , uproarious surprise ) . But if you're willing not to get offended by it , there's more where that came from . This is one of the funniest films of the year .
Good Entertainment	I say for one of Steven Spielberg's most infamous picture , ET The Extra Terrestrial , there is some solid , everlastingly good entertainment here even if , dare I say , it doesn't hold up from childhood . I have some fond memories of seeing this film as a kid , as it does contain enough of the special effects , ( excuse me for saying ) magic , and enjoyment that reaches out on a universal level . Perhaps though as I grow older it may not spark me as strongly as it did in youth , or maybe in just seeing even more of Spileberg's films that strike me harder or entertain me a bit more . Yet , there are many things here I'd recommend . Like for people who like remakes ( this is technically a remake of The Day the Easth Stood Still ) , kids , and fans of Spielberg's work . Some classic scenes here are also brushed finely with a rushing ( and Oscar winning ) John Williams score . I'd say that , even through some of the manipulative moments ( they come here and there , on par for Spielberg as he reaches further past the masterpiece Close Encounters ) , this is a must-see movie , and it has obviously had such an impact on moviegoers and movies in general that it's hard to call the film overrated .
about as fun as it sounds , though know what you're getting if you're a " serious " martial arts movie fan	I was talking with a friend of mine , much more into martial arts movie than me , who didn't like Kung-Fu Hustle because of the way it went about showing the fights , and even for its goofy humor being too broad . While I could understand the latter part - everyone's got their own sense of humor ( unless if someone's got none , which is dangerous ) - the former puzzled me . What does someone expect , for example , after seeing the trailer ? If anything , director Stephen Chow is successful most in making a decidedly non-serious martial arts movie . It almost reminds me of my youth seeing the Ninja Turtles fight - there too was martial arts , sometimes with well choreographed sequences with real martial-arts fighters fighting in the costumes . But , like that , Kung-Fu Hustle gets it right in being completely unpretentious entertainment . It's a comedy in the tradition of vaudeville and Looney Tunes , with specks of Tarantino , the Marx Brothers ( yes , also vaudeville , but on a different plane ) , and with characters that are left to be , of course , cartoonish , but not characters that are too cruel or unlikeable either . Take the landlady of the establishment that the bulk of the picture takes place . She's played by Wah Yuen as the ultimate bad-ass lady you don't want to mess with on the wrong beat . Namely because of her look , which is that of having been going too long at what she does to take any lip or disruption for her customers . But then when trouble comes her way , she then reveals herself as a screaming force to be reckoned with . And all the while it's done with a wink to the audience , but taken seriously in its own comic-book logic . Chow also acts in the film as well as co-writing it , as Sing , someone who wants to join up with the mob ' the Axe gang ' , but doesn't quite cut it - at least at first it seems . In the midst of this is a romantic sub-plot involving a girl he once knew whom he had to leave behind , and when this is rekindled it strikes up some extra ambivalence , and a little strife between him and his best friend ( Bone , played as a deadpan idiot by Chi Chung Lam ) . This all leads up to a show-stopping finale where Sing finally has to step up to a certain gargantuan challenge against his evil opponent . It's not necessarily a great comedy , as sometimes it starts to show how goofiness can backfire in a couple of scenes . Plus the romantic sub-plot , while very knowing of its own satirical place from kung-fu movies past , is still a little unnecessary at times . But overall it's the kind of film that I would recommend to non kung-fu movie fans ; if you're expecting a work that takes its fights and stunts seriously like my friend did , look elsewhere . But if you want something that takes a grab-bag of ideas and tosses them altogether to become something original , this is the comedy to check out . It's visual effects go along with the tone of the comedy at most times , like a super-fast chase down a road by two of the characters . And even more " serious " fights like the one between the landlady and her husband against the Ax-thugs at night , still has that air of a battered , supernatural martial-arts tongue placed firmly in cheek . It is , for lack of a better critical term , a gas practically from start to finish .
like the last good flicker from a lighter , this is a sporadically exceptional Lenny Bruce show	Seeing a complete performance from Lenny Bruce is like watching some Jazz musicians all in one form playing at the peak point at that same period in the 60s . Pretty soon all the fire that was keeping everything going would either fade away or get re-directed elsewhere . Lenny Bruce is part of the former , and this show that is likely the last time Bruce was at least totally coherent on stage , even in the similar form of Jazz . Like that , especially in seeing how he talks in a full one-hour show ( as opposed to the bits I've seen on TV or occasionally heard on audio recordings ) , he goes off on tangents , little side-bars that almost might seem like they're going to no point or something random , but it's all in a structure . This structure that Bruce works in helps likely from keeping him on a loose track for his thoughts to go around . Here and there he does get off point , and a couple of stumbles reminds one of how he wasn't really in his full power of linguistic energy and satirical focus . Yet I wouldn't have wanted to miss a minute of what Bruce had to say on stage , even as he would pop into doing full vocal ( if not really physical as his face only shows so much mugging ) forms of the people he was referencing . This is possibly the kind of talk and dialog with an audience that might have influenced Richard Pryor . You never really feel like the guy is doing full-on ' bits ' , not that he doesn't do them but they're not obvious . It's more like if a person might be listening to the other at a bar or over a coffee , it's about as natural as anything . Hence the structure of Bruce's court proceedings - the rougher ones as frank as possible following his only recently over-turned conviction in 64 - is always of interest . It's peppered with him sometimes doing the bits that are referred to in the court papers , and through this Bruce doesn't just go off into long-winded rants about the injustices done to him . If anything he approaches it the best way by putting some more jabs into the rot that came out of the ' issues ' presented at his trial . But the special isn't only that , and in the last twenty minutes of the show the structure then kind of goes seamlessly into other bits more in tune with people in neighborhoods dealing with things , a little sex , some race , class , etc . There's even a very funny throwback to one of his earlier bits involving the word ' come ' and its connotations . In fact , it's hard not to laugh through many parts of the one-hour / one camera shot show , as so much ends up coming through in the unusual flow of Bruce's dialog with the crowd ( and with himself in a way ) that when the punch-lines come they do work . If it's less than a great show , it's probably due to Bruce's own inhibitions perhaps , as the wear and tear of what had been going on shows as true as much of what he speaks out with . I would take a show like this , however , than more than half of the stand-up comedy on TV today - this is a guy , sometimes obsessively and in a tangent-like fashion , trying to level with those he's talking to .
a fairly crazy jazz riff of a yakuza movie - watch it just to see what makes it riff	It must have been a delirious joy for Seijun Suzuki to direct Tokyo Drifter ( when the meddlesome but fair studio heads got in a tiff with him over the final cut ) ; it's a director's movie , and he shoots it and edits it like a jazz-man in a tiny club going one step further than John Coltrane . He's in love with image , LOVES filling it with color and derangement and bursts of violence when required during the theme song crooning along . This is what makes it so satisfying and troublesome ; like avant-garde jazz it doesn't have much structure , it's rhythm is erratic and it will throw off some . He even makes Takashi Miike seem fairly normal in comparison . But to see those little riffs , those scenes where Suzuki rolls out all of his cinematic tricks , it's so worthwhile . For one thing Tokyo Drifter walks along a line that is so gratifying since it works as a straight yakuza thriller about gangster Tetsuo trying to go legit with his boss only to be drawn back in by a sour deal on a building worth millions , and as a oddly subtle AND over the top parody with plenty of rock music , colors that pop off the screen , and plenty of attitude and violence . Suzuki also doesn't play by any rules which is exhilarating . . . it also tends to be a little frustrating if looking for a very coherent story , or some supporting characters to care about . But it works because the focus isn't on the script but the direction ; it's probably as strong a job as with Branded to Kill , only in lush colors ( sometimes matching with white or yellow or blues , like a coloring book with a splash of acid ) and with a catchy theme song ( one scene , where Tetsuo is singing the song to himself while walking along , leading up to an ambush by a bunch of other yakuza , is incredibly funny ) . Watch it to have a fun time , for a good dosage of experimentation , and to get a couple of really bad-ass scenes , maybe some of the freshest and most entertaining in any crime movie . I was quite happy I took the 83 minute trip with the drifter and his saga , even if it is less than great is arguable , and I'd argue it isn't .
the kind of confusing film that you want to keep watching to figure out	Chan Wook Park's Lady Vengeance ( aka Sympathy for Lady Vengeance , the more apt title ) is the kind of revenge film that would be as satisfying for its intended audience - into raw , underground Asian films incidentally from the director of Oldboy - as it could be for the art-house crowd into films by challenging international directors . It's violent , abrasive , emotional , its story doesn't make sense for much of the first half hour , and is loaded with classical sounding music as its score . It's also touching in the humanity Park is able to capture in the relationships Geum-ja Lee ( Yeong-ae Lee ) has with the people she has connected to , or may connect with , in the midst of the rage and vengeance . Her character has been in jail for over a decade , and once released is out for payback from her former employer . But this is not in the same kind of perpetual confusion , in a sense , as Oldboy was . And this time with the non-linear , puzzle-like nature of the story for the first half , the audience picks up on things here and there , catching glimpses of what Park is hinting at with the darker , deeper tragedy underlying her own crisis of the spirit . Lady Vengeance , while not a great film , has some of the most beautiful , ugly ( in a good way ) , and outlandish stylistic shots seen in screens in a while . Park shows himself as a director of the camera growing from Oldboy ( and especially from the underwhelming Mr . Vengeance ) . I still have the image of my mind of a dream sequence where Geum-ja Lee shoots a dog with a human face right in the head - through its succession of shots , and its comic-tragic tone with it . The scenes between her and her estranged , perplexed daughter are the core of the film , and here Park shows that he can direct children just as well as he can with adults ( especially the confession of mother to daughter through a certain ' interpreter ' ) . When Park's story finally reaches its second hour , and Geum-ja Lee's " plan " takes full shape , the more disturbing aspects of the film really take hold . But what's even more staggering about how this is handed , how the vengeance against the real criminal - a child killer - is doled out is what is NOT shown . As in Olbdoy , the power of suggestion , followed by the shock of the the aftermath , packs a punch few films can . If it doesn't quite reach greatness from my perspective , it's maybe in due to the lengths that Park goes to early in the film , cutting back between present-time and the time in prison , is slightly off-putting . And a scene or two still has me wondering ' huh ? ' ( the finger cut is one of them ) . But overall , this is a really successful work of giving vitality and clarity to what could be really terrible , close to unwatchable material . And any formula that could be present in the story is pulled back into a kind of ambitious turn-around . By the way , the prison scenes are the best to look for , on par with the kinds seen in the Shawshank Redemption .
the sights ( no sounds ) of Nice ; a little aimless , but captivating	If you're not awake for it A Propos de Nice could be a little boring , or just a little tiresome . There's no real specific ' point ' to the visual , silent documentary that is Jean Vigo's first film , though what is and what isn't shown does strike some interest , along with some other miscellaneous images . It starts off with a spellbinding ( and for the time revolutionary ) image though , of the city of Nice seen from an angle high above in a plane . From there Vigo shows the upper class life , the vicariousness , the fun ( driving cars , swimming in the ocean , going to nice restaurants , dancing ) , and then the film ends with a strange mix of images of smoke and fire and smokestacks and people laughing in close-up . The best thing about this film , which doesn't run too long , is that there's a free-form approach to getting the city . It's part of what were called the ' city symphony ' documentaries , where filmmakers just took there cameras around the city , getting images that delighted , or shocked , them . The film goes by with some strange camera moves , some low-angle perspectives of women doing the ' can-can ' , and more smiling . But probably the most provocative ( and my favorite ) image of the film is when there is a woman's body on a chair , we see her in different pieces of clothing , until she's nude . Is this surrealist , or just experimenting in form ? It's not like a Bunuel film because it's more about getting the scenery and shapes of the buildings in Nice than fing with the audience . But on the other hand , there is a mix of Freudian qualities to the film , as were in a few independent filmmakers at the time . It's both exhilarating and a little dull - with the wrong soundtrack ( I saw it with a common baroque score ) its interest swings depending on the moment . If I can find it , I'd watch it again , especially after seeing more of Vigo's works .
some of the best Dostoyevsky adapted to film . . .	For any adaptation of a Fyodor Dostoyevsky story to work , the filmmaker has got to know what he's in for with the source . Dostoyevsky writes like the sky is falling in every beat , but it's such a breathtaking sky that there needs to be some poetry in the midst of all the torpedoes falling down on consciousness . Getting through Crime and Punishment or Notes From the Underground is hard going at times , but about the most rewarding , if you give yourself to the prose , that literature can provide . I haven't read the Idiot yet , but I can gather just from what I've read about it - and hitherto seen in this Akira Kurosawa adaptation - that it's not a whole lot set apart from his other works . The difference in this case is that there's a more " wholesome " Dostoyevsky character here than , say , Roskolnikov . With a bit of Forrest Gump , a squeeze of Jesus , but a lot more head trauma , Prince Mishkin ( here Kinji Kameda ) sees the best in people , the love , but also the sadness and pain , and he can't do much but offer some advice and those eyes full of whatever the other person wants to project onto themselves from him . One thing I found really interesting in the Idiot is Kurosawa's use of eyes . Eyes give away a lot sometimes in movies , but in this case they convey almost as much as in a straight silent film . Odd , considering how much Kurosawa sticks to the program of Dostoyevsky's original text ( not sure how much it stays true to it , especially translating to 20th century Japan , but it seems close by the tone and depth of the language ) , that body language and the perspective of eye contact and movement and range is so important . But it's this facet that creates at times the benchmark of the emotion in some scenes , specifically one that takes place late in the film where there's the start of an emotional confrontation between Takeo Nasu and Ayako , the two women of Kameda and Akama's lives , and before a word is spoken in this tense scene where sides are chosen and fates are laid out , eyes go back and forth - Nasu's wild , hurt eyes , and Akayo's more direct , composed orbs . Under any other direction it might go into overacting , but with Kurosawa it's just right . So much has already been written about the problems of the Idiot stemming from the fact that a third of its original running time - from 265 to 166 minutes - detracts from how it really should be perceived . I couldn't agree more , but it should be noted that the picture , when it does work well on the usual fronts of Kurosawa at his prime ( and it is often ) , does have some triumphant status to it . For a movie that , however long length , is filled with this much talk going through motions that should be considered torrid melodrama and to actually surprise one with the effects from its actors and its lucid storytelling , is thrilling . The cast is terrific , everyone from Toshiro Mifune in a role that has him as a kind of " human " time-bomb , where he could go off any minute , but there's a lot of moments where he suddenly comes down to Earth thanks to Kameda ; Satsuko Hara , whom we might remember from Rashomon , doesn't stray too far from her character's range , which allows her to plunge head-on into a role that's dark and depressing and strange ; and Mori ( also in Rashomon and noteworthy in Ugetsu ) has a nice quality all around him as the one " innocent " soul of the bunch ( " innocent " as in not totally corrupted in his emotions or swayed easily by his passions one way or another ) . And , as mentioned , Kurosawa's camera is limitless in how it can navigate around during a scene , quietly , sneaking up and getting a good strong composition with everyone in frame a certain way or spinning around to another one , that keeps you on your toes to expect something else . It's suffice to say , at least , his skills don't dull in this time in his career between Rashomon , Ikiru and Seven Samurai . So , really , it all comes down to The Idiot being a piece of a great movie , or pieces to put it that way . It's frustrating , for example , to actually KNOW where the producer cut into the frames , added in a cheap wipe or two - ones that would not be the norm for Kurosawa - and put in those irritating cards early on in the film rushing things along ( it also doesn't make sense , for that matter , that the film's first part is 90 minutes while the second is 14 minutes shorter than that equivalent ) . Like Magnificent Ambersons , Kurosawa got the rough end of the stick on distribution , if to say that he went " too far " in making a 4-hour plus Dostoyevsky adaptation for Japanese audiences in 1951 . Unlike Welles , who was an upstart at the comparative time , Kurosawa was just starting out , getting some hits but not quite a superstar in international cinema yet . It's a bit of a shame , because taking in all of the sappy melodrama and the high-rising music and the occasional maudlin touches , The Idiot , in its completed form , could be as great a Kurosawa at his very best . As it is , it's only better than average - but should be a welcome treat for Dostoyevsky fans at least .
a film that works as much as a piece of sly , wicked debauchery as a comment on freedom of expression and repression	Quills recalls to me - thanks to a friend's discussion on the matter after having seen both films - of another film about a writer on the brink of being sane or insane , in a world where creative output is encouraged only so far as seen prudent and thus censorship , punishment , and redemption is squashed especially when women are involved . But unlike in the Libertine , where the director , screenwriter and cast couldn't really keep a hold on both the material and the style , and the actual content became muddled under the unnecessary drab of decadence , Quills is a lot sharper on the ball . Directed by pro Phillip Kaufman from what must have been a very good play by Doug Wright , the film is actually entertaining from scene to scene , and it's in turns funny and gripping , tragic and demoralizing , and all the while with that edge that comes in films about controversial artists . And what better subject to have then as part of looking at societal morays than with the man who's own name created the word Sadism ? That it is also headed by a top-notch cast that fills the roles to a T helps pull it off . Indeed the best thing that Kaufman does with his style is to actually not get in the way of the actors and the script , which is what the Libertine director forgot to do . There's so much that Geoffrey Rush brings to the role of the Marquis De Sade - one who is still raising eyebrows of readers to this day - while on the surface it seems to be only a little . It's a very forceful performance of a passionate character , one who almost has a need health-wise to output his ' trash ' , novels and stories about sexual decadence and certain malicious pleasures . But Rush's own strengths and bravado would be only just enough for maybe a little while without some backup . It comes greatly in the form of Michael Caine as the Doctor , who is ordered by Napoleon to come to the aid of a Priest ( Joaquin Phoenix , one of his better performances ) , who is running the asylum De Sade is currently banished to . Caine here perfectly embodies a person who , compared to De Sade , is much more evil and threatening with just his presence as he takes a very young bride , which sends the main shock-wave that catapults the bulk of the picture . It's this dynamic - with Phoenix's Priest ( and Winslet's chambermaid ) caught in the middle - that really gives the film its main dramatic juice . In general , Quills is likely one of those films from years ago that I should have seen at the time it was released , though it got such limited distribution as to not be seen in its original run . And it's one of those films I now regret having not seen sooner . It might not be a full-blown masterpiece ( Kaufman doesn't have the overall awesome power and epic scope that drove his film The Unbearable Lightness of Being ) , but it's still an important work for the actors involved , and it presents some memorable scenes to go with its subject matter . I loved how De Sade went to the extent of writing all over his clothes with his blood , and most especially the sequence where he relays a special story through the walls of the asylum to the others to be transcribed very roughly , as suspense , humor , and danger all coincide in equal measure . It even has a tinge of Clockwork Orange in the contrast between the choice of man , even if its crude and despicable , and the cold , unwavering control that drives lesser men , like Phoenix's character , to delirium . Those who are repulsed by the film may be responding more to what is on the surface with De Sade's lurid works , as opposed to seeing further into the real depths of the story at hand .
" I hate the damn system , but until someone comes along with changes that make sense , I'll stick with it . "	I think this sentence , said at a pivotal point in Magnum Force , the second Dirty Harry picture , is one that should get more attention . It says something very basic about Inspector Harry Callahan , and in a sense about the society he's fighting / serving . He has no qualms about putting a bullet right between the eyes of anyone with a pistol meaning business ( in this case there are a couple of juicy examples , like early on with a hijacked airplane ) . But there is a line that he just can't , and won't cross . This is something that I think has some reflection in our world from then and today ; many of us get ( usually rightfully so ) indignation about the criminals of the world who seem to get away with abhorrent , or just plain wrong , crimes . Dirty Harry ( Clint Eastwood , still one of his great characters ) has become a kind of masculine , hard-as-nails ( and as Pauline Kael calls pretty much ' fascist ) hero for the period , because he tries to get above the law , while still within its perturbing limits . The other line " a man's got to know his limitations , " is also potent , though more of a throwaway to the ' do I feel lucky ' speech from the first one . It's themes like these , from a script by John Milius and Michael Cimino , that give the audience something to sort of think about even as the more standard elements of the story run through . This time Harry has to contend with mysterious lot of killings in San Francisco ; a corruptible politician and a pimp being two such targets . He also has things on the side with his personal life , but soon the case is taking over for him . There is also the contemptible , and shady , Lieutentant ( Hal Holbrook , with a couple of subtleties that work better than expected through the hard-faced scenes ) , who couldn't care less about Callahan . Amid this there's at least a couple of car chases , shoot-outs , the plane hijacking mentioned before ( a highlight ) , and a supermarket robbery . For those who are gun nuts , some of these scenes will likely be eye-candy . However , compared to the first film and even some of the subsequent sequels , the direction is hit or miss ; some shots are creative , but its mostly pretty straightforward ( although Eastwood was reported as uncredited as director , it just doesn't pack the wallop Siegel's direction had ) . And the scenes involving Harry's personal life ( i . e . women ) aren't very well developed ; they're just sort of left hanging as the film focuses on the main plot , even if they're good scenes . Still , through all of this , the ideas working through the story and the script help push it forward to a rewarding and exciting climax . There is a statement being made through all the action and hard talk . And there's that trademark jazz score too .
at its best its a stark , haunting look at a complex issue without much sentimentality	The most recent Palm D'Or winner was , at first , a little perplexing to me , and had a feeling of it slightly throughout its near two-hour running time . It starts off looking like a movie about nothing ( and not the interesting awesome kind of nothing that is about something ) , with a woman going about some busy business is a dorm , and meeting and talking with her boyfriend . Then it segues into a story of her attempts to help out her friend procure an illegal abortion in a hotel room under some harsh circumstances ( i . e . the girl is timid and uneasy in her ignorance , the man performing it is cold and cruel and a professional pig , the general fear and loathing of the situation ) . But Mingiu's style is something that took me totally off my guard , and I wasn't sure for the better . The film contends with the likes of Woyzek of having a ridiculous among of long-takes ( and long as in ten-minute length , the variety that would've been impossible decades ago ) , with these characters in a bind of usually holding back emotions under these complex set of circumstances , where the fear of getting caught goes hand in hand with the problems of guilt in a society that shouldn't have that instilled in people in the first place . I even though once or twice " what's all the hoopla about with this movie ? " But since I saw it yesterday , the film hasn't left my mind , and considering the little problems I still have with it ( mostly involving one or two scenes that , for all intents and purposes , do overrun their length of a take ) , it's much more of a remarkable film that I thought right after seeing it . It's a lot like if Bresson shot a home movie set in Romania in Communist era times of dread , where a character like the lead Otilia ( Anamaria Minca ) is so restrained we wonder if she'll suddenly burst at the seams at any moment . Once or twice she and the perpetually quiet and insipid character Gabita ( Laura Vasiliu ) break down in their emotion , but it's all mostly unsentimental in portrayal . So , perhaps , think L'Infant , also a recent Golden Palm winner , only with a stronger and much more unforgiving message at the core of an abortion : it's never easy for anybody , on any side , least of all for the fetus dumped away in some dark room or other , away from the dogs that could tear it to pieces , and as something that will be at worst a skeleton in the closet . But the style of the picture is most striking because of how it tries to be somehow immediate and detached ; we're caught without a cut at times , like someone is ( carefully , not Cloverfield ) holding the camera , getting down every little gesture , every little eye movement , and not with a cutaway or close-up . Lighting is also minimal or for the basics , like when we're at the dinner table with her boyfriend's family , or especially at dark when she's walking around in a daze . It's a challenging perspective that , dare I say it amongst all who love the film so , veers on pretension . But as I said , the power to stay with me hasn't diminished , and like any powerful piece of European cinema that tries to provoke through suggestion , through subtext , and through a precise , cruel naturalistic setting , it doesn't go away very easily .
a must-see for Chong's fans , and maybe for others too . . .	. . . and those others , in essence , might be most people in America . As the subject of a / k / a Tommy Chong states himself in the film - after being incarcerated for nine months for selling bongs to one state - his arrest and conviction was meant as a symbol for what could be done to practically anybody . When the current administration puts forth the notion of drug use being equal to terrorism all bets are off as to who's next . So the documentary here , maybe one of the better ones out this summer , works pretty much for two sides . Those interested in seeing a story of a case about the drug issue and civil rights , calling into question the constitution , and what's done by the attorney general's office is on one side . On the other side is the far and wide fan-base of Chong's from his stand-up , albums , and movies . The director Josh Gilbert does a very good job at balancing out the facts and interviews about the bong case and Chong's stay in prison with his personal and career histories . Some of this archival footage has not been seen in years , if at all , which brings out many good laughs alongside the classic clips interspersed in the film . It's not really ' polished ' style-wise , and it is mostly filmed with digital cameras at times capturing even the mundane moments of Chong days before going off to prison . Scenes like this usually wouldn't be in some documentaries , even as this is very independently made and wont be seen by as many people as other documentaries coming out this year . But in Chong's own testimonies , both of the facts and then how he puts it on in recent stand-up footage , and then through the legal and personal ramifications of the case , there's a lot to ponder and feel from the material . There's sadness , there's humor , there's outrage , and even moments of clarity and catharsis - Chong's now , apparently , been made a martyr through this happening , more popular and more counter-culture than ever in his late sixties . It's imperfect , but it has a crucial topic that is made all the more human by who is put at the center of " operation pipe dreams " .
in equal measure creepy ( hence the title ) and wickedly funny	A collaboration made in hell ! I kid , but really this is one of the best examples of what can come about , much as would happen a couple of decades later with Miller and Rodriguez , when two creative juggernauts in their respective main genres put their heads together , most notably with comic books . Both writer and director were influenced by the EC comics of the 1950s , Romero maybe more than King , and it's a highly stylized , high-wire example of it being a romp , a satire , a live-action cartoon , and a gore-fest all interspersed . It also features a handful of some awesome character actors for the segments . Each segment has its strengths , maybe a few weaknesses as well ( it IS so much into escapism it teeters on the edge of being too campy for its own good ) . But it provides a great fix if you're looking for some quick doses of Romero's visual mania and strengths ( this time with extra budget for special effects and wilder lighting set-ups ) and King's un-yielding need to scare the crap , or freak out , his audience however possible . But what's interesting some twenty-four years after Creepshow was first released , is not even how the segments - at least from my POV - hold up pretty well even in today's overridden computer effects world , but how its often even funnier than it is scary . As would be the case with any comic book , unless if it's a deep and dark graphic novel , there's bound to even be just a bit of unintentional humor . The stories in Creepshow more or less deal with very wicked people , sometimes pretty well off , and with more than a few deeply held personal grudges that come back to bite them in the ass , often in the form of zombies and monsters and what-not . My two absolute favorites , if I had to choose , were the Jody Varill segment and The Crate . The former could have almost been a Looney Tunes cartoon if not for what happens at the end of the segment ; King himself plays the lead character , a hapless country bumpkin who finds a meteor that's hit on his farm , which he touches and then soon becomes , along with his farm , a big pile of literal moss . King shows here he's terrific with playing such a one-note stereotype , and the ' wishful thinking ' moments where he brings the meteor to just that specific section of college is some of the funniest stuff King's ever written . The latter , the Crate , features old pros Hal Halbrook and Adrienne Barbeau as a on-the-rocks married couple , him a professor and her his overbearing alcoholic wife . When his colleague finds a crate from the 19th century , and an insane baboon-like creature that will only stay in the crate whilst it eats its victims , he tells Halbrook's character , who then proceeds to plot a certain task he's envisioned for years . This segment represents a good balance in some genuine thrills and the dastardly humor ; I couldn't help but laugh when I saw Halbrook's visions of his wife's demise , as well as the creature itself , about as campy in its creation as possible . The other segments are pretty good contenders as well , with the Leslie Nielson " Something to Tide You Over " segment cooler with its story than its overall execution , the first story involving the dead husband rising from the grave amusing if not altogether scary or funny . And finally , EG Marshall goes in very rare over-the-top form as a corporate antagonist who has a certain distaste for cockroaches - this one is actually very terrifying , even as it serves up more than it can really handle after a while . The whole form of Creepshow is visually cool too , as cuts sometimes dissolve as if through a comic-book , one frame moving over for the next , and little framing devices like jagged edges around the characters in close-up , distorted angles , twisted lighting , it's all there . It may not be altogether great , but it's got a lot of stuff that as a movie geek I really admired , as Romero and King took their homage as almost an excuse to throw in the kitchen sink with everything else . It's delirious , it's stupid , it's witty , and it basically displays , for better or worse , two contemporary horror heroes having lots of fun , as it also passes along to the actors too .
Wild at Heart has some memorable moments in this good Lynch movie	A filmmaker , in particular a surrealist like David Lynch , has to be kind of careful with the way he makes his films , so that all of the abstract images and set-pieces and little moments in the stranger-than-life stories he makes can bring some awe or amazement to the viewer . He has done this in the past wonderfully with Eraserhead ( his most disturbing movie to me ) and Mulholland Drive , as well to a degree with Blue Velvet . With Wild at Heart , his second adaptation of a novel , he brings to the screen some moments that stick in your head , but some of them aren't really the kind that strike me crazy like with some of his other films . For example ( and I have a feeling this might be part Lynch , part novelist Barry Gifford , but I'm not sure ) he laces in a sort of subtext with the Wizard of Oz , as the two ( anti ) heroes of the film , Sailor and Lula ( Nicolas Cage and Laura Dern ) keep on seeing images of them . It's an effective image the first time , but working it into the plot makes it a little ridiculous ; I knew that the film was part pulp-fantasy , yet with the climax including a small speech from Glenda the Good witch to Sailor , it's very unfulfilled . It brought the film to a close with melodrama , but it left nothing mysterious , nothing that usually has me floored by Lynch in not explaining where these people will go . There are also other abstractions at times that go a little too overboard , a little too clever for Lynch's own good . These gripes aside , Wild at Heart is quite the entertainer , a sort of romantic exploitation picture that fuses elements from 1950's cinema ( Elvis , rock and roll , cool cars ) and gives its audience what it wants for the better part of two hours . The basic premise involves two young people , played Cage and Dern , who are very well matched , as Cage gives a believable turn with half-hammed up , half sincere attitude , and Dern giving one of her best so far . They meet each other and can't keep their hands or minds off of each other , eloping constantly throughout the film . But there are problems from the start - Sailor has just been released from prison , with a dark past , and can be a very violent person . Lula's mother , Marietta ( Diane Ladd in one of two very twisted performances in the film ) , can't stand Lula's choice , and will stop at nothing to see that Sailor doesn't get her , including hiring strong-men and a hit-man ( Harry Dean Stanton ) to track them down . Along the way , they run into some mishaps , and bad people ( one being Willem Dafoe , the other twisted performance ) as a lurid figure in the third act . There has been a lot written about the violence in the film , which is in fact very over-the-top ( almost in an Oliver Stone NBK way , but done in Lynch's own style of course ) . It's not offensive , but it isn't as if its entertaining . It's just , well , there , and it does work to fit into the story . What one can criticize is , like with the other abstractions I mentioned before , it leaves one a little empty or feeling out-of-place . The violence has to be there , there's no question about that , and it is in an exaggerated form of the obviously fake violence in the 1950's road movies . But it takes itself so not seriously , it's hard to take it into account with the rest of the story . There's a sense of some realism in the film , but I don't know if Lynch knows at times how to combat it with his surrealism . Still , this isn't to say he hasn't made a good film , he has : it contains a lot of his wit , a lot of flashes of great use of color , used expressively like the painter he is , and it does blend much of the time as an art film-cum-drive-in flick , and it contains some of the sexiest scenes Lynch has filmed ( he seems better with sex than violence ) . I just wouldn't say it's one of Lynch's very best works . Maybe I'll like it more the second time , or less . As Ebert put it , this is like a Luis Bunuel film done with a Jerry Lewis re-write . I'm a big fan of Bunuel , not so much of Lewis .
reality and acting on the dark side of inebriation	Richard Lewis is one of my all-time favorite comedians . Mel Brooks once called him the Franz Kafka of comedy , and it's not far from the truth . The guy crafts such agonizing and harrowing comedy out of neuroses and problems and just common familial and relationship and whatever dread that it's staggering to watch ( seeing him recently it was even more free-form and stream-of-conscious than ever , like Kurt Vonnegut and Woody Allen in a Bowery bar telling penis jokes ) . But he also was , in his past , troubled and on drugs and alcohol and went to a therapist for years and so on , and finally kicked it for good in the early 90s ( he even wrote a sprawling , scatter-shot tell-all book called The Other Great Depression ) . So , in 1995 , he took the lead part in Drunks , and if it may seem like his performance as Jim is so spot on and incredible it's more than likely because he knows this character , maybe all too well . I go on about Lewis so much just because he's the character most on the edge , the one falling off amongst all these other AA people meeting in a Manhattan Church , that it's impossible to take your eyes off him when he shows up . Jim , who speaks very reluctantly to the couple of dozen people at the AA meeting , lost his wife to a brain aneurysm two years after becoming sober from booze and junk . Then he slipped and went back and at the time of the meeting he hasn't had a drink in several months . Right after this long and heartfelt confession he leaves and wanders the streets , tempted at first and finally giving in to his insatiable craving to whiskey and beer . While he goes from either bar to his apartment or on the streets for drugs the film cuts back to the AA meeting where other people share their experiences , some fatally tragic like the blackout guy , or Dianne Wiest's doctor , or Faye Dunaway's upper-class mother , or Sam Rockwell's seemingly regular guy , or even Parker Posey as an ex-hippie chick . Hell , even Calista Flockheart gives a showstopper of a performance , which is an indicator of how on top of things the actors are here . It is , if as a real liability , written and performed like a play , and it's broken up as a series of monologues inter-cut with Jim in his downward spiral mode . The good thing about director Peter Cohn's approach is that even if a monologue falls kind of flat - I actually didn't care much for Spalding Gray who sort of mumbled through his character's turn as the guy who just showed up not knowing it was an AA meeting in the basement of the church - it can cut back to Richard Lewis who , in particular in one later scene at a bar , lays it down to such a heartbreaking beat that you almost wish he was in a Bergman movie or something - or , for that matter , one of Woody Allen's serious films . He's that amazing here , whether it's just how he is or if it's a " performance " or whatever . It's an actor's movie , and for that it works well . Just don't watch it for anything fancy or flashy ; it's slightly obscure for that reason , since it doesn't have a real " star " attached .
it's sub-title : Family and Philosophy , almost tells all	This is the first film I've seen by Chantal Ackerman , and I'm mixed as to see more of her films . I see so much here , even as I have personal criticisms of certain things in her style . I wondered when the film would end at times ( not knowing the running time seeing it ) , and its shifting between rye , sly Jewish jokes and sad tales of Jews escaping the horrors ( or not ) of holocaust and the working-class immigrant's life , is very unexpected . But then again , the film has the feel of being a hybrid of documentary and fiction , with actors ( there's character Kirk Baltz somewhere in there ) and perhaps non-actors or really off-off Broadway people . As I was told , this is in the tradition of black-box theater , in particular Jewish ones , and its filmed with an invariable European feel and mood by Ackerman . Certain jokes were very amusing ( there's even one that was featured in Coming to America ! ) , and others that reminded me of the ' it's not funny but hmm ' feeling of those in Jarmusch films . The stories told are very long , and the shot-lengths go neck-and-neck in competition with other art-house filmmakers to be some of the longer ones in cinematic memory . Sometimes there is movement to the film , as in the brief , interesting conversations with the older characters . And there is some nice , understated dialog in the ' restaurant ' scenes . It's really for a specific audience , and is unique for better or worse , the kind of underground movie that has a lot to ponder about the Jewish-American ( and European , mostly Polish , Jewish ) experience . Some of the stories , indeed , are rather horrific in scope , while others question what life is living in the less-classy side of the city of New York . And the film is given not only a beautiful opening image of the city from a small boat , but a brilliant end scene with an old man in the middle of a field , recanting a very sweet story . Hard to find ( watched it in a class ) , and was glad to watch , once , as a good introduction to Ackerman .
Kirby Dick takes another look at a facet of American life that's considered a ' no-no ' to talk about	Kirby Dick's attitude to material that's a ' no-no ' is to say " yes-yes ! " His previous film , a near masterpiece chronicling the hypocrisy of the MPAA on American film censorship since the inception of the NC-17 rating , served as an indictment while also having some fun . While a sense of fun only springs up on occasion in Outrage he still gets right what needs to be shown : an in-depth look at the rampant hypocrisy of government's ' in-the-closet ' stance . Gay politicians rarely come out of said closet - in the film we see two such promininent figures interviewed at length , NJ governor Jim McGreevey and Massachusetts rep Barney Frank - and Dick's aim with the documentary is to seek out the hows and whys . It's poignant when it needs to be , but above all else it serves up information we as the public should know about figures . It's a truth-to-power assemblage on public figures who , time and time again , have voted against gay and AIDS rights ( it may not surprise some to know it's Republicans who are the ones most in the closet-side ) while denying what people can see outright . Dick frames his doc on two key figures , one being Larry Craig , the disgraced congressman who was caught in a bathroom doing something that , perhaps , was equatable to what he described Bill Clinton as doing in the mid 90s . He propositioned a cop for ' something ' and fervently denied it in public , despite allegations that there had been other incidents in the past suggesting more than likely that he was and has been in the closet . It's been one of the great follies of the past couple of years , and opened up the discussion that appears in the film ( Craig , it should be added , has something like a 16 % voting record on gay rights through his career ) . The other figure , not with as much national notoriety as Craig , is Florida governor Charlie Crist , a " bachelor " who had married once and quickly divorced in the 70s and remained a single man for as long as anyone could tell - not to mention having a chief aid allegedly going with him around the world on vacations ( the trick being that one would go the day before and the other the day after - every vacation for decades ) , and denied up and down being possibly , at all , gay . Despite all matters on the contrary , Crist denies it ( after going through a girlfriend and another wife during and after the election ) , and continues to put fervent anti-gay judges on the state court . Dick isn't out to " out " anyone of the closet - at least , anyone that would rather be kept private . But these are public figures , and the aim is that of This Film is Not Yet Rated : open up the lid , look inside , and see what makes this subject tick to hell . And with Washington and US politics and media , there's so much to mine and Dick and his team do a very good job . Hell , we even get Ed Koch ! Who knew ?
not the best concert video , but it's worth it for the die-hards	Probably the biggest disappointment about this DVD / video , the Doors on their tour of Europe in 1968 , is that it's not really a full concert like with the Hollywood Bowl video . It's more of a pastiche of different clips and appearances , and interview footage from Paul Kantner and Grace Slick from Jefferson Airplane , who give some interesting ( if not really necessary with the rest of the footage ) anecdotes on the Doors . That's not to say what's on here isn't good - there's fine performances of ' When the Music's Over ' and ' Five to One ' among others , but many of the numbers are shot in grainy picture with crummy sound ( i . e . ' Spanish Caravan ' ) . It's not unwatchable / unlistenable footage , but it brings to mind how much better the clarity of a filmed concert can be . That it's also not full performances ( patched together at times ) it's also not as fulfilling . Still , as I said , it's worth it for die-hard fans , who want nothing more than to get ( rare ) footage of the Doors in their prime .
after seeing only a few episodes , I can't wait to see them all !	Nick Frost is in very fine form here , not nearly as sloth-like or just plain dumb ( though ingeniously so ) in Edgar Wright's comedies but still with a sense of the truly ridiculous in sublime style . His gags are obvious and repetitive ( which I loved , like when he's completely covered in the red protective gear and constantly hit by two guys with sticks ) , and sometimes with such tact and speed you can't see them coming ( eg when he's lost in the woods at night and an audio-tape meant as a bomb counts down while a voice speaks over it " find the bomb " ) . It's subtle in the best form of British comedy , but it's also akin to Frost going into situations that border on being not even too dangerous : will there be danger in ice-fishing ? Some of the biggest laughs even come from the little illustrations and cartoons shown of Frost showing what to do at , say , a volcano eruption , or if an elevator cable gets broken . Much of it is uproarious simply because no one will ever have to attempt , much less do , this in real life ( i . e . driving a car like James Bond , rescuing hostages , and mingling with reindeer while an elf goes to task getting his own ) . Some of the tips are actually possibly useful , if in the most truly absurd ways . How to deliver a baby in a taxi ? How to obtain water if you're in the middle of the desert ? What about possible attacks from Kommodo dragons , bears or gorillas ( watch for the sign language-off between Frost and a silver-back , priceless ) . While it isn't always all golden comedy - some bits like the reindeer one need to rely on too much absurdism to really stay afloat for too long - more often than not it's addictive stuff , especially if you've got the series on DVD . I could see recommending this to people who may not have even seen Frost's work in Shaun of the Dead and Hot Fuzz as his personality rings dead-on as being sincere in the questions and ruthless in shameless shtick ( few things can compare to seeing Frost get an explanation on how to deal with a nut with a baseball bat - one of 4 , 000 not used in the UK - in a bar brawl ) . None of his skewering of old tried-and-true dangers of the world is cruel or too stale , and there's originality in just approaching which guest interviewees to have . Witty and silly , once tapped into the wavelength Frost is reaching for , it's well worth the tutorials .
solid crime-show pilot that shows Lee can do something dramatic outside of NYC ( pre Miracle at St . Anna )	Sucker Free City refers to San Francisco , where three interlocking stories take place with black , white and Chinese guys on the street . Some are gang-bangers ( black ) , or hard-bitten mafia ( Chinese ) , and the other ( white ) are more marginalized with some dabbling in some ' thug ' business . What's very strong here in a pilot episode is also something of an unfortunate weakness considering it's Spike Lee directing , and directing well : it ends on a note of ' what comes next ' , of a few too many loose ends to feel totally at ease as a stand alone work , which it sadly became once Showtime decided not to pick it up . While one wonders if they could pick up the reins properly from Lee , or if he could produce the series , or ( more logically ) if it could properly compete with HBO's The Wire , taking it as a stand-alone made-for-TV movie , it's quality s we're talking about , so to speak . Lee directs with a professionalism that is uncanny , but like any good film artist trying to work into something mainstream he only puts his marks here once in a while , even less than in something big like Inside Man ( one of the trademarks though , Da-BOMB malt liquor from Bamboozled , is a fun and nice touch ) . He does what he needs to do : tell all these stories , set up a lot of things to play out within the two-hours and for the future ( as there is uncertainty even in what feels finished ) , and cast everything to a T . In this case we get Anthony Mackie , fresh off of what turned out to be a turkey for Lee , She Hate Me , as a gang-banger K-Luv in abandoned wasteland Hunter's Point trying to go somewhat legit with his endeavors ; Ben Crowley as the credit-card hustler and sometimes coke-dealer Ben Wade , who's parents have decided to move right into Hunter's point across the street from K-Luv's people ; ( way underrated ) Ken Leung as a collector for the Chinese mob getting in over his head with a new decked-out car and debts unpaid . Lee creates an atmosphere that's tense , funny , and occasionally really shocking ( not to spoil , but it does involve children ) , and he has a surprisingly strong script to work off of from first-timer Alex Tse . Everything easily gets linked together , but the tensions rise with some conventionality - just enough to keep things believable for TV . The set-up is even so good I'm reminded of Oz , where the psychology and sociology of street-life got examined with mature entertainment . One can only think how the characters lives could go on from here , but the fact that Lee keeps us guessing is a mark of his talents ; ironically , this is one of the director's best works in recent years , and should be seen by more than just those looking him up this site .
a tale of a prostitute and her , uh , ' sister , and also a daring allegory on heaven & hell ( more-so the latter )	It's not exactly as surprising really that the Showtime network decided not to pick up director Takashi Miike's entry into the Masters of Horror , Imprint , but rather why they chose him in the first place . Didn't they think after seeing Ichi the Killer and Audition and Gozu , among probably a dozen others I can't think of , that he would deliver something to the highest X-rated for violence & / or sex caliber ? I'm guessing then they either decided to take a calculated risk , or maybe Mick Garris was such a huge fan of his he must've known what he was getting . Maybe no one did . Certainly not me , and I've already dug into a good few of Miike's movies . This one definitely ranks up there as one of the most shocking of the lot of the works he's made , matter of fact probably ever will . It's how really that the director approaches the subject matter , and how its presented , that really makes it so effective in the realm of real horror . This isn't for kids , make that perfectly clear ; indeed I'd say if you've ever really been close to babies , or have had them , you might really feel disgusted by a few of the key scenes in Imprint . At first Miike seems to be dealing with something that is intriguing , though in a familiar style . It's a Rashomon-style tale of the truth behind a grisly matter , in this case the death of a prostitute , Komomo ( Michie Ito , pretty heart-wrenching when she gets time to be ) . Her one-true-love , Christopher ( Billy Drago , in a performance that's somewhat like David Carradine but in a slightly different , not-as-magnificent key ) , is there to find her on an island run amock with prostitutes . He goes to pieces over the news , which he hears from a woman ( Youki Kudoh , the most effective and shattering performance of the film ) who has a scarred face . He then hears a ' story ' of what happened to her , but through the woman's story as opposed to exactly Komomo's . The woman has to tell her own story , which starts off rough from when her mother sends her away as a child from their river-side house to the ring of ' whores ' she becomes apart of , and where she meets Komomo . But this story , of which the first real rush of horror comes in following an interrogation / torture of Komomo , is only the first one , and not necessarily the ' truth ' . What comes out as the truth soon enough turns into something that not only did I not expect , but had me cringing and with eyebrows raised , but once or twice sort of laughing too . This isn't a very funny effort really , and unlike Visitor Q Miike doesn't combine satire with the more disturbing , bone-chilling elements . It's a straight-up no-holds barred look at the darkest side of human corruption and exploitation , with the surprises that come up really too hard to believe at times . For example when we finally do see the woman's ultimate ' secret ' , it borders on being a laughable , un-Godly sight gag . But it's dealt with in the utmost serious way , and meant as allegory - which it is without a doubt the case - is very powerful . What ends up being the most horrific , and horrific to a point that will make those in the US who seek out the DVD covering their eyes and feeling ripped to shreds , is stuff that isn't completely abstracted like with the ideas of ' the soul being in heaven or the body being in hell ' . It's in seeing how the woman came to be , from birth , and how seeing what she saw - her mother's ' occupation ' - along with her certain ' ailment ' involving her sibling , combine together into something that is much more potent than monsters or savage lunatic psychos . For Christopher , this is something that brings him to the brink of his own cognizance , and what his love for Komomo really meant . Seeing how Komomo had her final days on Earth is pretty staggering , but for the viewer its not exploitive in the sense that it's just shock-value for shock-value's sake ( though I'm sure many would argue that , especially over notorious scenes in other Miike films ) . It's there for a purpose , and made purposeful through the style that is very unlike how typical TV mini-movies are shot . Sometimes we get the bloody , creepy shots , and sometimes not , adding to what horror is or isn't seen as part of the effect . In the end , all of it adds up to something that I might want to try to forget soon , but I probably won't be able to . In short , if you're already a fan of Miike's , this should be like the treat of the season , with a mix of the director's bravura film-making technique ( some shots are pretty incredible , like the tilt from the water to that tree , in tint of green , or the detail in how he shoots ' things ' moving in backgrounds , and long-shots ) , and the no-punches-pulled sensibility of the subject matter . In this case a world of maybe the purest hell on earth with only the dire hopes and undermined will of getting to a heaven . It's one of the director's very best , albeit shortest , works in his very prolific career .
at best it's intelligent and captivating and historically interesting film-making - at worst , it's dull exposition	It's one of the big " fiasco " stories of Hollywood lore : the most gargantuan budget spent on a single motion picture - 47 million ( the equivalent of about 260 million today ) - on an epic so huge in scale that it was nearly unthinkable , however true , that it started out as a modestly budgeted production that skyrocketed by a myriad of reasons . Not least of which was star Elizabeth Taylor herself , who first stopped the first try at production with Rouben Mamoulian through her various real / fake illnesses , then second through her notorious relationship with Richard Burton that started on the set and distracted them from certain scenes ( which is arguable but the point is valid ) . By the time the film was released it could in only a miracle recoup its budget in its initial theatrical run , and got ( to say it nicely ) mixed reviews . To see Cleopatra now isn't to say that history has been entirely kind to the production , but it should be said that it can be viewed somewhat on the terms that Joseph L . Mankiewicz set out for the final product . All the money is up there on the screen , in nearly disgusting detail and extravagance , yet the director has also crafted something that does , usually , have substance past the enormous spectacle and ( also to say softly ) lavish production designs and sets . He tells the story of Cleopatra , Egypt's most ( in ) famous queen , in a split-act form that is like two movies strung together ( in fact it was the director's idea to have them as separate 3-hour epics , though eventually each part was trimmed by an hour and put together again ) , and while the latter part might work better than the former , it's an impressive , flawed , and interesting effort all the same . It might be much to go into too much detail about all of the specifics of the story , as it would take up far too much of this review . Suffice to say it's first about Cleopatra ( Taylor ) and her mentor - cum - father - to - her - child Caesar ( Rex Harrison , in surprisingly good two-dimensional form ) , and then after he is killed her hot and complex relationship with Marc Antony ( Burton ) , and the eventual war between Rome and Egypt via the new power-hungry Caesar ( stunning Roddy McDowell ) . For this first part , which is mostly with Harrison and Taylor and a little Burton thrown in , it's a lot of exposition that sometimes is quite dull ; one wonders when the big spectacle will come about , the exception of course that spectacular " entrance " of Cleopatra's into Rome . Yet , it's never really too dis-interesting , if only from a ( Hollywoodized ) historical point of view , and if one is a buff of Roman history - or , at least , Roman epics - there should be enough to hold the interest . It's when Cleopatra and Marc Antony get the most screen time in the second half , however , that things start to get a lot more absorbing ; the chemistry in real life rubbed off on the two stars , and there are scenes where Burton ( probably the most highly charged of the major actors ) and Taylor square off like it's oneupmanship . And as Mankiewicz goes further with the story into the final battle , things pick up in the narrative that suddenly gets things boiling like a good old-fashioned epic , and there's finally a synergy of substance and style that is spotty for some portions of the film . Yes , it's probably TOO big , and TOO long , and with the hubris of the producers and its stars right up there in certain moments if not spread throughout ( it goes without saying that Taylor's diva demands seem to radiate off her queen in some real specific instances ) . But it's no failure by any means , and it's no disaster either . At the same time it also shoots short of greatness by not being , apparently , very well organized , with no complete script and its director re-writing scenes ala Godard the night before it was too be filmed . For what it's worth , some 45 years later , it's a fine achievement that isn't overrated and maybe just a tinge underrated .
the sly and slightly crazy satire of church and sex	Pier Paolo Pasolini has with the Decameron what is supposedly one of his " happiest " movies . This is not to say the film is always cheery - matter of fact a couple of the stories deep down are pretty dark and sad and cursed thanks to the repression of religion and mortal sins - but Pasolini's comedy here is sharp and his wit comes out in the obscene or in the random . It's a little like Bunuel only with a more earthy sensibility with the locations and slightly less surreal situations ; it doesn't mean that Pasolini is any less ambitious with treating the foibles and stringent ways of the Catholic Church . The Decameron's only big liability , in my estimation , is that it could be easy to get lost in the structure Pasolini sets up ; it's nine stories , ranging from a Sicillian being swindled after finding out he's a brother to a sister of royalty until he's covered in feces , to a supposedly deaf-mute boy who becomes the sex toy for a bunch of sex-starved nuns , to a supposed ' Saint ' who fools a priest into thinking he's such with his lackluster confessional , to a girl being met by her boyfriend on the roof and then being ( joyfully ) caught by her parents since his family is wealthy . They're all interesting stories , more often than not , with even a really short piece like the priest attempting to seduce his friend's wife providing something amusing or eye-catching visually . But , again , all of these stories go from one into the next without much warning , and one may wonder when the next story really begins or if it's a continuation of the last . As it turns out , like the Phantom of Liberty , it's very stream-of-consciousness and one skewering of morality and sex can bleed easily into the other . And yet some may find this to be a more daring strength than others ; certainly it's a very funny movie ( if not quite as funny as Pasolini's masterpiece The Hawks and the Sparrows ) , like with the bit of the guy caught in the tomb , to the frankness of the parents asking the boy to marry their daughter on the rooftop - even just the strange feeling one gets watching the painter ( played by , I think , Pasolini himself ) in the act of creating an unusual but unique work on a church wall . The greatest thing of all , for fans of the subversive , is that nothing is out of bounds for Pasolini , via his source material of the Boccaccio book , and he never is one to ever shy away from sex . That's also another asset this time around - unlike Arabian Nights we get some actually erotic bits thrown in the midst , if unintentionally , and on occasion ( i . e . the shot following Lorenzo as he runs by the fence ) the director conjures something powerful amidst the medieval / surreal / neo-realist pastiche .
goes a little long not knowing when to end , but it is a genuinely clever crowd pleaser	Inside Man has the appeal of a slick , cool , not-too-old used car . You know certain things will definitely be there , but you also are hoping some things might be surprising . Spike Lee isn't doing an incredible subversion of the heist picture , particularly the bank-heist picture , but he is putting his mark on it , and this split between common Hollywood stylistics and a personal vision make it a fine little piece of studio film-making . There's also a story at work here , one that does develop the ensemble ( mostly of hostages , and cops , and others ) , while also developing in a way that , at the least , isn't too boring . There may be a lot of elements going on in the film surrounding this bank robbery , and its questionable if the focus isn't on one thing the whole time . But if Lee can do one thing quite well , it's making sure the pieces fit , most of the time . His cast is all top-notch , with his on / off again acting collaborator Denzel Washington in his smart , always interesting form as the hostage negotiator . He's up against Clive Owen's Don , head of a few really well-planned ( he calls it the " perfect bank robbery " ) robbers , who've taken a heap of people hostage . Owen , to me , has one of his better performances , not an easy feat being under a mask and glasses through most of his role , but his voice ( as usual deep and brooding in his English way ) is dead-on and threatening . There's also Jodie Foster and Christopher Plummer as the ' special interests ' looking out for something that happens to be in a certain safety deposit box . If I'm being a little vague then its for the purpose of the viewer ; this isn't a twist that just comes out of nowhere , and it could be argued to not even be a real ' twist ' . One of the things that had me really attentive was knowing how the structure of the story would go after a while , the bits of general unpredictability of when a flash-forward ( err , Denzel's interviews with the ex-hostages ) , and how it carried a similar lighting scheme to Lee's Clockers . It's a very good lighting set-up . And , like Scorsese with the Aviator , in this very prominent big-studio budget , Lee is able to put in little nods to the audience that this is still his ' joint ' . Even if the screenwriter , Russel Gurwitz , doesn't have the focus always together , and after the climax there are a few too many exposition-type scenes , the last scene does give a nice grin to most in the audience . In fact , this is a terrific film to see in a packed theater , as I had the chance to have , as there are more than a few really funny moments interspersed with the more thrilling cat & mouse scenes . Inside Man plays on clichés in a way that reminds me of the Usual Suspects , and done in its own slick , used-car way that wont really break down , for most .
Spielberg / Lucas ' guide to sheer cliffhanging , shamefully entertaining adventure-lore	There's a part of me that wonders why I might have a rating as listed here as an for Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom , an 1980's blockbuster thrill-ride that many ' Jones ' fans list as their least favorite - at the least inferior to Raiders - in the series so far . But then I have to take into account that for a film of this kind , one that poses the no-holds barred case of eleven-year old minds caught up in a grown-up control , it's quite spectacular in its manic , throw-in-the-sink kind of action film that more than pays homage to the matinée serials of the past . Since the last time I saw the film the bulk faded away from a random childhood day , seeing it today I'm struck by how it does tap into that sense of humor that is unhinged . This is more than just a vehicle for Harrison Ford , it's a crash course in delirious escapism , of things that make your skin crawl , thrills pushing a relentless arena , and dark comedy . This time , in a way , Spielberg , Lucas , and the American Graffiti co-writers ( hence a bit of a push from Raiders on the bits of comedy ) , they set themselves up to make what happens so outrageous and ( in its classically conventional way ) manipulative . The story takes place in 1935 , a year before Raiders in 1936 , but the links of the story lines aren't important like in the Star Wars movies . It's simply sets a precedent for the filmmakers - the audience knows he'll get out of whatever's dished out , almost as a kind of toughening up for future tales of Dr . Jones . On the one hand the film delivers with a lot of promise on just the terms of pure spectacle ( the brilliantly over the top opening Shanghai sequence , the whole main temple arena with its satanic overtones , the cart chase ) and in pulling laughs out of the supporting characters here and there ( Kate Capshaw will hit or miss with people , though Short round is quite the amusing - and not annoying - side character ) . On the other hand , however , there is a lack of real classic movie cliché thrills of Raiders , or with the movie star repore of Ford and Connery in Crusade . And , in truth , everything here is so completely immersed in the B-movie ideal of fing with you at every turn , even as a PG movie of the time , it very often pushes on the line of being hokey . The song that starts the film , Anything Goes , should give anyone an idea of what to expect from Spielberg and Lucas , two thirty-something men who in Temple of Doom - for better or worse - tap truthfully into their inner immature selves . It may miss the mark of greatness , but it's still one of the real guilty pleasures of the 1980's .
delivers , up to a point , for both sets of fans ; it's Poe with a chaser of slightly modern twists	It's always tricky to evaluate a filmmaker when at work on a film that is in an in-between realm of short and feature . Actually , by technical ruling ( or what would be considered by most festivals ) , it is feature-length with each segment . But I found Two Evil Eyes an underrated effort , after reading many mixed reviews ( many leaning to the lesser side for especially Romero's film , and some faint praise for Argento's ) . The Facts in the Case of Mr . Valdemar and The Black Cat are not the tippy-toppest best for either filmmaker , and for Romero it's a strange kind of quasi-conventional experiment while Argento stays in somewhat familiar territory . Each has its own strengths , own weaknesses , and it's a fine little treat . ' Valdemar ' : This starts with the veneer of what comes in the range of something like a cross between daytime Soap and a 40s melodrama . A woman ( Adrienne Barbeau ) married Mr . Valdemar late in life , and as he's about to die ( and soon does ) she stands to collect a load of money with her cuckold - a smooth operating doctor who has a knack for hypnosis . What unfolds after his death , and their cover-up in order to secure more funds , is something still like a ' living-dead ' movie for the director , but more psychological in head-games and , to be sure , a faithfulness to the Poe source . It is a peculiar feat to adjust to in seeing Romero , at least in the first half hour , directing more like an old pro of the studio era than with his trademark panache in editing and shocks . This time he brings on the dread in a gradual fashion , built on guilt and paranoia , and then as Valdemar is in that freezer , a Gothic form of psychosis : two people stuck with a body , and a voice , they can't get rid of and become absorbed with . I liked it a lot - maybe more than I should have from what I read ( the ' Soap ' argument against it I read before , though Romero does try to give his actors more to work with than any hack would ) - as it preys on the fear of death as not a final measure , with one last wicked kick in the nuts with that bed scene . Top shelf Romero ? Not quite , but it's still oddly gripping , like a polished piece of clichés giving way to a wild head game of " old-school " horror . ' Black Cat ' : Argento's dip in the Poe pool goes to the lengths that he as a director always goes to : elaborate - to - the - Italian - horror degree style in camera and deranged horror , and even bits of dark horror that almost make Poe seem tame . I can't say how much this is tied into Poe more than I can Valdemar , but try as I might I couldn't see this as being totally peak Argento either , despite ( or almost in spite of ) everything he has going for it . Like Valdemar , it's about someone not coping with life after death ; a photographer ( Keitel ) into the macabre , with a ( color me shocked Argento ) violinist girlfriend , has a black cat , whom the photographer strangles while taking some provocative photos . She knows he's behind it , but he can't stop himself - he needs another cat - just like the old cat - which will meet some grisly consequences . Keitel's always game for something like this part , which plays like his Bad Lieutenant gone Grand Guignol , which makes for one of the best pleasures of the project . He doesn't have a whole lot of range in the role , but it's a fun one for him , chewing on the meat that Argento throws out for him scene after scene . Argento , meanwhile , even for him overdoes it with the horror music in certain scenes , and dares to go to too much excess with the symbolism of the white spots on the cat . But it's totally a wonder to see that dream sequence , where Keitel is in the midst of a medieval Pagan sacrifice , with a sharp cut-away in the most violent bit . And I loved the pleasure that Argento takes in enlivening Poe's macabre with his own , with the violence extending from mania into the visual . I had my complaints at times , but it's hard to not throw up one's hands with Argento and say " why carp ! " when he's unabashed in his passions of mostly constant camera movement ( tracking , cranes , close-ups , pans , you-name-it ) and illogical steps in plot ( i . e . why Keitel's character would even put out a book with cat deaths knowing his girlfriend might see them , let alone so soon ) . Bottom line , fans of the directors should check out the films , and decide for themselves how they do . It's two tall tales of curses and death , derangement and the surreal , and it's a concoction worth at least one viewing .
leaves you with an uneasy feeling watching it , and I mean that , strangely , as a compliment	Nicholas Roeg's Don't Look Back takes the premise of parents coming to grips with the tragic and untimely death of their daughter like a paranoid thriller , but not in the sense that it always will keep you on the edge of your seat . On the contrary , there are stretches in the film where you wonder where it will be going ( early in the film more-so than other parts , though this is part of Roeg's design as it unfolds ) . As their other child , a son away at boarding school , gets sick and Julee Christie's character - who has been given a chilling premonition by a blind Italian lady while the two of them , the other played by Donald Sutherland , are in Venice - goes to see to him , the results start to affect Sutherland's character . He sees someone in a red coat , in quick glimpses , and even thinks he sees Christie again . But is there a plot growing in the works ? Is he seeing what he thinks he is , or does he lose his rationality ? Like Roeg's previous film , Walkabout , there are times when the story is taking such a leisurely pace that it has to be on part of the audience to stay with it . But Roeg twists the screws just slightly , making little things and the attention to details via quick edits , super-impositions , that darn abstraction of the red-mark ( which , by the way , shows up later in a church Sutherland is remodeling ) , that one doesn't want to look away . It is , on the one hand , sort of cheating for what its core audience might want - it doesn't get very much suspenseful until the last ten minutes or so , when finally the stakes are raised just enough through circumstance , and Sutherland succumbing to what he early on had warned Christie off of ( believing the blind lady out of some idea that the daughter was still alive ) . On the other hand , it's not exactly about the suspense anyway : it's taken from a short story by the same author who provided stories for some of Hitchcock's films ( Rebecca and The Birds ) , and while it could be said that the filmmaker doesn't shy away from a twist at the end or with some direct musical choices throughout ( albeit Roeg doesn't quite get a Herrmann here ) , it's less about that than about the mind losing a stake in what may or may not really be happening . Is it paranoid if it's really happening to you ? Roeg seems to suggest paranoia following the character ( is there a plot surrounding Sutherland and Christie , the blind lady , the detective , the strange murders occurring ) , but his style isn't that of a Hitchcock . He'll linger on some scenes , make some flashes to others , and it sort of put me in a strange mood watching it , almost like watching Antonioni ( and even then a comparison is hard to do as the style of both with the camera is separate ) . What Don't Look Back does is surprise the viewer , if not completely successfully in terms of genre than as something reaching outside the bounds of it , and that's what makes it work as well as it does ( if at all ) so many years later . The editing is especially good , as was with Walkabout ( watch the cross-cutting between the steamy , " real " husband-wife kind of sex scene and the two of them getting dressed the next day ) , the mood has a eerie effect without over-stepping itself , and there's also one of the most disturbing killers from a 1970s film . And it goes without saying that Sutherland and Christie both turn in fantastic work here ( the former probably more than the latter , if only because of his amount of screen time outranking the other ) .
one of the most enjoyable of the Arnold action vehicles	Total Recall has little , if any , by way of passing itself as being ' art ' . It is , but more in the sense of it being pop-art , of the director Paul Verhoven paying tribute in visuals to the story by Phillip K . Dick . And it's also one of the more exciting and quotable of those shameless examples of how to do an action film . In this case , however , because it is a P . K . Dick-based story there are some good social bits made in the process . If it isn't as astute or consistent as Blade Runner or Minority Report , it's probably more due to it having to be a vehicle for Arnold Schwarzenegger than it being a full-on thought-provoking work of science fiction on film . But this does rank up high with the other works of the star , as he is in a complex situation in the film - his mind is scrambled , at first , and everything he thought was right as dickens is not . So he's told by ' himself ' on a screen he happened to save for himself that he has to get to mars to find out the truth . There is plenty of good action sequences , but it is more about Verhoven's knack at getting this popularized view of Mars just a little subverted , a little stranger . Some of my favorite scenes involved Scwarzenegger's mishaps and turns of fate as the story and his character took turns . For example , in the scene when Arnold's character wants to get his memory wiped off to Mars and then he flips out in the chair , this is a very entertaining scene in being very ridiculous ( try to listen to what he says , or don't as its near unintelligible ) as well as following a darker trek in the story . In fact , much of the film works on the strengths of both director and star by having it not too over the top to have some belief in what is going on , but that expectations aren't limited to what might happen as Arnold's character in on Mars uncovering the conspiracy around his messed-up memory . Featuring a sultry Sharon Stone in a great supporting role ( another memorable scene comes with her demise , as usual quotable to the bone ) , as well as a memorable climax involving the arid Mars air and a certain outrageous reaction to it , I recommend Total Recall for genre fans and even those who might be wary of it being a ' Hollywood ' take on Dick . It's not great , and per usual PKD fans might scoff at the faithfulness to the source , but it's better than some of the lesser adaptations of the author . Just go in for a good time and it stands up over time ( err , 16 years ) .
Jodorowsky as pleasant , pragmatic , spiritually dense and complex figure in this doc	Alejandro Jodorowsky would be the sort of filmmaker / artist / therapist I might want to have a talk with over a cup of coffee or something about a slew of things he's concerned with - cinema , family , theater , art - but it'd be hard for me to imagine what he would do if I were on a film set with him . He's impulsive , and probably more than a bit crazy , but as one of his old cohorts in abstract art says , he's a disciplined madman with a method to his madness . He sometimes says things that make me think ' what a pretentious guy ' , like when he says he's hasn't started making films since he's only made six or seven of them . He also replies with a very typical answer for something that's obviously asked as a trick - who are you - with a story of an Emperor in China . But I also think after seeing this that he is a man genuinely happy with his niche in life . He's created all of these films that have been probably even more important for him than for the audience - even the times of failures like the aborted Dune project or Tusk - and he moved on to a kind of weekly group therapy he conducts where he gets people in touch with their ' family tree ' and the problems that arise from past generations , one's parents , and in the end one's self . One sees that he went through an " enlightenement " with The Holy Mountain , and controlled his ego through doing the Rainbow Thief and the Moebius comic books , and even through an overlong treatment of the documentary director , Louis Mouchet , and his familial angst , that he's maybe even wiser than he would admit . Not that one doesn't raise an eyebrow when he deals in tarot cards , or never admits that some things are coincidence or luck ( but then again he also never says anything about traditional religious institutions either , as part of the anarchy likely deep within him ) , but he never comes off dis-genuine , and he's even amusing in some of his telling of tales and conducting of group sessions . I may not precisely know who Jodorowsky is , but I have an idea , which is the best that Mouchet can do at any rate .
a very fine western in due to its mounting complex look at justice and star power	Last Train from Gun Hill has the star power to help back up a storyline that is , on the surface , seemingly too straightforward : a Marshall ( Kirk Douglas ) finds that his wife has been killed . When he finds out that it is the son of a cattle baron ( Anthony Quinn ) , despite his old friendship with the baron , he decides to bring the son to justice , holding him by gunpoint in the town hotel until the train comes to take them off to jail - while the baron has his men outside with their guns poised . There's a touchy element to who the son ( played as a snidely little kid in Earl Holliman ) killed , which was that the Marshall's wife was a Native American . But more impressive in the script , and through John Sturges's steadfast professionalism , is how there's the tension between law and the personal , the immediate draw of a gun draw to solve anything , and the bitterness of real vengeance ( watch Douglas's Marshall tell Rick about how he'll be the only one to hear his own brain cry out as he hangs dying , perfectly acted ) . Although it's likely that Douglas and Sturges were in or made better westerns , this is the kind of work that doesn't age in much a way that cheapens the questions poised or the invigorating style . It's a fairly violent film too , with a couple of deaths by the train tracks at night all the more effective from the taunting build-up and the pay-off in one shotgun fired off , and always the threat much more tension-filled than the result . Granted , when a big fire ends up happening , it looks very much like it's on a sound-stage and without a whole lot of suspense ( save for the typical but strong ' who will get the gun first ' moment between the Marshall and Rick in the bedroom ) , but it's the ambiance of the characters , the dread over this dangerous mix of volatile father and townsman - a better than average Quinn without being too hammy - and a good man driven to vengeance in bad-ass Douglas , and the determined woman ( Carolyn Jones ) that makes it so compelling . There's even a slight feeling of unpredictability in the situation - in a town where reputation trumps what is good and decent , but also where emotions run high as can be , the stakes are high for chance . By the very end it feels like it should be more formulaic , and there are bits where the dialog does come off as brawny ol ' western genre jargon ( look simply at some of the quotes on the IMDb page as example ) . But if you happen to come across it on TV one Sunday afternoon , as I did , it's worth the time to sit and get absorbed by a well done star vehicle .
hip , well-acted and slam-bang action / police flick in the guise of blaxploitation	Arthur Marks somehow knew how to do it : combining the tough and thoughtful police-thriller with a seeming exploitation ( or blaxploitation ) flick into something worthwhile . It may not be for some ; matter of fact , from all I can tell looking at various reviews it's made little of an impression aside from negative . But I was drawn into this seedy , multi-racial tale of dirty criminals and ( some ) dirty cops and a dirty politician because of the simple strengths of the acting and ( most of ) the writing , not to mention an explosive climax and a nifty opening heist scene . It's even more than nifty ; Marks somehow has the cojones to make a poignant moment in this scene , as well as a couple of other times in the film ( i . e . Ruby dying in Jessie's arms ) , where the singer who's doing a number gets cut-off by the tape recording telling everyone to get down and fork over the cash and jewels . . . and she just goes on singing , and a song sung with a mournful voice . The nuts and the bolts of the plot are that in Detroit , where according to officer / athlete Jessie Williams ( Hari Rhodes ) his new partner Danny Bassett ( Alex Rocco ) is in the minority in the black-dominant area , a heist has taken place during a fund-raiser for an up-and-coming politician ( perfectly one-note Rudy Challenger ) , and there's already tension : is it an all-black gang , or all-white ? Can there be a crack when those the cops find immediately shoot back and end up shot dead ? It all leads down to a pimp and his girl , or so it's thought , and not everything is what it seems with tough / smart cop Bassett , yada yada . Describing a lot of the plot isn't necessary , as much of the interest in Detroit 9000 are in scenes of pure attitude , of this time and place in this city a microcosm of racial strife and unrest . If anything it's not even a blaxploitation movie , per say , but something of a black pride movie in a strange way . And there's at the least some equality : the gang is found to be multi-racial , including a dead ) Indian from Canada ! There are ways this movie can get cheesy or stuck in its 1973 time-frame , and of course the clothes , the slang , and the soundtrack all speak to that . But I enjoyed how Hampton's screenplay struck a line between giving many of these characters , including supporting ones like Ruby Harris and Ferby some personality past their stock characters , or how the wit creeps up as really unexpected ( the line Clayton's " assistant " gives to a prostitute is so classic QT lifted it for Jackie Brown ) . And Rhodes and Rocco , otherwise usually relegated to supporting and character-actor parts in other movies , get to show what their made of as cops on a dirty case that just gets dirtier . Lastly , without sacrificing some sophistication in the writing or a refreshingly bittersweet ending , Marks tops it all off with that big chase going six or seven ways across the railroad tracks and fields and cemeteries of really gritty parts of Detroit and put to a raucous , spot-on soundtrack . In a word ( and I can almost hear a James Lipton voice saying this as I type this ) : under-rated .
not quite there with my absolute favorites of Miyazai , but still a rousing ride	Porco Rosso , a film by Hayao Miyazaki , tells the tale of the title character , a man who has been somehow transformed by a curse into a pig-man . Unlike in some other Miyazaki films , the curse is not largely expounded upon , and instead we're given the main course of his story . He's a bush-pilot / bounty-hunter , who is more often than not getting pulled away from sitting on the beach to fend off citizens from greedy ' air-pirates ' , and trying to make his own way on his own . But when his plane gets shot down , he has to build a new one . He gets the help of a plucky engineer , Fio , and soon has a new & improved plane , yet instead of the old bounties , he's now got to face off against an old rival , Curtis , for a double bet . There are certain things I can nit-pick about this film , and I would probably be looked down upon by the real die-hard fans . I didn't think that the love story side of the picture with Porco and Gina and their past rang that much as compelling or interesting , more as a typical aside to the conventionality of the picture . There were also little things I didn't care for in the final climactic battle between Porco and Curtis ( mainly of the cutting back and forth between the dialog-heavy air-pirate and up in the air with the two pilots , the latter is much more fun and exciting ) . But even with all of this , I would still never tell someone not to check it out , especially if they're getting into Miyazaki / Studio Ghibli's world of adventurous stories in original locales . I did love the character of Porco Rosso himself , who has a little of Indiana Jones in his daring , though with an even more cynical attitude that is painted by a dark past . He's even given a not-too-shabby English voice job by Michael Keaton , and cool voice on the French audio by Jean Reno . I also loved little things about the film too even as I wasn't entirely thinking it was great . Specific shots of the plane in the air are quite incredible , with Miyazaki and his crew moving the film along in a much more cinematic manner than might be expected from usual anime ; it's not your typical animated film because the director really IS directing , getting a specific vision down . And there's a wicked sense of humor about many scenes , some of which might fly over children's heads if they decide to see it ( not that its unworthy for kids to see ) . A lot of the stuff involving the crazy , but kind in front of women , pirates who hold their big gambling ring during the climax . Or the actual pilots themselves , Porco and Curtis , when they have to fling things at each other up in the air as they run out of ammo ! Little details of the animation make it lush and vibrant in places , while sort of lacking the immense surreal and bombastic pleasures of Miyazaki's other work , which isn't necessarily a bad thing here . It's a fun adventure pic with some typical situations thrown into some not so typical locales and characters .
more impressive as a time capsule / social document than as a rock concert film	At the height of the hippie culture and music scene , filmmaker DA Pennebaker went to the first ' event ' concert . It lasted three days in Monterey California , and hosted almost all of the pivotal , immortal acts in the rock n roll scene of the say - Simon and Garfunkel , the Mamas & the Papas , Canned Heat , the remnants of The Byrds and Buffalo Springfield ( later CSNY ) , Big Brother & the Holding Company ( with Janis Joplin ) , the Who , Jimi Hendrix , and even a special appearance from Ravi Shankar . It's a shame that it's sort of a let-down for a rock fan such as myself . It's not that the performers aren't in their peak form , or that it is filmed poorly ( most of the time Pennebaker and his photographers - one of them the incomparable Al Maysles - work in the roots of cinema verite in their documentary approach ) . The songs themselves aren't really the choice peaks . Some of them are , but some of them aren't , and the overall ( and kinda over-bearing ) air of the hippie world is a little much . The difference between Monterey Pop and Woodstock is that the later combined a focused , absorbing look at the audience while giving room for the prime cuts of the best sets from the acts . At the length of Monterey Pop , which is a third of the length of Woodstock , it's too short . And yet there is much to admire and watch for , aside from the appeal of it being a period piece . Jimi Hendrix , in his first American show after forming the Experience , gives a drug-loaded showstopper ( and one of his most revered and almost over-rated trademarks ) of lighting his guitar on fire after going through a blistering , raw rendition of ' Wild Thing ' . The look on the audience during this scene is priceless . The Who are very good , if a little under-used ( I've seen their performance from the show of ' A Quick One While He's Away ' that is ten times better than their ' My Generation ' encore in the film ) . Big Brother / Joplin and Simon & Garfunkel give soulful , peaceful numbers . And the final act - Shankar - is absolutely mesmerizing , showing how much he was ahead of his time with music ( his speed and inventiveness with the sitar rivals most of the great hard rock guitarists ) . It's not the best of the ' peace & love ' rock docs , but if you're into it anyway you should see it at least once .
" It hits all by itself . . . " One of the first , mandatory stops on the tour of MA movies	I finally saw Enter the Dragon all the way through ( in the past I caught snippets on late night TV and never got into it before changing the channel , no offense ) , and I must say this is indeed a highly likable , engrossing , and influential film , for all the right and wrong reasons . Right because it has influenced countless followers in the martial-arts / kung-fu genre , and can be counted on as holding some of the finest , slickest ( not slick in the sense of Jackie Chan's amazing stunts or the artsy-fartsy slickness of Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon ) fight scenes ever filmed . Wrong because behind the " coolness " that follows Lee in nearly every shot and his awesome skills as a fight co-coordinator on top of being an action star , is a storyline featuring villains and supporting characters that soon fizzle out in the viewers ' interests . I know it's a minor squabble for such a film , many a kung-fu fan might say , but I felt that cheesy , tongue-in-cheek poking me in many scenes even as I found myself enjoying them . Lee plays , well , Lee , a master of the Shaolin school who is recruited to participate , and in undercover infiltrate , in a fighting tournament on an island that's run by a vile gangster named Han ( Kien Shih ) , who in between fights holds slaves and opium addicts . Along with this are a couple of supporting characters also participating in the tournament including Williams ( Jim Kelly ) and American businessman Roper ( John Saxon , who isn't actually all that bad through most of it ) . Like I said , the story sort of speaks for what content is there , and the cheesiness the minor characters , over-dubbing ( English over English as I saw it ) , brings it down as a motion picture in and of itself . However , I certainly recognized that through whatever flaws come in the baseline of the script and acting is compensated by Bruce Lee - even as he makes those trademark sounds ( woooaahh ! ) as he fights off dozens at a time , there's an unmistakable grace and magnitude to what he does here . Possibly his most famous sequence , the climax involving the mirrors , is enough to endure most of the movie , but all the other fights as well make the whole experience worthwhile . To sum the review up , I do agree with the argument that Enter the Dragon tends to be over-rated ( many say this is the greatest martial arts film ever and say it without seeing the countless films that have come out of Chinese cinema ) , but as a star in the genre Bruce Lee helped to popularize , he proves here that HE and his philosophies & techniques ( " there is no technique " he states early on ) will endure for decades and generations to come .
probably not always a very good movie , but it is an excellent Giallo , for what it's worth	I would pretty carefully recommend House by the Cemetery to friends of mine : it would come with a caution that not always will Lucio Fulci make something that is totally sensible . Or , if it is , it's not always very well acted - matter of fact , some of the acting here is wooden or strange or , in the case of that not-quite-bloody kid , excruciatingly dubbed . But there's so much here that does work for what kind of movie that it is that I would end up recommending it as a prime cut of Giallo , true to the disgusting and gory and occasionally relentless shots of stabbings and blood pouring out as if on tap to a faucet . Fulci might not have been the best director at it , but in 1981 with this and especially The Beyond ( which is his best movie still for me ) he showed his worth . Sort of simple premise , sort of OK follow-through : family from New York ( gee whiz , like we haven't seen a New York family or locations in Manhattan in an Italian horror movie before ! ) moves to New England to a house that was owned by a family that is now cursed by the town . A board is up against the cellar door , and for good reason , since once it's taken down ( for , you know , curiosity ) very bad things start to happen . Spooky . At first one might think Fulci will just work with this , and indeed the climax and certain chunks for characters ( some pun intended ) involve this creepy and dark and gruesome cellar that ranks with some of the best ( or just strangest and oddly timed ) in horror history . But there's more to go around : a bat pops out of the cellar , providing a great bat-attack-death scene . A woman with thick eyebrows portends trouble , and then is killed anyway . The family end up at the will of what lies in that darn cellar . And meanwhile , the curse goes on with a mysterious little girl who somehow can only talk to the boy . On the downside of things , Fulci doesn't always show himself as a strong storyteller . As a stylist , with moving the camera around and getting interesting shots , he's much better ; a continuous usage of close-ups on the eyes of characters creates a kind of eerie rhythm I resisted at first , then found cool . And yet for all of his faults , not to mention casting whoever that voice was of that kid ( it's seriously like the dubbed voice of the kid in Fistful of Dollars times four ) or the actor playing the husband , it really does work excellently as pure Giallo terror . There are even , heaven help me to admit , some actual genuine scares conjured up , just by the dated use of hand-held camera , and even more effectively that child crying . I would never , ever call House by the Cemetery great , but . . . if you got it , smoke it away .
a witty , self-conscious send-up of detective noir , a big plus being Downey Jr	Kiss Kiss Bang Bang is meant to be Shane Black's comeback following a decade spent in the action-movie desert ( albeit only a creative one , he financially has nothing to cry about ) , and it's not a bad way to resurface on the Hollywood scene . For one thing , his film is clever - maybe too clever by half but clever all the same - as it sends up conventions of movies like these , as sometimes a scene will freeze and the frame will go up and reverberating out back to where it started , as Robert Downey Jr's Harry comments on how stupid this or that is in the movies this or that happens . On top of this , having dipped more than a toe into Raymond Chandler , he divides up the picture into chapters and the plot itself becomes less important as it rolls along than the dialog and the fun in playing with what to expect with the characters . Some of this was previously seen to something of a more annoying degree in Last Action Hero , only this time his wild card , paying off in spades , is the cast , chiefly Downey Jr . Downey Jr appears almost similarly in many of the parts he's played in the past years , only not quite all the time . He's predicably unpredictable , or vice versa , and you want to keep watching him with his sly , cunning , awkward , disturbing characters . As the character who " we " ( the audience ) identifies with here , Harry is quite a character . His pathetic and ignorant qualities add a nice humanism to him as the Shamus-in-training in this story , as a thief who literally stumbles on an audition and gets a screentest out to Hollywood . This is where , for a lack of a better word , contrivance springs out , as Harry meets " Gay Perry " ( also very good Val Kilmer ) , a private dick who advises movie crews , and Haroney ( Michelle Monaghan ) , who Harry knew back when they were kids . Soon a murder mystery unravels involving a woman in a trunk of a car driven out to the bottom of a lake . Was it murder , or suicide ? Who are the culprits behind all the other shady things going on ? A lot of this , as Black unfolds it all , doesn't seem to matter that much , which is just as well . Black's attitude is to keep things moving at such a post-modernist clip it threatens to spill the rest of the movie off course . But the cast , as mentioned , keeps things sort of in check , particularly with Downey and Kilmers ' ability to play off each other and Downey and Monaghan's ridiculous chemistry . What matters here are the little moments , the things that pop out from behavior and chance in the scenes ( one critic commented a kinship to Altman , which I don't totally see but can appreciate via the Long Goodbye ) , like when a character gets one in the head on a Russian Roulette lark . That pesky finger is also quite a silly aside , if only for its lack of significance where there should be plenty . Kiss Kiss Bang Bang is a lot of fun for knowing what it is and rolling along like a well-oiled machine , despite the plot being as flimsy as one of the pulp fictions from the books Haromy loves so from her youth .
Godard's first really good film in a while	I first saw Notre Musique at the NY film festival , and responded to it strongly because it was , after going through a slew of his more recent work of the 80s and 90s ( often hit or miss , more miss ) , a very well structured , interesting picture with a very distinct look and feel that balanced the elegiac and darkness with some light . Watching it again , I'm still fascinated most by the first segment ' Hell ' . If this was just a stand-alone short film , I would rank it among some of Godard's best work from the 60s . It's brash , it's seemingly unending , the narration actually does fit the images on screen ( which , from my perspective , is what ends up usually irking me with some of Godard's later work when he does this ) , and all of these images of civilization decaying through war and other disasters , and the machinery and technology used for all of this death and horror , really works to a great effect . Purgatory , the second segment , is often quite good , as it's a really well-balanced mix of fiction and documentary as real life writers and professors and journalists go through issues like Sarajevo , troubles in the middle east , and cinema itself as Godard humorously and sometimes somberly goes through a lecture to some students as he's part of the setting . There's even a perfectly understated , interested performance by the lead Sarah Adler . When the film then transforms into the last act , Paradise , it kind of starts to break some of the power and interest in the previous sections of the film ( I didn't really connect with much of the symbolism , as beautifully photographed as it all was ) . But what ends up really impressing me most about Notre Musique is that I really could understand most , if not all , of what many of these long stretches of dialog were about - unlike in some past , notoriously messy films by the director - and it worked without Godard's way of filming subjects and locations . Julien Hirsch's cinematography , going through the director's vision , is often so striking I'd say it's some of the best that was done in 2004 anywhere . There's still some kind of documentarian's spirit at heart , and it really does work best in the conversations that go on in the film , as lots of subject matter gets covered . This mixed with a partially fictionalized story helps to make something pretty special , if not really sensational , and in its 80 minute running time nothing overstays its welcome . If anything , the film is almost too short by a few minutes . It's a mix of history , politics , poetry , cinema , and the meanings of life and death , and not often does it come off pretentious .
a Chandler novel turned into a film with a novelistic approach , sorta	Lady in the Lake is maybe not the best of the Phillip Marloe murder mysteries put to film , but it is quite successful in its own right as an ' experiment ' . But this experiment by star / director Robert Montgomery , works in ways that had me grinning and interested as an avid detective / crime / film-noir type movie fan . His subjective camera , a kind where like in the more recent Being John Malkovich ' portal ' scenes , only in brief shots at a mirror do we see Montgomery on camera , as his eyes are " ours " as the audience . This technique could just be another gimmick , yet Montgomery is smart with the material he's using and the cast he's working with . None of them are stars , so their appeal as types for what they are in Raymond Chandler's story works to a great advantage . And it is in the end a Marlowe story via Chandler , and it is this that will really keep audiences interested or bored . Also , unlike the Big Sleep , this time you can pretty much follow everything to the T in the story . It's not just that the actors range from being decent to very good ( bordering on excellent ) , with Audrey Totter , Ellay Mort and Dick Simmons being among the better of the bunch , but what Montgomery does with the camera sometimes to pipe up the interest . This is perhaps the most novelistic approach to the Marlowe movies - the more prominent , available on video anyway - from the 40s , as all of the long shots of the faces of the actors , Montgomery's own voice ( which is much more satisfying , kind of on a radio-sounding level , than his actual facial expressions which are bland ) , and little details all build up like in Chandler's fiction . Detective stories are built on the details , the ones that are right on the faces or in the mannerisms of the dialog , and in the emotional impact taken on our lead Shamus . Montgomery's camera tricks could grow stale , but they really don't , as some shots and instances stand out , not just because of the content that is more attributable to the source . My favorite likely goes to when Marlowe is dragging himself to the phone booth , as it almost nears a Hitchcockian level of intrigue . It is , on the other hand , maybe not as satisfying on a classical Hollywood kind of level because of the experimentation , and Montgomery's halfway good Marlowe performance ( again , good in the voice , not so good on camera in those little bits of on-screen exposition ) . And a couple of scenes almost go too faithful , if it might be possible , to Chandler's original text , though un-read by me sounds about as close as any of his book-to-film adaptations I've seen . But the style of Lady in the Lake is only part of the entertainment , as the story provides a couple of good twists here and there , and Montgomery's got a good handle on his character actors . Might put off some who are expecting the usual tough and cynical private eye totally on screen doing his stuff , but it's also takes a risk and does it honestly .
if you watch it for the spectacle , music , and often terrific direction , you'll get your money's worth	I don't know why though I didn't find Black Orpheus to be a flat-out , blow-me-away masterpiece . Maybe my expectations were a little high ; hearing for years about it from my mother ( into Brazilian music ) , and that it won a simultaneous golden palm and Oscar in 1959 . And for quite a while , despite being directed by Marcus Camus ( French ) , and meant for a worldwide audience , was THE film to see from Brazil and Rio . What is interesting , and occasionally a little frustrating , is how the film is shot actually not too complicated , the camera never does any moves that boggle the mind too much , or go into jump-cuts in editing . It's actually in a kind of documentary / realism ( which was Camus's style anyway ) capturing the lives of the poorer people of Rio and also the living-for-dancing kind of life they lead , keeping some hope . This , however , is mixed with the mythical story of Orpheus , who deals with death in order to save his love . But in a way , not all the time but some of the time , for me , the Orpheus story , despite being integral to the film , got in the way of some of the more exciting parts of the film . Obviously , the chief reason to see the film is for the entertainment value , which is pumped up by delivering dancing , a pulsating musical beat , and what ends up getting filled into the not-too-static framing ; a lot of dancing , and a lot of people , practically all non-actors I'd imagine , delivering the goods . And then the storyline comes in . Orpheus is a bus worker who also has a great gift for romancing through the guitar and his looks . It doesn't help his new engagement that a cousin of a friend , Eurydice , comes into the picture and changes everything - they fall in love , the kind of melodramatic , powerful kind of love that is affecting in its classic-film kind of style . . . and then there's Death , who's following along her trail . It's done as a kind of literal interpretation , and one wonders how things may lead up to a tragic climax . It's woven together fine , but I wasn't as moved by the romantic scenes so much as the others involving the real people . In fact , one wonders what this film could've been , either better or maybe not as good , if it was a straight documentary ala Orson Welles's It's All True about the lives of the poor in Rio who get together to Samba the night away . It's really exhilarating to see the sequences of the carnival , and even the ' rehersal ' that takes place in the smaller part of town . There is also one other scene that had me sit up and take notice - when Orpheus , on the search for Eurydice , is with his ' guide ' being a janitor , he's taken to a kind of voodoo room where spirits take control over people in the midst of a weird dance . I didn't understand this scene , like it was something alien to a far extreme . But it was one of my favorite parts of the film as well , for the power in seeing these real people act in this - for them - ' normal ' kind of act . Maybe I'll like it more on another viewing , for now though I did like it , and would recommend it , and to whom I'm not totally sure . Yet it is one of the seminal films from their country .
a rollicking good time	The Coen Brothers ( them being Joel and Ethan ) have a pretty good film here ; recommendable to say the least . If it's not one of their very best it might be because it goes for so much within the framework of the Odyssey that it threatens to run off the tracks . But there's a great deal of originality here too , from the KKK musical number to the tommy-gunned cows to the horny-toad mystery following the " sirens " , to a great final hoe-down involving men with fake beards . It's crazy , and it works most of the time . It's an odyssey inspired by Homer , though it isn't exactly " based " on it ; from what I described up above it's really a jumping off point , as if the brothers took what they remembered from the story after reading it in school , and then put on their own ideas for the characters based on who could best play them . The film takes place in 1930's Mississippi where 3 convicts ( Tim Blake Nelson , John Tuturro and in a Clark Gable-like face , George Clooney ) escape to go look for a hidden treasure , but , like in the original Homer odyssey , there are their sidetracks ( sirens ) and villains ( John Goodman does a good job as this villain ) . About the 4th best Coen brothers movie you can find , with some enjoyable comedy and some ironic moments . Definitely fun and with some memorable tunes .
of most interest to Fellini fans ; casual viewers , per usual , will be baffled but amused I'd figure	The Director's Notebook , a very off-the-cuff , stream-of-consciousness documentary by Federico Fellini , reminds me of what Terry Gilliam said in his introduction on the 8 DVD , of which this is so generously included . He said that once he went and shot a film in Italy and more specifically in Rome , he guessed that perhaps Fellini was perhaps more of a documentarian of what he saw in Rome than he was making up incredibly outrageous and fantastical visions . This time we as the audience get about as close as that can be ( though Amarcord , and to an extent La Dolce Vita , come close too in their own ways ) to the Rome that Fellini sees as real . We may not , of course , but it is of course all part of subjectivity when going into many documentaries . This time , we get a view inside Fellini's film-making style , his actors , some memories and locations and shots and " lost " sets and footage , and the un-reality of it all just pours more truth to the gobbledy-gook that sometimes makes up the film . As with even the lesser Fellini moments , he doesn't leave fans totally without some fulfillment . It's something that is very much what Fellini would do , given what he wants to show the audience as his techniques and approaches . Right away we know this will and wont be your usual auto-bio into a director , as he gets some comments off some ' hippies ' who happen to be traipsing around the ruins of a film he planned to shoot ( or not , as case may be , I don't know ) . Then he and the American narrator go on between seeing things being shot - and the sets of which shot by Fellini himself with the usual peering and following and moving camera - on Satyricon . But it's not just that , to be sure , as it is basically a look through notes , ideas , and much of what might be considered almost conventional in the Fellini-esquire sense . But it's still entertaining through it all , and I loved seeing a partial re-creation and look at Fellini's inspiration from the " Old Rome " he knew through silent films as a kid . Or the moments with Mastroianni . A nice diddy , which is now no longer a lost scene but now restored , is the sack-man scene from Nights of Cabiria hosted by Masina herself . And all the while , in tricky English , Fellini leads us along in his very bigger-than-life though somehow modest way of talking to us as his audience , through Roman ruins , coliseums , actors in screen tests , scenes being shot , seeing some strange things ( one of which , maybe not as strange , is his own office ) , and other fragments that are very reminiscent of Fellini's comedies and tragedies . Nothing too revelatory , but just enough to keep Fellini fans salivating .
neither Williams , Lumet , or Brando's best , but it's still pretty damn good !	The Fugitive Kind is a hot story of desire and loss and craving and heartbreak between a man and two women set in the deep south . Sounds like quintessential Tenessee Williams , and it is in spurts . Sometimes Williams leans towards being a little preachy , however true ( little moments like when Brando and Stapleton have a quiet back and forth about racism via her painting kind of nails it on the head much ) , but it's his skills at doing melodrama that strike up the coolest beats . In fact , this is one of those super-cool movies of the late 50s that could have only starred someone like Brando , who looks at times disinterested in the scene but at the same time completely engaged , curious , smooth , harsh , and knowing of what life can bring with his trusty Ledbelly-signed guitar . It's not necessarily a towering work for the ages ala Williams collaboration 1 Streetcar Named Desire . But that doesn't mean it should be much under-looked either . As an early effort for Lumet it's also a scorcher dramatically ; he's so good with the actors that whatever little missteps the script might take in pouring on the poetic prose in how some of the characters talk ( there's a scene between Brando and Anna Magnani's characters by some ruin of a spot where she says people used to make love that is actually quite boring ) can be usually forgiven . Magnani especially is interesting because she should be a case of miscasting , which , apparently in later years , Lumet admitted to . She seems low-key at first , but her strengths bloom out tenfold when it comes time to act like the hard-knock-life kind of woman she is , who's in a crap marriage and had a horrible affair with a man who didn't do anything after the summer they spent together . Now she's put into a situation where she does and doesn't want this drifter , and vice versa , and she's sometimes just as cool ( though also quite tough and demanding in that big Italian mama way ) as her counterpart . Meanwhile there's also Joanne Woodard , who has the kind of part many actresses love to chew on ; feisty , outspoken , loud but also emotionally moody to the point that she admirably tries ( and doesn't quite get to ) the heights of Vivien Leigh with her classic Blanche Dubois . Overall , Lumet gets a good feel for the period - and shot in New York state no less - while working with good material and an even better cast . It won't ever be as revered as his other work , and at the same time it's much better than some would give it credit for , where the tragedy acts like another sweaty Southern caricature bemoaning existence and fitting on a bad pair of shoes .
for directorial style , performances , for narration	T-Men might be one of the great film-noirs of the period - certainly a high point for Anthony Mann who already has Raw Deal as one of the masterpieces of the period - if only for one fatal flaw : the narration . While it would probably work well enough in a pulp magazine or wherever a story like this would turn up in print ( it seems just about made for it , though despite the presence of the " real " treasury department officials it's fictional ) , the narrator , who comes off like an even more dead-pan version ( and of course less subtly satirical ) of the VO in the Killing , disrupts the flow of the story where it could be just excellent without it . Little things pop up that could be filmed just was well , finding out the clues and the details and not overrun with the ham-fisted voice of authority . If it was even done in shorter bits interspersed , fine . But as it is , it's the only big letdown of the movie , making it dated ( at least more than usual ) . And yet , this doesn't detract from what should be a must-see for those who want to immerse themselves in a creative visual style . The team-up of Mann and his DP John Alcott was a match made in shadow-heaven , and their collaboration brings out such a strong style that it's hard to look away . This , plus the performances from Dennis O'Keefe , Wallace Ford , Charles McGrayw , make it a firecracker of a thriller , involving a story of two federal treasury agents out for a big sting with a nest of counterfeiters in Los Angeles and Detroit . When Man directs certain scenes , they pop like you want one of these ' old-school ' hard boiled flicks to go . The violence actually isn't very cheap either , at least for the period , and it's a big bang where another director might've gone for the limp whimper . The villains are tough , but like any good soldier undercover the hand is always a little slicker , one step ahead . When it's at its best , T-Men is like the super-cool grandfather to the likes of the Departed . If only for the preachiness , and that stupid voice ( who , apparently for good reason , is uncredited ) , I'd recommend it as whole-heartedly as Raw Deal . As it stands , it's still very good , with the kinds of double-crosses and moments of tension ( i . e . the lead-up to the Schemer's demise ) that rank with the finest the genre has . Bottom line , you're bound to find one or two of the compositions in T-Men right smack-dab in the examples of textbook film-noir lighting and design : maximum impact of B-movie reaching art .
a little over-long but with plenty of insightful , touching moments about the lack of connecting with others	John Cassavetes has a wonderful yet also curious way of how he deals with his protagonists - not just in Husbands but in elsewhere - that brings to mind someone like Bergman but not at the same time . His characters , to me anyway , seem like they're full of life and vigor and laughs and what may be called braggadocio behavior , but it also is a cover for something missing for them too . Husbands casts its main male characters in the light of what should be a time of mourning , for one of the friends in their tight-knit group that dies suddenly in middle age . We never hear about who this guy was or how much significance he had in specifics to them , but one can just tell the impact it's made on them as they have to hide away - maybe on some kind of " guy " instinct - not to show what they really mean to say or feel . Even when they're drunk , they end up having to put an affront , which can sometimes be pretty amusing and very typical of a New York style of ' hey , whaddaya want from me ' communication . But outside the confines of a comfortable marriage and kids , these guys are to one degree or another emotional wrecks . Where Bergman had religion and the margin of death as the backdrop usually used , Cassavetes has the suburban malaise and childish , male camaraderie where having a good time seems to be all there is . Here , Cassavetes acts as well , and to me his character has one of the most important scenes , if not the most important , in the film dealing with this matter . He , Gus , is with Harry ( Ben Gazzara , who got robbed of an Oscar nomination ) and Archie ( Peter Falk , who is , as usual , Peter Falk ) , when they decide sort of impulsively to break off of their jobs in the days following their friend's death to go to London . What they're their for isn't totally clear , until they start to hit on women at a ritzy casino . They take back the women to the hotel rooms they've rented , and Gus seems to be having the most fun of all with the woman he sweet talked ( which is a nice little scene of charm and sexual interplay with just words ) , and they tussle around in a bed , with that thin line between joking and seriousness being ebbed every which way . This is in line with other scenes in the film like this , little ones that show Gus's attitudes towards life as being sort of a gas even in the more serious moments . But then Gus and the lady go to a little café the next morning , and she - obviously the more adult one of the two - who wants to know straight-out what he really wants from her . He can barely say anything , as he's sort of stopped in his tracks by her serious " I'm serious " talk to him . The kidding subsides , and what's left is that tense sensation that reality of his own lack of expressing himself completely has smacked him right in the face , and getting aggressive only will make it worse . This tends to be something of a common thread with the other characters , however in different degrees . Gazarra's Harry is probably the most flawed , if one had to pick out flaws out of these totally human characters ( no clichés precisely attached ) , who is so torn from himself that he lashes out as his wife when expecting her to say to him " I love you " . You almost can't believe he can treat her this way , but it's how it is , in the Cassavetes world . Falk too is playing a guy who is sort of torn from himself emotionally , only he is somewhat more able to express it , and is more contradictory perhaps than the others . Like with his " liason " with the Asian girl when in London ; we think he's really after some sexual contact from all of his asking the women in the casino , like a kid after some candy or something , but once he has this woman ( who doesn't speak a word of English ) in his reach , and a very intimate reach ( in typically intimate Cassavetes long-take close-up ) he resists . This is a little more awkward a reaction than with the other characters , but it does keep in with his own thread , even if he is able to express his own complete emotional cluster-f following his friend's death . So , at the core , Cassavetes gives us some memorable characters here , even if his film seems to be lacking the overwhelming feeling of seeing a classic . He has his goals set , sort of , but he also takes some time meandering to get there too , and a great scene may be followed by a sort of sloppily timed scene where the strengths of the script ( and I do think , unlike Ebert's assertion , that it was mostly scripted ) were brushed aside for the rata-tat-tat improvisation . For example , towards the end when Harry invited the other guys back in for more fun with NEW women that he's brought up , it goes on in a stilted kind of way , like Cassavetes wanted one more scene of these guys in a form of pretend with themselves and those around them . And actually when he does have a fairly amazing set of moments , like in that very long scene when they're at the bar and everyone's taking turns showing how much ' life ' they have in singing a particular song , with one woman not reaching their mark of quality , there's some spots that drag too . The fire and creative pull of Cassavetes in his prime as a filmmaker is present , if not the overall urgency and tightness of narrative . It's worth the viewing , though , more-so if you're looking to find one of Cassavetes's films not on DVD , or for a good , ' indie ' mid-life crisis drama .
one of those movies to watch , at least most of the time , when it's on TV	Taking aside when it's edited down for its content and for time , this is really a neat movie to watch when it comes on TV , which - if you have cable - is pretty often . It's also one of the best vehicles for Joe Pesci that was ever made ( even if it didn't technically originate with him ) , and will probably make for part of his great standing as an actor years later through all the other Scorsese movies . It's sometimes very ridiculous - i . e . the suit Vinny wears to Court following no choice , always brilliant - but it's also got a sincerity to it that works . It's original in its characters and dialog even if it always takes some liberties with Southern and New York clichés . The best example of the former would be with the grits part in the courtroom scenes ( " no respectable Southerner would make instant grits " ) . And the cast surrounding Pesci always makes it worth watching . Marisa Tomei - maybe a little unnecessary of an Oscar win - is in her prim here as Vinny's girlfriend-would-be-fiancé who ends up helping him out more than he could've thought . Meanwhile four of the more talented character actors , some seen more than others , bring up the courtroom scenes perfectly - Fred Gwynne as the judge , ( the late ) Lane Smith as the prosecutor , Bruce McGill as the Sheriff , and Austin Pendleton as a stand-in defense attorney . They bring both professionalism and a few laughs in measure with the very sharp , unpredictable script . That it also sometimes leaves it onto Pesci's shoulders to keep up entertainment wise is not altogether unexpected . But at the end of it all it's a very watchable , endearing piece of work , where the case itself in the story is not as worthwhile as the memorable lines of dialog or the bit players . And there's even a bit of good craftsmanship that goes unnoticed by some in it as well ( the first scene at the bar shows this if you look close enough ) . Whether you've seen it in the theaters or not , it's probably one of the true enjoyable movies to watch on a weekend afternoon with nothing to do .
a lot of fun , but maybe not as great as its newfound reputation	When originally released , Bringing Up Baby was a commercial and critical flop , and was discarded for some time as something not quite as worthy as other works in Howard Hawks's body of work . Today , after years of rediscovery by fans of the stars Cary Grant and Katherine Hepburn , it's considered a classic of the ' screwball ' school of comedy , where the timing was graceful and the structure solid in the midst of madcap madness and silliness that involves specific , quirky personalities that should but don't quite always meld ( hence the blueprint for many a romantic comedy for today ) . For me , it's not a flop nor is it quite as classic as I expected . It's a very fun escapade with two stars who often shine with their qualities to subvert ( Grant ) and meet ( Hepburn ) expectations of what they have to offer . Grant is akin here to Clark Kent , nerdy and awkward and just wanting to be left alone , but somehow being drawn into trouble ( and , after all , wouldn't Grant make a good Kent / Superman ? ) Hepburn , meanwhile , can be very charming and lovable and also annoying in equal measure ( though I'm sure the latter is part of the point with her character ) . They're a solid , combined force for Hawks's mildly crazy tale of two people who shouldn't have anything to do with one another but are put together under circumstances of the zany and funny : a dog with a dinosaur bone , and a baby leopard that's tame and actually a pet but is at first thought to be out of the zoo ( that is , until , its doppleganger shows up in the last third of the movie ) . We're led along on their adventures over a day and night to find the bone and the leopard , and how they confound and amuse and annoy those around them from family to policemen to possible betrothed ( Grant's character ) . There are some classic moments , to be sure ; I loved how Hepburn talks her way out of prison by sinking down to the level of mimicry that is totally lost on the cop ; the chemistry between the two stars fluctuates wonderfully , depending on the scene or situation , like by the fire out in the wilderness ; Grant is often so uncomfortable that we forget ( for better or worse ) how charismatic he usually is in place of this bumbling , meek but curious character ; the dress gag , simply , is a riot , as is the bit with the robe ( " I'm gay ! " is a line that gets a laugh for other reasons today ) . But at the same time it's not totally a riot all the way through , with some moments falling kind of flat or just " oh , that's funny " as opposed to laugh-out-loud variety . It should appeal heavily to those who eat up romantic comedies like Hershey's kisses , as should die-hards for the two stars , and if it's on TV on a rainy day it's surely a must-see for at least a few minutes . That it's maybe not quite one of Hawks's best is up for minor debate .
a romantic tragedy / comedy with an almost ' Blair With ' edge	Chi Girl reminded me of the Blair Witch Project for a couple of reasons , however in a slightly different ballpark . While Blair Witch is a more ' accessible ' film to the audience ( via young people terrified in the woods ) , the idea is similar : if you didn't think that someone had written and directed this film , and that most of the people in the film are actors or non-professionals , you might take it as being for real . On that level , Chi Girl gets it right . Even when the film has a little too much cynicism and , perhaps , nihilism , it's interesting , and doesn't lose interest despite ( like Blair Witch ) it's " no-budget " atmosphere and stylistics . I didn't know it until I looked up the credits after seeing the film ( while not available on video or DVD , by the way , it is shown sometimes on IFC ) that the film was written / co-directed by the " star " ( Heidi Van Lier ) , which adds a little more fascination ; in a way it seems about right . But on that level , it becomes a more psychologically complex film , as she not only delves into her character's psyche , but for the one holding the camera as well . Heather is a basket case ( even her good friends call her this ) , who writes a column for a Chicago paper , but has little to no luck on the social scene . Randy ( the narrator , with a monotone voice reminiscent of the character Cornfed from the TV show Duckman ) follows her with his seemingly objective camera , as she tries to show she can pick up any guy in the night-time bar scene . Eventually she does , with disastrous results , which then brings on the kind of downward spiral that is comparable to Travis Bickle ( pre Mohawk of course ) . One of the great things about the style of the film ( from DP Anders Uhl ) is when she is in the bar trying to pick up guys , the camera is always in long-view , through the windows , peeking through . This could be tiresome , but somehow it's kept fresh in all these cringe-inducing scenes and dialogs . Does this objective , documentary style become subjective at some point ? Hard to say . But what does come through well , even during some of the shaky camera moves and dour moments , is this honest look at obsessive personality , and that this experimental style also calls into question the form of the observer . This is what reality TV doesn't understand , that real life is more like this , with people who are desperate , and disparate . It definitely thrives more on character than plot , so it may not be for you . For some , on the other hand , it could stike a spark .
quite well acted , but it doesn't change some of its clichés or fabricated conflicts	What a , uh , interesting year for Clint Eastwood in 1973 . Edged between his first directed western , High Plains Drifter , and his second Dirty Harry film , he found time to direct Jo Helms's screenplay Breezy , which posits that middle aged men can have affection and love for unpretentious hippie girls in their early 20s in 1973 . It's such a soft movie you might wonder whether or not it was a pre-Lifetime movie . Eastwood does give the picture some soft touches ( including some song selections that are about as gooey as the worst romance songs you've ever heard ) , but it's the casting that makes the material work . William Holden plays Frank , a real estate salesman , who picks up hitchhiking hippie chick Breezy ( aka Ethel Alice Breezerman or something ) , and even though she drops him off after she tries to help a stranded dog , she comes back to his place ( she was just hanging around near his place since she had gotten out of a bad hitchhiking bit ) , and barely ever leaves afterward . Why she clings to Frank is never entirely clear , or why Frank is alright with it , but there's enough down-to-earth moments around the more cheesy scenes like walking along the beach . It's understandable why each is attracted to the other - with Breezy more-so it just seems part of her ' Breezy ' nature - though with Frank it's a little trickier . He's very easily impressionable , and isn't sure the relationship will work . So there lies basically the only conflict here in what is basically a low-key may-December romance story with tasteful bits of sex and nudity ( the latter from a very beautiful Kay Lenz ) , and a script that kind of just ends very expectedly , with only a minor twist involving drama in a car accident ( it's not spoiling anything saying that ) . While Eastwood's direction is simple and uncomplicated , and the script allows just enough room to make this kind of believable stuff , it's the acting that saves the show . Holden is great as the aging Frank , able to suggest his insecurities while not overdoing it in the slightest ( I'm reminded a little of a less cynical take on what would occur in Network a few years later ) , and Lenz makes Breezy appropriately lovable and annoying in equal measure ( yeah , I found her a little annoying , which might've been the point ) . It's very enjoyable for what it's worth , but there's not too much depth to it . It almost feels like a kind of diversion of a movie experience for both Eastwood and Holden , and it wears its period of early 70s sexual liberation with a slight conservative air .
a tale that takes a feminist critique of a situation , and gives it a male viewpoint too	I read one review on here that labeled She's Gotta Have it as Spike Lee's ' feminist view ' . I would agree with this in part because he doesn't show anything - the characters really - on any one side . We see her follies completely . But I think there is a male view going on with his look at these characters too ; after we see how a woman can be all liberated and free of being too restricted with who she wants to love / fool around with , there's more of a sympathy going on for the men too as the situation starts to come down to an essential thing - what does Nola REALLY want ? By the end of the picture , no one can really say for certain , Nola most of all , but all the while Lee has given us a look at romance that is ordinary only in how some of the typical characteristics of men and women are portrayed at times . But really , it's also out of the ordinary on showing the little things that wouldn't get into the common romantic comedy . It's a little too loosely structured and the style isn't altogether great , but it has as much ambition as Scorsese's Who's That Knocking or Bertolucci's Before the Revolution , at least in trying to convey subject matter primarily through style . Not to say the substance is left unchecked - in fact for the most part it's one of Lee's sharpest satires on the troubles of the sexes , and the main characters are a bit more believable than those of the main white / black couple of Jungle Fever . Lee boils it downs to seeming essentials at first - Nola ( Tracy Camilla Johns , not bad at all if not as strong as the main ' heroine ' could be ) is a magazine painter , but really its her romantic life that keeps her usually occupied . We see the various attempts of various male ' pick-up lines ' ( which is pretty hilarious , if dated ) , and then we meet guy # 1 , Jamie ( Tommy Hicks , maybe the best ' real ' actor of the group ) , who is really the nice guy , the kind that any reasonable woman would consider probably marrying sooner or later . But she also has male # 2 , Greer ( John Canada Turrell , with a great , shallow look to him if not overall performance ) , who is a male model who is meticulously egotistical even with folding up his clothes before sex . And then there's # 3 , Mars Blackmon ( Lee himself , in uproariously huge glasses and his name etched out in gold across his neck , surely one of his most wonderful characters played by him ) , who is the jokester , and word-spinner , and always takes a while to get around in a conversation . So around and around she goes , and it's really only until the last twenty minutes when Nola finally has to come down and make the decision - and it perhaps will have to come down to the ' right ' decision - but for what she just can't tell . Part of it is that she just loves sex , which becomes a problem when she invites over the three men for thanksgiving ( not a totally successful scene , mainly due to the dialog and pacing , but still a nice job in awkward tension ) . And also a problem when Jamie , the nice guy , makes an ultimatum for Nola . At the same time in the background there is the unusual tension of a possible lesbian affair with Opal ( Raye Dowell , very good in her scenes ) , but nothing comes to it . Scenes like those , where the sexual and relationship-type boundaries come into question , are really interesting . The self-conscious talking-to-the-camera interview bits range from excellent to just OK though , and sort of mark the quality of the film down a peg , even as the characters get to share some of their inner thoughts ( Lee's being the funniest ) . What then makes Lee's film a big step above any other number of films out there , primarily in the Hollywood mainstream , about a woman who has trouble deciding what to do with herself ? It's two things ; one , that the men are probably just as interesting with what they have going on as her , if not more so for Jamie , and two , the cinematic techniques imposed by Lee and cinematographer Ernest Dickerson . The latter of those two helps make She's Gotta Have it even more of a light-hearted picture than it might have been if just filmed as the script is . We get the images first put to Lee's father Bill's score , which is definitely one of his best after Do the Right Thing . Then the images get a lot of invention on such a small budget , unusually intimate and creative camera angles ( I loved the bit when we see in slow-motion the extreme close-ups of Mars getting close with Nola ) , the lighting often very expressionistic , and sometimes the editing going to playful , odd lengths like the sex scene between Nola and Greer . Sometimes the playfulness and first-time filmmaker amazement is a little much , like the color film sequence , which is beautiful but almost better self-contained than with the black & white grittiness of the rest of the film . I also could've done without the last bit after the denouement where all the actors say their names with the clapper . Nevertheless the stylistic merits add a lot to make it a richer film in context and structure . But if you can seek it out , especially in widescreen ( I saw it on IFC , though I wish I could see the director's cut to see what was cut out , however explicit it might be ) , it's well worth it . It's a small film , yet one that brings up some intriguing bits about what it means to really love someone vs . desire them , and what mind-games go on between men & women , men & men , women & women , and where the middle-ground could be , if at all . A minor independent / debut classic .
sentimental but very memorable tribute to anyone who loves to go to a movie	Cinema Paradiso works very well because Giuseppe Tornatore , for all his schmaltzy moments with his characters , loves cinema incredibly and especially the communal and personal act of going out to see a movie . It also works because for all the sentiment , he makes it a story essentially about a boy , Toto , without a father after the war who finds a surrogate-cum-mentor with Alfredo , the projectionist at the theater . Their bond makes for the emotional core of the film , as the grown-up Toto comes back to the town he left so long ago for Alfredo's funeral , and looks back on his childhood and adolescence in this small down of Giacardola . The clips of the films are one of the strong-points , and just the scenes inside of the Paradiso , where there's lots of warm human comedy coming out of the fun poked at the ' old-days ' of repression ( i . e . ringing the bell for a kissing scene ) , or just the reactions to the different genres and styles ( everything from Visconti to Chaplin to Bardot is screened ) . And there's a whole host of characters Tornatore has that makes a lot of the first half of the picture pretty special . It's maybe in the second half that it got a little too ' adorable ' for its own good , or just too much of a similar one-track kind of narrative with the teen Toto falling in love with a girl whom makes it his first real roller-coaster of a relationship . But , as mentioned , Tornatore keeps it simple , particularly with respect to Toto and Alfredo ( the latter actor , Phillipe Noiret , is incredible in the part , even when blind for half the running time ) . It's also a given that maestro Ennio Morricone delivers up the goods and makes this really rousing , the sentiment not false for a lot of the time as one of his best scores . If I didn't find it overall a masterpiece for some of its sappy bits and occasional over-the-top performance that doesn't click ( most of them do , it's Italy after all ) , it's an exceptional effort for what it tries to accomplish and what many films end up being simply sappy can't quite reach . The film earns its keep by making it very relatable , and reminds us why some of us love movies and movie-going very much . It's the ' shmoopy ' of Italian cinema lovers everywhere , and its worth the view even in the truncated Harvey Weinstein cut that played at the Rialto theater near my town ; a fond goodbye at a fondly remembered theater .
on its own low-key / aimless level it's exceptional , but still low-key and aimless all the same	It's strange to see an Errol Morris film that works and doesn't work all the same . The film is short , maybe too short , and doesn't really take much time to going into much of what the town of Vernon is about , or if these interviewed are its only residents . There's no unifying theme though to the work , which is the basic problem , as Morris at his best ( Thin Blue Line with the stylization and depth of reasonable doubt in true crime ; Gates of Heaven with loss of life as a means to understand what human nature is all about ; Fog of War about knowing limitations and understanding mistakes made in history ; Fast Cheap & Out of Control with the process and joys of a job well done ) , as it's simply a series of interviews with the residents . Maybe , as one person here pointed out , it's that everyone has a story . But , not to be modest , you sometimes can't understand what these people are saying anyway in their storytelling . But at the same time , as Morris just goes about with his very unobtrusive and expert eye for human detail ( the detail , anyway , of people at their goofiest and more sincere ) , it's very funny to see these backwoods folk and old guys tell their everyday stories and tales of hunting turkey and other animals . Favorite scenes would include : the preacher , who is part-time a laborer and part-time an obsessive word nut , specifically the word ' therefore ' as it appears in the bible and what it means ; the guy with his pet tortoise , who he tries to get to move around by gentle kicks , and also with his wild possum ; the simple coot who's got one tooth and plenty of pictures of possible life elsewhere with clouds and stars in the sky . Morris doesn't shy away from these idiosyncrasies that one can find right away in the not-quite-Deliverance parts of the deep south , and watching the film with an audience is an added treat , to see who may laugh at who doing what . At the end , there aren't really any big ideas to take away from the film , at least on a first viewing , and it may be a little repetitive for some - or maybe not , as it may hit so close to home that it's a likely candidate for best documentary about a town with population 40 . It's a little quirk of a doc-comedy that's worth it for Morris fans , but far from being any kind of masterpiece .
much better than I expected	William Smith was a very good casting choice for the lead , Angel is his name of course , for Run Angel Run . He's got a sympathetic side to his personality that somehow makes him work for Angel , who is sort of a rat talking to a magazine and getting a cover photo followed by the obligatory " I'm done with this , going legit " lifeline . He gets angry , sometimes in tantrum-mode , but he's also likable and attractive as a main leading man , as opposed to just another character actor ( whom everyone else in the cast fills up either nicely or terribly ) . But William Smith isn't the only reason to see the movie , and the guy who introduced the DVD I watched ( I forget his name ) would agree . There's a lot of guilty-pleasure stuff to the movie , to be sure , like the sheep-herding subplot , or the maniacally-shot bike-riding scenes early on and then later when they finally get to the action scenes . But , thankfully , Jack Starrett , the director , tries to tell a story here , and have some entertainment and drama run through what is mostly a paint-by-numbers thriller . It's not just a lot of nonsense and , also thankfully , the nonsense ( i . e . bar fights , dancing , even the corny love scenes and a , gag , walk on the beach ) isn't too distasteful or amateurish . It is dated as hell , and it's mostly for those who love a trashy biker flick . But for those looking to take a chance , Run Angel Run is one of the more pleasant ( yes , pleasant ) entries in the biker-movie sub-genre , where the trick was the look past the cheapness of the film-making for a good time , like eating a sweet Charleston Chew .
a near-classic throwback to 1950s sci-fi movies , with an emphasis on cool , creepy monsters and a chillingly human atmosphere	The Mist is one of the bleakest horror films to come out of Hollywood in many a moon , but with some points that can be taken . This isn't trash or torture-porn , but an expertly crafted piece of sci-fi / horror fiction that can only come from someone as bravely demented as Stephen King ( or rather from what appears to be a bravely demented creativity that , of course , knows no bounds ) . But if you asked me who directed it had I not known Frank Darabont had , I wouldn't be able to say : this is far from the classically-stylized form of Shawshank and Green Mile , and instead resembles what is like a sci-fi channel movie of the week , only much better written and acted . In fact , it's more comparable to the most succinct and terrifying that 1950s sci-fi movies offered , where creepy ( and I do mean creepy and gross ) monsters and huge insects and things crawl all over and in the darkest places , but it's the human beings and how they react - and how society is reflected ten-fold in the reaction - that counts . Truth be told , the actual plastics of the film are well-done ; the monsters themselves , which are explained only for a moment as a throwaway by a frightened soldier who says this mist and the creatures that come from it are from another dimension and there's some sort of portal or other , are delightfully nasty . They're the kind of huge critters that might have had room in King Kong had PJ had even more time , with the form of an insect or a huge squid or a gigantic crab , can make the audience jump and laugh and yell at the screen . Plus there's the mist itself , which holds a kind of " big-other " quality , as is described by philosophers as this other entity that human beings just can't really completely grasp , even when it's staring them right in their faces ( not quite as direct as in Boyle's Sunshine with the sun , but close enough ) , and if one wanted to read into it enough it's a kind of crafty , ingenious metaphor from King on the nature of fear , of terror completely unbound in the unknown , or the little that is known which when confronted ( i . e . when they go out to the pharmacy ) is about as startling as anything imaginable . But on the side of substance , this is also a winner , maybe even more-so . There's not much doubt in my mind that Darabont , for all of his faithfulness to the original King text , enriched the material for present times with a classic example of rationalism vs . irrationalism . The premise is this : an out-of-towner ( Thomas Jane ) is in a small sea-side Maine town when after a heavy storm a mist starts to crawl over the town , and as he goes to the supermarket to get supplies , with practically everyone else in town getting things , the mist comes completely over , a man runs out " there's something in the mist ! " he says , and the door slams shut . From there-on there's a struggle on the fronts of , simply , what to do : Jane just wants to know what they're up against , how to get to the cars , how to get the hell out ; Andre Braugher's character , a lawyer , might be the most rational , thinks it's poppycock that anything is out there even after the encounter some of the men have with the tentacled creature at the loading dock ; and Marcia Gay Harding , in one of the great examples of playing a one-note character so right , is a hardcore bible-thumper who riles up those inside of the supermarket to realize that the end of the world is coming ala Revelations , and that she - following not getting killed while standing still by one of the alien-bugs - is the wrath of God . It's the first time in a while have I seen an audience yell and cringe and laugh at how each major character meets their fate , no matter what the approach . If it isn't quite Night of the Living Dead classic-status , it might be expected - hence the comparison to sci-fi channel movie-of-the-week status , in small part . It is clichéd with certain characters , archetypes , lots of hand-held camera-work , and a melodramatic musical accompaniment . But it's worth seeing on the big screen , if only for the audience-participation sake , and to take in all of that potent terror that is realized from the fronts of effective creature-feature and socio-political drama . And the ending , to be sure , save for Jane's over-the-top reaction , is bewildering , and I mean that as a compliment .
a collection of taut mind-games and gripping and revealing dialog . . . and then there's the last scene !	I'm one of those : Ingmar Bergman is a true artist , a great filmmaker who's connection with the brightness and deepest darkness of human nature , of faults with religion , with close relationships , horrors of the mind , dreams , was so strong that it's hard to believe that he made so much and didn't succumb sooner to his most dogged troubles - death . In the case of the Rite , it's basically an experiment . He has ten scenes , four actors ( not counting himself in an uproarious cameo appearance / in-joke on the Seventh Seal as a priest ) , and a lot of sado-masochistic psychology to work with . There aren't quite as many monologues as in Persona , and not the same depth of a relationship ala Scenes From a Marriage . But for the most part , the Rite works well as another exploration of Bergman's into the frayed mindset of actors , the discombobulated circumstances they get themselves into personally that mucks them up in the real world . Only the theater is their strange refuge , might be the message here , if there is one . One thing's for certain , among the many performances that Bergman stock-company members Bjornstrand and Thullin have given in past films ( Winter Light maybe their best pairing ) , the Rite provides them some of their best work . It might be almost too easy considering the material - a married couple that is completely miserable , full of the kind of bile that is found in the worst boils - and brought to a more succinct point by the actor Anders Ek ( who has also been in a couple other Bergman flicks , notably Seventh Seal as the Monk ) , who might be the most exhaustedly p-o'd actor one's ever seen . They're all on trial for some Kafkaesque reason by a judge ( Erik Hell ) who is making their nerves totally on edge with his insistence on all the ' facts ' coming in . The scenes particularly with him and Thulin are explosive , and even shocking to a point , where as before there's been subtlety and insinuation . As it stands , approximately ths of The Rite is close to vintage Bergman as one could hope for , coming out of a period in the 60s where he plunged into a deconstructionist approach that found him working at full-steam ( Persona , Shame , and Hour of the Wolf are some of the most daring ' art-house ' films ever conceived and executed ) , and considering this as just an exercise is nothing to sneeze at . . . That being said , there is that final scene in the office I can't get out of my head , and unlike other times with Bergman I'm not sure it's such a good thing . It's a turning-the-tables scene where the actors come in costumes and masks ala Eyes Wide Shut and freak the f out of the judge , and Hell ( no pun intended ) goes into a rant about how wrong he was and how he sees that he's just a lawyer who didn't want to do this and that and so on . And it just doesn't feel the same as the rest of the material in the film , an ' off ' quality , despite ( or in spite ) of the fact that on its own it's a truly outrageous thing to see : the costumes are sado-masochism incarnate , with a certain appendage that is ridiculous , and a bowl of wine that is obvious symbolically . Maybe someday if I re-watch the Rite I'll come to admire or find something else about the scene that works better , but for now it's the only thing that is really a bugger about what is otherwise an exemplary work of cinematic theater . If you can find it somewhere in your local video store ( emphasis on ' video ' , it's not available on DVD ) , and are already head-deep in the master of Scandinavian motion pictures , it's worth it .
a little spotty , some acting flaws , but it's still got the verve and punch of a harrowing anti-war classic	There are reasons I could not recommend Cross of Iron , but they're mostly surrounding little things that strike as being a little more ' ordinary ' or just conventional . There's some moralizing from the perspective of the German side , there's a little acting that doesn't quite click ( mostly due to accents that are a little forced ) , and there's only so much character development to keep the story moving . But those facets are tolerable , even sometimes compelling . What does make the movie highly recommendable , however , is that as with every film he made , to one degree or another , it's a Sam Peckinpah movie . What you see from Peckinpah is what you get , and this time it's in the form of a war movie . It fits that he would make a war movie ; the iconic scenes of the Wild Bunch where Peckinpah lets loose in his style of slow-mo violence on its western heroes , it's like it's ripped out of an operatic battle scene . So is the case with Cross of Iron that Peckinpah is phenomenally successful in portraying war as chaos , as battles rage and it becomes part of the narrative that we don't know who's fighting who . It's in the editing , and in the ( occassionally overwrought ) slow-motion speed , not to mention the various squibs , that make Cross of Iron hit so harshly . On a low-budget , Peckinpah makes the most of his resources , and relies on montage and the inherent idea that war , especially when on he point of view of the side that will lose , is the most horrible concept realized by men in power . And sometimes Peckinpah , also in tune with his usual idiosyncratic method of editing in other scenes as cut-aways , drives the point home on a psychological level . Steiner ( James Coburn ) is a good soldier , a very professional one , who will lead his platoon despite the fact , as he tells James Mason's Captain , that he hates the uniform , hates officers , hates himself in his own skin . And sometimes he'll flash to a moment , a visual , that makes his journey all the more personal . Coburn brings it out in his personality , a kind of look that's intense , thoughtful , and always on edge . He plays this dangerous but ethical man to his logical conclusion , leading up to the ending where he finally breaks out in a desperate , maniacal laughter at the absurdity he's in . As said , it's not a great film . It shows that Peckinpah was working with independent financiers that gave him only so much to work with . But it's hard to look away at times from what Peckinpah gives with what he's got . There's one of the most interesting scenes of any war movie here , not in a battle , but in a sort of " filler " scene - Steiner's platoon comes upon a Russian house full of women , some soldiers , after crossing over a protected bridge . There's a sense of peril in this scene , of multiple rapes about to occur . But then there's a morality here that's expressed too , with an unexpected moment with a sex act , and a naked woman bathing in a barrel . The acting here is some of the best in the movie , where all of the looks from the actors , many of them likely non-professionals , tell all there needs to be said about the smaller tragedies , the ones that get overlooked when looking at the big battles and strategies ala Stalingrad . Peckinpah gets so much right with scenes like these , with taut editing and a graphic vibe , as he does in other portions of the picture , that it's forgivable for what he gets wrong . It's a balancing act he , thanks to Coburn , pulls off excitingly .
Let it Be . . . Released on DVD for Pete Sakes ! !	OK , so let me get this straight : Magical Mystery Tour , which I've yet to see but have heard is quite bad and pretentious and dated , is allowed to be on DVD , but this is banned by the Beatles ? Why ? Because at one point Paul and George have a little argument over a song ? As the British would say , bullocks ! What they show in the film of arguments and sulking is what happens in ANY band , and in fact is usually much worse - I was almost surprised there wasn't more of the taped back-and-forth exchanged in the film , given what's been said how bad it got amongst the fab four during their final year in recording , particularly on Let it Be aka Get Back ( the most chilling thing overall is the presence Yoko , who keeps popping up looking like she could duke it out with Bergman's Seventh Seal Death dude and probably win ) . While I watched it on a reasonable if as a given muddy and slightly scratchy transfer online on bootleg , it was pretty much the film intact as it played almost 40 years ago . What makes it a must-see is not the direction , which is at best competent and at worst the weakest thing going for it - sadly , Al Maysles was already taken by the Stones , as his eye would have been perfect - but the Beatles and the music . I'd argue after watching this and listening to Let it Be . . . Naked that the majority of the songs are as great as the main tracks on Abbey Road . Indeed a few of the songs in the movie here , Maxwell Silver Hammer , Octopus Garden , wound up on that album , and are practically interchangeable from the rest of the output . We see the Beatles do what they do best , be Beatles , play and work out the kinks in classic songs , and also the camaraderie that shows what underneath the image given by the other goofier movies that they were simply incredibly talented musicians . This is evidenced by the scenes where they don't actually play or rehearse their own songs but goof around , play rhythm and blues tunes and even at one point a mariachi number sung by Paul ! There's not a lot of time spent with them just talking or shooting the st - at most we get some reminiscing between Paul and John about the Maharishi or some noodling around here and there between takes . It's not even entirely accurate to say it's documentary , as it's more like an all encompassing , authentic home movie with some extra cash to spare on cameras and editing . It all leads up to that rooftop concert that is still one of those big bad-ass moments in rock and roll history ( if , again , not filmed with the best lenses or cameramen , it was perhaps a given that they had to shoot it on the fly ) . The energy and fun comes through all the way , and contrary to the film's reputation Let it Be shows the Beatles as having fun and doing what they do best even in what was their darkest , near-end period . Maybe there's a longer cut out there that shows more of the arguments , more bickering back and forth and maybe some of Yoko leering on like a supernatural delusion . For me , at least , I'd rather not see it : what remains , and what should for God sakes be shown to a wider and more receptive Beatles audience , is very good stuff .
life on the front-lines , by way of Al-Jezeera , and the American invasion of Iraq	Let's face facts folks , especially at this point if not the should-have-been start : American invaded a country that had nothing to do with . This isn't the core message of Control Room , but it's certainly all encompassing for what Jehane Noujaim wants to say in her documentary Control Room . The argument could be made - and of course has - that Al Jezeera is a militant television network playing to an Arab base , that it shows people damning America all the time and praising Alah and so on and so forth . For the latter I can't say how much is truly shown , even by the documentary's scope . But for the former , the context can't be taken lightly : whether or not it is propagandistic isn't quite the point . When a country gets attacked by another country , it's hard to continue to find praise for the offensive side ( and , as we see later in the film , Al-Jezeera was attacked by American planes specifically ) . Is her perspective meant to show bias ? Maybe , maybe not . It's there in plain sight , how much to s things went following the American invasion , and yet side has to be taken into question , media , military , civilian . There's plenty of questions to ask by the end of the film , even in a form that isn't with the best production values or the firmest visual hold . Control Room is also terrifying in hindsight - if this is where we were at in going into Iraq ( I saw this film in cinemas as the time one week before Fahrenheit was released ) , what about today ? It might be even more intriguing to see a follow-up documentary to Control Room , where one sees what has happened some half a decade ( and deceased hundreds of thousands of Iraqi lives later and thousands of Americans ) down the line . But for now , it's a story set in the midst of a conflict established by the Americans to get Sadaam Hussein out of power - and thus throwing the country into a tailspin . And all throughout we're put through the prism of media , of inquiry , of a search for the facts in the midst of two systems shown in the film : American journalism ( we see American military interviewed ) and Arab journalism , and each side in dialog and argument , with location footage interspersed . In a way it's a dense film in just its 84 minutes . This might be Noujaim's main strength is the accumulation of points of view , of perspectives . It's not just pat a statement to make that Control Room takes the side of the Iraqi's and that's it . There's also accountability taken in . There's an fascinating cross-section that reveals some of Bush's hypocrisy ( not hard to do , and there's such an abundance , but just one instance for example ) , where Bush says that " the people of Iraq will control their own destiny . . . they will not just say they were following orders . " Cut to some footage of Americans , in possible dire straits , being asked by Iraqi's why they're in Iraq . " I'm just following orders , " they all say . Is it America , or just Bush ? Is it just Sadaam , or a whole mix of Iraqi's that have to be seen through the prism of the media coverage ? What is really propaganda ? Control Room , ultimately , isn't the greatest of documentaries , mostly in a form that bounces around with the only structure with Bush at the start with his message of " watch out , Iraq , we're attacking now ! " to the disgusting message on the Aircraft carrier at the end . But it is an important one , almost like an early , crucial appendage to the more recent No End in Sight . If only for a moment can we have a view into the first huge cluster-f of the century , Control Room has a purpose .
a good start to a handsomely done , ' old-school ' epic trilogy	I watched the first part of the Musashi Miyamoto trilogy , dubbed simply Samurai 1 on the video , thinking that it might be a lot more stylish & / or violent than I was led to believe . It is the first part , but of the second part it is but only up to a point . This is a 1950s style epic tale through and through , and the violence is done in a kind of sweepingly done style , where it goes by fairly quick , no blood at all , though all the while there's the sense of loss that goes with seeing , for example , the big battle sequence early on . This is a trilogy that I saw long ago , but this one , along with some scenes from 2 and 3 , sticks out in my mind to this day . There's a lot of touching care taken in what was Hiroshi Inagaki's power as a filmmaker . Like a Hollywood director actually more than a typical Japanese director , one might say , his take on the legendary samurai Miyamoto is one of reverence but wisdom , of production values of the highest standard ( of the studio standard of Toho at the time ) , with brilliant color photography putting the colors in striking displays throughout at a time when Japan was first getting into it . If it's less than really great , like a Kurosawa film , it's maybe because Inagaki is a little too comfortable at times with what's ' safe ' in the story , particularly with the romance between Takezo / Musashi ( Toshiro Mifune ) and Otsu ( Kaoru Yachigusa ) . This actually becomes a little more unbelievable at times in parts 2 and 3 , but for the sake of its magisterial , dedicated studio roots , it's not that bad , most notably the final scene at the bridge . Some of the plot on the first viewing may not be completely clear , at least through parts of the middle section involving the betrayals and Takezo's friend Matahachi's relationship with Oko . There are one or two really noteworthy supporting performances , like from Mitsuko Mito as Oko . But it's really Mifune's show here , and he plays Takezo in this film like a more naive but still as ambitious and unruly version of his character in Seven Samurai . He's not altogether , but he has it in him to be more , which of course then leads out into the rest of the trilogy . It's one of his better performances outside of his work with Kurosawa , and it gets better as the films go on . Of course , it's best to start here with Inagaki's passionate , rousing work , and even if it isn't the best of the three it still has its high points . It's a very good example of an ' old-school ' , big-budget Toho picture with their brand of excitement and romance . If you're thinking it will be as graphic or darkly comic as Kurosawa's films though , it's not really here ( though only in little sparks , as is more Inagaki's straghtforward style ) .
a pure Blues movie , if not a great one , with Jackson in one of his coolest performances	I didn't quite get what I expected from Black Snake Moan , but by the end I didn't mind too much either . I went into it thinking I was going to get a real low-down , Southern-Fried exploitation flick where race relations get turned around in a small town and the " wickedness " that Sam Jackson's blues-man character is trying to rid of Christina Ricci's wily nymph would sort of parallel that . In short , pure , unadulterated outrageousness of the Sam Fuller White Dog variety . It goes without saying that the central ' gimmick ' ( and it is nearing a gimmick I think ) of the chain around Ricci - and particularly one moment where Lazarus ( Jackson ) is letting out Rae ( Ricci ) for a walk like a dog around the his field he farms - is meant to be outrageous , as are the moments when Lazarus's young assistant farmer-boy walks in on the itching-for-sex Rae and gets jumped by him for ' it ' . But really , the intelligence of Brewer's script and how he handles the characters is that we get to see these people not just as simple caricatures but as real people , with histories , and it actually becomes a story of redemption , for both Lazarus and Rae as well as Rae's anxiety driven dishonorably discharged army man Ronnie played by Justin Timberlake . These characters do have the blues , and their own personal discoveries are put against this gritty , small-town Southern setting . But there are two very important factors that Brewer has going for him not just in the dramatically sound and fairly original script : the music , which strikes up some of the best blues music I've heard in a long time ( including the great usage of songs by the late R . L . Burnside , an epitome of true blues ) , and the performances from Jackson and Ricci ( more so the former ) . Ricci goes on a brave route playing Rae , who has some skeletons in her closet ( which provides the bare-bones of why she is ' this ' way , even if it seems a little lacking for full psychological depth ) , and who is completely without inhibitions . That she is in panties and a small shirt for most of the movie is only scratching the surface , but it's definitely a high point in his career . But even more so this goes for Jackson , who taps into what makes him such a magnetic talent in American movies - he's super-cool , to be sure , especially when he's playing the blues songs ( one he plays on stage at a blues night at a club brings out even funnier ' mother-f-ers ' than one heard in Snakes on a Plane ) . Yet the range of emotions are on display just as well , with the hurt and wisdom , and the craziness that is sort of underlying Lazarus as well as a sinner-cum-bible thumper . It's certainly the best I've seen from him in years , possibly since he last teamed up in Tarantino's Jackie Brown . Not to say that Brewer doesn't come close to confusing what kind of movie he's making . One might wish he had made just a straight on exploitation film out of the 70s , where the roles get reversed from one of those ' Pam Grier in prison ' flicks . And there are moments of that , and the more trashy side of my taste in movies almost wanted more of that . But I was also very pleased to see Brewer's maturity with the material as well , and in not going for the very big statements like a Paul Haggis or something . It's not even about it being a white woman and a black man - not that there isn't a moment or two that's obviously called into question by supporting characters - but about two lonely , psychologically screwed up folk who , if only by scratching the surface , un-earth things that have been going wrong for them : for Rae , her unwillingness to deal with commitment and her sexuality , for Lazarus his peace of mind and relationships with women and the Lord , and for Ronnie about what it means to be with someone like Rae . It's highly charged , darkly funny , and touching , and it's likely to be under the radar , albeit not without its cult audience .
not the best Altman , but very far from the worst - it's ensemble time !	A Wedding may not be the most wholly successful of the classic Robert Altman big ensemble films ( the others I would note off the top of my head are Gosford Park , Nashville and Short Cuts ) , but there's enough solid nuggets to please fans and even a few newcomers . It's a whole mixture of soap operatic and melodramatic and whatever-matic characters who all have family foibles and minor tragedies and other quirks and craziness going in and out of one another ( including , as well , a dead old woman in a bed for most of the picture ) . Every strand that swings away in this piece has at least some performance , some line or some little moment of behavior that makes it worthwhile ; from the talk of the Bishop to the old dead woman in bed ; from the constant love-birdiness of Carol Burnett with the Emil Jannigs-clone ; from that amazingly long and strangely heartfelt song led on by the born-again in the dark den of the house ; from that amazing confrontation between the two Italian brothers . There's so much here that does work that it's practically forgivable to put aside the parts that don't . Some scenes do go on too long or start to loose steam ( hell , even Mia Farrow's mugging becomes much ) , but it's all worth it for that last 10 minutes of madness and hysteria - Altman style .
some of the most memorable child acting outside of a musical or comedy	I was one of a handful of kids who didn't get to read Lord of the Flies at the time when it would've been most appropriate - back in grade school where I could relate to what is the quintessential story of boyhood Id gone amuck ( that is Id without any girls or parental guidance ) . So I had to be content with , years later , watching the film . It turns out to be something very fascinating ; very naturalistic ( the film was mostly improvised by its young cast ) and with breathtaking black and white cinematography . It's the classic story of a bunch of kids marooned on a deserted island with nothing but their wits and most barbaric instincts as young men ( emphasis on men , British no less ) , and what it is to be apart , or decidedly not part , of a herd . And while I wasn't completely blown away by the production , I could see the definite admiration for the source . As for the film , Peter Brook crafted something unique in that he got a bunch of kid actors , pretty much all of them first timers and non-professionals , and made them about as believable as can be possible in a drama . Aside from some other examples like Shoeshine or Stand by Me ( though the latter is more comedy / drama ) , Lord of the Flies showcases these young talents so much in a raw style , and often to heartbreaking and almost anthropological effect , that you can't take your eyes away from it . It's by now means flawless and occasionally suffers from its improvised expression of narrative , but the positive results are so strong it's kind of a sleeper must-see of the 1960s , at least in British cinema .
while only director , it still is , and feels , looks and sounds like , a Jodorowsky film , a very good one	How criminal is this - the only format that has ever been available for The Rainbow Thief in America is on VHS . Imagine this , a film starring Omar Sharif , Peter O'Toole and Christopher Lee , regardless of who directed it ( though in this case the iconoclast / cult-icon Alejandro Jodorowsky ) , never got released in theaters let alone as of late on DVD . It's not that one must see it because it's a great lost masterpiece and yada-yada . It actually isn't . It's not as great a film as Jodorowsky's own Santa Sangre or The Holy Mountain . But as far as projects go that have been neglected by a major studio , Warner Brothers , this is one of the most notable to my mind . Especially because , when it comes down to it , it's quite possibly the filmmaker's most " accessible " movie to a mainstream audience . This doesn't mean necessarily that it's like ET or something , since if only on the peripheral side of things it's as much a Jodorowsky movie as ever . In this story of a petty thief who robs and steals little things ( i . e . an egg or a newspaper ) to big things ( i . e . an old record player belonging to a circus midget ) , the atmosphere is rich with that of a society that is that of the outsider or the outcast . We're mostly with Sharif throughout the picture as he goes along this lot of folk who live in the dregs , poor , destitute , or in the circus or the freak-shows , or working at the local pub . And the most significant scene showing someone living in a bourgeois setting , which is early on with Christopher Lee , it's in deranged excess with the Rainbow girls surrounded by Dalmatians and riding some motor-car . Even as someone else wrote it , and he was a " hired gun " as they say , this is nevertheless a Jodorowsky picture ( for better or worse depending on the viewer ) . But what makes it different from something like the Holy Mountain is , first , that Jodorowsky isn't out to blow minds away or find some kind of other consciousness through the power of cinema itself . This time he's telling a story that might have been written by Dickens ; it has some of the qualities of a fable while also taking note of squalor and filth and the realities of living on the street and being among folk who dwell in the urban setting . Not to mention , of course , that Sharif and O'Toole spend their years waiting on the possible inheritance money from Uncle Rudolf in the sewer , with O'Toole doing ventriloquism with his ( seemingly ) dead dog . Second , for the first ( and unless King Shot gets made only and last ) time in his career , the director is working with major stars - reuniting Lawrence of Arabia's big names - and he deals with them as he would any other actor in his films , which is to let them go off in whatever direction they can to make it a better picture . And , thankfully , their performances are wonderful , as is the bulk of the picture . While , yes , it is in some parts sentimental , particularly with the very end as one of those coda scenes that has that " it can happen in movies ! " quality , it earns whatever sappy feelings come out because of how rich and full of life the film is . I say that it's his most generally accessible since one doesn't need to be a big art-house buff or into the ostensibly surreal midnight-movie scene to " get " it . The Rainbow Thief , with the possible exception of Tusk which I and most others have yet to see , is the only Jodorowsky film I'd be pretty happy to show to my mother . This may or may not come as strong praise , but at the least it's something of a minor crime that others can't have the choice to decide for themselves on DVD or at a revival screening somewhere .
like Evans himself , this documentary isn't as great as it thinks it is , but it is watchable throughout	Robert Evans's book version of this documentary , The Kid Stays in the Picture , is still un-read by me . But I have read much about him from other movie books from the 70's , and so this film does illuminate certain aspects of him that I already knew - his huge ego , his drug addiction , his proclivity to lots and lots of women , and having some part in the more outstanding films of the 1970's . Sometimes with Evans himself narrating throughout two things become apparent as peculiarities that keep it from being great - 1 ) the filmmaker's style is rather repetitive and , aside from some flourishes of talent , isn't anything too grand for the material , and 2 ) the three sides to the story that Evans is quoted with at the beginning become rather blurred as one full-on nostalgia ( for bad and good ) comes out . What makes it captivating , however , is that Evans is the kind of guy who will be honest about being full of crap and will even call on himself for his past troubles . Rarely has one man's achievements gone neck and neck with his flaws , and let out in a filmic , grandiose style such as this . Evans is shown to have , basically , a lot of luck as someone getting into Hollywood ( as many of these stories go ) . He starts out as a so-so actor and tries desperately to establish himself as a producer . He becomes more apart of the development side of the pictures , and ushers through Rosemary's Baby , Love Story , and even the Godfather to an extent . As his story includes the personal side ( his rise and fall in the relationship to Ali McGraw , the cocaine , the other tabloid stuff ) , the other side of his professional accomplishments still gears in for room . By the end , one can see that the man has gone through enough to have his rightful reputation as Paramount's longest remaining producer , and will likely hold onto his ego of being the head-cheese kind of ' creative producer ' so many directors like or dread till the grave . If anything , the film is actually too short , as at 93 minutes ( a brilliant Dustin Hoffman imitation over the credits included ) we only get glimpses that are further expounded in the book . Therefore its already subjective viewpoint becomes even more crunched into one all-too-simple story on such an interesting case study . The Kid Stays in the Picture , despite not being as terrific as the filmmakers might think it is by their sleek camera angles and typical interludes of montage , is as close to being as honest as it could be . Honest , in the sense that Evans doesn't hide much in his story and how his own way of speaking about it , in its deep-sounding and straight-forward Hollywood way , is what film buffs look for . He may have been and done a lot of things , but as he says at the end , " I enjoy what I do , which most people can't say that they do . "
DePalma's best since Carlito's Way , possibly since Untouchables	Femme Fatale is one of those movies for people who love craft in movies , since it contains nearly all of the styles in the book - slow motion , split screen , use of shadows , reflections , and more that I might have not caught on the first viewing . The opening shot / scene is an eye-opener that makes a great re-creation of Cannes from last year ( though East-West , the movie shown within the movie , was at Cannes in 1999 ) , and throughout , DePalma has a breathtaking visual sweep again , like in his earlier films ; his last three films ( Mission Impossible , Snake Eyes , Mission to Mars ) were mediocre at best and at worst awful . Antonio Banderas , a little better than usual himself , plays a photographer who takes a picture of a woman , which brings forth series of events , double crosses , triple crosses , so on . The woman ( or women ) is played by Rebecca Romijn-Stamos , a hot firecracker of a babe who is in hiding after a jewel robbery , who has more hiding in herself as well . However , despite this being a cinema-verite type thriller with Mamet-esquire plot turns , the ending is a downer on a first viewing and had me turned off to see it again for a while ( is it even needed , despite its connection to genre , one might ask ) . And once I walked out of the screening , I knew that this could've been a great thriller , and it turned out to be in many parts , though I wouldn't recommend it as the definitive DePalma flick . However , upon a second viewing , it does become a bit more enjoyable , like an old bottle of red discovered years later . Those who are fans of him will find this sumptuous , and other film buffs will also have a good time , at least more than a few of the films De Palma's done lately .
ingenious in its own Twilight Zone approach , but doesn't quite feel like a major Polanski work	I can understand how fans of filmmaker Roman Polanski could love this movie - and I could understand how some could totally hate it ( Ebert was one of the few who couldn't understand why people weren't running out of the theater ) . After a first viewing , I'm not sure I could fall into either category , however as someone who can't get enough of Kafka and bizarre dark comedies of paranoia The Tenant is effective enough for its running time . Or maybe not - this is one of those cases where it might have been more of a masterwork if it were a half-hour Twilight Zone episode , with Serling delivering the coda as Terkovsky ( or whomever it might be ( ? ) ) writhes in his bed in bandages . It's very similar in the treatment of the doomed protagonist as Repulsion was , however it could be argued that there was more ambiguity , more of a sense of the surreal coming out through a sustained disintegration of character and location ( and , quite frankly , a better lead performance ) than the Tenant . As it stands , The Tenant does have an intriguing premise , the kind that one doesn't tire telling about to other people : Polanski is a Polish émigré to Paris who takes an apartment that was most recently acquired by Simone Choule , who jumped to her near death out of the window and died soon after . But the other tenants are conservative to the max in terms of noise ; after a Saturday night at Terkovsky's with a few friends , there are complaints of too much noise . It won't happen again , Polanski's good-natured but slightly nervous tenant says , but there is no peace even in moving a cabinet or a chair . Soon complaints get registered against another tenant , but from him ? Can he register complaints ? This is a case of not so much mistaken identity but of there being a lack of peace of mind with oneself and the surrounding people . As the downward spiral goes on , Polanski ratchets up tension ( and , dare I say , black-comedic laughs ) by showing Terkovsky in the midst of a horrible dream - one of Polanski's strongest scenes from the period - and in finding teeth in the wall , not to mention the bathroom across the way ( which , I might add , is always a cinematic lynch-pin of horror and surreal madness ) . But somehow , the film never really feels all that significant aside from its excessive design as a would-be mind-f machine , with Terkovsky's tenants only seeming to not be what they seem for a little while : there's not as much suspense when finding out that they really aren't out to get him , which makes the paranoia more self-fulfilling . At least once or twice I thought to myself as well ' why did Polanski take the title role for himself ? ' It's not that he's at all a bad actor , and he has appeared in several films and plays that aren't of his own direction . But aside from being great at looking awkward and tense , like in the church , or in his moments of sort of flipping out when thinking that they really are out to get him to kill himself , his transformation is less creepy than tongue-in-cheek , a test of himself to see if he can pull it off , which he doesn't entirely do . Despite Polanski working at it well to look like the meek and frazzled Terkovsky , I could see at least a few other actors who could pull it off with more subtlety and affecting personality . By the time one sees him in drag , it goes between cringe-worthy and true camp , particularly when he goes for the double-climax at the end ( which , of course , is of little surprise ) . And yet there is pleasure for the film-buff and Polanski fan to see the supporting cast try and dig into the much more ambiguous characters ( Winters and Douglas do this the best , even as they have to strain through limited characters ) , and the unexpected moments like Polanski and Adjani getting hot and heavy during a Bruce Lee movie , or when he gets really drunk , or in one almost random scene where he slaps a kid near a fountain , are rather brilliant in and of themselves . It's a very good film , and one that could maybe stick my attention up when on too many coffees after midnight . But an essential film ? Not exactly .
solid prison-breakout flick with machismo wit and fine touches of ambiguity	The last of the five collaborations between director Don Siegel and producer / actor Clint Eastwood , Escape from Alcatraz isn't a great blockbuster action flick like Dirty Harry or an experiment like the Beguiled . It is more the former , if anything , and a crackerjack example at best of what to do in crafting suspense from the elements of basic despair in the mindset of men . Barely sentimental ( the exception might be with the loss of painting privileges for one prisoner ) , the film is an examination of a cold system put on by hard-bitten prisoners who are stuck by what the character English says is " one huge count . " It isn't a kind of existential struggle like A Man Escaped , nor a big bombastic crowd-pleaser like Shawshank Redemption either . But for its intended audience , which are fans of its perennial heroic star , and for the lean style from director Siegel , it's one always worth a look when it pops up on TV or if it remains sitting all by itself on the video shelf at the store . Basics to know : Eastwood plays Frank Morris , a criminal who broke out of an Atlanta prison and got sent to Alcatraz , the most insurmountable prison ever constructed . But after taking enough guff from the exacting prison warden ( McGoohan looks like he's not entirely acting , as if he's been a warden for years and years , which is why he's one of the most convincing of all movie wardens ) , getting stuck in the horror that is ' the hole ' , and seeing the damage done to fellow prisoners , he takes action through the crumbling wall of his grate . Among certain accepted - and refreshingly well done - prison movie clichés , we get the big fat brute ( Bruce M Fishcer ) , the wise old inmate ( Paul Benjamin , some of his are the subtlest scenes ) , and the determined but weak-in-the-spirit inmate ( Larry Hanklin , a great character actor , one of those like Robert Schiavelli you can spot right away ) . And all the while , the storytelling goes at a pace that never rushes , never pushes against little details with Litmus or the visitors to the inmates . If sometimes it doesn't give a little bit of exposition on some characters - like its protagonist ( we never know how bad Eastwood really is or not , he just is , though unlike a Nicholson he never really exploits any kind of rebel posit ) - and sometimes has a moment of suspense that can be seen right around the corner ( a funny sound while digging , trouble with the disguised dummy heads in the beds ) , the climax practically makes up for any moments of conventionality . Especially if one isn't completely familiar with the real history behind the Alcatraz escape it cranks up to a high degree through the dark shadows of the prison innards and the outside at night . And it's also fascinating to see an indefinite point at the end of the film ; it's the attempt that counts , not the total end result . A cool and effective thriller .
almost great film about the momentary damnation of a single act	At the end of L'Infant , I knew I had seen a good movie , but it isn't until now thinking a little more about the nature of its characters and its conclusion that I like it a little more . But saying ' like it a little more ' may be a bit much , as this is a rather depressing story , as much akin to Robert Bresson films ( as other critics have noted ) as to neo-realist films ( with some differences ) . The filmmakers , winners of the Golden Palm for this work , are about as matter of fact with these people as can be made possible , and its catharsis , at first maybe a given , is touching considering what else has transpired . The story just deals with one young man , Bruno , who's one huge mistake - selling his recently born son for adoption money , later getting him back - and how it all comes back around him in st . Even as I knew these were ( seemingly ) non-professionals , and either by the choice of the filmmakers of just the actors ' inexperience there isn't much by way of fuller emotions , there is an emotional core to the film that is there . The main thing at the time that had me keep an eye closely on what would happen is how the Dardenne brothers did the storytelling , the very simple and direct style of the camera . There's likely only one or two shots in the film that are still or not in the hands of the director of photography . But after a while this was the least of my worries , as it really helped along with the bare-bones quality of the drama in the story . If I may not find the film as great as others have , particularly those who voted it in for the Golden Palm , is that there is so little emotion conveyed , even if it is subdued or sorrowful in its way , that when it does come up it has to really be not taken lightly . These are not well-off people , without much hope outside of their child , so it all becomes apart of the key issues - how do I eat , how do I just keep myself going if I can't get a job ? This question is answered well enough , and executed with enough of a grounded direction and purpose that did not cheat itself . It's not an easy film to watch at times , and at times in an inverted way I almost wondered if I was still being manipulated even through this documentary approach to this situation . But I'm very glad I saw it .
a crime film that focuses more on the personal side of the hit-man , of innocence shattered , and the possibility for redemption	Takashi Miike's Dead or Alive 2 : Birds is loaded with allegory and symbolism , some that works ( like having feathers continually popping up from time to time in the midst of murders , or the sometimes mentioned comet representing wonder in the unknown ) and some that doesn't ( the re-appearances of the wings on the backs of Mizuki and Shu , and the over-usage of archive clips of impoverished people in Africa to emphasize the two hit men's end goal to donate all their money to that ) . But at the core Miike has a very thematically rich film , where the insanity , shame and / or brutality of bloodshed and violence and death are contrasted with what comes before people go down the path of crime - childhood . It's maybe that one is given sight to bloody scenes in person as a child , as Mizuki does when he sees his step-father dying on the bathroom floor dialing on the phone ( one of the great images in the film ) . Or it's just that there doesn't seem to be much of a choice , or out of convenience , it's hard to say . Miike isn't out for easy answers anyway , but after a sort of bizarre meditation on the loss of the innocence we all have in youth , and how it can become uglier and without meaning . It's also , on to of this , a very good story of friendship and ties that bind that friendship going beyond professional duty or consequence . Mizuki and Shu , played by Riki Takeuchi and Sho Aikawa , also from the first DOA ( however not connected by character or plot , only in part by mood ) , are hit men for a hire , and Mizuki , who hasn't seen Shu in many years , witnesses him kill a bunch of gangsters that he was supposed to fire on with a sniper . He follows him , and it leads the both of them , as they're in hiding for suspected / actual murders and money stolen , to the island of their youth . We see flashbacks of said childhood , of fun playing on the beach ( a sweet gag , uncommon for Miike , is when one of the kids is buried in the sand and the other kids run away ) , but also the pain of separating and finding violence among them , like with Mizuki . Nostalgia comes back tenfold , as they reunite with another old friend , and Miike actually crafts sentimental scenes in this middle chunk that work , somehow , because they don't feel very cheap . Then , as if trying to cleanse themselves of their old crime-syndicate ways , they work at a playground helping out kids , and they even put on a demented play involving goofy innuendo with Cinderella and various animals . This play scene is juxtaposed with the sprawling yakuza / triad warfare that breaks out back at home , and it's here that Miike has not only , for my money , the best sequence of the film , but one of his best sequences to date . The play Mizuzki , Shu and the others put on is immature and a little crude , but shown to be all the more innocent and playful when compared to the manic , multiple murders that occur between the two gangs , as bullets fly , blood flows , and bodies contort all over the place as neither side really comes out victorious , or with many members left . It's Miike leashing out his wicked , no-holds-barred style , but also the goodness on the other side of the coin , and it doesn't get much better for a fan like myself . On the other hand , Dead or Alive 2 , following this sequence , gets weirder by the minute , and sometimes not always for the best . With the focused narrative flow given for the Mizuki / Shu story , where they decide to come back to the mainland and keep going with their killings for money in un-selfish reasons , there's another subplot involving , I'd guess , the other killers out to kill them . But it comes off muddled , and even with Miike going for enjoyably crazy images like a midget walking on stilts , or the fate of a character named Jiro , it suddenly felt as if Miike was getting off track of what was working best . But if anything , DOA 2 tops the first one by delivering the goods on substance just as well as the style . Miike is always out for experimentation , with his editing and transitions and usage of a symbolic inter-title " Where are you Going " . And isn't above getting some touching last scenes with Mizuki and Shu on the boat ( Takeuchi , by the way , is one of Miike's best actors ) , even if it feels very sudden , that could be forced by another director but through him feel compassionate to their doom . While Miike and his screenwriter don't quite get deep enough to make this a great film about lifelong criminal friends , and he's still into getting laughs out of depraved acts of violence and bizarre sex ( i . e . that giant penis in a couple of scenes ) , it's surely one of the better yakuza movies I've yet to see to go past its limitations and make it a movie where the main characters aren't just cardboard cut-outs meant for shouting dialog and dying at a clip .
for the most part a very fine western thriller , good characterizations , but a frustrating ending	The Naked Spur marks a good note in James Stewart's career , as , up until the very end , he seems like a real anti-hero , if hero at all . He lost his land , his wife is gone , and now all he has is money on his mind - and a bounty to catch in the form of Robert Ryan's character Ben . But at some point - namely the end - the film suddenly loses its really convincing , haunting grip on Howard Kemp's downfall : a good man with a good family that soon drifts away as he becomes a quiet , distrusting loner , doomed to collect money from the soon-to-be-departed . It's not that the sudden change in morals is startling in and of itself - people change their minds everyday , even if it is about something they got shot in the leg by Indians over or if every member aside from the Wanted's little lady is dead . But it's that there's almost a plot contrivance in it being because of Leigh's character . There's a darker undercurrent throughout the Naked Spur , mainly because we're seeing James Stewart in this kind of role of a greedy bounty hunter . But the ending tries to make everything too tidy when the chance of Kemp's fate is what is really most compelling ( the scene when he takes Ryan's character out of the water was also included in the section on westerns in Scorsese's doc on American movies ) . And yet even with this ending the Naked Spur is a worthwhile viewing , not just because of a sturdy cast - Robert Ryan , whom I usually pegged ( thanks to On Dangerous Ground mostly ) to be not very expressive as an actor , is great as a chuckling , unsympathetic scoundrel who may or may not really be a killer - but because of Anthony Mann's strong sense of simple storytelling . The tension always mounts whenever violence is on the horizon , like when the calvary-man climbs up the mountain ledge after Ben , or during a good fight ( or the threat of violence ) . Nothing more than a sharp pan or a low angle here and there makes up Mann as a real ' stylist ' , however it's this simple layer of direction that makes him a notable filmmaker of the period . Even if it's not up to his very best ( Raw Deal for example ) , it has some real brains and guts within its conventional innards . And if you are a Stewart fan , you might find this to be one of his most interesting performances in the 50's : going past a specific good-guy image , here is a man compromised by fate and hope for better , even if it's by the pull of a gun .
memorable moments in a good animated movie	This is another of the few Charlie Brown specials / movies that still sticks around in my mind . In fact , there are some scenes that , for one reason or another , still seem as fresh as ever . It's not the best of the specials , but it is a very good way to introduce one not terribly familiar to the Peanuts world because it makes use of almost all of the main characters and their trials , tribulations , quirks , and gifts . Like Charlie Brown's inadequacy with flying a kite , or Lucy's imperative to mess with the kid's head at most turns , or Linus's compulsive need for his blue blanket , or even Schroder's knack at the piano . Some of these revelations of character are charming and funny . The animators also bring some interest and imagination to otherwise unnecessary ( story-wise ) scenes , like Schroder's piano sequence ( as a kid I was a little perplexed but not now ) and Snoopy's wonderful ice skating scene in the city . The plot is more for the kids than adults as Charlie Brown competes at the one thing that looks like his knack , the spelling bee , reaching to the highest competition and a chance to make himself no longer an outsider . Some of the songs accompanying the film are less than great and hamper on the amusing scenes . However this doesn't exclude how entertaining the special can be , with every spelling-bee scene worth the watch . And the conclusion is wholly satisfying for anyone in the audience , not a happy one but not compromised either .
fun and incendiary , it's a nifty flashback and more than a little resonant	You've seen the kid with the long hair who's told ' cut it ' , and won't . And then there's a misunderstanding like the one in the story of Alice's Restaurant , where it's a weird downward spiral where garbage , the law , and Vietnam get intertwined . The actual dramatization of the events that are detailed in the now traditional Thanksgiving album ( only because , I guess , Arlo is having Thanksgiving dinner at Alice's ) is about as faithful as imaginable , but I'd say the scenes earlier on , when Arlo has just come into town and isn't able to really stay at any pad for too long due to his long hair and his inability to conform to playing music right in classes . These are subtle jabs at the outcast of the times - not simply as a ' hippie ' , as Arlo Guthrie is a little too folksy to be a typical hippie , albeit not too far removed for Woodstock - and as a mostly one-sided take on the issue of the ' hippies ' , it doesn't demonize one side , while not making bones about showing the upright citizens as those who are close-minded . Filled with some great tunes , and an attitude to film-making by Arthur Penn that reflects its creator in a somewhat lighter , though no less socially conscious mind-set than Bonnie & Clyde ( except less disguised ) , Alice's Restaurant is imperfect entertainment and a glimpse of the period that will appeal to anyone at all interested or remember all-too-well the socio-political troubles . It's a capsule , but not too shabby with age ; plays probably as the first side of a double-billing with 1969's Easy Rider .
We are professionals . . .	Ah , punk rock , how it came , saw , went , came back again , and maybe another time , and is now in so many varieties that one could just spend an entire semester in college studying all of the bands that have come from the early to mid 70s and beyond . Ladies and Gentlemen , the Fabulous Stains , is a satirical document of the punk rock scene , but it works better as just flat-out punk and / or new-wave rock than as satire . The writer tries for a Network approach : the media latches on to The Fabulous Stains , a trio girl group started by Corrine Burns ( aka Third-Degree Burns ) with her sister and cousin , who aren't very talented but have Corrine as their wont-take-no-s lead singer with crazy hair and a " I don't put out " slogan while wearing skimpy clothes . Because apparently every single punk girl watches the nightly news and believes every single word they say , suddenly the Stains have a HUGE fan-base of lemming-like girls who latch onto every word of their song " Waste my time " and , soon after , their rip-off cover of the Looters ' " The Professionals " , the real Brit punk rock group touring as the lead group following ( original headliner ) aging rock group's bitter demise . The script takes the point of view that it's probably as much the audience's fault , if not more-so , than the exploitation by the media , which was not uncommon to happen to certain bands ( it even happened to the Sex Pistols to a degree , though the bulk of hype came about after they broke up ) . This part is clever but also not clever by half ; we've seen this quick rise-and-fall story before and there's not a whole lot that's fresh that's brought to the table creatively , except for the cynical aspect that if you look pretty and bad and don't give a bleep you'll make it with a rip-off single that most of the audience doesn't understand anyway . And yet for whatever flaws the film might have director Lou Adler aptly displays , amusingly and with a deft skill at capturing young-and-old rocker angst , life in the ever changing rock scene and specifically punk rock . While it's a given a band will be kick-ass if two members of the Pistols and Paul Simonen of the Clash are in it , as they are in the Looters with a young Ray Winstone as ornery front-man ( one of his most compelling performances as a " tough " guy ) , it will have some punk rock cred . But very young Diane Lane and even younger Laura Dern bring some credibility of their own , and open up another sight for aficionados of the attitude and mood of punk rock , much like the attitude and mood of film-noir more than a real genre , is punk rock for girls . Inspiration for the likes of the Go-Go's can be seen here as " birds " as Winstone says can rock as hard , or just with enough spirit , while also not being too full of crap . That's the interesting thing too in Fabulous Stains , what makes it more interesting as a punk rock flick than a satire : when it's at its best , like Suburbia did as well , we get a personal and sad look at wayward youth with nothing else but music , be that they can't read like Winstone's Billy or just have a parent that's dead like Corrine's father ( " Died in war , beep , got lot of money , beep " ) . It's a fine little nugget of music / movie lore .
saga of the ape-men	Quest for Fire straddles a line that is somewhere in the range of nature documentary and sillier caveman films of the olden days of B movies . There's luckily more intelligence and storytelling power that keeps things from turning into a silly epic , and the action that occurs is supported by characters we do kind of care about . It goes without saying that despite the attempts by the filmmakers ( and including Anthony Burgess ) to create a dialog of sorts for these 80 , 000 BC homo sapiens and neanderthals , that the power of the film lies in the simple intent of what's said , or felt with the " dialog " , than what one word might mean or another . As a purely visual experience , it's pretty good , if not really ' masterpiece ' worthy . It's a minor cult item , to put it another way . In fact , it's the strength of incorporating a linear storyline into what is essentially a near plot less tale ( what plot can there be with a quest for fire when it's not in the usual conventional mode of a ' quest ' ? ) of a group of homo sapiens at odds with all the forces of nature - animals , neanderthals , rival ' gangs ' , weather , quicksand . There is a kind of ' romance ' that blooms between one character ( I forget who played him ) and Rae Dawn Chong's talkative , happy but strong character , and the problems of her former tribe in developing the earliest stages of a tribal sacrifice and prison and whatnot . It's kind of touching to see the filmmakers have the faith in the intelligence of the audience to follow both threads : naturalistic caveman adventures with a " conventional " romance story . This isn't to say , however , this is for young viewers . Its R rating is pretty well deserved ; there's lots of sex , even a caveman rape of sorts , and lots of murders and death , including one shocking one by a bear ( it's not so much the bear itself but what immediately precedes it ) . But for teens and up it should be pretty intriguing viewing that actually hasn't dated very much . It isn't to say you can't see its 1981 wear and tear ( i . e . certain close-ups of mammoths scream it ) , but its power lies in its simple , primal power of storytelling .
one of those cases where the acting and direction ( most of the time ) is better than the script	Spike Lee's films are consistent in one respect , even for the lesser ones , which is that they're always pressing buttons . In the case of Jungle Fever , it's another work where messages come out more than from a guy on a postal route . But that's perhaps part of the point , where such points come in many forms and sometimes like a barrage . This time , it doesn't completely gel as well as Lee's Do the Right Thing , which also held anger , contemplation , humor , and pathos about city life . But this time it's also a tale of sexual morays , where both white and black sides have their share of racism and prejudices , and at the core is a story of outcasts . The interesting thing then about Jungle Fever is how Lee's own decisions in casting and in the unique way he shoots his subjects and implements a subjective take more often then not trump what comes out in his script . Then again , maybe it's close to being inevitable with how the elements mix , and at the end there are some parts of the film that are the best that Lee's done so far as a filmmaker . Wesley Snipes and Anabella Sciora star as the said ' jungle fever ' couple , the man being married with a kid , of all things to a woman who is also light-skinned and with her own ' issues ' , and the woman having an ' old-fashioned ' Italian father . When their affair becomes known to both sides , the costs come out and they both become outcasts . And at the end of all of the points that are made in Jungle Fever by Lee , even through the ones that are pounded and ( of the period ) quite topical and prominent , this notion of society and culture being the biggest culprit is hard to ignore . This main point is made very well by Lee's script , and even as sometimes the script doesn't have the best dialog or lines a little ' too easy ' , if that makes any sense , there are many scenes which do support this to the fullest . And as the job of any good director is to cast right , this film is filled with a who's-who's of professionals and character actors . One could go on as to who appears in the film , from Anthony Quinn to Tim Robbins to Ossie Davis to John Turturro , and they all fit their parts and contribute to adding a level of fascination in each . When the less desirable aspects peak in even more , it only adds to what ends up working on screen . Sometimes the script , as mentioned , is a little derivative and trying to touch ALL bases , with a but the film is more often than not alive due to ( some of ) the music at times . Maybe the most genius pieces of casting were Samuel L . Jackson , in ( arguably ) one of his very best performances , and Halle Berry . In a sense there are similar points made in the " A " storyline and the " B " one , where there is some extra interest in the supporting characters and their connection with the main ones . Jackson and Berry are crack-heads , and outcasts , and to their own degree have the same crap end of the stick as the leads to . Among many scenes where confrontations reach a great emotional intensity , the best comes with Snipes going into the crack-house and seeing just the purest dark side of society , what really does bring people down . In the end , Jungle Fever is one of the Lee movies that is worth seeing , that may prove on a repeat viewing to bring even more thought than previous . It's energetic , somber , occasionally funny and shocking in equal measure .
not bad at all , actually very good and meticulously structured heist movie , but not great	I had seen nearly everything that is readily available from Jean-Pierre Melville in the United States by the time I got to Le Deuxieme soufflé , which may be part of why I didn't respond overwhelmingly to it . After such challenging , methodical and precisely existential crime masterpieces as Le Samourai , Le Cercle Rouge , Bob le flambeur and the underrated Le Doulos , this one just seemed to not pack the same kind of punch that the others did . Again , this may be the fault on the viewer for seeing this last among his mostly thriller-oriented oeuvre , but perhaps it's also some of Melville's fault too ; again and again , as the dedicated and ruthless auteur that he was ( one of the great French directors I would argue ) , he kept coming back to men in trench-coats with grim expressions figuring out on both sides - criminal and detective - of how to plot the next move or , for the former , how to keep from the fatalism of the plot . Which , for Melville , is something that comes second nature . The difference , perhaps , in this case is that the length ( a whopping two and a half hours , longer than both The Red Circle and Army of Shadows ) and the amount of details in the structure of the story ( i . e . what happened on such and such a day made this happened could've been snipped , albeit I can't pinpoint to which ) bog down some of the more successful aspects to the picture . Which is also to say that for all of its minor misgivings , Le Deuxieme soufflé ( or , simply , The Second Breath ) is near-classic Melville , with nail-bitingly tense suspense scenes like the opening escape from the prison and the latter heist sequence - somewhat more obvious and less coolly ambitious as Red Circle . There's the amazing cinematography as well , a trademark of Melville and his crew to make things gritty but smooth in precision and style , and the performances from Paul Meurisse as the Detective ( maybe my favorite performance of the picture just for the intelligence he imbues in the character ) , and Lino Ventura as one of the quintessential Melville anti-heroes , Gu , the convict who wants in on the big 200 million heist . And even as it could be Melville's most " talky " picture after Bob le flambeur ( which is relative to how pleasantly light , or how seemingly sparse , his films are with dialog ) , when the characters speak it's to the point of with some quotable spunk to them . There's an icy , unspoken angst in Melville's world of criminals , almost questioning but still true to the notion of the ' policier ' , where you'd want the criminals to get away with it if the detective wasn't so doggone determined all the time . It's another fine piece of film-making from the director , just not an all-time-top flick - more along the lines of Un flic .
sometimes a grandiose historical epic , but mostly a lurid , totally absorbing royal family drama ; one of Yimou's best	Even with flaws and all - and there are a couple at least here in Curse of the Golden Flower - I can only think of a handful of filmmakers that have shot to the moon like this and gotten away with it . Zhang Yimou tried it before with Hero and , for me , sort of didn't pull through completely successfully ( not that it hasn't gained its share of fans , and House of Flying Daggers was actually incredible ( both for being able to pull off its wacky high-flying action scenes and scoring as a romantic drama ) and the top of the pops in Yimou's big-budget melodramas . ' Golden Flower ' comes pretty close , if not totally , to ' Flying Daggers ' successes , even if it's possibly even more entertaining and acted on a level that goes to the lengths of emotional absurdity . I don't think I could ever see an American action-epic with the kinds of dark , secret , and lost characters in a film like this , and while I would say the action sequences and battles in said Western counterparts might make a little more sense , the pageantry and power of the visuals strikes this one a bit more extraordinary . I wish I could put the plot into context , but it might take too long , and it's already provided on the main page of the site . Suffice to say though it's a mouthful to try and explain it all in one piece ; simply put , we're given a tragedy as it unfolds more so on the personal level up until the last half hour , where Emperor Ping ( Chow Yun Fat ) and his Empress Phoenix ( Gong Li ) are in a crippled marriage , and hidden behind the rituals and strict decorum and everyday mercies of circumstance there's hatred on both sides , with the Emperor plotting his wife's murder via poison in the medicine she drinks , and once discovered her plot against him through various channels . There's also the Freudian ties between the sons - two from both of them and one from the Emperor and a previous woman ( who will be of significance to much of the picture ) - including not only a liaison between mother and step-son , but between a half-brother and half-sister . In between an amazing bout that occurs with quasi-Chinese ninjas storming the Phyisican and his wife's home , including grappling hooks and chaos and a chase , and a massively epic battle sequence in the Emperor's enormous stretch of royal grounds , there are many scenes that are intimately attuned for the actors , and pitched just high enough to make it delirious fun and sobering in sadness . Sure , it's over-the-top stuff that one might read in another permutation in a trashy supermarket novel , but Yimou is smart enough to let the actors take this material to work much better than one would expect . Gong Li , really , is the centerpiece here as the Empress torn by a life of diligent servitude , only to find that her long-standing sickness is not getting any better ( there are a few scenes of power where she almost breaks down in cold sweats and shaking fits ) , and her allegiances become all the more torn , twisted and fragmented by the poison doing bad things to her mind , and to her tryst with her step-son , and to her intentions towards her wretched husband . It's a great performance , worthy of Luchino Visconti , whom I thought of a couple of times watching the picture in terms of comparing operatic to operatic . Chow Yun Fat , too , is fantastic at being the man who corrupts not necessarily really his control over his empire , but that he can't tell through the third person referrals from his children what's really going on . The scenes of revelations during the last half hour , which include him showing the true state of his hair ( a real wicked moment ) , are some of the best of the film . The rest of the cast , too , does pretty well for themselves , even if one or two of them ( mostly the youngest son ) don't take too much to the over-the-top styling . And the over-the-top , sensationalism of the picture does have its drawbacks , too . I'll need to see the film again to totally understand things in terms of the action set-pieces , like which side was which ( I did finally get a sense of what happened by film's end , of course , but like with Hero I felt a little boggled ) . The music is also monotonous from time to time , albeit with touches of grace and just-right flamboyance . And there might be almost TOO much to put into suspension of disbelief with some of the dysfunctions in the family chain ( s ) , like with Prince Wan and his little girl-on-the-side who's really more than either would think of to be . But I really put myself into not just the operatic intonations , the Shakespeare-goes-Eastern story and characters which highlight the madness and decay in royalty , but the epic scope of the picture as well . The costume design , up for an Oscar , is a small marvel , though the production and art design ranks up with the best I've seen in the decade , where the colors are more than lush , as if out of some artist's fever-dream interpretation of what the insides of a palace look like . And Yimou's camera moves along this world - and gets the battle scenes - with the efficiency and skill that he's been building towards since Hero . Even if what you see might seem all too ridiculous , you likely can't take your eyes away . Is ' Golden Flower ' almost too morbid ? Perhaps , and the characters run the risk of veering off into being cheap in its melodrama . This being said , it ends up working on all of its levels , more or less , and it thrills while it pokes into the psychologies of its magisterial characters , and it ends on a very stirring note .
if you can ignore the wretched dubbing - one of the worst outside of Godzilla - it's an enjoyable whirlwind of a spaghetti western	Sergio Corbucci is not really a great director , but if I hear his name I perk up in a genre-geek sort of way . Having seen a couple other movies by him , Navajo Joe and Il Grande Silenzio , I knew what to expect with Django , which is some of the same only ( hopefully ) more violent and serious and convoluted . Actually , the story in Django isn't too convoluted , just if you don't pay close attention , which is easy once or twice . It doesn't have the weird , cool energy of Grande Silenzio or the camp of Navajo Joe . But it stands on its own as a solid entry - the most well-known of all spaghetti westerns in Europe ( yes , more than Leone , who was also a God there ) , and , well . . . if you watch the dubbed version from Anchor Bay video and come out unscathed , more power to you . Franco Nero is in his iconic role as the title character ( sing it with me , " Djangoooo ! " ) , a man dragging a coffin into town and with some payback to deliver against a man named Jackson , and is actually caught up in two warring factions : a group of red-suited KKK members , and a crazy group of Mexicans , with women thrown from here to there and in-between . Django , of course , doesn't want to get involved with that , but he does , and it becomes a whole big thing not too unfamiliar to those who've seen their share of Leone pictures . In fact , this was the first in a whole franchise of Django - some official and most not , leading up to this year with Miike's amazing remake - and I could likely see this as being the best without having seen one other . It's just a guess , I could be wrong . Certainly it would be hard to top the body count , which nears 150 ( or maybe it's more ) , if not all of the performances . Then again , it's the look of most of the characters that becomes more and more striking as the movie goes on , including one snarling gunman with bad teeth and big gums ( I forget his name ) , and the stone-faced Jackson himself who Django has the chance to kill early on but leaves alive ( somewhat bewilderingly , then again there would be no film and less conflict for otherwise amazing comic-book gunslinger Django ) . What Corbucci can deliver alongside his cast of mostly bit players and hamming-uppers , is a kind of tough but loose style ; he won't go to extremes like Leone with a close-up or a far-away angle , he'll just zoom and veer right into the action and get all of the bloody , crazy killings right up close and fast as possible . He's a good exploitation director and a decent stylist , with a little artistry and a warped form of professionalism . It must be fun and / or rough work being on his set . So , for any and all genre fans , spaghetti western or just crazy-action film , you'll see why Django gets its rep , for better or for worse , usually the better . It's sometimes sloppy and occasionally not altogether well-made , but it soaks up its audience with its character as he kills quick with his huge cannon of a machine gun and has a final scene at a cemetery that is in the books somewhere as a mark of a true bad-ass . Just make sure , for the love of Pete , to try and steer clear of the English dubbing , as it's a mind-numbing experience ( or just hilarious too ) .
one of the best Harry Potters yet - much better than you might have heard !	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix has a gripping main story involving the continuing peril for Harry and his arch nemesis , the dark lord Voldermort ( Fiennes , as sinister as possible ) , but what surprised me a little was seeing that there's even a kind of political subtext to the story at Hogwarts . This is personified by the ministry's new professor-cum-control freak Umbridge ( Oscar nominee Imelda Staunton ) , who teaches theory instead of practice , and is every ultra-harsh , practically laughable disciplinarian you've ever had the horror to have over your heads . Odd for some other " kids " movies ( save for Happy Feet ) , but for the Harry Potter universe the foreboding presence of the ministry makes the feeling of the dread that Potter has to face that much more pronounced , as a feeling of helplessness spreads out amongst everyone in the society despite the message from the messenger that ' everything's fine ' . Staunton is perfect in the role of Umbridge , and helps to make the character as part of the ranks of those played by Alan Rickman ( ? ) , Gary Oldman ( not really ) , and Ralph Fiennes ( for sure ) as one of the most dastardly figures in the Potter universe . Though she may even be more chilling , even as a momentary figure , because of what she represents for those who need to practice magic first hand . The sense of rebellion with the Hogwarts school is a solid facet for the Order of the Phoenix storyline , and except for a tiny sub-plot involving Harry and Cho Chang , and some of the visuals involved when the kids finally take over during a big exam ( kind of like a super-magical version of the Another Brick in the Wall music video ) , it's a great balance for the much darker elements at work . There's another facet , aside from strong performances ( Radcliffe , by the way , is really coming into his own more than ever ) , which is that David Yates - primarily a director of British television - imbues a lot of extraordinary imagery here . Mostly , because , he makes what could be another ' kids ' movie , as the first two films were , and makes a gradual progression from the third and fourth installments into the realm of a sort of pop-surrealism ; the image of Voldermort at the train station moving his neck around could be out of a stark painting , same for the " mystery " room that serves for the climax of the film . It's much more sophisticated than one might expect , albeit some typical flashbacks used in the realm of the conceit that Voldermort screws around with Potter's mind a lot , and it's certainly the first time since ' Azkaban ' that the direction and the script are at levels of quality that one might not expect in a big summer blockbuster . There's nuance in this struggle of good vs evil , and it's worth seeing it in the theater if only on that level . And as foreboding and cryptic and always with the ominous foreshadowing - unless you've read Half-Blood Prince ( from which I've heard , as I haven't read any of the books , is even darker than any of the others combined , with even truly disturbing imagery ) - as Phoenix can get , there's still a sense of it being a crowd-pleaser . I liked the scenes where Hagard shows Potter and the others his half-brother , a huge ogre that marks as the least essential character story-wise but is a lot of fun to watch , and the scenes with Potter and the others in their secret training rooms gives the movie a sense of purpose for the audience to follow along . In a strange way there is some hope in Order of the Phoenix , though one needs to find it , and not in the way that the one " we don't mention " would go about it .
misleading ( thought not disappointing ) if you're looking for a Chappelle comedy movie . . .	. . . However as a rap-concert movie , it's one of the better ones I've seen in quite a while . It works for a few reasons , though for some it may not work as well as for others . Basically , if you're coming into this expecting Chappelle doing more of his stand-up & / or sketches , you'll wonder how you could've been misled ( not that his moments on screen don't elicit enough laughs for satisfaction , at least for a Chappelle admirer like myself ) - in fact many white audience members going into the film walked out of screenings . If this is due to the film-making style or something wrong on the end of director Michel Gondry , or just not caring for the rap and hip-hop , is up for debate . But considering the kind of mix of better-than-usual rap music , solid cinema verier style camera-work by Gondry and his small crew , and the fine bits of interview footage , it's actually not a bad film if you go into it knowing what you'll get . For some it may be one of the film events of the season & / or year . One reason it worked is that - and this is of course a subjective part of seeing Block Party - the musical acts are better than most of the rap and hip-hop currently heard on radio and seen on the music channels . Led by an actual band playing music as opposed to all beat machines , the groups ( of which are Chappelle's own favorites , and some of which already appeared on the hit or miss musical segments of his show ) bring out solid beats , and the rappers or singers are not off-putting or ridiculous . The highlights for me were with Kanye West ( with a cool , powerful mix of himself and a school band for ' Jesus Walks ' ) , The Roots , and the Fugee's ' Killing Me Softly ' . There are also some cool , loose moments with Chappelle and some people backstage where he jams and riffs and jokes ( funny jokes too , albeit for the musician's expense more than for the audience ) . For someone like myself losing interest in more of the ultra-violent , idiotic and over-indulgent rap music of the day , it was not unpleasant at all to get dropped back into it with acts that were fresh and interesting ( not that there aren't some mis-steps , Dead Prez and Common not being some of the highlights for me ) . The other thing that made the film work though is Gondry's natural eye with his lens , as he just stands by getting down the attitudes , the emotions and little bits of life in the midst of this huge spectacle . There isn't anything outstanding in his style like with the Maysles brothers or DA Pennebaker in terms of capturing the music in action , and sometimes his focus strays to people on camera who take up a little too much time . But for the most part ( with some exceptions of little moments that just don't work ) his attention to the rhythm of a film , and the rhythm of film led by music - he is one of the most artistically dominant forces in music videos of the past ten or so years - is focused just right . This style also compliments Chappelle , who has a laid back kind of way of talking to people , but with a sense of humor that cuts the chase . Some of the best parts though of his moments on screen aren't expected , improvised , like the James Brown bit on stage , or his obscure ability to play two specific jazz songs on piano , or even his more juvenile jokes in jamming . In short , it's a side of Chappelle you might not usually see at times , or with Gondry , and it all gels together for the sake of the audience that showed up for the show . Nothing too pretentious , and entertaining enough to keep those interested in their seats .
maybe not long enough , but the history of independent film is too expansive anyway	I was glad I saw Edge of Outside , and I know if I was just starting to become a full on film-buff it would be very helpful in knowing which directors who not only worked independently of the studio system , but those who were able to be individualistic while still being in some sort of system nonetheless . As someone who knows almost all the filmmakers talked about or interviewed here , however , it's nothing new . Of course it's neat to hear about the early silent independents , like DW Griffith and Stroheim and Keaton , and it's always fine to hear the gushing over Cassavetes great body of work . But it's both a shame and a given that it would be only an hour long to cover such subject matter . It's for turner classic movies , so it's not like a PBS documentary special in its way of almost going too long into getting into subject matter . So at only an hour , the one assembling the footage and interviews here probably had TOO much to work with , and thus had to whittle down to the essentials - the early silents I mentioned , plus Orson Welles , Cassavetes , Sam Fuller , Tarantino , Roger Corman , David Lynch , the influence of French & Italian cinema , and a few others amid the crowd ( one of them the near forgotten Henry Jaglom ) . For what it's worth , the interviews - particularly by Scorsese , Bogdanovich , and at least one of the historians - are interesting . Though what is utilized is really just a brief rundown that could have gone more in-depth into each decade and each wave of films and how independents still struggle amid the biggest corporate landscape imaginable for filmmakers today . It's like a brief synopsis , though one that is still appreciated if for nothing else giving glimpses of great and struggling careers to those who may not know much about the likes of Fuller or Cassavetes or the real struggles of Welles .
as solid , violent , and sophisticated a Western you'll see this year	The best western I've seen since the Proposition - which might not mean a lot since it's been a year since that film came out . But while Mangold's film may not have the existential resonance and eerie quality of the Aussie feature , we do have a better-than-average feat of genre film-making , loaded with great machismo presence ( and heart ) , and a feat of storytelling uncompromised by muddled metaphors or Leone copycatting . It's very violent and without too much hope for the characters on the surface by film's end . It looks as though things have suddenly , surprisingly turned against the conventions ( whether this is different from the original I can't say having not seen the 1957 film version yet ) . But underneath , there's a moral code that is evoked brilliantly . The premise is as simple as they come for a story based on a short - originally written by Elmore Leonard early in his career - for a pulp western magazine . Gang outlaw Ben Wade ( Russell Crowe , his best performance in quite a few years , even if he could potentially play it in his sleep ) is captured without the help of his posse ( with icy fast-shooter Ben Foster as second in command ) , and is sent to be hung for numerous crimes and murders in Yuma . Dan Evans ( Christian Bale , terrific as always , usually in silence ) is a rancher who is in danger of losing his land if he doesn't get enough money together , and so takes the job of being part of the group ( among them an old and weary and hard-ass Peter Fonda as Bryon McElroy ) . It's a tale where good versus evil should be well defined , but this where the conventions sort of get muddled , which is really what starts to make 3 : 10 to Yuma more than just a star vehicle or blockbuster of the week . Beneath the veneer of each man lies truths that haunt them , and have made either one into how they are in the present . Wade is calculating and evil , but somehow has a level of honor beneath his countless sins ; watch him tell of reading the bible cover to cover as a kid after getting it from his mother , and then never seeing her again . Or how Evans got his war wound , how he hides that simple fact from his children , even from his son ( William Lerman , maybe the most limited performance as his sole motivation is ' I'll go with you ' , though still does it well enough to act with the best of them ) . There's some level of understanding that forms between Wade and Evans , and amid the countless gun battles and wounds faced against Apaches , train workers , and the whole town of Contention , loaded with gun power , as the train is soon on its way , neither man can ever quite give in , aside from what the end goal entails . Mangold directs this picture like a pro in the tradition of someone like Howard Hawks - a few really good scenes ( the climactic battle through the town , a dinner scene between captured Wade and the Evans family , and maybe the scene between Wade and Evans in the hotel room , among maybe one other I can't pin down ) , no bad ones . It's interesting to read the only substantial criticism of this 2007 version of 3 : 10 to Yuma being too long , where the original was just right in length . But nothing seems to be fattening to the storyline here , and the script keeps things moving along at a very tense pace while never stopping for a moment of characterization , like one of the campfire scenes . And giving enough breathing room for actors like Crowe and Bale allow for them to do what they do best . In this near-classic feature that works as a very respecting throwback to tragic tales of doomed men in the guise of typical Hollywood product , while working finitely as a pure action movie for today's audiences , 3 : 10 to Yuma is taut , precise and superlative as a " guy " flick .
not as scary as Cat People , but probably just as creepy , with a pure voodoo mood	I Walked with a Zombie shouldn't be too misleading for today's post-modern horror geeks : this won't have the trademark biting and flesh eating , or running for that matter , when it comes to the un-dead . In this case it's more " old-school " . Jacques Tourner , and his producing partner / collaborator Val Lewton , cooked up this film as their follow-up to Cat People , and while it's no B-movie masterpiece like the former , it provides above all else some effective , oddly evocative imagery to make it near essential for admirers of old horror films . It's a Jane Eyre type story ( I would believe , as I've never read the book ) as a nurse comes to a small island to look after a woman who's been shocked by a terrible fever - so the family says - and can't speak and is on a motorized sort of functioning physical capacity . But one night the nurse sees a figure move in the tower , and sees it is her - their introduction of course - and it's probably the most effective scary scene of the lot , in the conventional sense . But from here on in it's more fascinating than really traditionally spooky . The best bits bring out what is unknown in the ' other ' , which in this case is voodoo witchcraft and superstitions , which involve dances , mojo-dolls ( the mojo-doll specifically for the zombie Jessica , played very well by the actress ) , and lots of scattered objects that spell some of the eeriest signs in any movie . My favorite scene was when Betsy was taking Jessica to where those damned drums were beating on and on , and first we see a dark figure almost in silhouette ( this guy , with crazy eyes done by make-up or some other means , is the only real significant human threat as far as zombies go in the film , and is controlled by voice ) . Then we see a cow's skull , then a dead dog hanging from a tree , and a human skull surrounded by a circle of bones . It's not exactly scary , but this compounded by the exquisite camera-work , gliding alongside Jessica and Betsy as the go along through the field , make things so creepy and even dream-like that it's worth seeing the film alone for that and the voodoo . The actual plot , with the stuffy man-of-the-house who tries to deny there's anything wrong with his wife , and the mysterious madame of the house , and the drunken brother , aren't quite as interesting even if they are essential to the plot . What they're good for is a baseline for all the other ominous things to pop out , and Tourner and Lewton milk it for all its worth . Only the ending , with the narration switching over from Betsy to some man , is a letdown as far as how its done , not so much in what it means for the characters in the long run . Bottom line , I Walked with a Zombie is very good for its time , and has many scenes and moments that hold up very well by today's horror standards ( and , dare I say it , there's a better depiction of voodoo here , as exploitive as it leans towards , than the crude depictions in Italian horror films like Fulci's best film Zombie ) .
minor quibbles aside , this is one of the sharpest tragic-comedies this year , certainly regarding obsession and psychological mind-games	Rarely have I seen Dame Judi Dench on top of her game as with Notes on a Scandal . She's usually a good show in any film she's in , but here she's perfect for the role of Barbara , who has been a professional teacher in a high school all her life , and is well respected , but can't seem to get enough of her attachments . There's a first one to a woman we won't see during the course of the film ( chiefly because she put a retraining order on Barbara ) , and then enters in Sheba ( Cate Blanchett , beautiful as ever , which may be a small part of the point ) , who becomes a focal point of attention for Barbara . And then when she discovers a terrible secret regarding her new ' friend ' - an affair Sheba's having with one of her 15 year old students - there's a subtle form of blackmail that comes into play , and that becomes a further fantasy in her notebooks . Throughout all of this Dench never breaks from making this a totally believable , broken , but very solid woman who's gone through a life of misery only to want to seek happiness on the other side . One might almost feel sorry for her , in the end , if she wasn't such a dingbat . It might be also my favorite Dench performance I've seen to date ( albeit I'm not all up on her complete catalog of work ) . She's not only convincing on the level of the obviousness of her character , vindictive but sweet , sensitive but cunning , and always with that underlying wit that the British have even in the most dire of circumstances , and I couldn't see anyone else playing her after a while . But it's not just her that makes Notes on a Scandal worthwhile . The screenplay by Patrick Marber , from what must be an equally absorbing and humanistic book , is sharp and intelligent in ways that American filmmakers wish they could make mind-fer movies like today . There's understatement here and there that undercuts some scenes , like when Sheba has to confess to Barbara after being caught with the boy the first time , a very slight tension each knows on each side . And even when things start to get worse and worse , and the truth comes out in the worst way possible ( not just for Sheba , destroying her family which includes her husband played by the great Bill Nighy and her two dysfunctional children , but for Barbara as well ) , there's still some glimmers of dark comedy in there , which one might think would be impossible considering the dangerous pit-falls that could come with such topical , practically controversial subject matter . My favorite of this is when Sheba finds out her own darkest secret from Barbara , and inexplicably in her old 80s makeup again no less . Not that I thought the film was without flaws - chiefly that , oddly enough , it wasn't long enough at 90 minutes ( structurally it ended up working out , but considering how good the characters made the material out to be , I was surprised how quickly Marber and director Eyre got into the affair material ) , and Phillip Glass's musical accompaniment isn't quite fit with the rest of the material most of the time ( I was wondering when Errol Morris would show up , truth be told ) . But I overlook these flaws mostly for the sake of how superlative everything else is done . The performances are all uniformly compelling and with equal measures of understandings in neuroses in one another , and the ending particularly leaves a chilling spell not unlike one found in the Cable Guy . It's probably the best " chick-flick " you haven't yet seen this year .
pimpin ' ain't easy , but it sure is fun , as the song goes	American Pimp , a film by the Hughes brothers , is probably more entertaining , almost in a manner that crosses between a typical documentary and as one of the film clips shown from the Mack as an exploitation film , than it deserves to be . But then the Hughes brothers have made a film about exploitation , the self-glorified glory of it , the stylish inner world that they've created for themselves and their ' ho's ' that is like the mob only , well , more stylish and specific . Unlike the mob , as the film tries to show ( however true to life compared with facts you be the judge ) that they aren't all violent criminals , but see it as a way of life . The Hughes's - maybe wisely and not wisely at the same time - don't try and interfere with these guys and their dialog . There's no preachy message that " pimping and prostituting is wrong . " They know audiences aren't completely numb to what the facts are in a ( for now ) criminal enterprise . But , as I said , it's also entertaining , the kind of entertainment that comes from listening to someone you know is crazy or f up and at the same time has a weird , hypnotic quality . They go through telling what it's all about - the breaking in , so to speak , of new prostitutes for the pimp , when said prostitutes might leave , the ins and outs of being a new pimp or an old pimp or someone who talks a big game and may or may not mean what he says . Actually , for the latter , the Hughes's don't seem to skimp on any of their interviewees : they all appear to be genuine to the business , appear being the big word . But it's the intent that counts , and these guys at least sound the part , as well as look it , and in a dirty way these guys are really , really funny , sometimes without trying to be even due to their own self-aggrandizing . As for the prostitutes themselves , they are shown not quite as much . While it might have been difficult for the Hughes's to get any legitimate documentary footage of them , aside from a couple of moments revealed like when a pimp named RC ( I think that's his name ) berates a girl for getting drunk , with the menace of violence in the subtext , it works fine as it is . It's like a candid string of tall tales from characters painfully believable , as those who think that the media portrays them stereotypically , and why not ? Some of these guys ARE walking stereotypes - doesn't stop them from getting their pimp-hand on . It ain't easy , but it's almost in a guilty way insatiable .
a dark romp with vampires and ghosts	Hellboy : Blood and Iron is about vampires coming back after many , many years in wait , and also about ghosts and memory and all those things left behind . If it were about these things more-so in-depth ( or rather the kind of attention that Guillermo del-Toro would pay to the subject matter if he directed ) , it would be really great material . Trouble is , the Hellboy animated movies , with this the second installment , are limited by means of budget , time , and even to an extent the scripting . There's a lack of the dry , sly and just outright clever humor from the Hellboy live-action movies , with only one or two quips from ol ' Red ( Ron Perelman , always good even in dull one-liners ) , and some characterizations and dialog that are as routine as whatever one might find in a straight-to-video release . These flaws being noted , Blood and Iron is extremely enjoyable for what it can afford in its 75 minute running time , which is giving some lifeblood to a comic-book that needs it desperately . The plot works mostly upon the strengths of the animators , and luckily they are many . What might seem ordinary and traditional - even a little lacking in fluidity ( again , budget ) - gives way to extraordinary moments going past the expected for " kids " stuff . There's some very dark material particularly in this installment , as we see an iron goddess , a vampire curse , a couple of blasted witches , snakes , and those creepy ghosts ( which , thanks to some del-Toro presence , reminds one of the Gothic folklore of Mexico ) . It's all very impressive when it works best , and there's even some interesting designs for these villains and creatures of the night . There might not be much depth ( the climax is just a bunch of " we are not like them " semantics from the iron woman to Hellboy as they punch each other senseless ) , but for a short while it's some good fun and some brilliant animation , for what it's worth . Less than great , and at the same time far better than it should have any right to be .
on the contrary to the other commenter , this is very funny , and a slight comeback for Levinson	Director Barry Levinson hasn't had much luck lately - after Bandits , which was a good though not anything very noteworthy comedy caper , he had two colossal duds in a row - Envy and Man of the Year - which , despite an otherwise impressive host of films ( i . e . Diner , Rainman , Sleepers , even Toys ) could have threatened to throw him off track ala Rob Reiner . But in a way What Just Happened was relatable for Levinson , despite it being the stories of Art Linson , semi-famous producer who's had hits and misses throughout his career , and at the same time gave him some ample material for some sardonic , spot-on satire of the industry . It's not the Player , don't get me wrong , but it gives its winks and nods to the egomania , the preciousness of directors and stars , and how personal lives get caught up in the mix without getting too smug with us common moviegoers . Probably the funniest , as sort of a near running gag , is the latest film that producer Ben ( De Niro ) is being test-screened for audiences ; a rough cut of " Fiercly " starring Sean Penn ( who , as with Bruce Willis , plays " Himself " in the film ) disturbs the audience because , on top of a bleak end for its hero , a dog is killed on screen ( this , for all the wrong reasons , is hysterical funny , if only for the deadpan reaction from DeNiro to the insanely negative response cards ) . The director , however , a British hipster ( brilliantly played by Michael Wincott ) , doesn't take it lightly that he doesn't have final cut . This brings around what seems like a moment of levity midway . . . and then back to the start when it comes time for Cannes . On top of this is Willis's ' plot-line ' involving a beard he won't shave off . It's almost like a slight reprisal of his part in Four Rooms , only put to a much bigger , aggrandizing maximum . Both of these , much like seeing certain characters in a Christopher Guest movie , elicit laughs anytime they're on screen . And the rest of the movie is . . . still very good . Aside from some scenes where Levinson decides to rush things along via the speedy transitions , he provides a style that suits the feel of the material , of Ben trying to balance his personal struggles ( an ex-wife he can't totally let go of , and his rebellious teen daughter with a secret ) with the eternal BS of getting work done in an industry concerned , a lot more often than not , with the final dollar over artistic integrity . It's not quite reality TV , but it has that unpredictable , on-the-fly hand-held feeling all the same , which is a method much more effective used here than in Man of the Year . And De Niro is also surprisingly good ( maybe not a surprise to some , but considering some of his hit-or-miss turns in recent fare ) , as he doesn't lay too low-key in the part . One can probably see De Niro having studied producers - not just Linson himself but others - for long stretches to get the right steps for each deliberate step in ego-maniacal Hollywood . So sit back , relax , and enjoy some near classic self-conscious satire on an industry that deserves anything those in it can dish back out ( if that makes sense ) .
Not sure if I watched a cut version , but some of these cartoons are cut !	That being said , I have to say that some of my favorite Looney Tunes cartoons are in this first collection of shorts released in the span of the late 70's and 80's ( another I watched maybe more than this one was Daffy Duck's Quackbusters ) . Here and there I wondered if a couple of the shorts were complete ; they seemed to cut down the Rabbit Fire episode down by half , an a couple others didn't seem 100 % either . Still , I would highly recommend it to those looking to get into the series ( if by some chance not through another route like DVD ) . The cartoons Duck Amuck ( as Daffy goes ape against the vindictive animator ) and the one involving Bugs and the Opera singer top the list , while a few others are also quite appealing like Bugs against the Bull , Daffy as a would-be Robin Hood , and at least half of the Road-Runner shorts . That part of the film , which while given 2nd billing in the title ( The Bugs Bunny and Road Runner Movie ) , only lasts a full 20 minutes or less . The enjoyment of those shorts will depend on if you like the Roadrunner shorts to start with , but there are some choice segments that even had me laughing . Not overall a great collection of shorts , but certain shorts are stand-out here .
gets better , or at least funnier , the more I think about it ( first viewing )	Amazing I didn't hear about this one until recently , but that seems to be the song and dance with these " cult films " . Withnail & I is one , a film that was made in such short time and on such a short budget one of the executive producers ( Dennis O'Brien , usually the best of chums on the Monty Python films ) tried to shut filming down when he thought the comedy just wasn't working . It didn't get much of a release , at first . . . Then the buzz grew , and it's since become one of the most popular British comedies of the past 25 years . At least among those who might have some identification with these blokes : it's about twenty-something out of work actors in 1969 who go aimlessly through a holiday at one of the bloke's uncle's house out in the country where nothing goes right ( least of which with the uncle itself ) . But it's also got sharp-as-a-tack dialog , the kind of zingers that seem to have a droll way about them even as the actors deliver them with a style that fits the malaise or eccentricities or just plain ego they carry with them . And , of course , it's very funny . It's the kind of humor that snuck up on me , where the oddball seems what it is , but also with an air of reality that doesn't seem false . It would be one thing if Bruce Robinson were after simple quirks . But he's lived this world he's created ( it's largely autobiographical ) , and the gray look and the grime and grit and rain et all fits the sensibility of the comedy . It also follows the tenants of very funny movies about the most unlikely of friends ( ala Sideways and Fear & Loathing in Las Vegas ) , where it's a wonder at times how the characters don't go at each others throats , but they also have a strange bond that the audience clicks with . And , of course , there's straight-man and comic-relief , so to speak , with I and Withnail respectively . I / Marwood ( Paul McGann , great at doing an half-neurotic , half - awkward - around - the - flaming - uncle bit ) is a bit of a wreck emotionally , swinging between slightly normal and totally on edge scene to scene , and Withnail ( the brilliant Richard Grant , probably one of the best things , if one could point out in the movie in and of itself ) who's a bigger than life dude , who thinks of himself as such more than anything , and washes his ( somewhat ) hidden misery with booze . Like all lovable jerks , he sees himself as being much more than he is because he acts it , whether he gets into a jam ( i . e . at the pub , with the cops , with a farmer ) or if he's just fobbing off whilst drenched in body lotion . It's a solid match . Then there's also two key supporting roles with Uncle Monty ( Richard Griffiths , the kind of British character actor you spot here and there in movies ) , who's a total nut with a penchant for weird carrots - as well as , gulp , Marwood - and Danny , who in the first scene almost appears as a wild fluke , as a kind of deranged bad-ass in the guise of your common spaced-out drug dealer , and then later on appears again and brings it full circle in one of the funniest pot scenes I've ever seen . Sometimes a joke or a look goes over the head , or the ' British-ness ' of the comedy , where it's sometimes in a mood that relies on a sudden reaction or another line to bounce back . But these aren't often enough to bring down this recommendation : Withnail & I is a slightly crazy movie about sad sacks who've got their lives ahead of them , or not as case might be , and it's another in a lot of many quasi-nostalgia tales of the late 60s , only with a bit more deep-down lament than some others . That it should prove to be quotable on repeat viewings goes without saying .
a tale of love and loss , as performed by mimes and severed heads	This is quite the rare case : a story performed entirely in mime-form , where everything is silent but done so for a very physical effect by the actors / performers , that actually works . Usually mimes can be a little irksome ( maybe not , depends on who's miming and how well the audience can take it ) , but Alejandro Jodorowksy , in his first attempt at film-making , makes this as experimental as something like Un Chien Andalou yet with an emotional core that can be understood by viewers open to it all . It's based on a novella by Thomas Mann about a woman who wants both her husband and lover back , and somehow gets their heads put into the wrong bodies ! There's a constant sense of both a dream in the scenery and body language , but disillusionment in what the characters are feeling back in their not-quite selves . There's the woman in particular , acted very well ( she's the one sprawled out on a couch or other , with black hair , at least I think it's her ) , who responds to the Jodorowsky character at first with disdain , but then noticing his body changes her attitude . This is a brilliant little scene that calls back to those captivating , surreal moments in film-making of the silent era , and just in performing arts in general , where things were meant to be performed to be understood by the audience intuitively to an extent , not necessarily explained exactly . It might be just as well ; some moments in here call to the strengths of Jodorowsky's wild-man cinema even this early on , as figures in a ' city ' environment pass by the disheartened husband , faces coming always close to the screen like it's meant to be fleeting but always impressionable via make-up and elaborate costumes . La Cravate , or the Severed Heads , also carries some unique traits as a Jodorowsky effort ; the advantage of color is ever powerful and varied in tone from head to environment ( different than what I expected from an underground director , especially as a precursor to Fando & Lis ) , but it's also a work that's usually more light than dark and more amusing than laugh-out-loud funny in its stabs of absurdism . One can't help but chuckle at one of the heads looking up and giving a wink and a smile to the helpless Jodorowsky or his counterpart , or in merely seeing the process of ' transposing ' a head . The music by Edgar Bischoff is also a factor for how sweet it is , contrasting the oddball mood of the material with melodies that sound like happy walks in the park . In short , it's a find that is quite a stroke of luck ; the film was believed lost until rediscovered just in time for the DVD collection set , and for fans it's a minor delight .
entertaining , raucous , absorbing stories make up this special	I never saw any of John Leguizamo's stand-up before I watched Freak , and after seeing it again on HBO comedy recently it was better , more enlivening and with things that , at the age of 14 , I couldn't understand quite before . Spike Lee did a wonderful job directing , keeping the visual angle up to par with Leguizamo's theatrics and the style of personal storytelling ; it's substance and style merging together but unobtrusively . We get Leguizamo's rants about race and sex ( the bits about sex are classic ) , but a lot of it is about family , and what sticks still fresh in my mind is about his father . Even when things get dark in some of the stories , there's something fresh or crazy or random that Leguizamo pulls out to get a laugh , and it works more often than not . If something does fall flat ( for me at any rate ) it might be his personality tics here and there . But overall , it's the kind of fun material that isn't heady , but is so true to itself that it stings . Find it if you can !
Raimi's evolved style of total comic book hilarity	Sam Raimi's third ( but possibly not last ) installment in his ' Evil Dead ' series shows Ash ( Bruce Campbell , a cult hero of sorts ) right after Evil Dead 2 , now back in medieval times , still fighting against the unpredictably grotesque and bizarre Necronomicon . This is just a set-up though , like with most comic-books , for mostly a series of visual gags , in-jokes , puns , homages , and out-right hilarity and parody . In other words , if you're wanting to watch this for the same reasons you wanted to watch the original Evil Dead , you may be disappointed . This is the sort of evolution that Raimi has taken the series with : the first was a film from a filmmaker 21 years old , with an over-load of visual energy , pumping out one of the most visceral and inventive of all horror films . The sequel went half and half - at times it took the sincerity and true horror of the first film , but it also had a lot to laugh about too , as it didn't take itself seriously for most of it . With Army of Darkness , it's tongue-in-cheek incarnate . Take a scene where Ash has just resurrected the " deadites " ( through some fault of his own , mumbling the last word of his forgotten phrase to stop the curse from the book of the dead ) to rise . He suddenly gets pulled down to the ground , and the skeletons from the graves have their way with him , in short , having a fight in the tradition of a Three Stooges skit ( blocking eye-pokes and all ) . This leads up to the skeletons forming their ' army ' of the title , and it's more like a wild send-up of Jason and the Argonauts than a real ' zombie ' film as some horror fans might be mis-led to believe . By the time Ash gets out his chainsaw wielded on his arm , its become cliché all the way , but expertly clever cliché . There is no ' message ' from the film really , it's just a full-blown , ludicrous romp with the middle ages and the occult - and it's all the better ( and gets better on repeat viewings like Brooksfilm comedies ) due to this . And the film may or may not work for some depending on the stamina and prowess of Campbell , who for me is one of the funniest people working in low-budget films today ( he comes up occasionally in big-budget films too ) , but may be a little too ' ham ' for some viewers . Like Evil Dead 2 , From Dusk Till Dawn , and Return of the Living Dead among others , Army of Darkness joins that handful of films that's for a select audience ( it's not as graphic with its gore as in the first film , but its still in high gear ) , to have as a good ' party movie ' with friends . A " gas " from start to finish , to coin a term that does apply well here as one of the better films of 93 .
Mexico seen through the ( surprisingly ) anthropological eye of Eisenstein	Considering that Que Viva Mexico was ( mostly ) made by Sergei Eisenstein , and funded by Upton Sinclair , the most happy surprise is that the film isn't overloaded with the kind of communist / socialist propaganda that would be immediately expected . It's not that this would be a bad thing in the technical sense ; Eisenstein , on the front of being a pure visionary , couldn't be stopped no matter how thin he stretched himself for his means as a director who had to stay to party / country guidelines . And for Sinclair , the meatier the context the better the hyperbole . But with Que Viva Mexico ! we get a view of the people and customs like out of a measured fever dream . We're given more-so the customs and the traditions , the practice of a marriage , the bullfights , some of the context of the history behind those ' Day of the Dead ' parades . Only here and there are any blatant pleas seen and heard loud and clear ( mostly involving the poorest of the poor in the lot ) . Actually , it could be something , in a sense , comparable to Werner Herzog in attempting the documentary form . It's not quite fiction , but it's presenting documentary in a stylized manner , where things aren't simply stock footage but very much a set-up of the construction of drama in the scenes and scene-location specific shots and angles . And like Herzog , Eisenstein has a poet's eye for visions that many might only see in the most remote history books or travelogues . While the accompanying narration for Que Viva Mexico is a little on the creaky end , there's no lack of splendor for the senses as far as getting an eye full of carefully picked locals ( i . e . the girl Concepcion for the marriage scenes ) or for mixing real documentary footage of the bullfight with careful constructed shots of the bullfighter before and after the fact . Even the music plays a nifty role in the dramatization of events . And here and there , especially as the film rolls along in its last third , a subtle sensation of the surreal drifts into the proceedings . Unfortunately , like It's All True for Orson Welles , Que Viva Mexico remains something of a carefully plucked fragment from a lost bit in the director's career . It's a minor marvel , and certainly more than a curiosity for the die-hard documentary or Mexican history buff , but it's stayed obscurer than Eisenstein's more infamous pieces ( Potemkin , Alexander Nevksy ) for a reason . Despite all the best intentions to simply reveal the cultural day-to-day workings and a little of the socio-political context of the Conquistadors ' impact , it's a cool curiosity at best .
crazy little pseudo mockumentary - turned - dramatization of the events surrounding a serial killer in Texas	If you're wondering what might be an indication of recommendation for The Monster Hunter ( aka Natural Selection as it's called on IMDb ) , Quentin Tarantino has a quote on the back of the DVD case that reads simply as : " Great ! " And how could he not say that , mayhap , considering David Carradine and Michael Bowen , both co-stars of the Kill Bill movies , appear in two of the juiciest roles of their respective careers ? It's all a big goof , but often very sly and unexpected ; looking at the DVD box you think you're getting a bad sci-fi channel movie with Carradine as a From Dusk Till Dawn type bounty hunter or something . Not quite , kids . It's the story of Willie , a postman who turned into a deranged serial killer ( go figure , it IS a postman ) , and more than half the movie is dedicated to telling his story through interviews with his mother ( she's the best , funniest really , especially talking about his brother Eddie ) , the sheriff , a psychologist ( Bob Balaban , funniest side character ) who talks mile a minute and even imitates Willie ; the redneck hunters who hung around Willy , or sort of knew him , I guess ; the hotel cleaner ; the neighbor , et all . It's shot just like you've seen every true-crime doc on TV , and the filmmakers do it pretty well . But it's surprising to see how good the quality of film-making it with the actual drama ( well , drama , how dramatic can it really get ? ! ) , as there are some images that seem like they could be done not by some cheapo exploitation director but by real true-blue professionals who are making this little excursion into the deranged and backwoods in their spare time . I especially liked the cinematography in the morgue scenes , with the blue a weird contrast to what Carradine's character does in there ( which is rather hilarious and wickedly , um , Christian in a sense ) . But really , much of what makes Monster Hunter entertaining is the wink and nod of the actors to the material , while still making it bad-ass . We know Carradine and Bowen know what they're into , but they play it like pros all the way , even when a ) Carradine as the nut FBI guy goes into a vampire-killing pose in a back lit sun-scape ( my favorite scene ) , and b ) there is a 2nd killer revealed ! This brings it to an even wackier level . With some really rockin music - guest produced by Tom Waits perhaps - and pulled off with enough wit to make Mr . Brooks look like the overly serious sham it is , The Monster Hunter is a little underground sleeper that should appeal to anyone who wonders what it's like in the mind of a serial killer - or a pre-DaVinci Code nut for that matter . Good times for a knowing cult crowd .
for a film by a one-and-only-time filmmaker , it's very noteworthy in the annals of American independent film history	To get right out of the way , the quibbles I had with the Honeymoon Killers : once or twice in Leonard Kastle's direction the bravely amateurish quality goes into the unnecessarily over-dramatic ( the drowning scene in the lake is the most extreme example , maybe the only one worth noting here ) , a slow start as far as emotional engagement to the story ( it's a slightly weak start in terms of the relationship between mother and daughter Beck ) , and a scene towards the end where right after the murder of a crucial character - and presented in a perfect way with the absence of malice - dialog is exchanged that feels inappropriate for immediately after such an event that's just happened ( or rather , it would be a fine exchange of words - last words spoken directly between Martha and Ray on screen - if it were in another room or a cut-away ) . But these aren't big gaping flaws so much as minor criticisms of what is really a passionate debut where exact knowledge of craft isn't as crucial , though it is filmed wonderfully by Kastle and DP Oliver Wood in black and white , as are the very truthful performances . According to Kastle on the DVD interview , the film is more or less accurate to real events , meaning that certain facts involving the murders are real , but there are small details slipped in for dramatic effect . It's a major credit that nothing feels false , however if suitably dramatic , in a form that edges somewhere between drama and documentary , never too at ease in slipping into one genre or the other . The mood is foreboding a lot of the time , with the limited lighting and tight , lingering close-ups and shots accentuating Martha's fleshy arms . Adding to the atmosphere greatly , and perhaps as the best reasons to see the film , are the leads themselves , with Shirley Stoler giving a second best performance of her career ( the best would later be in a less demonstrative but perfectly cold turn in Seven Beauties ) as a nurse who falls for a skeezy con-man named Ray ( Lo Bianco is also powerful in his role , as well as totally appropriate for the role in an occasional toupee ) , who lures lonely women into his trap and gets their money . It's a story about the couple's duality of ego and disintegration within their combustible deal going on . They're heavily in love , or what might be considered love , but neither side will give in totally for the other's desire - Martha to settle down with Ray and for him to stop his scheming and getting close with women , and Ray to get enough money so the two of them can move on to somewhere else . It's a impactive psychological analysis not just because of how the characters are and act in their real world settings in such a low-budget and non-studio settings , but because the actors are the farthest from being beautiful or pretty to look at . As what Kastle called decidedly anti Bonnie & Clyde casting , Ray and Martha look like they were pulled out of a local deli kitchen , with enough attitude to knock out anyone in sight . It's a fascinating story and fairly well told , and whatever slip-ups Kastle runs into in terms of not telling the greatest story or little things with the style are made up by the immediate nature of the material . It's raw , rough , lurid and disturbing work .
Funny film with exquisite editing	Woody Allen's Zelig is a funny and smart account of a fictional guy ( as in most Allen films ) who is a chameleon celebrity who blends in to whatever surrounds he has . More than humor , it shows how one struggles to be belonged in society and after being deemed a freak is bad . I found it funny as most Allen films ( not the best but up there ) with a nice touch .
a near great thriller , sophisticated in its style with unnerving moments	I don't think Roman Polanski's 1988 film Frantic is one of his great works , and it does ( and after reading the cuts the studio imposed it makes a little more sense ) lack some of the great , horrific bits that underly his films from the 60's and 70's . But the good news for those thinking that it's just another Harrison Ford-saves-the-world vehicle may be pleasantly surprised . The studio aside , it is a Polanski film , and it does go against what would typically be a Hollywood film of this story . For one thing Polanski at the time was persona non Grata in America , filming in Paris , and there is a much more European feel to the film than any given American director would've given it . Here and there with some of the shots , the depth used as well as the length , reminded me slightly of Antonioni . But one of the things that Polanski does here , which he has done in films like Knife in the Water and Repulsion , is to make the atmosphere totally suiting the subject matter . We know things may work out alright for its hero , however the way to get there is really sordid and constraining on its lead character - it's tense by keeping patience , not by quick cutting . Ford and wife Betty Buckley arrive in Paris as he is attending some doctor's lecture . While in the shower she answers the phone for something , leaves , and never returns - kidnapped by ( later found out ) Arabs . This then sets into motion almost more of a general unfolding-of-a-situation than a real story . But Polanski , taking some cues here and there from Hitchcock and other film-noir pictures , does make this situation tense enough as its lead works his way through the dark underbelly of Paris . Individual scenes mark close to being some of the better ones Polanski's done . So , Ford's doctor character meets the woman ( Emmanuel Siegner ) whom suitcases got switched when he and his wife arrived at the airport , and ( which was pretty fascinating to me ) for her getting the money she's owed from the same kidnappers of his wife is just as important and a matter of principle . Their search leads them through crooked gangsters , dangerous , terrorist Arabs , and a certain device hidden in a statue ( one almost wishes this wasn't revealed , but as a Maguffin it only matters as a point of wanting for the enemy ) . Through this Polanski uses his star to get a taut performance , where the only heroism comes in being provoked to the edge as the everyman Ford occasionally plays . If you're looking for Indiana Jones , this ain't it . Taking part in an Ennio Morricone score - albeit with a couple of meh songs - and great usage of Parisian settings , Polanski's film is competently directed , with some scenes that lose steam while others remain charged as hell . And it's got a very interesting first half .
faithful to the source but original in interpretation through the medium , Titus is quite a sight	Titus , Julie Taymor's first film as director ( and possibly her best ) , is a scathing indictment of the vicious chain of violence - or circle , take your pick . First examined by the Bard himself , Shakespeare's play was - from all accounts I've heard - super violent and without too many redeeming qualities ( one friend described it as Shakespeare's I Spit on Your Grave , not the highest endorsement ) . Taymor's take is to give it a vivacious quality , one that pulls together strands of time periods together : it's not just Roman armor , but trench-coats and motorcycles and cars and shotguns and modern cook-wear and even some modern jazz music thrown in . It's disorienting at first , especially with the opening scene just showing a kid at a table playing with toys ( more accurately , if one's looking for symbolism , the early affects of violence on the young ) , then suddenly whisked away to a Roman amphitheater . But if you're ready to give up any sense of the usual , of the constrictive or stuffy environments held by the classic adapters of Shakespeare , it's bound to provide some unexpected thrills and style . And style , by the way , as a means of expressing the harshness of the subject matter . This is far from one of the Bard's light affairs , and any tries at humor are probably gallows humor , or based around some of its talent . Anthony Hopkins takes the title role , a general who was loyal for so long to the Emperor ( flamboyant as possible , which means a lot , via Alan Cumming ) that he's repaid by allowing his new step-sons via new Empress ( Jessica Lange , sultry and dangerous ) to cut off his daughter's hands and her tongue and rape her and leave her for dead . But Titus tries to stay strong and true even through this , and cuts off one of his hands in exchange for the lives of his brothers sons . They're dead too . Then starts the cycle of revenge , leading to a table scene that might have been prep-work for Hopkins , in part , for his stint as Hannibal two years later . But all of this , including a subplot with the Moor Aaron ( tremendous actor , can't recall the name ) , is presented in a form that's alive and energetic , insistent on making us pay attention , even if not every single work sticks to our consciousness ( it IS Shakespeare , of course , a few words might slip by in his poetic prose ) . While Taymor's and her crew have one of the most lavish and awe-inspiring productions of 1999 , and the cast has their fun chewing up said scenery as anger boils and madness comes to a head , and a sort of odd flaw continues onward with the boy's character ( maybe more a fault of the writer than Taymor , albeit with one of the worst closing shots I've ever seen in any movie ) , it's still Shakespeare's show . It might not be his best work , but be it known that it is , thou interested reader , his most disturbing ( maybe not bleakest , that would go to King Lear ) . There's death circling all around these characters , from those that were made slaves and then slaves of the Imperial ego like Lange's character and her two sons , to the Moor who has every reason to fight to stay alive as he will go to kill the innocent maid , and finally to Titus himself who has gone so long killing and pillaging he can take barbaric glee in stomping out a fly . And Hopkins is there to compliment the cringe-inducing moments , as he sits in the bathtub or creates the meat-pies , in a performance so staggering it should be counted as his bravest in the last ten years . Even if going in you already don't like the play , it'll be worth it for his turn .
cold and dark and extremely ( but not excessively ) violent tale of Kitano in L	Brother is another of Takeshi Kitano's ' Yakuza ' thrillers , though this time the Yakuza are only a small part of the picture and only sometimes set in Japan . Akani ( Kitano ) is a hit-man who has bitten off more than he can chew - killed some of the wrong people , if at the right place at the right moment - and is advised to leave the country . He joins his brother in LA and soon he and a rag-tag group of hoodlums - mostly by way of the chilling , quiet audacity and cunning shooting skills of Anaki - rise the ranks as big-time crime lords in LA . . . that is , until , they mess with the Italians . This part of the story , admittedly , is rather typical and maybe just something Kitano felt he had to work with as one of those staples of the genre : rise and undoubted fall of a skilled but flawed criminal mastermind / killer . But Brother is most impressive not for its plot , which can occasionally appear ragged and disconnected ( perhaps by design as Kitano is the editor ) , but for presentation . Kitano himself as a presence / star / actor is so cool that had he been around during Melville's time he could wipe the floor with Alan Delon and even Belmondo in the bad-ass department . This is just one component to Brother's success though since Kitano could put himself in just about anything and make that part of it look cool . Coolness isn't enough in Brother , and rightfully so ; this isn't a fun movie entirely to watch , even if one might feel guilty in enjoying some of the more crazy shoot-outs and bouts of violence . The body count here , according to the trivia , is 78 . This is a high number , but despite seeing it in a cut R-rated version it doesn't feel very compromised ( mayhap it is and I'm being naive , but it's a first-time viewing all the same ) . It's a real sight to see to witness how Kitano makes these encounters of violence surprising ; the first big one , with the first time Omar Epps and Kitano run into each other on the street ( glass breaks , scoff and demand , glass cut to the face ) the way its edited is fantastic in timing and perception - not minimalist , but something a few beats different then what one would normally see . We also see Kitano's knack at unusual but inventive framing devices , like a dark , massive shoot-out under a bridge at night with warring gangs , and only the lights from the guns blazing off of the bodies . Other moments like these are a sight of bodies laid out in the Japanese word of " Death " , and when one gangster is already dead when a group in a car pull up to a house : Kitano focuses on that . The final shoot-out , as well , is unexpected . It's not a great movie , and suffers from the flaws mentioned at the top . Yet I'd recommend Brother to any genre fan , to those chest-deep in Yakuza flicks and one who's only aware of Kitano from Zatoichi . This is no Shoot Em Up , but a serious picture about the damning implications of a life devoted to self-destruction and annihilation for stupid , materialist and territorial goals . If it's not anything entirely new its film-making enriches what's conventional , and Kitano is always clever at bending the lines .
magnificent on atmosphere and photography / visuals , so-so on some of the acting and horror	Werner Herzog's Nosferatu is one of the damnedest kinds of vampire movies I've ever seen . It may or may not be as faithful to the Bram Stoker novel of Dracula as the other films in its vein ( never read the book ) , but what Herzog is interested in may not be what is shared by more modern vampire-film fans . This is actually a vampire film that does earn its PG rating ; it's not violent at all , and its lack of violence and bloodletting allows for other factors that wouldn't be seen on Buffy the Vampire Slayer or , of course , Blade . It almost tries to be a ' thinking man's ' vampire movie , where themes of decimation , the Gothic , and the dreadful are amplified by Herzog and his DP Jörg Schmidt-Reitwein's use of locales and the objects in them . While I have not seen the bulk of Herzog's more famous films , this may be one of his best in just purely visual , creepily atmospheric terms . It combines some elements of early German expressionism , the kind that crawls up your skin and is even more spooky than anything in any modern horror effort ( and a small tip of the hat to Murnau's landmark 1922 effort ) , and at the same time incorporating some documentary-style elements ( many hand-held scenes ) . But the problems of the film , at least from my perspective , almost compete with the film's attributes . Being that this Nosferatu , unlike Murnau's film , is in sound and color and with better resources and locations , and suffers from a few qualities that could have been given better attention by Herzog and his people . The acting , for example , is a mixed bag of goods and not so goods . Kinski , to be sure , is one of the major reasons to see the film , as his Count Dracula carries an extra weight of malaise , terror , and ( due to Kinski himself ) a further dark tragedy to his very existence . Any moment he was on screen I was hooked into what he , the nutty actor he is , was doing . Bruno Ganz as the other important character , Jonathan Harker , was good as well in what was required of him . But the part of Lucy is played by Isabelle Adjani in a way that brings the film down sometimes . Maybe in part it was due to watching her perform in English instead of the German dub , but aside from her beautiful physical presence , which isn't enough on its own , her emotional and reactionary read-out was pretty bad . And other supporting players who tackle regulars like Renfield and ( possibly under-used ) Van Helsing only have little moments in lackluster turns . And there's even something almost conflicting with the atmosphere itself that waxed and waned with it working or not . Despite Herzog capturing some effective , strange but very palatable images , chiefly the countless , domineering rats that come about through Nosferatu's very presence , changing an entire city into a feeble and plague-a-plenty place , there's something ' off ' sometimes . And it might be more in due to the music , by Popol Vuh , who have also created music for other Herzog films . The themes that are used work the first time around , but they are repeated without the same effect , or of a lesser kind , than before ; such a deliberate , near awe-inspiring amount of visuals need the right musical touches , and it's just in what works and what doesn't . In the end , what Herzog , his actors , and crew provides with this take on the vampire legend is definitely not one to dismiss , as it has some chilling qualities and a couple of shocking touches . On its own its never boring even in its slowest moments , and amounts to being a good example of what can be done with the most notorious in the sub-genre . But it goes without saying that it misses the mark of being as daring and audacious as Murnau's silent was .
this not quite short film another of Jean Vigo's precious works , but it goes without saying . . .	. . . that in Jean Vigo's all-too short-lived career as a filmmaker he didn't make one unsuccessful movie , despite his difficulties . But seeing Zero For Conduct , which was no doubt a big influence ( if only in the details of some scenes ) for Truffaut's 400 Blows , I do feel a little sorry for it in a way . Watching it , I kept thinking ' is this Vigo's director's cut , or did they make him cut stuff out ' ? Because within the 41 minute time frame - which comes in over one minute of being a short film - things happen , but they almost happen too fast . Holes are sort of left in the plot , and only occasionally do they becomes a little bothersome ( I wanted to see what happened , for example , when the kid told the short principal " go to hell " as it cuts right from that to the kids gearing up for their uprising for the next day ) . If this were the length of L'Atalante , it might even be just as great as that . It's flaws , if any , are probably also due to budget . It also doesn't help that the print was so scratched , and the subtitles so spotty , that some of the time I wasn't sure what's going on or if a cutaway was right . This all aside , however , Zero For Conduct is a wonderful little song to the spirit of youth , and what it is to be at that age and see authority , practically any authority , as a form of fascism . In fact Vigo makes a point of making the title , Zero For Conduct , part of the repetitive punishment for the students that disobey just in the slightest . It a given until after a while it loses its meaning . We're given a small band of joyful miscreants , Caussat , Colin , Bruel , Tabbard , as they plot to stage a rebellion on the day of the alumni event at the private boys school they attend . Even though one of the professors is actually on the same level of rebellious spirit as them - and at one point does a handstand like one of the other kids and draws a cartoon to prove it - most of the teachers , and the principal with the Napoleon-complex played by the funny Delphin , kill their spirits completely . Vigo's world is almost too much fun though for their rebellion to be too violent or with too many tragedies and so forth , and the anarchy is that kind of childish chaos where it almost comes close to a pillow fight ( in maybe my favorite sequence of the film , where the boys do a sort of test-run for their rebellion , laying to waste their sleeping quarters , caught in delirious , masterful slow-motion and sweet music by Maurice Jaubert ) . If you can find it , and you're already a fan of L'Atalante , you should be in for a very pleasant , early-sound era surprise from Vigo and his great DP Boris Kaufman , with much of it featuring the perfectly goofy experiments with the form that were done in A Propos De Nice , but here with something more of a story . With the quality spotty and all - one of the films most in need of a restoration in fact - Vigo's style never seems too compromised at least , and the sense of pure , cinematic exuberance with what makes life grand and not so grand is up for grabs in a real short shot . We get the little notes of humor , however slight ( like the boy doing a little trick with his fingers on the train ) , and the moments of the dark side ( a moment when the principal , with a student at his desk , does some kind of creepy demon pose ) , and it ends with a cool French school song too . Like Bunuel's Simon of the Desert , I'm not sure if Vigo's film got a bum rap or if he had planned to make it even bigger and with more depth into who these kids are and what the school is like . But like that film as well , what remains contains splendors that can only come from unique minds in film-making .
how much is dream and how much is reality , Bergman asks in this infidelity drama	Ingmar Bergman making a film with characters in a daze as to what to make of their indiscretions in their affairs with men , what a surprise ! Maybe there's too much sarcasm in that sentence , and perhaps for the period Bergman was working in ( pre Seventh Seal ) it's a little too close to a target to make . Bergman was the best at it , so it's not a knock : Dreams is another in one of his probing examinations , however in a manner that almost suggests he wasn't putting as much time and effort into the script as usual ( in an interview he said he didn't consider it very highly in his oeuvre , and had some bad memories of his time with Harriet Andersson with their personal relationship , coincidentally her character has a rough break-up early in the picture ) . But saying that Bergman wasn't putting as much time and effort is suffice to say that he still makes it very intriguing , very entertaining ( in that suffocating-dramatic Bergman sense where you can feel all humanity sucking out of the room and back in again with every beat in some scenes ) , and with a take on the sexes that allows for some probing hard to see in other movies . We're given two women who work in the fashion photography profession , one a model ( Andersson ) and the other a producer / director type ( Eva Dahlbeck ) . At the start we get right into a claustrophobic sense of unease for these girls set right by the tone of a man in the room - a fat man tapping his fingers while waiting for a shot to set up , and then once again on another one . Tension spills out in the dressing room , the engagement off between Andersson and her fiancée . Meanwhile , Dahlbeck calls her lover who can't come to the phone for long . After this Bergman starts to play a sort of trick on the viewer : what happens to these women with their respective men , is it dream or reality ? Andersson's situation is that she's looking at dresses through the outside windows , and an old man ( Gunnar Bjornstrand , with a nice old-man beard that isn't too shabby ) offers to buy her the dress , jewelry , whatever she wants . To display the generational gap she asks for chocolate with whipped cream and - as something I thought I'd never see in a Bergman film - a rollicking trip to the amusement park to ride rollercoasters and shift through a haunted house . This all seems to be leading to a note that suddenly becomes all the more clear , and I wondered " what gives ? " if this was Bergman presenting dreams . Perhaps he means in the more fragmentary sense of " well , these women have dreams of some men , but . . . these aren't them " . This leads to Dahlbeck's scenes which are a good , sharp contrast to Andersson's . With the latter there's some blocks where the two don't talk ( she puts on a record that spins some cool jazz as the two dance a little and have a silent-movie repore with champagne ) , and for the former it's what some fans of the late Swedish filmmaker love more than anything : characters in personal agony over not realizing a personal connection , through lots and lots of dialog . What's impressive here isn't so much the performances per-say , which are a little cold , but how much restraint Bergman has with the camera as this situation with Dahlbeck's cold professional ( she fires Andersson at one point for being late with the old man ) turns into a fool-hearty tug-of-war of emotions between an equally cold wife of Dahlbeck's lover . If there is any one juicy section in Dreams , and not counting specific scenes like when Dahlbeck has her head out the window of the train ( which is very beautifully executed ) , it's this one . Somehow Bergman pulls out a semi-happy ending , if not without a bit of a coda as to what may happen with these still emotionally entangled souls . If only the structure somehow was worked out a little better ( I'm not sure how I could criticize it more than that - even a flaw from a genius is still a genius move , if that make sense ) it would be a great film . As it stands there's a lot of greatness in the film , only to feel very slightly like an excellent minor work . Still , stay tuned for little winks to the audience , like a rare Hitchcock type cameo ( strange considering Bergman's opinion of the director ) , or a mention of the last time Bjornstrand's lonely rich old man saw a movie - 1918 - which is Bergman's year of birth .
great concert footage , good in-between bits	For fans of the musical acts that performed at this one of a kind concert , Isle of Wight is a must-see look . The interview sections are not of the high quality of those of Woodstock where you might have taken away something from what was being said . Here it's mostly a lot of ultra-hippie types ( one who apparently gave his 3 year old son acid and pot ) , as well as some British fellows who run the concert . These interviews are OK enough on their own , and maybe the biggest liability from Lerner on this end as well as the music is in the editing . It's only a 2 hour film , which regrettably ( like Monterrey Pop ) is way too short in viewing such a monumental moment ( and fleeting one like Altamont ) in such a short running time . Still , almost every musical act is worth checking out in their limited time frame , and a little extra sadness comes along in seeing that a few of these people didn't live long after the concert ended . Some of the memorable acts include the Doors ( all too brief of course ) , Jimi Hendrix ( ditto ) , the Who , Miles Davis ( in different form from his 50's days ) , Ten Years After , the Moody Blues , and Free .
As I remember it not a very thrilling thriller , but it did hold my attention greatly	It's a good sight to see that Eric Rohmer's latest film - one that I saw on the same day I saw Godard's Notre Musique - is finally on release on DVD . Because , frankly , I was a little befuddled why I didn't see it get release in American theaters after it was screened that day I saw it at the NY film festival . It's a curious entry in that it isn't one of Rohmer's typical relationship / ' moral ' stories , and at the same time is working somewhat against its genre type . Here is a thriller that has that same deep fascination with its psychology and morality of the characters like Hitchcock , while perhaps lacking the wit and excitement of the master . But there are also major political implications in the works here , and the characters know this very well . It's before the times of Melville's Army of Shadows in that there isn't even a resistance against the Germans - just the brewing of something odd & / or rotten amongst the Germans , Russians and Spanish . I remember quite clearly how much I appreciated and had a good view of these times through the struggles Rohmer painted in this couple of Arsinoe ( Katerina Didaskalu ) and Fiodor ( Serge Renko ) . It's interesting too to see how Arsinoe is basically apolitical in the early part of the film , and yet through the circumstances that follow both health-wise and elsewhere in the world her views begin to change . At the same time there is a spying sub-plot that is given weight by the attention to the scenes with the characters as opposed to just outright action . There's something that is fond for a movie viewer when seeing such difficult times portrayed simply , but with the conflicts brimming at the seams . It's not only about the political toss-and-turning going on , but about the loss of their insulated relationship , and what ultimately leads to what becomes of them . It's based on a true story as well , which adds some weight to it , and it's also as I recall filmed with the clarity that I've seen in the other ( few ) Rohmer works I've come across . A worthwhile viewing at the festival , and hopefully will get some airplay on IFC or Sundance or other for fans of the old Cashiers alumni .
bare-bones B-Western , 101	If I had to explain with complete certainty why Ride in the Whirlwind is better than average it wouldn't be very easy because on the surface it seems average through and through . It was made obviously for bargain-basement prices ( I think director / co-producer Hellman once said that he didn't think anyone would see the westerns he made in the 60s ) , yet with that , and within the simple confines , there's a freedom in other ways too . On the surface it seems like a cowboy story gone awry , as cattle herders Jack Nicholson and Cameron Mitchell , along with another partner , are on their way to Waco and come upon a cabin occupied by Harry Dean Stanton ( in total ' bad-ass ' mode with an eye-patch ) and his gang ( who previously robbed a stagecoach and killed a few of its passengers ) , and neither want any trouble so they settle for the night . The next day , of course , a posse has discovered Stanton's gang's whereabouts , and there's a shootout . Somehow , Nicholson and Mitchell ( not the other partner ) sneak out during the shoot-out , but are of course mistaken for being part of the gang , and are sought out to be strung-up . What makes this simple premise - of cowboys falsely accused of pillaging and murder - more interesting than anything else is the consistent sense of dread and of the romantic sheen of more popular A-list westerns being stripped away . Since B-movies , not just B-westerns , concern more-so the basics of the characters , Hellman and writer Nicholson ( who with this and the Trip shows that he actually isn't a bad writer with original material ) dig into the fatalism tapped into both sides , of the posse and the prey . Some of the best scenes come up in the time that would usually be called the filler , when Nicholson and Mitchell hold up at a farmer's house and try and get their mind off of the situation with little distractions - Wes ( Nicholson ) checking out the horses , the two of them attempting a checkers game , trying to sleep - and what isn't said or the extra meaning behind the matter of fact dialog means a good deal . There's also the aspect to their not really being a sense of true justice , as the posse have taken it upon themselves to go after these men ; you know just looking at these barely one-dimensional figures that all they want is a hanging done , no more no less . I'm not sure how much allegory could be drawn from the picture , though on a first viewing sometimes the stilted acting by the supporting players drew away from that ( there's also a practical lack of wit from the screenplay , which is appropriate but nears being a little bland for its own good ) . And while it doesn't dig into the complete heels of the western genre like a later John Ford or Leone movie , or even Unforgiven , Hellman's film is a cut above many other westerns that would settle for conventions being without any challenges to the situations . The climax of the picture doesn't come as too much of a shock to those who've seen their share of genre material , but it was the best way to end the picture : it's not really a happy ending , in spite of the ' riding off into the sunset ' shot . There's no hope in this world , not on any side , even if complete justice is not sought . Short and succinct , this is one of those flicks to see in the one dollar bin at the video store , if only for Nicholson and Stanton's eye-patch .
tour-de-force from Sinatra , and sharp direction , mark this as worth seeing	The Man with the Golden Arm was one of the first films to have as its main topic ( and , in some respects , the message ) the tragedy of heroin addiction . It's nowhere near a great film , but its importance lies in Otto Preminger's dedication to making it feel real and on the edge of melodrama and naturalism . What I liked is that it's not so much an expose of junkies ( if you want the best expose of that read Naked Lunch , if you can get through it anyway , besides the point ) , but the nature of the urban environment Frankie Machine lives . He expects after he gets out of prison for dealing to go on the straight and narrow , to become a drummer in a band and make it legit as a musician . But he has his " crippled " wife Zosch , who can't work and needs money and often complains , and then there's the old neighborhood - he can't escape seeing Louie ( Darren McGavin ) , who is still doing back-room card games and , yes , pushing dope . Like Mean Streets , it's hard to escape the minutia unless you leave . But then again , it's hard for Frankie Machine not to try and operate naturally in this urban quarter . It's just that he can't escape the temptation of junk ( when he's booked on a phony theft charge with his friend , he sees a junkie freaking out , and it puts back the fear of going back on into his clean self ) . And personifying Frankie is Sinatra , and I can't see anyone else who could've played him , even original choice Brando . He fits into the neighborhood , and seems like the kind of guy who should be a step ahead of the game . But there's also a vulnerability to Sinatra that he pulls out wonderfully , and by the time we see him going ' cold turkey ' in Molly's apartment , it's believable even if it's not the kind of thing those from ' my ' generation would think of heroin ( i . e . Trainspotting and certainly Requiem for a Dream ) . If for nothing else , you want to watch the movie to see what happens to Sinatra as this character . The flaws , however , come in some of the other performances , though it's a little tricky . Eleanor Parker seems to be overacting for a good portion of the movie , fooling Frankie that she's really crippled when in reality she can walk and is fooling him for one reason or another . But then it becomes clearer as it goes along - she's supposed to be nuts , and nuts with jealousy , and on that level it starts to get better . Meanwhile , Kim Novak is good , though not Vertigo-worthy , as the possible girl in the side but more like the voice of reason in the story . Then there's a Detective Bendar , who might be one of the most one-note characters / performances , ever . And also Sparrow , Frankie's nerdy friend , and the characters of Louie and Schiefka , and they're all played as one might expect them to ( actually , McGavin is better than OK ) . As far as casting other talent around Sinatra , Preminger doesn't do all that great . And , frankly , some scenes kind of fall flat . But there's a lot of fascination in the Man with the Golden Arm , and not just as some dated piece of sociological interest . It works as compelling drama , and as a message piece conveyed without being preachy or campy . It's a genuine article , just not exceptional .
not an all-time champion Bond film , but one that makes me anticipate Craig - and more Bond movies like this - in the future	Casino Royale goes back to the basics in the sense that it's from an Ian Fleming novel , the first time in many years that the franchise reaches back into Fleming's old bag of tricks . That the filmmakers also decide to transfer the story - however much it sticks to the original source I can't say - from communist villains to just plain terrorist dealers and the like . It still has the formula going for it , but not cranked up as it has been in the Pierece Brosnan James Bond films as of late . And it's great to see that the sense of humor is not too keyed up on itself , but rather back to the sly , almost sophisticated lines and moments of innuendo . It's also overlong by at least five minutes , if not more , and despite a good romantic angle in the story with Daniel Craig's 007 and Eva Green's Vesper , that too could've been trimmed just a little . But the dramatic power is matched only by the ruthless abandon of the action from director Martin Campbell ; not even as twisting and double-crossing a plot like this can get can get in the way of the real delights of a Bond film , which are exploited well . In fact , I'd say if for nothing else go to see the films to see Craig run , and then run some more , and kick ass and take as many names possible . The franchise decided with Craig to go back all the way to the beginning to Bond's first major assignment after making rank , by taking devious part in an ultra high-stakes poker tournament with its main guy Le Chiffre ( Maks Mikkelson , excellent as a tearing-blood villain who may or may not be the middleman-bad guy ) . But even before this we've already seen Bond at work chasing down a hired-gun in Madagascar ( quite the almost opening action sequence if I do say so ) , and another at an airport , which is the highlight action sequence for my money . These action scenes are done unpretentiously , and with an equal voracity on hero and foe - it's really a question of who can get who off one's back , or run faster or drive harder during these scenes . And in all of this Craig , if not as handsome as previous Bond stars , is assuredly up for the challenge of being rough and gritty in all of this . It helps to see him in this almost cold and detached secret-agent mode , as it does help make the romantic sub-plot - the usual one - with a little more depth . This romantic plot unfolds already after Bond's first semi-rendezvous with a lady in the Bahamas , with Vesper , played by Green in the great tradition of sultry leading ladies . But this time , being that she's not as big a star as some of the more recent Bond ladies , adds to her appeal . You might wonder what side she's on at first , but it's hard to question her vulnerability . One of my favorite scenes of the film , following a daunting fight in a stairwell , is in a shower , but not at all in the usual seductive way you might think once Bond enters into the shower with her . It's actually really touching , showing Bond's humility in calming her down after being frazzled like that . The romance then unfolds as one might expect , though perhaps to far too quick and extreme lengths ( then again , what else do you expect from 007 ) . There is a climax that does lean more to the emotional than the usual catharsis of ' he kills all the bad guys , yey ' , and actually helps to make the Bond character much more cynical and ready for detachment from his love interests than before thought . But I'm making this sound a little more ponderous than I should . Casino Royale isn't a great picture , but for the bulk of its time on screen it's extravagantly good entertainment , even when scenes are meant to be more about psychological tension like in the poker game scenes . Seein Craig and Mikkelsen face off at the table is just as enthralling as a good chase scene is . And it assuredly makes me anticipate more adventures with 007 , particularly with Craig , who I think should now be poised for a great career as both Bond ( for however long it will last ) and as a leading man too .
a very good metafilm / comedy , and a revelatory performance from its star	I never put much stock into Jean-Claude Van Damme , and really can you blame me ? Looking at his list of credits over the years he's practically always , if not just always , been in completely action-heavy movies that require him to kick some ass , for better or worse , and he's worked on stuff ranging from real kick-ass flicks ( Bloodsport ) to works with big-name directors ( Hard Target ) to campy crap ( Street Fighter ) . Now though , at the age of 47 , he's found , or rather the other way around , a very good filmmaker to make something that one might never expect from him : a metafilm . This means simply , according to wikipedia , that " the audience is tied in with the drama unfolding on the screen . " While this usually refers to movies about making movies like Contempt or 8 , JCVD would still be considered one even as it's only in part about this actor working in the movie business . Because , frankly , that's what is at the core is the stake of this human being , Jean-Claude Van Damme . One may compare to the far stranger ( and arguably much greater ) Being John Malkovich , but in the case of Van Damme he still is making something that his fans won't scratch their heads to . It's about the JCVD of the " real " world coming to grips with himself in this real world by being thrust unexpectedly into a situation as if out of one of his own movies . Following an opening shot that is fairly amazing - both as action and self-referential parody - we get put into the story of Van Damme , in-between projects , relatively broke and losing a child custody battle without enough legal money , being held by gunpoint at a post office in his hometown of Brussells . There's suspense , there's some violence , we even see once or twice the classic karate moves come out . But really for all the care that the filmmaker Mabrouk El Mechri or he and his co-writers put into doing a rendering of another Dog Day Afternoon style heist / negotiator plot , it's all about its star , caught in the crossfire of the situation and in his life at this moment . To be fair though there is some inspired film-making choices and it plays around with narrative inventively and with some inspiration ( the little title cards about the eggs and rocks are just bizarre , but other things work like the shot on just Van Damme while riding in the backseat of the taxi to the irate idolar of Mr VD ) . Only consistent thing to bug me really was the overly harsh lighting ; it's as if Robert Richardson was told to light something even MORE harshly than one might usually see from him , on nearly all scenes , and on occasion it works such as for the hyper-realism , but on the whole it becomes distracting to some scenes . But I digress : if you've ever seen a Jean-Claude Van Damme movie , like it or not , you'll dig this movie to varying degrees , and even if you are a complete JCVD virgin to his catalog it's still a revelation . He's a household name , and it's through his notoriety that the film shows how his career is a double-edged sword . He has fame as an international star , but he also gets cast in movies that are just not really seen by a lot of people unless already fans of die-hard action / martial-arts movie buffs . And in one of the great actor-to-audience monologues I may have ever seen - in fact why , flaws and all , I'd say JCVD is something of a must-see - we see a person's inner monologue played out as personal re-appraisal and as a meta-critique on film itself , as the star is attached to a crane that rises up above the " set " to the lighting fixtures and the actor , who has already shown so far in the film how good he really is , gets even better over the course of six minutes . It's a flooring moment in modern movies to see the " muscles from Brussels " in this confessional wonder , especially given that the actor has gone through things in real life as in the movie's " real life " ( i . e . he's been married before , actually a few times , twice with kids ) , and it comes almost so close as to want to re-evaluate the bulk of his oeuvre . Almost . JCVD is funny , sometimes even drop-to-the-floor funny , and it also cuts deep to the matter of being an actor or star or just a guy in a hostage situation .
Not heartwarming , but fun	Episode 1 is a good film , but it is by no means the best of the series . True , this is technically the first of the series ( or the fourth ) , and it does set a good stage for the other films , but this film does have it's flaws . 1 - Jar Jar Binks ! What drug was Lucas on when he created that character . I haven't seen a character ( a comic relief one at that ) as bad as that since Godzilla in 98 . And 2 - It's not as heart warming as the last ones , the other films seemed to at least have a good sense of love in it . Yet , that doesn't stop writer / director George Lucas form having plenty of fun ( including with spectacular visual effects that make up most of the movie ) including a terrific Pod Race sequence , great fight scenes , and cool battle action . But it does prove one thing , that like episode 4 , the episode following it ( like the dark episiode 5 - The Empire Strikes Back ) will be dark and good . Good entertainment anyway .
the Orchestra as a microcosm of society , or a small Fellini exercise , you decide - I think it's both	In most of Federico Fellini's best films , he made big statements about the way we live and socialize with each other and deal with ourselves as much as the past , all within exciting , tragic-comic film-making style . Orchestra Rehearsal does the same , though in a shorter amount of time . We are given a ( union ) orchestra in Italy , who's members vary from young adults to the old timers , women , introverts , trouble makers , and so forth , who each have their own music of choice ( or sometimes of necessity ) . The conductor is frustrated - he can barely get the orchestra to concentrate much less really practice , and the union problems get things caught in the way as they rip through the ironically happy and ( typically ) carnival-like pieces . There's a break taken , which is when everything starts to slowly , but surely , wind down and breakdown among the musicians . In the meantime a television crew stands by taking ' interviews ' of the musicians , their opinions , their little ' off ' moments , signaling the anarchy that will soon ensue . The interviews themselves are some of the strongest , funniest parts of the film - the interviewers get ( sometimes begrudgingly ) words on their instruments , why they play , how they play , and what role their music has in the world . These interviews can also be hit-or-miss sometimes , and because of the constant dialog ( there's sometimes barely a breath to be had , as is the beautiful claustrophobic style in Fellini's characters ) , there's almost too much information going on . There's also the tendency for the character ( s ) , whom are mostly portrayed by un-professionals ( to acting , not to music of course ) , to not be very convincing , or even a little boring ( the conductor's monologue in his room , for example , is one of the weaker parts of the film for me ) . But then it does start to pick up in insane , trademark Fellini fashion as the musicians rebel , and an unexpected surprise comes heading their way . It's likely that Orchestra Rehearsal isn't one of Fellini's very best films , but it is one that captivates as it bemuses , brings laughs as it does thought , and it isn't necessarily a wasteful experience ( some may not like it much at all , at least in comparison to his masterpieces ) . Not to forget the incalculable , lasting power of Nina Rota's music , which drives the film's bombastic , heart-racing rehearsing scenes ( there is also humor underneath much of the music , like when the musicians have their own little solos as jokes ) . There's something always satisfying when a composer is on the same page as the director he's writing for , and few were ever so in tune as Fellini and Rota . And even during some parts that don't add up , their combination helps out a lot . As mentioned before , one could even think deeper into the ideas and thoughts and characters in the film as almost a microcosm of society itself , its easy-going people , its hard-nosed people , its incendiaries , its nostalgics , and its normals and eccentrics . Or , one can just take the Fellini ride , so to speak , and enjoy some 70 minutes with Fellini & company .
two names : Christopher Walken and Viggo Mortensen . . . actually , there's more	Filmmaker Gregory Widen learned a little , I think , from his previous outing with Highlander : it's not enough to get Sean Connery and have ridiculous immortals and beheadings . You need some fresh ideas that can live past their shelf life of the 1980s without going into complete repetitive mode . With the Prophecy he has a sturdy script chronicling the lapse of faith with an ex-priest played by Elias Koetas and how he comes into the investigation of a series of crimes involving burnt up dead people and lots of signs pointing to a prophecy of thins involving the word " dark " . On the side of themes , things are fine . But he knew that his script needed some uplift and , as with Highlander , needed a star to carry it over past the genre fans . Christopher Walken was his key , and it's one of his true-blue " Walken-iest " performances . He's playing a supernatural creature of the underworld in the guise of himself , so he knows it's time to go to town , and he does . I can imagine Widen smiling to himself as he wrote such lines as " Study your Math , kids " , wherein Walken could sink his teeth in and make it an awesome nutbar of a performance . He still brings the creepiness when he needs ( in this case all he needs to do as Gabriel is to stare ) , but it's the superfluous sense of humor , a timing that might be deadpan if it weren't for the evil angle , and it works wonderfully . The rest of the film is good , I should still say . This is one of those underrated 90s movies that has people who like it or don't , which is the way it goes sometimes ( at the least , I would imagine , the first film has a better rep than the sequels , filling up a trilogy which is slightly inexplicable given the ending of this film ) . Actors like Virginia Madsen , Eric Stoltz , Adam Goldberg and Amanda Plummer take up very good space for what they need to do , but it's Viggo Mortensen who comes out on top as the most inspired casting after Walken . His scenes as Lucifer are tense but calm , if that makes sense , and he has that quality that one may have seen in De Niro in Angel Heart . He's so convincing as him that he makes his own a character that's been repeated countless times - and not just because of the " Mother's feces " line . He notches up the rank of a solid genre piece like the Prophecy into something of a kind of minor must-see - at least for those of us that will dig Mortensen in almost anything .
a little goofy , as off-the-wall as can be , but also - for the right viewer - just the ticket	Big Trouble in Little China is a movie that is perfect for me IF I'm in the right kind of mood . Sometimes I turn the channels and see this on and can't bear to watch it if I'm on one of those overly ' bad ' days . But if things aren't too bad , and nothing else is going on too troubling in the world , this film does the trick entertainment-wise . In some ways it might be director John Carpenter's most shamelessly entertaining genre flick , with it's hero ( Kurt Russell ) a truck driving near sailor-mouthed ( at least has the attitude to a T ) guy getting involved with a strange martial arts fantasy plot . Going into the film you should know a little background , like how the original title was going to be the sequel to the first Adventures of Buckaroo Banzai picture . It's almost too off-the wall at times , with some wild supporting characters thrown into the mix . To talk about the plot of the film might be moot ; it's suffice to say the film works because a ) Russell is at his best in one of his few Carpenter collaborations , with enough male swagger for any beer-drinking guy ; b ) the special effects and fight scenes , even by today's standards , are not that bad and even have an effect where a little-kid voice inside keeps saying " so awesome " ; and c ) as escapist entertainment , you could do a helluva lot worse .
pretty crazy , not altogether successful , but it's also very funny	Bananas is like a cookie-batter of all of those early Woody Allen jokes all plopped into a bowl and shaken around . It's a film loaded with political jokes , but without a direct focus aside from Cuba and dictators and the like . There are numerous sexual jokes , including one of Woody's funniest scenes involving a magazine ( the buying and holding on a subway , very silent comedy-like ) . And even Howard Cosell becomes an iconic figure in Woody's comedy in the brilliant opening scenes . The plot is very loose , so if you're looking for that look elsewhere . Also , to put it mildly , some of the jokes may not work at all for some viewers of today . But it's the go-for-broke irreverence of the picture that has it still worth viewing today . Much of Woody's own verbal bits are very good , but it's also worth to note how the physical comedy - while crude and a little off-key - also has a good ring to it . Unlike the director's later films , you can still sense that he's trying to ' get ' how to make a film , and so in trying to do anything he can think of to get a laugh , of course , some of it doesn't work . For example , in Cuba the gag where the gargantuan pile of dung is carried down the stairs with the Lain music in the background gives a grin , but not as big a laugh as might be intended . Indeed , this might be Woody's most ' immature ' film , while still containing some of his more biting , satirical jabs at dictators and oddball politics . Woody would still have this wild , go-for-broke style of humor more akin to some of his quirkier short stories in other films of the early 70s . While this isn't as successful in that regard as Sleeper or Love and Death , I'd still watch it again if it was on TV ; even the romantic subplot , undercooked in comparison with the rest of the more satirical stuff , is interesting .
not a perfect musical , but it has a lot of great , pure moments , with great stars	It'd be easy to call Guys and Dolls great . It's got Frank Sinatra and Marlon Brando ( and , contrary to Sinatra's original wishes , the casting works ) , it's got a really cool 1950s feel , even if it is basically transposed from stage to screen with only a little interruption . And most of the songs are often a lot of fun , and catchy , and performed with that wink and nod to the wonderful escapism inherent in the form itself . If it's not entirely as great as some others of its ilk , it shouldn't be any fault of the filmmaker Joseph L . Mankiewicz . Not all the songs entirely click , and a little of the dialog feels like it's being performed for the stage as opposed to film ( it's hard to tell at times - Brando and Sinatra straddle the line so often that one has to watch carefully to tell when one plays for the camera or for the " stage " , while the actress playing Adele is better for stage than screen ) . The plot is one of those winners that works well for its period , even if one wonders if its influence has stretched to the likes of 1999's She's All That ( well , not quite , but close ) . A gambler ( and 14-year betrothed ) , played by Sinatra , wants to host a big-time game , but is told that the " heat is on " , meaning the cops are on watch . So , he has only one choice to host the game , with a thousand dollar tab . The only way he can get it is through a big-time bet with fellow gambler Brando , who's put on to make a wild wooing job of a mission worker . It allows for the predictable twists in the story , in the sudden turn-on-turn-off of the charms of the character , of the idiosyncrasies of people from the streets ( gangsters and dancers and the " saitn " played by Jean Simmons who falls for Brando ) . It is , in its basic concept , about this whole world of guys and dolls , and how to balance one or the other - obviously without getting married or too compromised . Mankiewicz brings a lot of energy to the piece , even when keeping still with the camera on the subject , and his stars are properly reeled in . Hell , even Brando works excellently for a musical as he goes beyond being simply THE method actor and shows his chops for singing and big-star quality . The story and characters eventually wind down to what you'd hope will happen , and that's fine . All we ask for - and what we get - is entertainment in good spurts of witty , involving dialog , and a few songs and dances that bring the house down ( my favorites were the number with the lady-cats at the club , Luck be a Lady , and the two numbers down in Havana , Cuba ) .
Corman's Terror Vs . the real deal ; Bodganovich's imperfect but effective look at stardom and mass murder	In one of the most daring displays of creative fortitude - and just one of the great movie-geek stories to tell - Peter Bogdanovich , an assistant for Roger Corman on the Wild Angels , was given carte blanche by Corman for his first film as director , with the only catch being that he had to use Boris Karloff for two days that he owed Corman , and had to use footage from the Victorian horror film the Terror . After seeing the Terror , Bogdanovich joked to his wife how the film should start : the climax of the Terror is shown in a screening room where once the film ends Karloff sitting and watching the film turns around to Corman and says " that was the worst movie I've ever seen ! " But then this , plus the story of Charles Whitman ( you might remember his mention in Full Metal Jacket ) , spurred on a direction in two stories : the story of an old , cranky and waiting to retire horror movie star who thinks he's run his course , and a frighteningly ordinary kid from the suburbs who has a lot of guns and uses them first on his wife and mother , then on passer-bys on the highway . What Bogdanovich has here is a case of two stories that should be completely unlikely to work together - with the killer story being the one that should obviously be more compelling - but somehow logically work together . It's thrilling , and often times hilarious , to see the odd cross-cutting between , for example , a sadistic , random act of violence like picking off strangers on a freeway with a cold , blank expression , to Karloff being annoyed by a sycophantic DJ . While some scenes ( mainly the one with Karloff as Orlock and Boganovich as Sammy Michaels drunk ) are a little flat in execution , there's also a subtext to them too . When we see the boy's family watching TV late at night , with a kind of average , typical expression save for the boy's quiet quality , it spells of the ' snap ' factor that can spring out of suburbia . It's still relevant for today , maybe even too much so in these post-Columbine and especially Virginia Tech days . The main question posed by Bogdanovich is potent , even as his film-making chops are being tested and tried out ( it helps that Laszlo Kovacs , one of the great DPs in cinema history , is DP on the film ) , which is simply this : what is true horror , the monster on the screen or the monster that could be lurking behind the screen ? Self-conscious as it might be , and as amusing it is to see Karloff , in the climactic moment when the killer runs out of ammo and tries to reload , slapping the hell out of the kid for ruining the drive-in movie screening , it's far more startling and provocative than anything Corman would've cooked up on his own . There's also an in-your-face headlines quality to the picture that comes out of the re-write Samuel Fuller did , where the BIG quality of dangerous news and hot-button topics are delivered well in the context of straightforward narrative . As dated as the Terror is , and probably was in 1968 , Targets has a place in today's movie landscape where messages lack that grain of salt . And , of course , an awesome Karloff performance , his last in fact .
like its predecessor , it's about a certain cross-hair of a particular music scene at the time	I'll admit right off the bat that I didn't respond as strongly to the Decline of Western Civilization 2 : the Metal Years as I did to Penelope Spheeris's first film and documentary , even as I know I did like this film . The former was a kind of fly-on-the-wall ( as I recall , not as many direct interviews , more concert footage ) look at this way of rock and roll life - of LA punks - that Spheeris knew intrinsically . In the Metal Years , she here isn't as much a fly on the wall in the sense of just getting the pure feeling of these people as she is getting answers to questions by a mix of highly popular and working-the-bottom bunch of Metal rockers . It of course can't cover everything in such an amount of time , and one might be slightly disappointed to see Britain's metal scene is sort of overlooked in the course of the film ( not that it isn't represented in interviews with Ozzy and Lemmy , but Maiden and Priest fans , among others , may wonder wtf ) . But if there is any single strength to this seemingly longer-than-90 minute film , with the interviews strung together in a interesting fashion alongside the concert footage , it's that this particular scene of American metal - particularly LA metal's scene - is captured very well . And in this capturing of this time and place and the people all abound in it , it's of course of note to mention that everything the musicians say is not 100 % reliable , and here and there it definitely has the feeling of bullsing with Spheeris's questions ( however clever and funny ) . But there are enough true moments to really get the sense of these people at the time , that there is maybe at least some depth to the members of Poison ( with really one good song in my opinion ) , or that Ozzy does have a very clear and honest view of what's gone on with him and the scene , or what rock means or drugs mean or sex . If there isn't always a focus in the line of questioning , or if there doesn't seem to be much of a structure to the film , maybe it's part of the point . Here we have a mix of rockers either trying to make it ( Odin , who I think made it bigger since , are featured prominently , as well as London ) , or have made it ( Aerosmith , Kiss , Megadeth and Alice Cooper among a couple others ) , and be it that a scene or two is staged or set up at a location for a desired effect , there aren't many punches pulled with the answers to the fairly straightforward questions . And some of them , when not all about " rock and roll is my life " does show the dark side quite accurately , especially considering the time period . One interview with the drunk in the pool gives the most to try and shake off , even as the manipulation of the filmmaker kind of kicks in with having his mother right there watching him in his over-drunk state . But , it is at the end of the day an entertaining documentary , if only as being a fan of the sub-fold of music myself . Some of the concert footage is less than great , even as London and of course Megadeth give quality performances . There was , like with other good documentaries , enough talk coming out of people to really chew on , and it shows Spheeris in a sort of different direction than in the other look at life in underground rock and roll . It's not great , but for the fans of the bands & / or those interviewed , it is near essential viewing , and also with an anthropological side to it through the stories and Q & A's that work for those not as into the music .
not flawless , but like Larry Clark / Harmony Korine collaborations , they get the grit of growing up teen male	I got uncomfortable sometimes during Mean Creek's second act , which is precisely what the filmmakers intentions were . I even flipped the channel for a second or two when things became a little too uneasy between the kids in the boat . I could relate to this situation very much , of kids who have no idea really how temporal everything is , and how the maturity level of almost everyone involved waxes and wanes and has to truly be tested for change to occur . In the case of Mean Creek's characters , this ends up happening through the main tragedy of the film . It's main figure , a fat kid with some problems of his own , ends up having to cause this change through his own undoing . But it's not even about that as really the cost of a life that young and ignorant ; it's the atmosphere of fear , contempt , revenge , and spite that ends up drawing the characters to their main focus of conscience . The last act that measures this is strong up to a point ; it sort of ends a little abruptly and suddenly and oddly ( the mother AND Culkin's character going out to that certain spot , not believable to me ) . And the actors in general are quite good for their age if a little spotty too . But there was rarely a moment , particularly for the first half , that I didn't buy into . It's almost like one of those true-crime case stories put to dramatization , yet infused with that spirit of the Larry Clark & / or Harmony Korine films . These kids are really on the fringe , and it's there where they can get pushy , nasty , funny ( in a childish way ) , and estranged from leading something of a " normal " life . It's a good , sometimes really intense film about dysfunctional ties between family , friends , and foes in those damned adolescent years , and a kind of extreme case that had me glued to the screen , whenever it wasn't too close to home anyway .
Imperfect to be sure , yet a picture that holds the Kubrick touch - indie inspiration	Killer's Kiss holds the story elements of a down and dirty film-noir , made for the drive-in and smaller theaters of the mid 50's , and of a Davey , a boxer ( Jamie Smith ) . He's just lost his last fight , though that's hardly on his mind now . What is on his mind is Gloria ( Irene Kane ) , the woman who lives across from him in his apartment . When he views her getting harassed by a thug ( Frank Silvera ) , he steps in to help , and in the process is drawn into her story , and then drawn into her affections . When she's kidnapped by the same thug , this leads him to go looking for her , in the dangerous side streets and alleys of New York , before he heads off to Seattle . This was iconoclast Stanley Kubrick's second feature film ( his first that's most easily available on video and DVD ) , and as I watched it I knew I wasn't seeing anything of a landmark caliber . Indeed , there were some flaws in the performances ( though to Kubrick's defense some of the voices are probably not even of those who are talking ! ) , as well as a weak story turn here and there . However , what makes Killer's Kiss such a highly interesting view is how the 26 year-old Kubrick approaches the material , and what he adds to what else would be a low-grade B-noir . While he is working cheap , he's doing it in his own experimental fashion . That he was so young when he made it adds a special little touch - college kids and independent filmmakers could look at this and feel inspired , despite it being nearly half a century since it was made ( real locations and on a shoe-string budget is a constant for those in the indie world ) . Using the neon-lit streets , the darkened side-streets , and the rooftops and building interiors as his landscapes , Kubrick paints a vivid backdrop for his characters . It is probably correct to say that Kubrick got better as a filmmaker after this film , yet there are sequences ( the entrancing ballet sequence with the narration , the timing in the boxing match , as well as his expressiveness with shadows / value , and the mannequin climax ) that display his obvious talent as a director , photographer , and editor .
as conventional storytelling it's pretty standard , but as a Bunuel picture it's got plenty of subversion in store	In maybe his only time of giving into a commercial project , Luis Bunuel , deliciously notorious surrealist and satirist , took off his usual run of Mexican-produced films of the decade and adapted The Adventures of Robinson Crusoe . On the surface , if one weren't familiar with the director's works at all , it has the seeming quality of being an average B-movie adventure of a man in solitude who is saved by his man Friday and his own resourcefulness . The story of the cast away has ended up having better days , specifically in Zemeckis's Cast Away , as far as with how the actual details of the story unfurl . It boils down to this : Crusoe gets shipwrecked on an island , takes what he can from the ship ( some supplies , actually lots , a few animals ) , builds a camp , and little by little after the novelty of a deserted island wears off he goes near mad in loneliness . That is until the cannibals arrive , dropping off a man whom Robinson names Friday and quasi-domesticates as his servant-cum-friend . This is a story that even school-children know , and has even appeared as a goof on a Peabody & Sherman cartoon . But the fun in watching this rendition of Crusoe is for fans of the director to see what he does with the material . It's not a perfect affair , truth be told , as Bunuel isn't the greatest director of suspense , particularly in the climax . But what is essential for a film with as basic a plot as this to have is an understanding of what can be subverted , lightly and slightly twisted into personal expression . This is nothing new for many of today's famous filmmakers ala Spielberg or Scorsese , but for Bunuel he approaches it in ways that his best fans will be keen to look for and get in nice quantities . For example , as he is known more often than not as a director of dreams ( his best film , Discreet Charm of the Bourgeoisie , has dreams within dreams in savagely playful fashion ) , we see Crusoe having a dream early on where there's soft gel on the sides of the screen ( maybe to appease the producers , who knows ) , and in it Crusoe dreams of his father pouring sauce or other on a pig , and images of Crusoe in water , cut together and acted in truly classic style . It's probably even one of his better dream sequences , followed up by another later on that features a pretty funny image to boot . Actually , part of what makes Bunuel's Robinson Crusoe so enjoyable is spotting the references to past films - his palm covered with some bugs speaks right away cheerfully to Un Chien Andalou - as well as just mildly absurd usages of animals on screen ( how did the cat have kittens ? ) , and even Christian imagery in simply showing Crusoe with his huge beard , which Dan O'Hearlihy sports proudly for most of the film , and even carrying what looks like a cross ( ! ) but turns out to be the stand for a scarecrow . Then there's also the aspect to the bond between Crusoe and Friday , which is almost a pop-art form of one of Bunuel's own treatises on the division of the classes in many of his films ( i . e . Viridiana and Exterminating Angel ) . In a way it works just as well as a simple story anyway , because Bunuel is able to have his cake and eat it , by having a tale that as stilted it might be in its not-quite-high-or-low budget and form of writing / narration at times is fairly gripping in an ' old-school ' way , as well as enough room to bring out his flashes of brilliant imagery and jabs of surrealism , and even absurdism .
less like Olympia and a little closer , though not totally , to being like the Olympic answer to Woodstock	While I've yet to see all of what many consider to be THE document of 20th century Olympics in Riefensthal's Olympia ( it is , of course , a very long movie , and we only saw bits in a class ) , this document of the 1964 Tokyo Olympics by Kon Ichikawa is quite the spectacle on its own . Ichikawa understands something that five years later Michael Wadleigh , director of Woodstock , would understand about filming an event ( though Woodstock will always be the better , more incredibly watchable film for me ) . And it is , simply put , to make it an EVENT - in bold letters - for people who may not even really usually watch the Olympics . The way he uses his many , many , many cameras an exhaustively large crew is staggering , and just in the first half hour or so , when the countries all line up and the audience fills in as the games kick off , it's done in a very dynamic style . He alternates interestingly between big wide shots of the crowds ( like Woodstock , seeming larger than it really is with everyone packed in thousands of masses ) , the stadium itself , and then to close-ups of individuals and bodies moving . It's this side of the film , the technical one , that is most worthwhile to see in the film . If it's less than perfect , it's because , frankly , it almost does become ' too much ' to see so many games that go on in the near three-hour running time . And the narration voice that pops up now and again sounds way too much like a narrator from old newsreels , trying to add emphasis where it's not really needed . It's too immense an event with too many goals vied for victory to add on extra words . But there are highlights though , such as the 100 meter dash , done in a slow-motion that might echo some of Ichikawa's other narrative films . And the Joe Frazier boxing match , while brief , is memorable . Sometimes Tokyo Olympiad comes off almost like an avant-garde film as much as it does just straight-on documentary , and it's here that I got drawn in . Of all major events involving sports and other games and activities and trials and such , the Olympics brings together all cultures for the sake of competing for a country's honor and respect , and Ichikawa has a very good balance between showing that and adding a distinct style to the numerous events . In fact , Ichikawa has what might be the best avant-garde sports documentary ever made , at least in the past forty or so years .
if you ever wondered what a Spielberg / Zemeckis-produced Goosebumps serial novel would look like , this would be it	Goosebumps , if not familiar , was a series of novels from the 90s which dealt with various spooky , unexplained , supernatural , and just plain weird stories meant for kids to take in in all its simplicity and imagination ( or re-imagination to put it another way ) . Monster House is kind of like one of the books never written put up on the screen with an extra dosage of some funny moments and lots of visual tricks up the animator's sleeves . It's directed by first-timer Gil Keenan and written by a group that seems like they're more into older-animation ( or at least not usually for the kiddies ) and other comedy by their career rosters . But probably the biggest reason I decided first to see the film was because of the exec producer credits belonging to Robert Zemeckis and Steven Spielberg . I'm not sure what their input was on the film , but it feels like one of those 80s era horror film or adventure type works that they were attached to ( Poltergeist , the Goonies , and a few of Zemeckis's recent horror movie productions come to mind ) . It's a family horror comedy that actually has some characters for kids to connect and root for , with a little more development past the conventions , and a host of supporting characters that are actually as funny for adults and older teens as they might be for kids . And the creativity in the animation department is some of the best I've seen in non-Pixar computer animated films so far . The house itself , possessed by a dead fat woman named Constance ( Kathleen Turner surprisingly enough ) , is quite the marvel that really does make a good chunk of the enjoyment in the picture . The little twists and dark turns inside the house are like the best possible clichés of a haunted house turned inside out with added human-features ( including a good joke about a part of the anatomy at one point ) . When the film goes into its final act and the house then literally lifts off of its foundation after the kids , it really becomes an entertaining spectacle where cliffhanging moments are abound and there's always time for a grin . In fact , it's really something to see how the humor in the film is not overly juvenile or predicated on excrement jokes , but more on behavior and stuff kids relate to - being talked down to , boys clumsiness around girls , and fears of what may possibly be where they'd rather not look . And making up the characters is a very good voice roster including Steve Buscemi as the old man Nebbercracker , Fred Willard & Catherine O'Hara as the parents , a nice crop of talented kid actors ( Mitchell Musso , Sam Lerner and Spencer Locke ) , and others like Jason Lee , John Heder and Maggie Gyllenhaal . Like a good kid's horror book it delivers on some interesting bits involved in the mystery of the crux of the story , while as an animated feature it delivers on being engrossing ( and fun ) entertainment in its execution . It's also a blast , if you happen to get the chance , to see it in its limited run in 3-D . In short , I'm sure if I was younger I would've liked it even more , but as it is it's one of the more successful diversions in animated film this summer .
has a charm that is totally undeniable and appealing for ( most ) children	As a kid I watched this film many times , as it had four key things that it had ( and still has ) going for it : 1 ) a story that does not skim on really putting peril for the characters ( the separation sequence on the ship is absorbing , but also devastating if you're heavily invested in Fievel and his father ) ; 2 ) good songs that aren't too preachy , and with enough emotional tug to be Disney-like , but unusual or unexpected in some of the styles of ; 3 ) how the characters are animated - I love the variety given to the different mice and cats and how the humans are wisely left in the shadows or with just a hand or a foot ; and 4 ) the comedy in the film balances without a fault with the comedy . In terms of subject matter , there is a lot of historical background information that kids today may have no care for , but it doesn't matter ; Fievel and his family could be any immigrant mouse family , and really the core of the story ( the importance of family and love ) is what carries it through . And because of this balance between comedy and drama - there are allusions to the Pogroms in Russia , the struggles of the immigrant working life in 19th century America , and racism , but voices like Madeline Kahn and Dom DeLouise are featured in key roles - it may throw some in the audience off , or be too much on a first viewing . It may not even be a ' great ' film . Yet as expertly Don Bluth directed hand-drawn animation , with a big heart and a bright , and dark , story of mice versus cats , it has a wonderment about it that should be appealing almost twenty years down the line . It's certainly better than the sequel , which is all slapstick as opposed to being comic-tragic , which also has an appeal for some older kids and adults .
not as great as the Simpsons , but I'll watch it every now and again - certainly a very smart sci-fi comedy	The first Futurama episode was must-see for anyone who was already well affiliated with the world Matt Groening already established with the Simpsons . It was new and strange , as Fry ( voiced by the great Billy West ) gets frozen , and awakes a thousand years later to find all these crazy things ( hey , it IS the future after all ) start to happen right off the bat . And then it gets stranger and crazier as the episodes go on - and with some depth , surprisingly , between the principle three characters : Fry , Turanga Leela , with her one eye and powerful presence as a woman of action with her tender moments , and Bender , a robot version of the kind of dude you'd find at the racetrack , crude mouth , powered by booze and cigarettes , cynical but as robots like these can get quite likable . The adventures the characters get it , as I've noticed when watching the show , have that loose structure from episode to episode like something out of Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy , however with a sharper wit than Groening even gets on with the Simpsons . If it isn't as consistent with being uproarious or engaging , there's more than enough sight gags and in-jokes for connoisseurs of sci-fi lore to make up for it in usually big denominations ( albeit , like Simpsons , pop culture references are galore throughout the series , which is coming back I might add ) . It's fun stuff .
one of the great modern re-tellings of the boy who cried wolf , Twilight Zone style of course	Amazing to say , I had never seen the original Twilight Zone episode Nightmare at 20 , 000 Feet , even as it's one of the most notorious / popular episodes ( two sides of the same Rod Serling coin ) . Needless to say I already knew what was coming - it's a major credit to the episode that the episode spurred on many imitators and homages ( I saw it first redone on the Simpsons during one of the Treehouse of Terror segments ) . In its original form , with the " gremlin " that appears on the wing about as hokey as a third-rate Halloween costume ( albeit with a decent job with the face makeup ) . But it's sort of crucial for the period for it to be a very simple creature , as it may ( or may not ) all be in Bob Wilson's consciousness ( or subconsciousness ) . Today they would've done the episode in CGI , with an overly terrifying costume and makeup job , or at the least using an animatronic character . As goofy and at first unintentionally funny it is , it works really well as a springboard for Bob's visions . The real focus isn't the gremlin , anyway , but the reactions to the claim being made , and the mounting apprehension to it , and just outright ' what ? ' attitude to him . It's not to say that a lot of this is outright scary ; Shatner isn't the only one who over the passing of time has laughable facial expressions ( the wife , played by Christine Wilson , gives a few glances that inspire laughter more than complete terror ) . But there is always an underlying tension though , and supplied by Richard Matheson the buildup and climax does work to an intense effect . The line does straddle from displaying the paranoia and mind-set of this guy and being silly , and luckily directed by Richard Donner there's always a clear enough story with a few great images ( Shatner almost flung out of the plane , shooting the gun , is an indelible image ) . Sure , it's gone tame , sure it's got Shatner pre-Star Trek going through dialog like it's all his own to chew , and sure the conclusion is a given . But it's got a deft skill all the way .
a near masterpiece of the sadness and touching escape of love	Louis Malle had quite a running start in his mid-20's . Following the amazing noir feature Elevator at the Gallows - so hip and cool a film that Miles Davis himself did the score - Malle made The Lovers , a drama about a bored and unfulfilled housewife who has a one-night fling with a man she just met by the side of the road and decides to leave her husband and child for him . This is trivializing , of course , what is an incredibly potent and incredibly bittersweet tale that features a filmmaker so confident with his craft already that romance fills any scene that's required like a shotgun aimed directly at its target . When its at its best , The Lovers reminds us why we love watching people falling in love in the movies ( or what the characters think in a moment of passion , as does happen in French films since they are some of the best at it ) , and as a kicker Malle adds a catch , something that elevates it from something more cynical in tone . The main character Jeanne , played by Jeanne Moreau , is married to Henri , who works well enough that she lives pretty much as a bourgeois . She also has a man on the side , a polo sportsman , and sees him from time to time at sort of programmed-to-be-fun locations like an amusement park . She's obviously unhappy , and one might find this looking at it today to look a little dated , like " oh , she's unhappy , she'll go find someone , I've seen this before . " And , in fact , she does find someone else , or rather completely by accident or chance or whichever you'd be willing to pick . Her car breaks down on route to a dinner party with her husband and other friends , and a man , Bernard ( Bory ) , a relative of someone in the bourgeois circle but not one himself , picks her up and drives her there . He is invited to dinner and stay the night , and it's here where we see the two have an incredible and deep connection . I should stop now since I've given away whatever sort of " plot " there is here . The Lovers is foremost a character piece , and Malle knows this so he makes it an incredibly rich film of character . We're not seeing just the basics of people like an unfaithful wife or hard-working and bitter husband or sweet woman best-friend to Jeanne or a stuffy Polo guy or even a dashing man out of the blue . There's a lot more nuance to it than that , more that's tucked under and given clarity by the little moments that threaten to shake everything up , be it just a fly in the room or a bat flying in through the window during dinner , or a mention of a time at an amusement park . One can have an moral problem with what Jeanne does , which is leaving her husband and child for a man she just met . Logically , it's absurd and wrong and all that jazz . . . but when it's filmed and presented like this , it becomes like a hyper-realistic tale , something that should be fantasy but is too real for these characters to pass off . Part of this is how it's filmed and timed . Henri Decae does the cinematography , and with one or two exceptions ( in nit-pick fashion I spotted a boom mic in a couple of scenes that made me feel uneasy for such a highly regarded film , which of course passed ) , it's gorgeously filmed with light streaming in in that last third with Jeanne and Bernard in the garden and in the bedroom at night , given that hyper-realistic sensation that only happens in heightened romance in movies but made earthy and passionate because of the sincerity of the actors . The other part , I must mention , is Jeanne Moreau . She is one of the most captivating and desirable actresses in the past 50 years , but part of that is even as she is fairly young here ( late 20s or just turning 30 ) , something about her face looks older , more experienced in the world , weary . Maybe it's just for the character , but it's something about her that makes this and other parts she played in this star-making period so wonderful . Another actress might have made Jeanne look more unsympathetic . Moreau keeps us thinking about what her character may be thinking , disheartened by life and then rejuvenated by some possibility that terrifies her even more ( watch her in the last couple of scenes , it's staggering work in the subtlest of ways ) , or if something with her character has made her react or feel a way that is only possible because she is playing it a certain way . There's magnetism to her here , which goes a great to making the " hot " scenes with her and her partner so memorable . It's precisely un-pornographic , as if I need to point it out following the Supreme Court's ruling that it was not pornographic precisely because the Judge " saw it as such " , because of the filmmaker's connection and care for his characters even as they're doing possibly foolish and irreversible choices . It's liberating still 51 years later to see characters allowed to be this passionate and erotic on camera - whatever minor flaws , this has more love and lust going on than 2 dozen rom-coms in America as of late with usually not much regard to the way people actually react and think when thrown into romantic peril . At any rate , Happy Valentine's Day !
stripped of sentimentality , superb performances , unflinching direction	I should mention upfront , before this I had yet to see an Andrzej Wajda film , not without trying of course ( started to watch Ashes and Diamonds , didn't get through it , yet ) . His films aren't too well known outside of the art-house circles , but his name is always known to those who peek into the new-waves of the 50s and 60s in Europe , and Wajda was one of the front-runners of the wave in Poland right before Polanski . It's then with hopefully the utmost admiration that I can recommend his latest film , Katyn , as a good one to start with . It doesn't mean necessarily that it's much " fun " , but as far as films about the cover up of incredible atrocities go it is at the least fascinating and at best a stunning achievement of classical film-making used to present troubling events and the nature of the people who had to live with the atrocity . It's a film that has apparently already stirred up debate in its own country and abroad since it's not something new . The Katyn massacre of April 1940 - which also took the like of Wajda's father - was immense and horrific on a scale that is one of those top five unforgivable things Stalin OK'd , but it's the fact that it was the Russians and not the Germans , whom the Russians pin the blame on , that keeps it controversial . But in Katyn's hands there's reason for a fuse being lit ; this is not a work of someone wanting to sugarcoat or make something sentimental and easy . The film-making style may appeal to the masses - this is not something that is so arty that you couldn't take a reasonably open-minded average war-movie fan to - but it's the matter-of-factness of the plot details , the restraint and moving moments with the Polish actors , the precise lack of bad Hollywood influence , that imbues the story with such a passion and intensity . Basically , Wajda focuses on a few key people in the film , not the masterminds like Stalin or Hitler but those like the wife of Cavalry officer Andrzej , Anna , or his mother , or his fellow friend / Lieutenant Jerzy who was on the Katyn list of people to be executed but somehow got away from it , haunting him for the rest of his days , or a teacher who knows the truth but hides behind the Soviet motherland anyway . At first we see the events leading up to it from the soldier POV and of Anna from home , the simple nature of not knowing what's coming next or when someone will come home , and then when we know what is about to happen it skips over into the aftermath : the 1940s period , the immediate post-war and the late 1950s , how Poland was made occupied ( a character says at one point that Poland will never be a free nation ) and made to carry the burden of Katyn as something people talked about behind closed doors as one thing and out in public as another . Some scenes are given tremendous uplift by the acting . I've not seen any of these actors before but they're all wonderful . Watch the scene where Andrej's mother , who's husband professor was taken to a camp among other professors for supposedly damning the Nazis in speech , finds out that he has died while Anna reads the letter . So much is held back and yet we see so much in her eyes , how she holds her late husband's objects in her hands . Or the actor who plays Jerzy , Andrzej Chyra , who starts to crack while trying to put a face on what he knows happened at Katyn , in a big blow-up at a bar when he just explodes in front of everyone while an " official report " is read on the radio about Katyn . And basically any scene with the principal women characters , Anna , Rosa , they create these people in such raw terms as to support Wajda's need to strip away the melodrama . While Katyn here and there might have a rusty transition , or a couple of shots done in classic epic film style that don't quite work ( a few crane shots are nifty , like when a bunch of soldiers sing in a bunker , but some could have been trimmed to equate with how the rest of the picture is shot which is more formal ) , it is an old veteran / master's showcase . Like Clint Eastwood or Akira Kurosawa , Wajda is at an age where he knows his craft so well that certain shots and images are classic in and of themselves , and are assured in creating the dark and nearly horror-movie tone in some instances . For the most part we're given the framework of a cover-up story , and for this Wajda directs well scenes of people being hidden or someone being forced to sign something full of lies or running fast away from soldiers . But then it comes to the last five to ten minutes , when Anna is given the diary that Andrzej wrote right before he was executed . This is one of those endings that will likely kick the crap out of you emotionally whatever your durability with grisly images . And wisely , music is used by Wajda in these murders in a meaningful way ; what we hear is familiar , and it is since it's from the bathroom scene with the old woman from The Shining . It sends chills sharp and thick . And only at the end are we given a moment of release - a good long one over a black screen before the credits roll - with harrowing , emotional music . Katyn is made with the care of a superb filmmaker and of a soul who cares about how his country blunders miserably while doing something for his own lineage ; only The Pianist tops it for decade's most personal WW2 drama .
A tragic , supreme meditation on youth , with an impressionable cast	The only other film of Wong Kar-Wai's I have seen is Chungking Express , which asks a second viewing on account of not , like with a Godard film , being able to really soak up everything that he was putting forth with his characters . On the other hand , his second film I have seen , Days of Being Wild , kept me in tune from start to finish . His film is one of what I completely understand , and find emotionally fulfilling , as it deals with people and themes that are universal . At the core is the basic premise that in youth we don't know where we're going , we may feel like we're ' not all there ' , and being on our own scrambles us up . With his principals , Kar-Wai delivers a love story about what it means to be in love , or not , and how it affects the people around us . The late Leslie Cheung is our main protagonist , who at the start of the film woos a worker in a stadium , played by Maggie Cheung , and they start up a relationship that seems to go nowhere . Leslie Cheung's Yuddy is the usual kind of angry young man of the late 50's , early 60's , with violent tendencies and a level of detached mood from his counterparts . But he also has a sense of longing , for his parents he's never known ( his ' aunt ' is rather selfish ) and perhaps for something he never says outright . There is also a supporting story involving , and soon co-coinciding with Yuddy's , with a cop wanting to be a sailor ( Andy Lau as Tide ) , who has a sense of quiet longing after becoming interested in one of Yuddy's frustrated girlfriends ( Carina Lau as Leung Fung-Ying ) . By the time the last half hour kicks in , the main focus of the story comes in , at least for our two main heroes , and for the women in the story . Cheung and Cheung give many of the more powerful scenes in the picture , with dramatic tension and the kind of fun youth posses . But also , Lau is rather remarkable in his supporting role even when we are basically following him around , himself in his own thoughts we only hear occasionally in voice-over ( as with a couple of the other characters ) . More often than not , Kar-Wai wisely chooses to bring more mood to the story than actual plot contrivances or twists like in a common teen love story . While some passages are rather blunt in this respect ( i . e . the quote about the bird with no legs , a fitting , stark image ) , they seem to work . That there is not much violence as could be expected from a title like this is also a pleasant surprise . Adding to all of this , there is Christopher Doyle behind a camera that moves much like is was guided by a next-generation Raul Coutard . Some shots are impressive just by being elaborate ( like when we glide from the street up the stairs to a lunch-hall where Yuddy is at in the Philippines ) . Other are more subtle , with the emphasis of darkness and light a voracious method to bring out the kinds of moods in these characters . Early on in the film , as in midway as well , some of the close-ups ( like with two lovers in an intimate moment ) are of the highest quality in artistry . Doyle , who ended up working on Kar-Wai on most of his films , displays foremost a wandering , intuitive approach that bring Days of Being Wild somewhere special , if not perfect . Simply put , this film may be more directed to a specific kind of audience ( art-house / Hong-Kong film buffs ) than a mainstream romance / youth picture , but it doesn't compromise any of its integrity .
a documentary about fame , or lack thereof , in Hollywood , and more	I kept hearing about the Boondock Saints for a while before I saw Overnight . It was the kind of film that was always on the shelf at Blockbuster , with Willem Dafoe and several other indie actors on the cover , and several people on IMDb put it on their favorite films ever made . It is a cult film , but it's one of those that I found after watching got too much buzz even just from the people on the boards ; not a failure , but certainly not a good film , the kind of work that starts off making the viewer think its terrific , then goes downhill from there in a midst of conventions and over-wrought violence . I think if I had seen Overnight first before ever hearing of the Boondock Saints , I might know what I would be in for , but it would still serve as a curiosity . As it turns out , Overnight is far more fascinating and insightful than the film made by one-timer Troy Duffy . The documentary was made by Mark Brian Smith and Tony Montana , who were not only apart of Duffy's inner circle of sorts , but also " had to keep shooting " , and they say in an interview on the DVD , and are in the film themselves . Duffy , it seems , got a deal from Miramax films that in its own arena was unprecedented ; one may even think to compare to Orson Welles ' deal with RKO in 1939 , only this time Duffy literally came out of nowhere . He became a ' hot item ' for his script and for his band The Brood , which included his brother Taylor . Things seemed promising until , in what is described in the film ( appropriately ) as a ' turn-around ' , Harvey Weinstein shut Duffy out , and the film had to get made with less than half the budget after excruciating circumstances . But distributing the film , too , became a problem after the reception at Cannes . It ended up , as mentioned , gaining status on shelves , practically straight to video without any profit going to Duffy . Overnight does explore the rift that was between Weinstein and Duffy ( Harvey's only on camera for a moment , but is quoted by a reporter in the film saying " Was I right about him ? " ) . However the main focus of the film is on Duffy himself , and how his sort of awakening in Hollywood reflects the others around him , particularly his band who are above the film's priorities ( depending on the day ) . Candid scenes showing Duffy's arguments and feuds with the band ( and the filmmakers , who at the time were co-managers of the band ) would almost be funny if it wasn't so reality-based ; this is the kind of stuff that should be on reality TV , but is only fit for a documentary . One may also be tempted to become subjective about Duffy as this kind of emblem of what not to do upon a golden opportunity . But on the other hand , the film ends with the perfect quote , stating that Hollywood doesn't bring change to a person , it just brings out more truth ( ironically , in a town that is more often than not full of liars and ego-mongers ) . Duffy , like Welles , had ambitions , and even some level of talent with his band and his screenplay . But unlike Welles he didn't see the forest full of trees . The film brings to light what a mogul like Harvey Weinstein can do to a first-timer not prepared for what's to come , but it also brings to light in a subtle , profound way how character and attitude and personality affect the ones around you . By the time Duffy finished his film , most of those around him had enough , and in the end most of everyone didn't make it anywhere in either the film or music industry , most particular Duffy . Although the directors said in the same interview that they cut out a lot that would've been even more damaging to Duffy , what's present is enough for the viewer to decide . Like all good documentaries , it presents its case well of its subject , and interestingly Duffy never plays down anything in his head . The film shows him as a beer guzzling , chain-smoking , mouth-of-a-sailor with two of the biggest chances in his life , and if anything at times he plays up to the camera ( as many of us might ) , but it doesn't shy away the real situations . The extra bits where his fellow band-mates / friends comment on camera are also revealing , and it brings a full dimension , however bloated , to Duffy . In a sense I almost respect the film the Boondock saints after seeing inside his head , both carry similar qualities . In the end , Overnight is a must-see for film buffs and students alike , not just to see a success story gone bad , but to also get a sense of what to expect with opportunities .
an imperfect but vital film of poetic ideals in love and politics	On occasion while watching Bernardo Bertoulcci's Before the Revolution , which I have done about four times within the past year , I really felt like I was watching someone with a full love of cinema . Not just of how it can distort our perceptions of reality by how close or far or following the subjects are , but that there's a certain purity to it . When a filmmaker has this much bursting out of him at 22 , 23 years old , you're bound to find it coming out much like someone that age - still on the brink of life , full of ideas , and still treated in a couple of minor , even unintentional ways , as a kid . Bertolucci tapped into the vein of the changing of the guard in European cinema with vitality . Like in poetry , the moods and music in the language ( or , here , the grammar of film itself ) tends to move along with the expressions used to make it so personal you know no one else could have done it this way . Even when it might stumble the film almost seems to pick itself back up , plunging us right into the gut of its subject matter . At times only Last Tango in Paris , Bertolucci's masterpiece , came close with its honesty of what's going on in the world for these people . And , in truth , the film's structure would not work without some level of honesty to the viewer , or at the least saying with the random , seemingly sometimes mundane set of events ' it's got to be this way , at least for this character . ' How much of it is based from Bertolucci's life I'm not certain . But his lead character , Fabrizio ( Francesco Barilli , in a splendidly conflicted performance ) , is not necessarily a great young future leader of men or something . He's a bourgeois - the word is used quite a number of times in the film - and filled with ideals about a Marxist-style revolution , perhaps . For the most part though he wanders , thinks in quotes , and is close to his Aunt Gina ( Adriana Asti , perfect for the part ) . It is dealing with this relationship that the filmmaker has to find his stride most , and he does . It goes from quiet , to cute , to talkative , to confused , then to something more risqué - passionate . When the character's cross the line , one may want to suddenly find some of what proceeds as taboo . It's not the case . What turns Before the Revolution into something not as troubling as the subject matter might appear , Bertolucci utilizes a style that corresponds with the scatter-shot frame of mind in the character's story . The plot is ' linear ' , but there are times where the sort of Italian frame of romanticism comes into play as well . Because the poetry of the emotions helps make this not as potentially pretentious as some of these scenes could come across , it is not without notice that upon once or twice times the subject matter goes into confusing points . The scenes late in the film involving Puck , for example , become so into the realm of the literary that it goes beyond interesting and into the dangerous realm of the self-indulgent ( which is understandable given the filmmaker's talents ) . Though Italian to the bone , here and there I almost wondered if at times Truffaut and Godard , switching off like hitters in a batting cage , were in the back of Bertolucci's mind as he wrote the script or filmed a scene . It doesn't hurt at all , of course , that two great musicians contribute to the film . One is Ennio Morricone , who co-wrote the music and performed for the film , and though not mentioned on IMDb , the great Gato Barbieri is also credited in the music . It's not just them but also the whole backbone of the music in the film . It adds that kick that is in many an Italian romance / drama , and also touches of ironic humor , of the joyfulness of youth ( i . e . riding the bike early on ) , and songs used for effectiveness ahead of its time . By also entrusting much of his own vision into the hands and eyes of Aldo Scavarda , Bertolucci gets cinematography that makes it apparent how with many of his films his style is apparent in every one . That it starts off so rough , yet with delicacy , and combining it with a lot to contemplate in terms of what love is , what politics mean for the well off and the not-so well off , and an uneasy feeling of hopelessness . It's one of the more breathtaking visions to come from a director younger than 25 in the post-Italian new-wave . It's not too much of a wonder then Scorsese lists this as his primary influence to make Who's That Knocking at my Door .
awesome blockbuster entertainment from , of all places , Kazakhstan about the notorious conquerer	Mongol could really be called " The Mighty Years of Genghis Khan Part 1 " , which might be a little helpful for some coming and expecting to see in the film what's known best about Khan - a murderous , wild conquerer of a good chunk of the world ( at least for the period ) . The filmmaker , Sergei Bondrov , decided to stop just before we get to the really meaty , juicy , notorious parts of his days . This isn't a flaw but the design of the story , and in this design to give us the rise to power of Khan ( here known as " Temudjin " , which was his real name ) delivers a story lush with the ferocity of a bloody , powerful epic that harkons back to Gladiator and Braveheart , only with a little more ' umph ' in dealing with the subject of the barbaric period . In the midst of what are described as being " nothing but murderers and thieves " , there's someone who has such a strong code of honor that he never leaves or forsakes his wife whom he chose at the age of nine . If one were to judge ( and I will for a bit ) , the Genghis Khan of this film is so honorable , in fact , that he doesn't mind that he's made a cuckold by his wife , and that he raises children that aren't even his ( at least one of them anyway ) . And he lives by such a code that is unspoken that his character as depicted here is among the most honorable and heroic of the classic epic-movie hero of this caliber . But taking apart this strange choice - Bondrov could have just made him a total pig - Mongol comes off braver , and helpful in realizing the epic scope of the project which , apparently , isn't finished yet . Thankfully not ; the choice of actor Asano Tadanobu is inspired and just right , as he's an actor who can portray Temudjin as likable but also appropriately savage and bad-ass where need be . He's a tru-blu warrior , and he fills the shoes wonderfully . As do many other cast members in their parts ( I don't remember many of the names , but the one who shaves his head and cruelly runs Mongolia is very good ) . What impresses most , and what should hopefully make Mongol something of a must-see on DVD when most Americans can watch it , is that it fulfills the quasi-genre requirements of a sweeping , heart-pounding big-name historical drama without relying too heavily on CGI ( the last battle sequence is the only one that uses it extensively ) , using the locations to put one in the place of the period to a T , summoning some eerie musical accompaniments , and the director , a promising professional , who isn't afraid to keep the pace of the time-line over the years with the story . For the most part , everything clicks , which is more than can be said of some of the recent historical action-dramas ( Troy and 300 , however extreme comparisons , as examples ) . Bottom line , can't wait for the sequel to get some serious carnage going on !
boxers ' blues - one of the more notable points in Eastwood's career	Something a friend of mine talked with me about after he and I had seen the film was a good point about the film's dramatic structure ( which prompted me to see the film a second time , aside from knowing intrinsically it would get doused in Oscar liquid ) . It's like a darker , slightly harsher Aesop tale , with simplicity in its message ingrained into it , but with power none-the-less . I wouldn't say even after a second viewing that Million Dollar Baby , Clint Eastwood's latest film as one of the few remaining Hollywood auteurs , is one of his very best films ( I don't know if I may be one of only a few that found Mystic River more shattering on the whole ) . Still , I think that at the least with these two latest films , Eastwood has reached on his own level the heights of one of his great dramatic influences - director Vittorio De Sica . His films were filled with an intuitive touch of humanity , observing where heart lies within people , and where it doesn't . Aside from the darker themes that the film brings up , it's also at the core a simple tale of those who observe who has heart , kindness , and who doesn't . Eastwood is better than usual as Frankie , a trainer and owner of a boxing gym . His friend and observer of the film's details , Scrap ( Morgan Freeman , supreme in his understated performance ) , was once a boxer too , but with going too far with a fight , he became half-blind , but given a job and residence by a guilt-ridden Frankie ( who is so for that and a few other things , some kept perfectly ambiguous ) . When he loses his boxer for being ' over-protective ' , a woman , Maggie ( Hilary Swank , intuitive as always in her scenes ) , asks to be trained . After much convincing , Frankie takes her on , and little by little , he gets looser on his strict terms of not being questioned with his teachings . Then , as Maggie finally reaches the top , there comes what is called in screen writing as the second turning point , and the story turns its last act into the contemplative , the deep , and the tragic . One thing that grabbed me even more so on a second viewing was that the theme of what boxing does to the human spirit and psyche is a double-edged sword . On the one hand , as Scrap observes , it's " un-natural " , to be moving around getting right in the face of pain and not running away , and how it is not a very glamorous ' sport ' at all ( a theme that makes it more worthy than a lessor boxing movie would give ) . On the other hand , it also goes in hand with the theme of having heart ; the two supporting characters of Danger ( in a satisfactory performance by Baruchel ) and Shawrelle ( Mackie ) , who are a major contrast . I really liked how Eastwood and writer Paul Haggis ( from a book of short stories ) dealt with the sub-plot to go so well with the main plot of Frankie , Scrap and Maggie . Another exceptional scene that makes this point clearer - and more resonant as the final act unfolds - is when Maggie gets a treat on her 33rd birthday from Scrap , and he tells his story about how he lost sight in his eye . In this scene , both of the actors are brilliant in their tone and reactions , it makes for one of the more meaningful , and dramatically compelling , pieces of the story . I wouldn't say , as I said , that the film is entirely flawless ( which is arguable , I know ) . One problem I had both times I saw it , though not overall , was with Morgan Freeman's narration . For the most part it is insightful and narratively correct , but unlike Freeman's key narration role ( as the key observer in Shawshank Redemption ) , not every line seemed very crucial for the story . It is a simple story with simpler , sometimes philosophical notes of narration , but I sometimes wished that everything had to be outlined - one can sense things right in Eastwood's face and eyes while Freeman talks gruffly behind him . And , arguable still , the sheer simplicity of the film does leave it so that one can't figure out parts of the story for themselves . Never-the-less , the film is an extraordinary stroke of skill for Eastwood as a director . If one can't say that his performance is one of his very best , one could say that his direction , his use of the camera ( via DP Tom Stern ) , is at a peak . The way he uses his strokes of lighting and darkness , and with the way he can control the camera and not be ( un-appropriately ) flashy , makes it extremely professional . That he's been known to shoot scenes in one or two takes makes for such a sweetly spontaneous result , however totally controlled . Indeed , I agree whole-heartedly with one critic who said " to call this an old man's film is a sincere compliment " , especially on the craftsman side .
before Tony Scott lost his mind style-wise as a director ; great star / suspense appeal	Crimson Tide is a real ' guy ' kind of movie , and with a good foot set in the nuclear war debate . It's almost a throwback to those star-packed movies from the 60s , only now it's been given a better grip with the performances , the direction , and when it happens the action . But this is not really as much an action movie as it is a tension-overloaded tome of Naval officers in the heat of world-changing decisions . One might guess , of course , where the story may head , but it's still exciting getting there . It also is a big help to see actors who are always compelling on camera even when they're just standing at attention with stone-cold faces of stoic male command . Gene Hackman has the kind of role that allows him to have the danger of going overboard , of being the out-of-control Captain of the Alabama . But he always keeps the character in check of being both professional and a little too eager to pull the BIG trigger . It's a controlled , expert kind of performance that is a professional turn to counter another expert professional turn from Washington . Both men are not without small doses of humor ( Washington in particular , thanks to Tarantino's script touch ups , puts in some pop-culture references ) , but it's really the bulk of the film - what to do by protocol , loyalties in the crew , and wills , that draw the biggest suspense . So it's not even really as much driven by action as many of Scott / Bruckheimer's other movies . Scott doesn't hesitate , to be sure , to put his own stylistic stamp on the material ( lots of uses of colors and filters on his actors , etching up the claustrophobia , and of course a possibly over-used tilted camera ) . But it's the kind of movie that can appeal to fans younger ( i . e . 20s ) and older as a story of military men in crisis . The dialog is often as sharp as the craftsmanship , and the messages aren't overstated among the large-scale ( and faulty ) technology on the sub . In fact , as a submarine movie it's best when it knows what it is , and doesn't kid itself with pretense . It's slick , it's well-acted by stars and supporting players alike ( with a who's who including Viggo Mortensen , James Gandolfini and even Steve Zahn ) , and it ends on a note that is predictable , but not unwarranted . And among the films as of late Tony Scott has directed , it's a pleasure to watch him with his hands not scrambling all over the place , letting the story and characters do much of the work .
as solid as they come , and if you can find it on the big screen , go !	The film Classe tous risques directed by Claude Sautet was not a film , to be honest , I had ever really heard of until the Film Forum in NYC said that they would have a 2-week screening of the film , with new English subtitles . When I also read that it was in the vein of the classic French crime films ala Jean Pierre Melville , I jumped at the chance to check it out ( at best it would rank up with his great works , and at worst I would get some good popcorn in a great theater ) . It was well worth the admission , as Classe tous risques is one of those kinds of French films that is just waiting to be re-discovered ( or discovered for the first time ) . With terrific , tense diligence , Sautet keeps the suspense at a tight pitch for the first forty minutes of the film , keeping a good ( if not great ) middle section , and then ending it up with what is always expected with these films , but with fascinating motivations by way of the characters . With a film in the vein of this sort , you know how it will end , but it's the cool , observant journey that counts . The film features a performance with some real truth and honesty , amid the " old-school " criminal's code , by Lino Ventura as Aldo , who at the start of the film ( one of the best beginnings to a film in this genre and country ) steals a hefty amount of money with his partner in crime ) . When there is a sudden , ugly twist of fate on a beach late one night , Aldo is again on the run with two little kids . He gets the aid of Eric Stark ( Jean-Paul Belmondo , a role in tune with Le Doulos only with a smidgen more humanity and charisma ) , who is also a thief and drives him into Paris . But there are some problems with some of Aldo's old business partner's , and one old score may be just the right ticket . A couple of times the plot may seem to be leisurely , but it isn't . Like Melville , Sautet doesn't allow any fat to his story , and it's a very tightly structured film , with some good doses of humor here and there ( I was sometimes grinning at the audacity of the criminals in the beginning chase sequence , and also with a particular woman who had a finicky thing with her cat and a fish ) . Along with a fine score by the great George Delerue , exceptional cinematography , and a mood that is seldom met let alone matched now adays , Classe tous risques is a reminder of that bridge between the real old-school film-noir , and the latter day crime films . Gangsters in these new sort of " thug-life " movies have a 1000th of the class and honor of the thieves in this film , and is a second banana to the works of Melville and Jules Dassin ( a compliment I assure you ) . That it has a good realistic , moral edge helps as well .
a contradiction in terms : Dostoyevsky by way of Bresson , but somehow it works , affectingly , a tale of doomed possession	Robert Bresson would be the last filmmaker I would think to adapt any story by Fyodor Dostoyevsky , a man who might be the greatest writer of melodrama - and melodrama as in gut-wrenching , emotional stuff , with a characters in , for example , Crime and Punishment having a big screaming or dramatic fit , all described in massive amounts of painstaking detail ( mostly so Dostoyevsky could get paid by the word , perhaps ) . Because Bresson was a filmmaker who was completely uncompromising for what his vision required : usually non-professionals , saying dialog with a passive , almost restrained quality , with emotion held back until the most necessary ( if at all ) moments . Bresson was even on record once saying he didn't like sets or actors for that matter . But with Dostoyevsky's story he crafts another work that is all his own while honoring the harsh view on the human heart that the author had . It's a story where one might be tempted to take the woman's side , or ( arguably ) that she even did the right thing for herself at the end ( or , as we at the start , at the beginning told backwards ) , but it's never that easy . A Gentle Woman leans more to searching for common sense where there is none : Elle is a simple girl in a family that doesn't treat her well ( we don't see this , we just hear it second-hand ) , and has a gentle quality ( or ' meek ' as Dostoyevsky's story was originally titled ) that somehow allures Luc , who works as a pawnbroker . He pursues her , even though she's not much interested in his advances ( " I told you not to follow me , " she says to him as he follows her up to his house , in a tone soft but firm ) . He marries her . They seem momentarily at peace , but this soon breaks : Luc is continually insecure with himself , in a sense , because he can never feel secure in his relationship . Unlike That Obscure Object of Desire , where there was a mind-game involving the sex in the possessive relationship , there's no question that they do go to bed . It's the whole factor of what's really there in terms of trust , love , redemption , and above all a connection between two people . A scene that could be in a silent film ( a form Bresson desperately would love to have tried ) , the couple are watching a film in a theater , and she is sitting next to a guy on her other side . Luc can't stand this , and almost on instinct he stands so the two can switch . A glance , or a couple of glances , speak a thousand ideas in a Bresson film . In fact it's Bresson's attempts , as in other films , to try and intellectualize an emotional downward spiral that gains interest . Because it's the opposite of your usual melodrama , where the characters get all excited and angry and yelling and lots of misunderstandings and so on , the style is stripped down , leading to what is a much more distressing relationship they're in . Neither one can give in , but Elle just can't seem to leave him or go through an affair . And Luc likewise can't seem to ever go to lengths of domestic violence or on the flip-side leaving him . It's all about him having her , not the other way around , and the moments that she tries and asks him about his past doings ( i . e . being fired from a bank teller job ) he hesitates . There's a mold in shape that he can't seem to break of her , and by the time he goes for it and says over and over " I love you " it's clear as day - she's already past that point saying " I thought you were going to leave me . " Enigmatic , maybe , it depends on the viewer . It might be understandable this is one of Bresson's least available selections ( no DVD yet , and a very paltry availability on the internet quarters of VHS sales ) , even though it shouldn't be . It's a fascinating experiment in dissecting character through narrative ( albeit Bresson cuts back and forth between Luc at Elle's dead body at the bed a wee bit much through good narration from him ) , and in revealing little things about the relationship for a modern audience . There's a subtext I liked that dealt with diversions , theater , television , films , that are like little respites for the two of them ( for Elle more-so , as we see with her interest in Hamlet ) . And , of course , the Catholic dimension of feeling - from Dostoyevsky carried over into Bresson - is felt more that almost any other of his films ; divorce , it seems , is never called into question . This makes it dangerously close to being behind-the-times with its ultimately tragic fate for the characters . But it also puts up an ultimatum of morality , not just for Luc but for Elle in hindsight : the film doesn't condone suicide , for all of the poetic splendor it's revealed in at the start and finish ( not to mention that amazing final shot of the coffin being nailed in ) . Many interpretations , existential , feminist , even Marxist to a smaller extent , could be taken into account . One thing is for certain : A Gentle Woman isn't an easy film to digest , but for those willing to give it a shot it offers some intriguing layers beneath the subdued manner . By the way , watch for the scene that finally comes up that was taken for the ( somewhat misleading ) video cover ; it's a total 180 , aside from the basic initial physical motion , of a similar scene in Goodfellas !
a near classic of modern film acting	Eric Roberts and Mickey Rourke make an unforgettable pair in Stuart Rosenberg's film ( by way , in part I've read , of Michael Cimino ) , because they both take skills they've picked up as actors and applied them wonderfully to two roles that bring out their best . They play , essentially , a version of the Mean Streets characters ten years later : one wants to go straight in the Little Italy world they've grown up in , have a legitimate business like a restaurant , maybe start a family or settle down with his girl , and is a good guy - except , of course , for the ' black sheep ' in his cousin who's a waiter sometimes , and also has other schemes going on like owning part of a racing horse , and gets himself into some very deep , hot water with local gangsters . The story may sound familiar , but the performances make a very big difference ; in fact this is essential viewing for those intense male actors looking to break into theater or independent films . Some have criticized Eric Roberts for going over the top as Paulie , but he imbues this character with a complete and unnerving ( or just nerving ) sense of desperation . Paulie wants to be good too , and one can sense that , but being on the streets have messed with his head past the point of no return ; he isn't quite as " I-don't-give-a-bleep " like Johnny Boy in Scorsese's picture , but the same tendency to tick off the wrong people is right there . And watching Roberts go to town in some really big scenes , like when he comes back from losing his thumb or a more subtle and intense scene like when he's getting questioned by Burt Young's mob boss , he shows why for a short while he was a star ( maybe not his sister , but close enough ) . And yet one can't help but feel that for all of Roberts excellent work , for all of the superior supporting performances from Darryl Hannah and Geraldine Page ( the scene where she tells the cops to get out of her apartment , holy hell is that fantastic ) , Young , the actor playing the locksmith , it's Mickey Rourke's time to shine . He had that quiet voice that one could tell could just crack at any second , and here he makes his tough guy in Rumble Fish look like a wuss ; here one knows he could just erupt and go to town on someone , and does sometimes like on Paulie when the time comes ( which is relatively often ) , but Rourke's power is in what he holds back , or appears to be holding back . He came out of the same school of acting as De Niro and Pacino and it shows , as if he were ( or rather still is ) one of the most gifted of the pupils of the method , and even as he gives that smirk or has a deceptive twinkle in his eye you just know he's got this character so damn down . He could wrestle with Keitel ( no pun intended ) and it would be hard to say who would win for pure on-screen chops . The story , I should add , is also very good , one of those very tightly constructed morality plays in the guise of a film-noir that operates so strongly because it doesn't make anyone too black or white - even the detective , who meets his sad end down an elevator shaft by accident , has a whole history that is developed perfectly in just one scene with his mother , and so he's no more or less unsympathetic than Paulie . It also ends in a peculiar way : after the volcanic climax , which comes as something of a surprise , it just shows Paulie and Charlie walking down the street , and the camera rises on a note of uncertainty . It is not quite as open and shut as Mean Streets might be , but it has its own level of doom : these two guys probably wont be able to rid each other of one another unless there's death , or worse . Some slightly dated 80s music notwithstanding ( some of it weird synth Irish music ) , The Pope of Greenwich Village is exciting , occasionally funny , and gives all in the audience a taste of delicious New York style film acting . Everyone's on their A-game , and for a brief moment it looked as though the two stars could go anywhere with their careers . . .
even if the music doesn't strike you completely , the man and the methods of film-making are staggeringly intriguing	Bruce Weber's obscure documentary ( currently on two screens at New York's Film Forum ) on Chet Baker is the best possible way for those who aren't terribly familiar with his work or who he was - like myself - and I'm sure will more than please his avid fans out there . For the former , Baker is one of the " cool " west coast jazz pioneers , who defied some expectations while still being dismissed by many east coast ( NY ) jazz aficionados . Truth be told , Baker isn't entirely my cup of tea ( very talented , of course , though I won't be listening to him as frequently as Coltrane or Parker or even Armstrong ) . This out of the way , Baker the man is an endlessly fascinating individual , one of those artistic forces who made life a hell for those around him , but also was a real intuitive musician , who when not trying to fix his dental problem , or drug problem , or problem with the law in other countries , he could play his trumpet or sing his soft melodies any time , anywhere . It's a major credit to him that the quality of his performances of the period of the film's present tense ( 1987-88 ) is not too far from that of his prime in the 50s and 60s . But Weber isn't simply out to show him performing his songs . Like a jazzman himself , Weber is into improvisation with his choice in jagged but smooth angles with the camera . Aside from the intrigue that comes in showing Weber interviewing his past friends and fellow musicians ( some who have simple stories like " he could play much faster than me , etc etc " , and others that are darkly funny , like how he could have sex with a fellow musician's girlfriend in the dark without the other musician knowing after a five second lapse ) , ex-wives and female counterparts ( it runs the gamut - those who care deeply about him , but have been hurt , and even a singer who is a bit more than bitter , but wise , to Baker's ways ) , and even his kids , we see the man himself with no punches pulled . Baker , with a face as chiseled as Clint Eastwood's and with twice the number of stories to tell , and a slightly wavering way of talking where one's not sure if he might slip into sleep mid-exposition . We see him talk of his time in the army , where he disarmingly ( no pun intended ) got out of duty while on a close-call avoiding the nut-house . We see his tales of being busted in Europe and spending over a year in jail . He even talks in a bittersweet tone about his kids and about fallen musicians and friends of his . Most captivating , though , is the issue of his teeth , which becomes Weber's Rashomon tool of technique . It's not enough that Weber already slips so well into an aesthetic that I've rarely seen anywhere else in documentaries , where we get a plethora of images in several seconds without montage , and scenes of Baker with friends / kids / admirers ( Flea is one of them ) knocking around town at night that are real but close to feeling like it shouldn't be this real . Weber also throws in the crucial element of Baker as a multi-layered man with more than one persona to him , notably to his ex-wives . He tells the story of how he got his teeth knocked out , fighting with five black guys in a bad drug deal situation on the streets of LA . It sounds simple enough , as one of those wacky but dead-serious stories those in the jazz world , or just music in general , end up having when dependent on drugs ( in this case heroin ) . But one girlfriend / singer says something else , that it had to do with Baker being given a specific ' lesson ' , to " take away what's most important " , which was his mouth . But then even another says something completely different , at least I think so , and it's here that Weber makes Let's Get Lost such a complex peek ( just a peek ) into this man . To be sure , there are times questions are asked and the response is just " lets not go into that " , which is fair . Yet one comes away with Let's Get Lost with a pure impressing on who Chet Baker was , in a sense ; he's a legendary musician in some circles , but also spent years on welfare when he couldn't play ; he had one wife who was half Pakistani and half-Indian , who is rarely mentioned in the film ; the kids don't show up much into the film until the last section , with more time spent around the mother ( s ) than Chet himself . But it all adds up to a sense , which is all that Weber could really get . It's cool as a good drink , and all about a man I won't soon forget .
a strikingly human suspense-drama about the changes that can come in good people	Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck has here one of the better debut features I've seen in recent years , and until the last ten minutes has on his hands a tough , powerful gem out of Germany . His film brings memories of films like the Conversation , where a surveillance man got changed into a paranoid , The Trial , where the stark , bleak , disparaging mood strikes a chord in every facet of life , and even to a lesser degree the Pianist , where there can be some spark of goodness reached at men in the dead mess of bureaucracy through the power of art , and human expression . So much that we see the East German socialists do , the ones in the highest ranks of over-dominant power , is to make sure everyone is in check by means of fear and tactics of interrogation and surveillance , in The Lives of Others concerns why certain basic freedoms are important , especially in the arts , and that change is not only possible , but paramount for people in bad circumstances . Such is the case for Georg Dreyman ( Sebastian Koch ) and Christa-Maria Sieland ( Martina Gerdeck ) , who get put under suspicion for possible co-horting with undesirables ( i . e . those of the ' West ' , and conspirators against the state , not always thinking in the party-lines in short ) , and get put under constant audio surveillance by the State , specifically agent Weiseler ( Ulrich Muhe ) , who is so detached that he doesn't even have a grin at a joke at the expense of the head of state made by an underling . But as he listens more and more to these people , and their own personal struggles ( Christa's unfortunate liaisons with a slob of a minister played by Thomas Thieme ) , and to how they react to a good friend's suicide - by playing a touching Beethoven tune on the piano - he starts to question what he's doing . Can a man who really listens to this music be good , is asked rhetorically by Georg after playing it . This , plus the whole aspect of change , which is mentioned early in the film , becomes the emotional and suspenseful core of the picture ; Georg gets help in smuggling an article about suicide he's written - for which he can't put his own name - and Wiesler becomes an accomplice , but to him for what are the right reasons . So what starts out as a tale with possible intonations of espionage or whatever turns into a morality story , and where the personal and political meet at different levels but with similar significance . Can one's duty to one's country's methods and ideals be as crucial as expression in art , music , acting , writing ? Donnersmarck's thesis is that , more than anything , change , and the choice to change , is a part of this as well , not just for Wiesler , but for Georg , who decides to go out on a very dangerous limb and not only write the article on an illegal typewriter but to send it out with his friends to the West , but Christa as well with her priorities for ' getting by ' in this world . She might be a popular actress , but the price she pays is just as dear as he does , and as Georg witnesses a fellow writer go over the edge as part of the ' statistics ' , it becomes too much . It's a very potent point about the nature of people in this part of the world at that time that being an individual gains much more to the human spirit than rigidly following a set of rules . Whether or not this is based on a true story or not is irrelevant , because , usually , Donnersmarck gets truthful performances from his actors ( especially the subtle Muhe ) and is true to how it plays out in sort of a triangle fashion . Now , to say ' usually ' because his film isn't completely flawless . The last ten or so minutes , a denouement where everything is made tidy and neatly put together in a sort of contrived way , goes too long and feels out of place with the rest of the picture . Maybe there's much to say about what ambiguity can do , but that would have been more appropriate for what preceded it than the sweet ending that comes out where bittersweet would have done just fine ( i . e . ending it right when the Berlin wall falls ) . Yet , the catharsis , while not totally satisfying , doesn't make things completely cheapened for the experience , which overall is gripping and touching in the ways that matter . One feels for all of the characters , save for those in the high ranks of power like the Minister and Grubitz , especially when Wiesler reaches out for saving just a small piece of humanity in such an oppressive and hopeless civilization . In short , Donnersmarck is definitely a new filmmaker to watch .
Minor flaws aside , LOTR proves itself one of the most successful trilogies in modern film	In Return of the King - which follows the book ( that I have not read , though heard what is in it that is not in the film ) as close if not closer than the past two - co-writer / co-producer / director Peter Jackson brings Tolkien's grand tale of the quest to destroy the ring to an end . The story strands follow along the similar linear paths of the others , and it is done so with an equal worth in entertainment . Frodo , Sam and Gollum's path to Mordor unfolds as almost something of a love triangle for the ring ; Merry and Pippen follow their own tales towards the great battle ; Gandalf , Aragorn , Legolas , Gimli , and all the dwellers of middle earth prepare for the swarm of the terrors of Sauron . There is much praise that should be given to Jackson and his crew / cast on not just the worth of Return of the King , but to what is now the entire saga of the Lord of the Rings as a whole . Though the film does carry quite a load to it ( at three hours and twenty-one minutes it's the longest of the three in theatrical form , and it definitely does go on at least ten to fifteen minutes longer than it should ) , and expands and deflates on the details of some characters ( i . e . Saruman is nowhere in sight in this version , while Arwen gets more than what is from the original work ) , there are plenty of rousing scenes and sequences , terrific battles , and a grasp on the visual effects as a whole that don't let up . In all , ROTK is on the level with Fellowship and Two Towers , making the parts as good as the whole . This is something that only several other filmmakers can make a claim to , that one film does not bring on a let down from the expectations that preceded it . It's the kind of film I'll want to see again , however it would be very difficult to sit through it in one place . ( both as a picture in and of itself , and overall on the three epics combined )
a couple of small flaws aside , this is a very good cat and mouse thriller	John Carpenter made this , probably unintentionally , as a kind of practice-run for Halloween , which he started shooting very soon after he finished this film ( though Halloween came out before Someone's Watching Me ) . We have the stalker and the victim , like in Halloween , but where Carpenter's classic film is a series of kills and cat-and-mouse chases , Someone's Watching Me is like traces of Halloween merged with Rear Window ; here Jimmy Stewart is using his knack of looking out a window as a pathological / deranged psycho in using his access as a maintenance man to stalk sexy women across his view . In this case it's Lauren Hutton , a TV director , who is at first sent strange letter about a ' vacation ' , and then given the obvious phone calls , not to mention the recording device plugged under the table in her apartment . No matter what she tries to beat him at his game - and the cops are of course no help sending an innocent man to Des Moines in exile - it comes down to him vs . her on a ledge . This could be a routine premise in other hands - as a matter of fact it was based on a true case and was handed to Carpenter as an assignment - but for Carpenter , in a ' paying-his-dues ' task , he makes it his own as a truly taut chiller . Now , it doesn't mean it's a really great piece ; Carpenter as composer is regrettably missing and placed with a ( decent ) TV-type track , and the performance from David Birney is only so-so . But for what Carpenter set out to do , he hit on all cylinders for something that's unexpected , slightly , from a director like him . The script is witty but realistic , the performances from Hutton and Barbeau are fantastic , and his attention to details by the particular usage of the camera is akin , again , to Hitchcock . Some scenes , however expectant they might be , are really gripping , no punches pulled . And for TV , it's probably something close to being Ace ( Duel would probably top it , but it goes without saying ) . Carpenter fans will rejoice that this is finally on DVD .
a big , intense American crime movie , led by stars and director in top form	American Gangster seems on the surface to be what has been dubbed by some critics as " the black Scarface . " As Ridley Scott's new film details , this isn't really the case aside from the point of ' rose up from nothing became something through crime ' , which could be said about almost every gangster film including the Godfather . Here Scott and screenwriter Steve Zaillian , without calling attention to it ala Paul Haggis , have made a film about class issues underneath the typical gangster-movie form . Even more than the Departed , one sees as the film goes on an environment of paradox : Frank Lucas was a low-life , a killer , a ruthless thug , and at the same time found time to take his mother to church every Sunday and gave out turkeys to folks in the neighborhood while providing them enough dope to die off in the process . In fact , Scarface has got nothing on Frank Lucas when it comes to moral complexity : here's a man who did rise up out of poverty , learned the stakes of gang life as a driver for the Harlem boss for fifteen years , and then after he died cut out the middle-man as an importer of the freshest product of heroin right out of Vietnam . Then through this there's a whole other level to American Gangster ; Scott and Zaillian could have made it simply a saga of betrayals and investigation via Richie Roberts . But the side that one saw in Serpico is amplified here - it becomes all the more engrossing to see how the crooked cops and " honest " gangster Lucas were linked together , which also leads to an ending that amps up the interest . Lucas didn't get out like Henry Hill , but a good man all the same ? Probably not ( he ended up in jail again , as the film doesn't point out ) . So there's a lot of story to explore , and Scott makes it one of the most invigorating , nostalgic ( ironically speaking ) New York crime films in years , as far as the storytelling goes . And like Heat , Scott gets a lot of mileage from his star power . Washington goes even deeper into the role of the villain than he did in Training Day - he plays him as classic family man , cold businessman , and charming man-of-the-community . He makes it so much his role that you can't imagine anyone else going down a Harlem street shooting a guy point blank in the head . And Crowe also adds some good subtlety to the piece , a flawed man with his family and someone who tries to keep his morality straight ( the million dollars given in to the station ) amidst total bully-crooks like Josh Brolin's " special " detective . By the time the two stars finally sit down for one scene , it's on par with De Niro and Pacino . Why not a or 4 stars ? It is , despite a rightfully fleshed out narrative , with some unnecessary bits ( Cuba Gooding Jr , what happened there ? ) on a two hour and forty minute picture . But Scott does make American Gangster gain momentum as it goes along and reaches a powerhouse climax that is first intense and bloody ( it IS Scott after all ) , followed by a striking human angle . And it holds nothing on Scarface , at the end of it all , as far as being legitimately dramatic without the ham , as the actors and director click for most part on material that just needs to be told without any pretension - and with that dose of significance of real urban crime in the 1970s in NYC .
Creatures of the night . . . what music they make	Tod Browning's Dracula suffers so many decades later for one simple reason , and a second one that's more subjective : first , we all know Dracula , like a quintessential Shakespeare or Jack and the Beanstalk , we all know what Dracula is about because the lore is given to us as kids and it's taken as it is , which leads to a lack of surprise at what will occur in this film ( lets face facts , some of us have even watched the Coppola Dracula before this one ) ; second , it is , sadly , dated in some aspects . Luckily , for the latter , what makes it dated doesn't really have a negative impact on enjoying the picture overall - when one sees the bat flying about - or , sorry , swiveling and nearly crashing and breaking against the scenery - it's cheesy and corny and all those things that show it was 1931 . But aside from these minor liabilities , Browning's film succeeds because of , to use the oft-repeated and tired description , atmosphere ( make no mistake , a chill will run up your spine as fog rolls in and Dracula appears to suck the blood of poor Renfield ) , and Lugosi's monolithic performance . Has any actor come close with just a deranged look in the eye and Hungarian / double-jointed curl of the fingers to acting this creepy ? While Max Schreck and Klaus Kinski , both playing / inhabiting Nosferatu in those film versions , could arguably be considered far more creepy , Lugosi has the aid of sound and a odd control of the English language that adds just that necessary edge on a scene . So many years later , it's the definitive performance of Lugosi's , for better or worse this turned out for him . Back to the atmosphere though , as the only other truly notable and crazy turn among the sturdy cast is Dwight Frye as spider-eating / schitzo Renfield . The sets , the lack thereof a score , and the mesmerizing lighting and gliding camera-work of Karl Freund ( who , apparently , directed some parts of the film ) , not to mention the moments of fog , make up much of the " classic " quality of the picture . This side , even so many eons later it seems , hasn't aged too badly , and practically all variations of Dracula or vampire movies only come a hair's edge close to imitating or emulating the Gothic stature of the technique presented here . Even when a scene of dialog might lack some density due to it being mostly pure exposition , it's impossible to take your eyes off what's going on or being less than absorbed in the action . No matter how familiar , Browning's Dracula deserves all its accolades and attention as the first " Hollywood " movie on the Count . Whether or not it's the greatest of all time I'm not sure .
not quite the level of unforgettable stories and jokes as the last one , still very funny	Killin ' Them Softly , what I consider to be Dave Chappelle's non-cinematic breakthrough ( the cinematic could be with Half Baked ) , was a very potent mix of comedy , dealing with some celebrity jokes and great humor involving the hood ( the ' baby ' bit is classic ) . With this special , Chappelle comes off from his hit TV show , and so some of his initial energy could be lacking . It isn't , but one doesn't see exactly the same brilliance here . I mean that though in just the overall sense , that there are a couple of bits that aren't totally consistently funny ( the ' Monkey ' bit , the bit on the 15 year old kidnapped girl ) . Throughout , however , there are bits that really do make it known why Chappelle is where he's at today . For example , his take on why he can't smoke weed with black people anymore ( and the pros and cons of smoking with white people ) is gut-busting , or his take on the Michael Jackson case ( last year this was filmed , by the way , which should be taken into perspective ) , or his lines on how he's dealing with his newfound fame ( and what he'll do with a certain part of his privates ) . He is on fire I'd say 80 percent of the time , and the other 20 percent he's still witty even when the punchlines don't connect . The Chappelle fans who love everything about his show will find much happiness with the DVD , and those who are just casual comedy stand-up fans will still see some of the low-key smarts and absurdities that launched Chappelle in the past half decade .
one of Welles's most audience-accessible films is also one of his most entertaining	Sure , the Stranger is one of the ' studio ' projects for filmmaker Orson Welles , and in the story one might think from the story description on this site it might not be his kind of territory ( Welles himself said this was his least favorite of his directed films ) . But it is in the directorial style , and in the performances ( Welles and Robinson most particularly ) that the film is given his ' stamp ' of sorts . And at the core the film is really just a solid thriller , and because of that it has immediate appeal for its story turns , the scenes where the truth and lies are bounced around , and in the exquisitely done climax on the clock tower ( maybe second only to Back to the Future in using a clock tower in a film ) . It is through such typically audience-powerful elements , as well as with a bit of immediately post WW2 espionage , that Welles is able to flow into it his own personality , with little bits of very dark humor and theatrical drama that is , above all else , compelling . In terms of looking at the acting , it's right here that right away Welles breaks from what could've been a good but fairly typical style with the script . Keeping in mind that from the moment he appears on screen the character of Dr . Rankin ( aka Frankz Kindler ) , there's quite an amount of guilt and suspicion he's trying to avoid , from himself less so from him wife and the Detective ( Edward G . Robinson ) . So , Welles is able to really play this for all it's worth ; the smallest glance and minute eye gesture is meant for dramatic effect , and as much as one might be tempted to chuckle how obvious it might be , it works . I did believe , at the least , the pure theatricality of Welles in the film , and he photographs himself and others in this similar way , however much with the film-noir style as well . And with sturdy character actors like Robinson - who is actually fairly more subtle and in a different way of interest than in , say , Key Largo - and Loretta Young , Welles is able to have his players in place . It's no doubt the material could be done by other filmmakers ( it's one of the few of Welles's films that was barely written by him ) . In this filmmaker's hands and eyes , however , it does get some different twists here and there . Through his cinematographer Russel Metty ( later responsible for the Oscar winning cinematography of Spartacus ) , Welles gets some angles and shots , sometimes really sweeping and telling of it being quite the movie-movie ( if one could say it that ) , that other filmmakers wouldn't think of . And I loved the musical score , by Bronislaw Kaper , adding the kind of tone that is often replicated , more or less , by composers of lesser musical scores of today's thrillers , with a nice touch of European in it for the subject matter . So , if you're looking for an Orson Welles / Edward G . Robinson fix and haven't come across the Stranger yet , you may come in for a really pleasant surprise .
unusual character study / road movie that could only be made in the 70s	Scarecrow is a low-key film that succeeds on all its ambitions , but not because it tries to aim low . That the tone at times doesn't feel as emotionally incredible or intense as some other films Gene Hackman and Al Pacino got their star-making turns in the 70s ( French Connection , Dog Day Afternoon , Serpico ) doesn't mean it's unsuccessful either . Jerry Schatzberg and his writer are out to capture a kind of outsider view of men trying to find their places in society , almost like how Michael Cimino would do ( to a more genre-oriented extent ) with Thunderbolt and Lightfoot . It's not a movie a lot of people would go out of their way to see , even with the star power involved . It's about two guys who've been released from confinement from the world around them , Max from six years in jail ( Hackman ) , Francis from five years out at sea in the Navy ( Pacino ) , and how the two meet up unintentionally while hitchhiking , unlikely pair up , and Hackman gets Pacino to go in with him on opening up a car wash in Pittsburgh . Why Pittsburgh ? Just one of the peculiarities of Max , mayhap ? More-so a thing of pride . There's characteristics to Max and Francis that make them compelling for the honesty in what they are : Max is a tough guy , tending to get drunk , get in fights , sex it up with women ( who knew Hackman had such , um , animal magnetism ) , and Francis ( also named Lion by Max ) is a clown , a little boy who somehow made the mistake of having a kid with a woman before he left the Navy , and has a present ready to give to the kid in Detroit - an androgynous lamp - despite not knowing entirely what to expect . It's an odd couple movie , but also one that has a more affecting view into a world of men on the fringe of society . These guys don't have big plans , and wouldn't want any anyway . It's refreshing to see that , and how it pans into the nature of them and their environment : the small towns , the local dives , the bad drunks , and , when things go bad after a big brawl during a drunken hoopla , the subtle horrors of prison for the both of them . Did I mention train-hopping ? A film like this , despite having on its side gorgeous cinematography by Vilmos Zsigmond ( who , along with Badlands and , in its own way Mean Streets , captures a vision of Americana that is pure and unique to its time and place ) , needs strong acting . Who better than Hackman and Pacino ? They're playing big personalities , with Hackman doing great as always in a somewhat typical part of a guy who's aggressive and pig-headed but does have a hear . And Pacino doing a rare comedic turn as he gives some of his funniest ( genuine , not unintentional scene-stealing ) moments , like his ' diversion ' gone wrong in the clothing store , or his classic " teach me how to handle a drunk " bit at the bar . Sometimes its too much , but it leads to a bittersweet side to the story that turns even more bitter by the time Schatzberg reaches the emotional climax in Detroit . What's been alternately crude and crazy , sometimes in ways that remind one a little of Altman , turns towards what is a small but great tragedy for these characters . And doing the script one better , the actors are able to get subtle , crushing , telling moments in scenes that others wouldn't be able to grasp with a ten-foot pole . It's also a fun movie , with a feel that you could only get in one of the truly great years in all movies ( look at the year this came out , and realize how many films of its ilk were released , be they independent-like from Scorsese or Altman or Ashby or even Romero , or even Friedkin's Exorcist ) . Scarecrow is of its time , but it doesn't mean it can't be greatly liked in the present ; it's even a near classic of genre subversion , doing a service to drama and comedy by not paying lip-service to either form , but enriching what comes naturally out of life , which is both sometimes , harrowingly , at once .
Bakshi's most personal work is a completely outlandish , crude , overtly abstract New York satire	Heavy Traffic is , like many of Ralph Bakshi's films , a like it or hate it affair , but for those that respond to it , the film provides many a surprising attack on sensibility , decency , and what it means to get by in urban sprawl . It's almost too personal ; one can see Bakshi or friends of his having gone through some of the little things in the lower ranks of New York City's daily life ( particularly Brooklyn life ) as depicted here . But it's this connection to a personal reality - and then a TOTAL adherence to turning this reality on its head and making it as wild , violent , and sexually deviant as possible - that is the key to the success of Bakshi's film , the best of his I've seen so far . His main character , Michael , is probably loosely based on himself ; a young , would-be underground cartoonist who lives with insanely irate parents ( Italian father and Jewish mother ) , and interacts with the neighborhood he's in with a casual attitude and a little reluctance to join in the mayhem that goes on with such kooky cats . Enter in Carole , a black bartender who won't take s from anyone , who teams up as a business partner , more or less , with Michael to first get cartoons off the ground , then , so it goes , misadventures in prostitution . It all leads up to an ending that isn't expected , though a sort of double-piling of shock and pleasant surprise . Heavy Traffic outlays Bakshi's outlook on life in a skill that could be called animated exploitation film-making . However , it's through this overloading of characters meant to be unattractive , sexually piggish , wretchedly racist ( and , on the other side of the coin , sexist ) , and violent in the tradition of the Looney Tunes cartoons with the worst taste , that the film gets to the guts of the matter . It's a half-embrace , half-attack on a lack of values in a society , and as Baskhi relishes in his excess , he also is criticizing both himself for lapping it up and those in the neighborhood for being such eccentric mother-fers . And , as a satire should be , it's very funny , occasionally uproariously so . Scenes like Michael being pressured to get it on with the girl on the mattress on the roof , and the outcome as a sort of running gag ; the scene with the song Mabeline playing , as Baskhi puts out drawings that are without much color , and look incredible for the reason that there's seemingly little effort put into the animation with the random over-the-top sexual positions ; the little bits in the feuding with Michael's parents , the mother with her Jewish-star knife-holster and the father with his dedication to the " Godfather " , who eats little people in his pasta , over anything really with his family ; and when Michael presents " religious " cartoons to a dying old man , which to any prurient Christian taste is hilariously offensive and , well , cool . Bakshi is so personal at times , with his taste in color schemes , in over-lapping images with film clips , combining live-action and animation ( usually with dancing ladies on one side and a lurid little twerp gawking on the other ) , and even likely real family photos from his own family laid in , that it levels going too far . There's a tendency for self-indulgence , however not always the bad kind , if that makes sense , and one can see how the film can and has been vehemently criticized for what it is really trying to criticize in the film . But deep down , past the creative madman in Bakshi , is also a heart ; his film ends on a touching note , as abstraction turns real and a totally live scene reveals another level to Michael and Carol , as real outcasts who are both totally stubborn , and somehow meant for each other . Heavy Traffic is a one-of-a-kind affair , and the kind of under-the-radar act of an outrageous spectacle that it could only be done in the 70s .
melancholy drama-comedy of career criminals in moral jeopardy	Playwright McDonaugh's debut feature , In Bruges , works only up to a point as a crime comedy ( however considering up to what point is quite remarkable ) , featuring a supporting cast ranging from quirky Euro-trash and plain old jolly eccentrics . But as a moral drama , it's almost as top of the pops one could ask for . The trailer didn't make it seem as such , then again it is hard to express the kind of conundrum that the main characters get themselves into while also appealing to a base of fans that love quip-type one liners ( i . e . " You're a bunch of bleeping elephants ! " or " If I was retarded , or grew up on a farm , Bruges would impress me , but I didn't , so I'm not impressed . " ) When In Bruges is at its best - and until its self-consciously symbolic touches in the last five minutes it usually is at its " Best " whatever that means - it expresses what I love seeing in films about career criminals : the total inner turmoil of what was done coming back to haunt the person . If it's true that no good deed goes unpunished , the same would probably go for bad deeds in the world of In Bruges , where the atmosphere of the practically medieval city is , the character Ken observes , like " a fairytale " , and a sharp contrast to the dark side pervading Ken , Ray , and Harry . The basic thrust of the plot is that Ray ( half wise-ass womanizer and half half-suicidal played by Farrell ) did a job back in London , a murder , which went horribly wrong in just one misstep ( I won't reveal it here , though I should , except to say that it's one of those cardinal rules career criminals / hit men have to stick to ) , and so he and the older , less cynical Ken ( Gleeson , who seems to be one of the most honest looking types in the character actor world , a spot-on casting choice ) , are sent to Bruges to receive more instructions . But those instructions , sent by the easily angered Harry ( Ralph Fiennes , doing almost a hilarious imitation of Kingskey in Sexy Beast ) , aren't followed through , and then some manner of chaos ensues . Here and there McDonaugh takes what appears to be a lackadaisical attitude to the characters in this otherwise tense and uncertain fatalistic situation , as if an odd-matched comic duo are in a place one likes and one only can stand for mocking midgets ( scuse me , dwarfs ) in movie-making and hitting on the one hot girl in all of Bruges . But it's such a strange form that McDonaugh is working with here , with its mix of tones that it suddenly feels , in the context of the slightly bizarre and chilling circumstances , truthful . It goes without saying the cast helps give the material a boost , and that McDonaugh doesn't throw too many out-of-left-field curve balls with the plot . If he does , it's not of the sort we know we're usually hitting in this kind of crime story loaded with gallows humor and Catholic redemption mini-saga . In short , if I were a bloke in Britain or a fella in Dublin , or a dupe in Bruges , as a writer this is the kind of stuff I'd immediately try to go for . It's smart , serious , mature genre work that relies on just enough blood-shed and violence and trauma to haunt its audience proper , and do its duty to supply another batch of wonderfully off-kilter ' comedy ' scenes for fans of British gangster flicks . That this is nowhere near as shallow as a Ritchie pic goes without saying .
Woody en Espanol	Vicki ( Rebecca Hall ) and Cristina ( Scarlet Johansson ) are the two main characters of Woody Allen's latest romantic comedy , but part of the ingenuity of the film is that the third name , Barcelona , is a character itself . Aside from the locales and hot-blooded , romantic atmosphere with Spanish guitars and wine in the night and gorgeous architecture during the day , which Allen and his DP capture wonderfully , the other characters Juan Antonio ( Javier Bardem ) and Maria Elena ( Penelope Cruz ) seem to spring out almost naturally out of this balmy city and country . It may be Allen's last international film for a while ( according to reports his next film will be back to New York ) , but it's maybe the best at evoking this effect of a place on the characters ( or , in spurts , its Jules and Jim inspiration ) . Vicki and Cristina , as we learn from the Barry Lyndon-esquire authoritative narrator , are on leave from New York City in Barcelona for the summer , Vicki for studying purposes and Cristina as her friend whose looking for something new creatively after a bad acting experience and an ex-boyfriend . Almost immediately after shacking up with friends Judy and Mark ( Patricia Clarkson and Kevin Dunn ) , Vicki and Cristina are approached one night by local painter Juan , who tempts them ( or rather Cristina ) with a week end in Obejo . Cristina falls for him immediately , but Vicki , already engaged to Doug ( Messina ) back in New York , is resistant to his charms - which , by the end of the week end , gives way to a passionate encounter . But after this , there's more complications , and not just with Vicki and Juan ( or the surprise arrival of Doug to Barcelona for an also surprise wedding ) and their suppressed affections . There's also Juan's ex-wife , Maria , who had a volcanic relationship and who comes back into Juan's life while Cristina is staying with him . To say much more would reveal and spoil a lot more of the fun and romance and questions Allen raises about monogamy and the complacency of marriage . Which , on the surface , might not sound like the 72 year old filmmaker is pursuing anything new to cover , as he's explored marriage , infidelity , and , as Maria Elena says at one point to Cristina , chronic dissatisfaction with lovers . And yet when it's at its best , and here's the surprising part , Vicki Cristina Barcelona is Allen's funniest , most intelligent and well-acted romantic comedy in many years , maybe even in this decade ( which maybe isn't saying a lot since this and Match Point are the closest he's reached to greatness since the 90s ) . It works because of the actors dedication to the material : Cruz is a total tornado of a presence here , with this and Volver her best performances to date ; Bardem , again , shows his layers in Juan as a man of romance and love and lust but also tenderness and humor and rage and all these things that show how great an actor he is ; Hall is very good in a part that some actresses might sleepwalk through if not coached and coaxed right ; Clarkson , for just one or two scenes where she reveals her own fractured marriage to Vicki , is great ; and Johansson , who as a given is stunning in her appearance , reveals again in the context of a Woody Allen movie how underrated she can be as an actress - when used right and not just as ho-hum window dressing . It also works because Allen knows how to write dialog and relationships so brilliantly , maybe better than anyone working in film today in terms of simple but all-too-complex revelations on the trapped nature of the human condition , the struggle of what love is and what it is to be an artist , or simply how to function with someone that you love , but don't " love " in that same way one meets a sweeping-off-your-feet romance in Barcelona like so . The scenes he writes here are so good , and are so cool in being a kind of Woody-version of a Spanish soap opera ( hysterical couple and three-way included , though not graphic ) , that he almost gets in the way of it with the narration . This last part is the only real significant flaw , as unlike in Husbands and Wives , where Allen used narration in a documentary style and to shorter bits of effect , here it takes some getting used to having a person talking as if reading excerpts from a trashy romance novel , and pops in giving those " and then she never felt the same way again " kind of notations to a character or scene that are just unnecessary . If you love classic Woody Allen romance comedy , and you also are interested in how he's starting to get a little riskier , a little more interested in the existential angles of his characters that he's touched on off-and-on for years and has only finally ( Match Point and Cassandra's Dream ) opened up in full bitter glory , this is the pick of the rest of the summer , maybe even of the year . Overall , you just don't get rom-coms this smart , or just plain funny and perfectly PG-13 outrageous , as Vicki Cristina Barcelona gets .
Enjoyable mostly on nostalgic terms , and great with an audience	Throughout this film , you might think this film is just for kids . Well , it is mainly pointed towards them , but it's also well-rounded enough with the jokes pointed also at the adults in the audience . This time around , the Muppet gang try to get on Broadway , with the dire straits keeping them from getting it produced , leading them to splitting up . But Kermit won't stop , and his determination keeps things moving along until after getting the deal together he gets hit by a car and sent into amnesia ! It's a send-up , in part , of those old starring vehicles from the 40s with musicals actually as the topic of a musical , only here there's the usual lot of zaniness and wonderful moments thrown into a pot of hysterically funny moments ( Lou Zealand's boomerang fish ; Gonzo's water-stunt display , the whisper campaign , among many others ) , but also with a lot of heart too . The Muppet writers aren't shy of the conventions , on the contrary , they embrace them to the point where it's almost refreshing to see such a ' lets put on a show ' story where through thick and think the characters will meet their dream . While not as totally original in scope as the Muppet Movie , it's got many catchy and memorable songs , excellent locations all over Manhattan , and even some intonations of inter-species dating ( and marriage ) ! Cameos include Liza Minneli ( " a frog ? " ) , Elliot Gould ( as the cop ) , Brooke Shields ( propositioned by a rat ) , Edward I . Koch , Gregory Hines and Joan Rivers . So get ready to sing-along , or just have a lot of big laughs and romantic ( yes romantic ) times with one of the best Muppet movies .
Bertolucci's most ambitious production , if not perfect then with the aspirations of great art	Here it is , finally after over thirty years of wait , 1900 ( Novecento ) is out on DVD for those who never got to see the full uncut version ( which were most Americans , particularly those who didn't see it on VHS years ago ) , and it's happy to report that the picture comes in a small variety of language / subtitle options . While one wouldn't want this to be simply a report on the condition of the DValbeit there's an interesting interview with Bernardo Bertolucci on the 2nd disc - it would be important to note how one might feel about switching back and forth and / or committing to watching the picture in a particular language . This isn't a Leone western , after all , where it's not too horrible to watch it in simple English all the way through for its crucial American stars . There's American actors , as well as a few others , who speak English , and then a host of hundreds of extras and supporting players speaking the native tongue . In short advice , stick mostly with English ( it is people like De Niro , Sutherland , Depardieu and Lancaster here after all ) , but for those little moments like with the children in the first quarter , try some of the Italian portions for realism sake . Because this is , indeed , such an ambitious work , such a passion project , such a work by a director running strong off the steam of his previous successes ( The Conformist , Last Tango in Paris ) , a work including people from all over Europe and the States , and according to the director with the original - and later admitted naive - intention of the picture being a " bridge " between the US and Russia , that it's easy to say it is a big waste . It is a huge film , covering a story that includes multiple human dimensions , character arcs , and a political canvas that is explicitly Marxist at the least in iconography if not in message . It got lauded in the US even at its abbreviated four hour running time , and has only recently been rediscovered . But then again it will either seem a success artistically or a mess , or maybe both depending on how much a viewer can take of Bertolucci's pirouetting camera movements and the occasional jarring scene transition . It covers , essentially , a tale of friendship , which to me is a strength in conventional wisdom : the two sides of the coin on a farm in the first half of the 20th century , as Alfredo ( as an adult De Niro ) and Olmo ( as an adult Depardieu ) become close friends after sharing the same birthday , but lead different paths as the former is the inheritor of the land turned quasi fascist and the latter is a worker-cum-socialist . Bertolucci enriches the saga with relationships with women , one severed with Olmo and the other a very jagged tale with Dominique Sanda as moody Ada , and with a vicious villain with the ultimate fascist Attilla ( get it ? ) played by Sutherland . For all of the pieces of the story that bulk up the picture to its current length , for the most part all of the sections are important in building up who our two ' sides ' are , and how certain personal events ( i . e . Lancaster and Haydens ' respective deaths , the theft of a gun , the pressures with violence and their unspoken destinies ) shape them as much if not more than the state of politics . It's so rich and alive and engrossing a story , with moments that intrigue and question and actually shock ( a certain scene with a cat and Sutherland had me cringe , and another with a boy had my mouth drop ) , that it's a shame to report it's not the pinnacle of Bertolucci's career . It is probably too long , by how much I can't definitively say ; it isn't acted all around greatly ( Sanda , for example , has no place being among the likes of De Niro and Sutherland and Depardieu who all deliver real top shelf work here , particularly De Niro as his mid-point between Corleone and Bickle ) ; and as mentioned some scenes transition a little suddenly , like with a key turning point scene at a wedding that goes on to a pig killing some undetermined time later . And yet all of these flaws are somewhat minuscule in the grandiosity of the film as a whole . It's full of tremendous cinematography by given virtuoso Vittorio Storaro , it's got that classic score by Ennio Morricone that reminds us he didn't just score gun fights , and its so frank in how it expresses its mix of sex , violence and politics that it blends the line between melodrama and realism to an unbelievable T . There's even a kind of double ( or even triple ) climax that goes from invigorating to bittersweet and finally really , really strange . It's ultimately the work of a filmmaker who actually used momentary carte blanche to his advantage and carved out his own piece of history . Whether or not it connected with everyone is another matter .
one of the most fascinating documentaries to come out of HBO films	It's been useful to watch Capturing the Friedmans a few times since first seeing it in the theater three years ago . It's a film that , much like in daily-life , deserves more than just one glance over with such devastating events . The film depicts not so much the facts or testimonies in the case of Arnold and Jessie Friedman and the pedophile charges that sent them both to prison ( though it does to a great extent ) , but really more so the rift in an already flawed family . But all of the joys and humor that a family tries to have even in the darkest moments is revealed as well , and its a kind of weird testament to how family should , and sometimes does not , stick together in the harshest , most nightmarish conditions . As a documentary , the viewer is given as many sides as possible , though perhaps more with the family's side ( some of those who testified or gave evidence on the prosecution side don't even reveal faces , which adds to the curious nature of what may or may not be true ) , and a very close , nearly voyeuristic look at the Friedmans through the video footage stored up . What Jarecki then culls together in the end is part Rashomon take on what happened , with a very psychological and skeleton-closet tide to it all through Arnold Friedman's past , with another part a detailing of the specifics of the case ( some of them kind of unbelievable in a couple of spots ) , and another part being like an all-too-true and harsh reality-TV type of area . These are people who are , warts and all , not too ashamed to put themselves on tape in order to capture ( hence the title ) what's going on . It's even shown how , towards the end , how destructive video-tapping can be , even as one gets the complete , subjective view as to why it was done . Also , as a kind of pure take on the dysfunctional family , the film is about as good as it gets , where the emotions and conflicts do not leave things as black and white . There are some very gray areas that are not looked over , and it all adds up to a point where the viewer is given more questions than definite answers . Did they really do what they were charged ? Who to believe ? This is a documentary , even through more staggering and uncomfortable parts , is really worth watching , as it stirs up conversation and talk about not just the facts in the case or about the people ( family and otherwise ) , but about how a family can or cannot stick together in crisis .
stop the channel and keep this on if you find this on TV , or on DV	For the movie buff in us all , whether casual or die-hard , the story of Jerry Harvey , who pioneered independent pay-TV services , is the story of the tragic hero , whom for the people who subscribed to his Z channel got the best of the best in international cinema , and then some . He started out booking films into theaters , usually obscure titles and films people should ( but don't ) seem to care about . Then he moved his ambitions to television , where he and a small office of support created the Z Channel , a kind of dark horse alongside the up and coming HBO and Showtime and Cinemax . All they showed were movies , mostly foreign films or westerns or crime films ( Harvey , we learn , was a great friend of Sam Peckinpah , as well as Michael Cimino ) , and were also profitable in showing the ' Night Owl ' films ( which today over-run Cinemax ) . He brought films like Once Upon a Time in America , Heaven's Gate , and the Leopard in their fully uncut , realized glory , helped usher in films that got over-looked , and for his time until the end of Z channel in 1989 , he had his own underground dominion . But the film doesn't shy away from personal details either , details I dare not go into here . He had a troubled childhood , which spread as we learn in the film into his adult years . In between his movie deals and such he had peaks and valleys of depression and anxiety and anger issues , finally coming to a head when he murdered his wife , then himself . Though the film doesn't sugar-coat the details , some more surprising than others , it doesn't make him out to be a bad person . More than anything , director " Xan " Cassavetes ( daughter of the director John ) gives a fully realized human dimension to this man , at times a little eccentric , but very intelligent , and at the core someone who sought his salvation , entertainment , and enlightenment in great cinema . As other filmmakers like Jim Jarmusch , Quentin Tarantino , and Alexander Payne recant their recollections of what the channel had to offer them , the memories of discovering movies for the first time thanks to Harvey and the channel , it brings to mind something crucial that is a part of cinema . In a way , Harvey , in his limited resources ( unfortunately , after Harvey's death Z channel went nowhere , never making it to the reputable , corporate heights of HBO and Showtime ) , did something that every movie buff needs - a friend to bring good , or great films to light , to recommend and turn people on to art that may not get shown on the Sunday afternoon movie . Through all of his flaws , mostly not of his fault to start with , he was a kind of independent pioneer in Pay-TV television , paving the way for a channel like IFC ( which premiered the film , by the way ) , and for a larger group , that films should be seen without studio's censors and scissors , that the director's vision is paramount for a film fan . This documentary brings to light that , and as an extra bonus shows numerous , beautiful , and strange clips from films . Only thing missing are some archival clips from the actual Z channel itself , or Harvey in a TV interview .
very likely the funniest spaghetti western ever made , or at least most kidding with the genre conventions	Sergio Leone picked a good director to helm his production of My Name is Nobody , as Tonino Valerii brings a sensibility that wouldn't of been the same had Leone taken the helm . It's not that Valerii steers too far away from certain trademarks of the quintessential spaghetti western director : expansive close-ups , beautiful master-shots showing the sprawling landscapes of the deserts and small towns of the old west , and of course Ennio Morricone . But this time there's a change of the guard in terms of homage - now it's not just going for an epic quality , but full-on comedy stylings . There's room to compare this to old westerns with Henry Fonda just as much as there's comparison to the Three Stooges . Or Buster Keaton . Because nothing is taken too seriously , it ends up having some strong underlying statements about gunslingers in the old west , the young catching up with the old , and the old ' times they are a changing ' logic that comes with the territory . The tone is light , though at the same time there's still that level of ultra-cool suspense that can be found in Leone's work . Valerii takes it up a notch in the direction of something a little less violent , however ( the film is technically rated PG , despite quite a few dozen deaths at one point ) . Terrence Hill is the title character , a guy who's strikingly handsome but perpetually goofy , who takes on as a big challenge Jack Bouregarde ( Fonda , his last western , a good one to go out on , if not as great as his previous role as Frank ) , who's a hero gunslinger . Nobody has fixed a ' Wild Bunch ' to come after him , and to what end ? Much of the film focuses on Nobody , until the second half when Nobody keeps prodding on Jack with his vague threats in the guise of ' fairy tales ' his grandfather used to tell him . And all the while it's consistently hilarious material , particularly if you know Leone's stuff well ( eg the gag from For a Few Dollars More where shooting a hat holds as much danger as comic timing ) , and tries at least to plug into the viewer who's in on the joke of not just an homaged western and homaged Leone western ( Morricone's score has tones from Once Upon a Time in the West , but comes close to sounding like a coffee commercial at times ) , but an homage to silent comedies and slapstick . Where else , for example , will you see a gunslinger such as Nobody fight off a potential assailant in a bar by just continually slapping him around as if Moe Howard possessed him for a full minute ? How about the gun being slung up at 16 frames-per-second ? Or a montage within an action sequence with Jack versus the ' Wild Bunch ' where freeze-frames of reactions from Nobody and pages from ' history ' showing Jack killing off the posse pop up ? And there's a fun-house / mirror scene that comes about as close to The Lady From Shanghai as the most memorable in all cinema . Some of it might just be all silly-by-proxy ; it's a big belly laugh to see Hill with a serious face hold a stick still in the air waiting for a bug to go underwater to catch a fish . In fact Hill is strangely enough a huge part to the success of the film by sticking to his two-dimensional profile with just the best bits of subversion : looking at his eyes one can't always tell whether he's being serious , crazy , or just plain joking around , like in the saloon . He wouldn't work as the typical bad-ass , stoic Leone anti-hero / villain , but Valerii understands how to handle his abilities . Same goes for Fonda , only he doesn't have to go too far to be effective : all he needs to do is to keep a silence going , a look that says everything that needs to be said ( albeit he lays it on heavy in the final letter , something that definitely would not be in a typical Leone film ) . And yet even with all of Valerii's kidding moments and high-spirits ( watch out little guy on stilts ! ) , there is some genuine artistry at work too , as when the Wild Bunch is seen coming ahead through the desert ( the wide-reaching over-head angle is the best shot in the film ) , and it reveals that there could be some worth in checking out other obscurer efforts of his . As it stands , I could watch it anytime it's on TV , if only as a pick-me-up if it's a soggy day . For fans of the western it is a must-see , if only for the fun of it all , and to get a pure in-joke regarding Sam Peckinpah .
a grisly ghost story , for its dedication to simplicity with characters , absorbing style and a bleak perspective	Guillermo del Toro is fascinated by characters who aren't apart of the battles during war , but at the same time he's also just as , if not more , compelled by the plight of children caught in the cross-hairs of good people and very bad people . It's also all the more an amazing view after seeing Pan's Labyrinth , the two films as sort of quasi-film cousins where it's the same universe ( del Toro has commented that he sees the characters of Carlos in this film and Ofelia in ' Labyrinth ' as two sides of a coin , or close to it , as characters with fantasy elements as something just as real as the brutal nature surrounding them with everyone else ) . Aside from the little things the stories share in common , like little details involving keys and doors and the uncanny persistence of both children and adults with their own large lots of problems , the Devil's Backbone has a real force pulling along the characters to an ending that gets progressively more bleak and bloody ( the body count is fairly high , some characters dying in big ways like in explosions and smaller , more affecting ways in chairs suffering from wounds ) . But all the while there is also the sense that del Toro is telling something that is half history book territory and half story-round-the-campfire material , handled with an assurance rare in contemporary films , especially from Mexico . Like in ' Labyrinth ' as well , del Toro casts his film well with faces that leave strong impressions not soon after we first see them , and get stronger in our minds as we see more looks to one another , exchanges that speak many words that are not always totally answered by ' how did this and this ' happen . Carlos ( Tielve ) is one of several orphans left at a slightly run-down and more than slightly spooky school out in almost the middle of nowhere . There's a doctor Caesares ( Luppi , who comes off like a cross between Fernando Rey - a del Toro influence is Bunuel - and Christopher Lee ) who has some unconventional practices , like holding onto fetuses kept in bottles with strange back deformities . There's also the conniving Jacinto ( Noriega , if not as impressionable and terrifying as Lopez's Vidal in Pan's Labyrinth still makes his mark as a slowly revealing presence of evil ) , who's having an affair with the head schoolteacher , who also has part of a leg missing . Then there's the younger Conchita ( Visedo ) , who will play a bigger part in the story as it goes along in its tale-spin later on . But the adults are one side of it only , as it's really the first of del Toro's films to deal with the staggering but not-too sentimental plights of children . Carlos , upon arrival at the orphanage , becomes the target of a seeming bully , Jaime ( Garces ) , and upon pulling a kind of water challenge one night , he sees what is to his eyes pure and simple - a ghost , a child ghost to be exact . One of the smart things is how del Toro establishes well the supernatural elements while also getting the child actors , all very good , to convey what should be typical story grounds : the push and pull of the stubborn oldest of the pack and the young new upstart with as good a soul as possible . As the more crushing dramatic turns come with Jacinto's betrayal - and destruction of the premises - it draws the kids inexorably into death and decay , but del Toro makes it on the one hand graphic enough to make the point that kids ' perspectives ( albeit boys , all the same open to loss of total innocence ) are changed by present and past views of violence . The whole facet of the ghost here could possibly be taken as less striking as the one involving the elderly doctor and the money-hungry Jacinto , but throughout , by use of stark contrasts in lighting , deft combinations of make-up and computer effects , the mystery of Santi , the boy lost to the darkest secret of the school , remains strong all the way to the harsh climax . This won't be the same exhilarating cinematic experience for some that Pan's Labyrinth was , and the possible argument that del Toro doesn't quite explore as completely his child-protagonist's own world with that of the world surrounding him outside of the shadows and dark corridors . Then again , del Toro conveys the shattered lives of children - and how there are more layers than might be expected - maturely , and as an always interesting counterpoint to the desperation , lust , love , loss and green of the adults . The Devil's Backbone , in the end , is blood-curdling as horror movie and historical piece , and even manages to squeeze in one or two moments of pitch-dark humor ( it is partly Bunuel influence after all , particularly Los Olvidados with the kids ) .
a man who could play the coolest blues , the most far-out rock , and a good man behind the ultimate tragedy	Jimi Hendrix chronicles the story of the man , the myth , the legend , the left-handed dude with a love of the blues and Bob Dylan , and who took rock and roll almost to another planet ( just listen to some of the tracks off Electric Ladyland and see how he goes into music like the equivalent of a crazy science fiction writer ) . He was also , as described by Eric Clapton , " guillible " , and susceptible to the leeches that lay around him that , by way of the drugs , led to his very sudden downfall . Had he lived there's no doubt he could have had an output that for his genre would be the equivalent of one of those great 18th century European composers or even 20th century Jazzmen . There's been so much written about him that he's been elevated to the status he's at today , so it's a welcome thing to see this documentary so soon after his death . Welcome , though also one can see the pain in some of the interviewees under the surface . Many on screen , his fellow ex-band-mates like Billy Cox and Mitch Mitchell , and some of his own family and close friends , still have the memory of Jimi fresh in their minds , and so their recollections , both loving and even critical , comes at a time when there's still a lot to ponder . Through this and various concert clips ( some well known like Woodstock and Monterey Pop clips , some more obscure like Band of Gypsies and Isle of Wight ) , and a superb interview conducted by Dick Cavett , portray Hendrix as a smart guy who could play a guitar like , as Townsend describes , " an instrument . " In truth - and even for those who may just admire him as opposed to outright love and cherish his music - he was reaching into territory that was far surpassing anything done in the late 60s . He had the basics down for the best in blues ( maybe my favorite scene in the film , maybe exclusive just to this documentary , has him in a white room playing a ' Train ' type of blues song that is so invigorating to see what he comes up with , begging the cameras to keep rolling ) . He also was a kind of wild man about his imagination , and so didn't hold back with an audience . He appealed to white and black , rock and blues , soul and ( as might be the case years later ) heavy metal , and without ever making himself into a commodity - that was done after he was dead and buried . What A Film About Jimi Hendrix portrays is a confident man , at peace with himself , but as is described by those around him someone who had such extraordinary things about him that his few flaws made his undoing . And it is a near perfect treat for die-hard fans .
near classic prison noir / melodrama with excellent performances	Brute Force is hard-hitting and ultimately quite tragic because the director , Jules Dassin , and his screenwriter Richard Brooks don't go for a simple , self-righteous " bad guys always lose " policy that movies had at the time thanks to the Legion of Decency and the Hayes Code . By the end of Brute Force , without giving a whole lot away , our ' heroes ' in the prison cell R-17 don't get away scott-free , but there's a greater indictment called upon that makes the film ultimately a lot richer than it would be in other hands . The film examines a penitentiary that has a warden but is basically run by cold-blooded , tyrannical Munsey ( Hume Cronyn , perfect for this weasel who is a true-blue torturer ) , and the convicts in cell R-17 , including Burt Lancaster in an early role as Joe Collins , among a handful of men who have committed crimes but are portrayed in flashback as not being particularly ruthless or horrible in their acts or deeds . If anything , Dassin and Brooks set up a particular sympathy for the criminals that might have just skirted by the strict side of the Hayes Code ( I wonder if the last words of the film , however crushing in existential tone , were forced on the filmmakers by the Hayes people ) by making the situation not really black and white at all . On the contrary , Brute Force is an alive and harsh piece of film-noir with some searing scenes of melodrama because there's some gray territory ( i . e . if it was black and white the Warden , too , would be ruthless and corrupt , but he just wants to run an orderly prison that his inmates will respect , unlike Munsey ) . Many scenes have that edge of a thriller , those surprise scenes that keep you talking after the picture ends like the guy getting crushed under the gears of the machine , or the torturing of the ' reporter ' , or even those somewhat predictable but heart-rending flashbacks that the prisoners have to their sweethearts on the other side ( some , sadly , divorcing , others sick and need care ) . All the while the performances are top-notch , especially from Cronyn , Lancaster , Bickford and Levine as Louie Miller . Sometimes it's hard to pull off a really surprising prison-break-out flick , but Jules Dassin treats it with the same entertainment value , as well as general tragic pathos , that made films like Rififi so memorable . It's a tough " guy " flick that has a heart .
Like walking into Bunuel and Dalis ' brains and going through the doors they have wide open - plenty of unforgettable moments	Luis Bunuel was a filmmaker of great imagination and scathing wit , and Salvador Dali was a magnificent , albeit demented , artist and painter . Combined they made Un Chien Andalou ( The Andalousian Dog ) , a short-film that somehow made it through the decades to reach another generation after another . This is because surrealism , the field they were working in , was one that could be endlessly creative . Surrealists could and still can captivate , startle , amuse , primarily provoke and / or even delight an audience by the story elements and images that come right out of fantasy , both on the bright and dark / bleak side of things . L'Age D'Or was a chance for Bunuel to go further , and if his goal was to enlighten the audience as well as to stir the sstorm , he succeeded . In the first five to ten minutes of L'Age D'Or , I didn't know whether I knew exactly what was going on , or was totally boggled - the first images Bunuel puts forth are of scorpions ( insects were one of his fascinations ) , and how they're shaped and how ferocious they can be . Then he cuts to some men who have guns by their side , walking through deserted rocks . THEN , after this , he cuts to a ship docking by the coastline where the guys with the guns were walking , and he never goes back to them again . Instead he focuses on one of the bourgeoisie men who is raping a woman , and who is dragged off into the imperial city . If you look at this story structure it doesn't seem to make sense - what is it that Bunuel and Dali are trying to get at here ? It was when the rest of the story unfolded - with a particular bourgeoisie woman at a party who meets the man who was dragged off of the rocks - that I understood the logic I had first discovered in Un Chien Andalou and a later work of his , Discreet Charm of the Bourgeoisie . Bunuel doesn't just toss a bunch of ideas together and think that it'll all make sense . In the thought process of a dream - one with light-hearted moments with romance and wonderful music , as well as terrifying moments like a cow on a bed or a man shooting his son in broad daylight - L'Age D'Or works like a kind of clockwork . Though the last ten five minutes of the film did throw me off almost completely , by then I didn't care . I knew that , overall , Bunuel accomplished his goals of making a film that hypnotizes , repulses , opens the eyes a little wider , and almost gets one cross-eyed . With his attacks on whatever was considered decent , straightforward art in cinema , both political , sociological , psychological , and personal , there are many messages to be seen in the work . However , when it's looked at as a whole , this is simply a work of art , one that has to be interpreted by the individual . Like one of Dali's paintings , one could view the work as nonsense , the work of an amateur mentally masturbating for the viewer . One could even see it as being rather entertaining when looking at the human elements that come through from the actors and the actions that take place . And one could see it as meaning so much that it will take another couple of viewings to " get " what was being said . I turned off the movie feeling breathless , like being put through a washing machine of astonishing turns and emotions . At one point my jaw dropped , and then at the next point I smiled . To sum it up , I definitely want , and need , to see it again . . . one more note - this is a very , very hard film to find , one that has been kept out of circulation on video ( it was also kept out of circulation in movie theaters for decades due to its controversies at the time of its release ) , but to seek it out is to take a chance that could equally pay off or disturb a particular viewer .
an uncommonly sweet film from Peckinpah ; can't wait to see it again !	The Ballad of Cable Hogue isn't exactly a " light " offering from Peckinpah , but then again what would be ? This is however not something almost unthinkable at the time like the Wild Bunch . If anything , after that film , Peckinpah decided to go onto something that would let him focus even more on just character , and on a story that took another look at the old west ( while , also , looking at the changing-of-the-tide sort of theme from the previous picture ) . Robards is terrific , and very funny , as the drifter who makes a buck after building up a way-station in the middle of the desert . Cable Hogue is a man of ideals that are just grand enough for him , as he stumbles upon a luck of a spring in the ground and makes it his own . Robards often has the good memory of his career of that as a character actor mostly , with memorable parts in Once Upon a Time in the West , All the Presidents Men , and lastly in Magnolia , among many many others . Here , in one of his leading roles , he gives full life to this character , and under Peckinpah's direction he's a man who's a little too complex to peg as just one thing with women , or one thing in dealing with a gunslinger or a prospector , and gives him a feature of respectability , or at least some interest , even when Hogue should be at his worst . Despite some of the darker undertones that come up from time to time , it might be Peckinpah's sweetest film , where a prostitute with a heart-of-gold like Hildy ( amusing Stella Stevens ) works just right , and the music by Jerry Goldsmith matches the mood every step of the way , notably in that opening scene with Hogue stumbling about and going into freeze-frame . Sometimes the humor even gets a little dirty ( how about that panty shot ! ) , but it doesn't ring untrue . In one of the few times in Peckinpah's career where the producers knew well enough to let him alone to make his movie , The Ballad of Cable Hogue turned out as one of his better films , a testament to one of his pet subjects without the notorious angle of violence with it .
on the contrary to a couple of reviewers , I LOVED the ending ; the rest is very good , if not great , exploitation film-making	By 1970 Russ Meyer had established himself as a ' like-him-or-not ' director , fiercely independent , with the kind of edge that set him apart from other burgeoning independent American directors ( he's certainly not Cassavetes ) as well as shlockmeisters and pornographers ( too experimental and in love with comic timing for that ) . With Beyond the Valley of the Dolls he and , yes folks , Roger Ebert , got in and , as Meyer described , the " lunatics took over the asylum . " Which isn't to say their movie didn't make money , or end up as a big cult smash that can play any time in the country to a packed house . But that they snuck in just the kind of subversion that is somewhere between Mad Magazine and Hustler . It's raunchy ( albeit , and maybe to somewhat disappointment , not as raunchy as some of Meyers smaller budgeted films ) , it's flashy , it's a rock and roll fantasy of campy and drugs and , in the end , lots of over the top violence . In fact , when ' Beyond ' is at its best , it's got the stuff of classic exploitation film-making , and with a bit more finesse and class beneath its subversion . Meyer was a self-trained cinematographer and editor , and it shows , though in different degrees . The film looks crisp and clear and without the spottiness of more to-the-point B and Z movie directors . But the editing shows his real knack at pushing the boundaries . It's strange to see how fast the movie does that , MOVE , with twice as many cuts per scene , but not with the kind of obviousness that seems to come around today ( albeit , as others have said , Meyer was ahead of his time ) . Comic-book like , but not quite , it's one of the things that sets him definitively when watching any of his work ; there are some scenes , like the " intro " to Los Angeles , the drug scene at Z-Man's pad with the Sorcerer's Apprentice music on , and all the ' fluffy ' scenes that are 100 % self-conscious , work in large part to Meyer's spectacular style at the movieola . Plot ? Um , does it matter ? Maybe a little - a three-piece rock group is lured out to Hollywood , and get sucked in , along with their manager , into the muck of ego and excess with multiple sexual partners , jealousy , scandal , etc etc . That's the basic of it . The more meaty explanation is that it's an amalgamation of a lot of differing clichés , all potent for the taking : sex farce , rock drama , infidelity crisis , drug tragedy . And the way it comes off , one is not sure whether it's sometimes meant to be intentionally stupid , or just is . It probably is , for purists , a " bad " movie , but in a sense Ebert and Meyer ask every step of the way : what is " bad " ? Can bad taste be forgiven if it's pulled off with dead-pan seriousness and a panache for parody ? It skims the line every so tautly , with Meyer's predilection for his busty gals ( all of them , actually , not bad as actresses either , at least in this context ) going up against the impression of Hollywood and rock and roll excess . Think Josie and the Pussycats in a fricassee of X-rated madness . Though I should say , contrary to a few critics of the film , if anything puts it into the stratosphere of being memorable so many years later - when it does , ironically , become dated - it's the climax involving Z-man ( ahem , Super Woman ) and Meyers's outrageous take on the Charles Manson massacre . It's totally ludicrous , including the chiming of the Fox studio theme during the beheading , all the way to the actual gun shots , and the narration right after it where every character is summed up with their flaws and the " message " with each . If anything this is where the filmmaker reaches his most inspired , and likely one of the great climaxes in any B-movie . Beyond the Valley of the Dolls is a twisted warp of satire and sincerity , and it should be seen by any serious fan of cinema ( I mean that seriously , even if the reaction will be the farthest thing from old European masters or William Wyler ) .
not for all tastes , but if you're in the right crazy-comedy mode it could be one of Woody's funniest films	In its own nature , the film being made fun of within the film What's Up , Tiger Lily is inherently silly . It's a James Bond rip-off done to the Nth degree , where based on only a few films its Japanese B-movie counterpart does everything just in imagery alone to make it a ludicrous action-movie experience . Just in the opening moments , even before Woody Allen appears on the screen to explain the method to the madness in the film , is quite funny in a bad-movie sort of way . And I think that it's probably not too unexpected that it puts a divide in Woody Allen's audience . There's the group that's more into just his later style of wit and humor , and I can tell that for those it's not surprising to see some not really ' getting ' into this style of wacky , off-the-wall , cartoon humor . But after seeing a couple of more dramatic films recently , this one really did the trick . It's the film that was the most likely to spawn the underground Night of the Living Dead parody of 1991 , along with Kung Pow ( the former being better than the latter ) , but it also has a kin-ship , if not ascendancy , of the ZAZ comedies of the late 70s and 80s , and even a tinge of Mel Brooks . So , for me , this is actually one of my favorite Woody Allen comedies . Not really up as high in terms of cinematic ' quality ' ( in terms of craftsmanship , I mean ) as his 70s films , but with material like this , it's almost required not to carp . Woody and his team of writers and voice actors almost have it cut out for them . There's much to wonder , perhaps , in what the ' real ' plot of this Japanese spy film ( Kokusai himitsu keisatsu : Kagi no kagi , or International Secret Police : Key of Keys ) is almost as funny as what the writers come up with . Spies and assassins are on the look out for , get this , an Egg salad recipe ! But , of course , this is just as much a gimmick as is , well , much of the rest of what comes out of the actor's mouths . At times I wasn't even sure if it was all Woody Jokes , or which were ( twenty minutes , apparently , are not by Woody Allen's group but by someone else , though it's hard to tell which is a credit to most involved ) , but I didn't care . It's got the kind of jokes that , on a certain plain , can allow you to laugh like an idiot . Certain gags just come with the territory of the film itself , and are heightened by the added bits during fights . But much of the film is based on the wit Woody's known for , though here sometimes to equally ' bad-pun ' and juvenile terms , even featuring ( practically never in any of his other films ) rock and roll and cartoon-like voices ( my favorite the snake-obsessed henchman ) right out of Looney Tunes and Ren & Stimpy . So many lines strike up laughs to greater or lesser degrees it's hard to really spot them out , but it's suffice to say that by the time it's done - and through its end credits featuring an eye-exam - you'll know whether you'll want to watch it again like a ZAZ or Brooksfilm to memorize the quotable lines and bits , or put it in the lower , deeper-to-find section in your video collection . Things like a spy who bursts into an operatic love song during tense confrontation scenes , and with puns like " two Wong's don't make a right " , are what you can expect in this film , but there's more , and it will either ignite the anything-goes funny button , or just not do it for you . One thing's for sure , you'll never see the Lovin ' Spoonful the same way again . By the way , this review reflects the Woody Allen dub of the movie ( of what's there anyway ) , and it's available on the DVD ; recommended over the other dub that's been floating around too .
plenty of scabrous bits of Bunuel's Catholic - and faith-based - criticism and questioning ; the parts are much greater than the whole	I might be tempted to call the Milky Way a masterpiece , but for all of the excellent scenes that dance along on the edge of being silly , strange , dead-serious , and scathing in attack , Luis Bunuel doesn't make it quite an easy first viewing . It is , alongside Phantom of Liberty , though maybe more-so considering its picaresque flow , a difficult film to follow at times , as the folds go in and out of the two pilgrims on their way to Compostela as if in an ocean current . We see Jesus and his disciples . We see some 15th ( or 4th ) century sermons and heretic slayings and practices , sometimes seeming as mystical as something out of the Dark Crystal . And there's even a duel between two sides of the Catholic coin debating between specifics in the nature of god while fencing furiously . It's what could be defined , if one were looking for an easy label , true surrealism , pointed right at the edge of contradictions , of the daring of the random and of chances taken at the expense of all authority be damned , and at the same time it's a drama of fanaticism and faith in general . What is it to believe and actually buy into these guys , who at their most genial are storytellers and at their worst will burn you at the stake for not going for God in threes versus God as one ? Bunuel , at the least for his admirers , makes an attempt with his collaborator Jean-Claude Carriere , to raise questions in the midst of raucous entertainment . Although Bunuel can be even greater when being devilish and playful ( eg Discreet Charm ) , the Milky Way displays the filmmaker reveling in the history and nature of heresy in a construct that's maybe more daring . One truly can't expect what will come next , as one may see a scene with a priest flip-flopping about whether or not the Holy Ghost is in the communion wafer or not ( and soon thereafter taken back to the asylum ) , and then a scene with a rag-tag group of evangelicals in the woods who may or may not be paying heed to God , or to the Devil , or both , or a chef being questioned about how Jesus walked and then a cut-away to how Jesus really walked . As the two pilgrims go along their way , having their own delirious encounters - missing by a bit being struck by lightning , debating Christian free will , one hoping for a car to crash , which does , and then seeing some angel of death or other in the back-seat , and in their continuous streak of being turned away / kicked out by those who would take them in if not for essential hypocrisies - a pattern does start to form ( if one could call it that ) , or at least the essential pieces to Bunuel's puzzle . A lot of times one laughs at the subtlety and the outrageousness : should Jesus shave , do nuns crucify one another , how much can a priest pontificate about not having sex under any circumstances . But it's actually after the film ends that even more ideas start to come around . And yet Bunuel is so cunning , so deadpan with how he directs the actors - some part of his repertory , some not - that it skims into becoming straight drama , which in that case would make it almost dull ; the film actually faced some ( un-fair ) criticism when first released that Bunuel had suddenly made a film cherishing the things he used to damn . How curious , deranged , and honest even in this part of the appeal , the playing of both sides . While it is fairly well known that Bunuel became an atheist following a strict Catholic upbringing ( one quote of his , also the name of a documentary on the Criterion DVD , is " I'm an atheist , thank God " ) , it's never clear whether Bunuel will take one side or the other . There's things that are fed up about those who go without any question at all , like the little girls reciting verbatim on the stage , but also of what the man envisions of revolutionaries shooting the Pope in a firing line . Even for those who may consider themselves atheists , as Bunuel might have up to a point ( like Scorsese , no matter how much can be sort of dropped , there still remains chunks that stay as part of the auteur ) , and for those who are rigid believers , The Milky Way attempts to open up a discussion of dogma , heresies - many long forgotten before the writers dug them up in research - and why one should even believe if there is no definitive proof . For all of Bunuel's skewering of schizophrenic or quietly sex obsessed priests and moments of pure mystery like the man who first comes to the pilgrims , there is bits of reverence too , like for the Virgin Mary - who at times becomes part of the debate - and it's challenging and refreshing to see nothing left solidly as ' this is this for sure ' . If it may feel a little loose an imperfect on a first viewing it shouldn't detract from everything that can be taken away as pure food for Bunuelian thought .
a tight ball of a mystery movie , gets better with more viewings	The first time I saw All the President's Men I wasn't very impressed or , actually , that involved . But it was also also at a time when I wasn't paying much attention to what was on the screen ( school-time , middle of the day , that sort of thing ) . After seeing it a couple more times , and from reading more and more about the Watergate / Nixon involvement and impeachment , the film has a lot more importance for me , and it does work very well as mystery-movie entertainment . You have the investigators ( here also journalists ) Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein , working for the Washington Post , on their own digging into the break-in at the Watergate Hotel in 1972 . But without much results over time they almost lose their case and story . Enter in ' Deep Throat ' , a special secretive informer for them , and some extra paranoia , and the case goes up a notch . This is quite a film to see in the 21st century to see how , like with today's Good Night and Good Luck , how determined , concrete investigative journalism stirred up the system and the content being relevant to the time it was created . At the time it was released , however , I wonder if the connection was even stronger to the very recent events of a scandal being uncovered leading to the impeachment of Nixon . But aside from the content , there's also how the film is put together , and its really , like GN & GL , good movie-making for a mature , thinking audience . Robert Redford is in one of his best turns ( even if one could say he's just being himself , which he often is anyway in films ) as Woodward , with his scenes with Deep Throat in the parking garage exquisitely intense . Dustin Hoffman is equally good as Bernstein , the sort of other head of what the editor-in-chief ( played very well by Jason Robards ) called ' Woodstein ' . The dialog in the script is dead-on , and the storytelling just piles on and piles on what works . If it doesn't grab attention right away it's not a crutch , but an incentive to stay along with the story and see it till it's end .
a pick for best cinematic translation of Strindberg to screen	Alj Sjoberg's Miss Julie is superior film-making to the kinds of expected adaptations of iconoclastic plays one might usually see . This Miss Julie moves , when at its best , like a real MOTION PICTURE ( not to overstate it , just to put the words in bold ) , where Sjoberg's camera moves in fast and smooth , transfers between present and past with one simple sweep ( this part seems the most influential in future post-modern films ) , and combining music , lush outdoor locations ( it IS midsummer night after all ) and acting that's fit for the screen just as much as for the stage if not more-so . Reading the play years ago , I was struck by how it would be hard to translate this past the one-room setting , where Julie and Jean confront and have the wild possibility of leaving everything to chance and becoming lovers elsewhere . This was the case with the 1999 adaptation - a respectable but unremarkable turn - but in this much older case it's a sweeping saga of romance plagued by class distinctions and just plain old childhood problems still sticking their claws into present affairs . It's surprisingly fresh in its old-fashioned sense . At first it looks like Sjoberg could be deviating from the bulk of the tone of the Strindberg play and start to make a much livelier version of the material ( how that could really be done I can't say ) , with the horde of people dancing and rollicking in frivolity like it's the last days before the new century . But it's a very wise move of contrast : while all the townspeople and others among the Count's lot go into a delirious frenzy here there and everywhere , there's Julie and Jean all abound in their neuroses and dangers of new-found existential connection . While Sjoberg doesn't have much trouble in translating the tone of the basic material - of the difference between rich and poor struck away by the desire to just see these two talk like human beings , warts and all , without the confines of their set places and alignment with those they should be with ( Jean with Ingrid , Julie with Lord knows whom ) - the trick Sjoberg had was with his style and casting . On both fronts , as luck would have it , he has it made . Anita Bjork is an excellent Julie , and the actor playing Jean is also fantastic at displaying an apt trait of showing off as at times being sincere and not sincere , confusing and riling up poor dear Julie , taught from her youth to hate and be wary of men by her hateful mother . Even little parts that might have been left shorter run in the original play are given further depth , Luke Julie's father , who's seen as something of a conflicted character as a man in power who ends up being much more caring ( up to a specific point of incident ) than her mother . As for the style , as aforementioned , it's often breathtaking ; sequences like the young Jean running away from the lot of adults after him for stealing is shot , edited and composed like something not quite of the early 1950s . If it's a little dated here and there it should be expected , but Miss Julie is a delightful exercise in the unimaginable : an adaptation that lives up to the controversial and exciting spirit of the source .
a very keen mix of message and craftsmanship ; excellent performances	A film like Crossfire puts another film that spreads around its social consciousness - i . e . the recent film Crash - almost to shame . Not necessarily because either one puts forth its message of intolerance-is-rotten more significantly ( although I'd wager Crash throws the hammer down much more thickly in comparison with this ) , but because of how the storytelling and contrivances never get much in the way like with Crash . Maybe it's not really necessary to compare the two , as Crossfire is in its core all deep into the film-noir vein like its going out of style . It was interesting actually to see what the director Edward Dmytryk said on the DVD interview , where he mentioned that the budget for the photography was significantly lower ( on purpose ) so that more could be spent on the actors , and the schedule went through at a very brisk , quick pace . But then what comes off then as being incredible about the picture is that you would think looking at many of the lighting set-ups that it took a lot to do . Just for a small scene , like when Robert Mitchum's Keeely first goes in for questioning under the Captain Robert Young - the contrasts of shadows seamlessly in the room is exquisite . That there are many other lighting set-ups that go even further with so little marks this as something essential in the realm of just the look of the noir period . Just take a look at a shot of characters on a stairwell , the bars silhouetted against them , and see what I mean . But back to the substance part of the film - it's really a story that consists of a murder mystery , but one that we as the audience don't take long to figure on the answer . It's then more about something else then in the mind and soul of a killer that wouldn't be found in a common crime picture then , as there are really no ' criminals ' for the most part in the film . There's a very calculated risk with this then that characters could be too thin just to prop up the ( worthwhile ) message against anti-semitism . But Dmytryk's direction of his top-shelf cast , along with a really terrific script by John Paxton fleshes out the characters , least of which for what they should have to not seem too thin alongside the message . And what would a noir be then without some attitude to go along with it ? Mitchum helps that along , even in scenes like between him and Young where its very much based in the situation of the story's moment ( i . e . a detail in the plot ) , by injecting a little sly wit into some of the dialog . It may already be there in the lines , but he helps make the character with a good edge for his scenes . Then there's also Robert Ryan , who excels at Montgomery as a man who you know you don't like much at first , just through his b . s . demeanor , but you're not totally sure about either . Then once it starts to come clearer - ironically through a subjective view-point of the suspect Mitchell ( George Cooper ) at the apartment of the soon-to-be-deceased Samuels - his performance becomes a great balancing act of being full of crap and also rather frightening in his blind-way . It's a good performance when also countered with Cooper , who has actual personal issues that he faces and comes forward with regret and humility . It's really after the film ends that one thinks about a lot of this , however , and while you're watching the film it's more about getting into the dialog and the flow of the scenes , and in the sometimes stark , overpowering camera moves on the actors , so the message is in a way secondary . Not that it isn't an important one , especially for the time period ( coming right off of WW2 ) , but years later its seeing the actors , even the ones that don't get the big marquee status like Gloria Grahame as Ginny ( the femme fatale of the picture , if it could've had time for one which it doesn't ) and William Phipps as Leroy ( the " hick " ) , working off one another that sticks much strongly in the compacted screenplay . Dmytryk is also very wise in choosing to limit the musical score is powerful too , as for very long stretches we hear nothing , and mostly when it does come up it's incidental to the character's surroundings . He could've just as easily gone with added musical notes on some dramatic scenes for emphasis , most specifically the opening audience-grabber into the film . By sticking clear of that , and getting the right attitudes and nuance in camera and cast , it uplifts standards in genre material to a very fine , memorable level . My favorite scene would probably go to Finley's story about an Irish immigrant he tells to Leroy , where all such elements come into place well . It might not come in very high at the top of my favorite noirs - and I'd still throw-down Murder My Sweet as the director's masterpiece in this kind of picture - but it's assuredly higher in quality than something of the B-level too .
Wong strikes up sublime film-making again in familiar territory in foreign terrain	This is a wonderful work of romantic intuition . This goes without saying that My Blueberry Nights is the work of a true auteur , even if it's one nestled comfortably in the art-house mold , so that for pretty much his entire oeuvre he has been making the same film . One almost takes for granted his jazzy style of editing , and his use of the camera speed ( it looks like it should be all in the editing , but the choppy-ness of the slow-motion has me still wondering even after I've seen several of his films ) , which might make the fact that he uses this trademark technique every other minute in the film - sometimes more depending on the ' mood ' as it were - a little much . But on the other hand , if somehow this happens to be your first film from the Chinese director - his first in all English language with a mix of American and British actors - you'll probably " swoon " all the way down the aisle once its over . Truly credit must be given where it's due ; who has the guts to make a movie where two characters meet and connect and might fall in love in a late night coffee shop talking till dawn over baked goods ? Sometimes Wong paints unequivocally beautiful imagery ; most notable for me is when Elizabeth , played by Norah Jones in her first film role , falls asleep after having too much blueberry pie and ice cream , and her face is in full close-up , a little of the remnants around her mouth , and Jude Law's Jeremy goes in slowly for a kiss . It makes even a hardened not-much-romantic like myself smile . This doesn't mean Wong's contemplative three-part road-movie film is perfect , far from it ; the last third , where Norah Jones travels through the southwest and Las Vegas with Natalie Portman's southern belle is the least effective ( even if Portman makes it pretty interesting ) . And it's personal taste , but a lot of the music in the film , save for much of the Memphis stuff , doesn't strike my fancy ; it might for some , as Jones is a bonafide star in the music world , but it kind of doesn't sink up as well as other music of a similar mold in previous films of the director . And yet there's much in the movie to recommend , and a lot that many critics have snubbed . David Straitharn and Rachel Weisz , for one , are extraordinary , as they elevate the conventions of a short story to the level of small-scale tragic proportions as an estranged cop husband and sultry ex-wife who can't seem to live with , or without , each other . Straitharn proves that playing drunk CAN be a real challenge , and Weisz is about as sexy as she'll ever be . If for no other reason this middle chunk is by itself a masterpiece of the Memphis blues . And finally there's Jones and Jude Law . Both of them are great in chemistry terms , and somehow they spark up the screen where so many other romantic dramas or comedies try and try so hard . Why not just have simple thoughts about how pie is left behind or used , or use keys left behind at the café as a symbol of loss and not finding things ? Wong keeps things simple in that emotional sense , but complex in style , and it's this that makes My Blueberry Nights a special , imperfect work of art . You can relax with it , take in its avant-garde cinematography and scene-scapes of America , and tear up if you've ever loved blueberry pie . Very underrated .
on par with its inspiration ( s ) ; a must see Carpenter classic	Ackowledged by it's own creator on the DVD , Assault on Precinct 13 is a bit more of a hybrid than just a sheer homage to Howard Hawks's Rio Bravo . It has traces of that ( editing name , ho-ho ) , and of the Western specifics in bits of the storytelling devices and stereotypes . But it also has traces of the horror film , of the basic theme of demise by outside forces that not only rests in the best of zombie films but also in a lot of Carpenter's later work . What makes the film seem fresh today , even if it takes its time to get started in the first half hour , is how focused the action is around the story . Even with these basic characters - those with speaking parts closer to archetypes than not - it all works . It's a practically-perfect midnight movie . You've got your good guys , a mix of cops and criminals ( one of them , Darwin Joston's Napoleon Wilson , has enough style as an actor without even flinching at times ) . And you've got the ravenous gang ( achem , zombies ) out for blood after a gun down by a vengeful father . What surprising about how this very simple premise is set up , of a showdown in the worst pit of Los Angeles , is how it's all close to being just a pure exploitation film . But there's some thought or maybe just music to the film ( not the actual music , though that's cool in its way ) just as relentless as in Carpenter's other work , maybe even more in its rough way . It is a violent film , but the violence comes and goes leaving more room for talk than one might expect given it's by-a-thread rating . It's quite clear where the visual style would end up lending itself to in later years too ( i . e . Reservoir Dogs ) . When taking aside the occasional misstep , like an unneeded ( suggested ) sub-plot ( not that Joston or Laurie Zimmer are bad actors , but they lack chemistry ) , Assault on Precinct 13 comes out without many scratches at all . It's a lean film at 90 minutes , with enough tension for two more . When it is shocking it shocks , when it wants a cheap , solid laugh or ( more often ) grin it comes through , and it doesn't pull any punches in letting you know here and there this is nothing more than a genre exercise . That Carpenter is able to pull it off so un-pretentiously is a credit to his first inspiration , as well as to the spirit of the long boiled ingredients of older films . In short , the most cult you can find by the filmmaker without going to his previous effort Dark Star .
a seriously funny movie about insane reality	In 1970 , MASH and Catch-22 were the main contenders in the unofficial bout of military satire movies , and while MASH ended up making far more at the box office and keeping its acclaim so high that Robert Altman had a sweet career in the 70s ( and , arguably , made far greater films ) , I might be in that minority that prefers Mike Nichols ' funny but dark and pretty frightening adaptation of Joseph Heller's novel . I can't say with certainty if it reaches up to the reputation of Heller's work ( I would imagine it's probably better and with more detail and further wit ) , but director Nichols and screenwriter Buck Henry nail what is by now the obvious and continually horrifying fact that the nature of wartime brings on such an insane situation that the sanest one is the one who wants to prove to the nut-house that he's the loon . As in Dr . Strangelove , Catch-22 is populated by eccentrics and crackpots and just strange people , but there's a reality t it that keeps it from going too far into farce . The difference for Nichols , I think , was Vietnam . There's that underlying current of that war being even more maddening and pointless than WW2 , and there's many scenes where the humor just evaporates and we're left with Yosarrian ( Alan Arkin ) completely bewildered by a military command that is chaotic by design . When we see a character like Bob Newhart's " Captain " Major or Jon Voight's character's chocolate cotton ( not cotton candy , cotton ) or Perkins walking in on Martin Balsam on the toilet , it's funny or amusing or , as in Yosarrian's thing for acting ' weird ' and going nude for a medal or just for the hell of it , hilarious in that deadpan manner one expects from the director of the Graduate . But the tone shifts , not suddenly but with a good jolt , when the pilot shops the guy in half and then flies into the mountainside . Not to mention the whole final third of the picture , which becomes darker and more troubling ; the satire turns from nutty and sometimes dream-like ( i . e . recurring vision of ' saving ' the guy dying in the plane ) to tragic and ugly . In fact , this is no less an important depiction of the macabre nature of the beast that is war than Apocalypse Now . If it's not really a totally great film or a masterpiece , it's almost one . It starts a little shaky with its tone , I should note , as one has to adjust to some of the rhythm of the dialog like the first mess-hall scene with Martin Sheen and Art Garfunkel , or just the tone of the film-making which goes to creative lengths to make cinematic the tone of picture , sometimes in just one shot ( the best being when Voight and Balsam walk and talk , and the plane crashes down without the characters flinching ) . There's touches of real brilliance to the direction and the writing and certain set pieces like the medal awarding or the ending . But at the same time Nichols is also best as an actor's director , and he's assembled a host of familiar faces to film buffs , or just casual moviegoers : Arkin gives a genuine pathos to the protagonist Yosarrian ; Sheen and Voight and Charles Grodin and Bob Balaban and Anthony Perkins and Balsam fit great into their supporting roles , filling them with equal parts grounded reality and wackiness that verges on that line of serious and parody ; Orson Welles , for his two scenes , almost steals the show from the large cast . It's a mostly superb and underrated work by a director off and running early in his career , working from a highly regarded work of black comedy to as honest an extent as possible ( or , rather , it doesn't feel cheating to what would be an adaptation ) , and it puts you into a whole other perspective of that " Great " war , with foreshadowing to contractor-profiteers and fake missions on civilians and power-hungry brass with total immunity . Maybe nothing very new , sure , but it's rarely so entertaining and powerful .
loaded with enough imagination and sweet vibes for three movies !	I can't say for certain , especially after only seeing the English-language dub of the film in the theater ( and seeing bits of it again on TV ) - that Howl's Moving Castle is one of the very best of the great Hayao Miyazaki's feature films . But I didn't leave it feeling un-happy in the slightest , and if anything I remember most the feeling of uplift , which is what the best fairy tales try to accomplish . It follows the strand left by Spirited Away ( though also trailing off from other Miyazaki films to be sure ) where a female character is the protagonist thrust into strange circumstances , really around a curse . Sophie ( voiced by Emily Mortimer and the great Jean Simmons in the English dub ) gets cursed by an evil witch , and then meets up at Howl's castle ( Howl , by the way , is a slightly melancholy and quirky wizard , voiced in a fun way by Christian Bale ) , and sets about to make herself useful , however to also keep order in the guide of her now old-lady persona ( and , more importantly , to free herself from the curse ) . She also has to contend with an overly cautious flame ( Billy Crystal , odd choice for a talking fire , but it works better than I expected ) , and a scarecrow who sometimes just can't sit still . Soon Sophie becomes the unwitting assistant to Howl , as she goes in partial disguise to help him be present instead of him before his former tutor , Madame Suliman . And , of course , in the meantime , a love story unfolds . Although I could argue that Howl's Moving Castle begins to stray a little from the completely satisfying world portrayed in Spirited Away or particularly in Princess Mononoke - and that the story is given way , frustrations and all , for the visual wonderment - it's still a delight from start to finish . While I wondered when I first saw it if the Japanese dialog would make a difference by much , seeing the American voices didn't detract much at all , and if anything the cast fulfills the story more than one could hope for . And , of course , those visual inventions are never to be taken for granted in Miyazaki's world ( more than likely attributable to the source from Diana Wynne Jones and leaning more to Western influence then the decidedly awesomely Eastern Mononoke ) . If anything individual moments , like when Howl almost melts away from not having certain powers , is really intriguing , or in just seeing the castle itself , with all of the little parts and spindles a marvel in and of itself ( Ebert's not far off from saying that it's one of the great unique places of the movies , and for me almost resides on the other industrial side of the cutesy wonderment of Totoro ) . I definitely need to watch it again , as Miyazaki's worlds usually do , but for now I do recommend it , even if you've never seen one of his films . Little girls too , I'd imagine , might get an extra kick out of the strong-willed female lead and the strong romantic interests in the storyline ( and having a handsome leading man voiced by Bale doesn't hurt either ) .
even through its moments of experimentation it's a fun , fully intriguing Godard flick	I saw Masculin Feminin in a class last year and like with most of Jean-Luc Godard's films I was taken aback by how much the film doesn't stick to anything expected for the audience . This is Godard at the peak of his powers as a director for what has become a line associated forever with Godard - the Marx and Coca-Cola generation of people ( or , those born in the 1940's ) . Like My Life to Live , the film is broken up into specific acts , but this time it isn't as discernible and even plays on when a new segment should start or end ( sometimes it changes quite quickly ) . And the spontaneous feel that goes with many of the better Godard films is in full swing here , as Godard ( according to the interviews on the DVD ) sometimes just feeds the actors lines , or just questions to get true , if more documentary-like , answers from the actor ( s ) . It's really one of the best films from the period that made Godard known all over the world ; anyone seeing his later , more obscured semantic essay films need only to see a film like this or Band of Outsiders to see the filmmaker dealing with real characters and convincing dialog . Jean-Pierre Leaud is actually just as good here as he is in the 400 Blows , only in a slightly different way . The youth of this actor is still ever present , but here it's changed to be a little more of a radical guy . The uncertainty of the character of Paul , his interest in the opposite sex , and having an intelligent but aimless walk of life , is very in tune with the other Truffaut creation . He becomes , along with his co-stars ( like the young , beautiful Chantal Goya as Madeline and Marlene Jobert as Elisabeth ) , if not really a direct representation of all the French youth at the time , something of a reflection of youth is like in general is present . These characters don't know what they want for their lives , but they do know that things like sex , rock and roll , protesting the oppression of governments , and keeping an interest in parts of life are what make up their day-to-day existences . What might seem very casual styling in following these characters , particularly Paul , is a bit more calculated than expected . Everything that unfolds goes from being very funny to philosophical to fly-on-the-wall to even the poetic . That the cinematography and visual style is more often than not exciting in where the camera may move or not , or where the length of the shot will hold . Individual moments make up some of the best that Godard's ever received , and from actors who being caught off-guard is not a negative . I loved the dialog between Paul and Madeline early in the film , as simple questions have some deeper contexts . Or when Paul is just walking along , a rock song starts , and a guy whips out a knife only to something very unexpected with a great , ironic payoff . Or the movie within the movie , a parody on Bergman's The Silence that isn't disrespectful and at the same time captures a cool attitude that these characters are looking at even if it's a bit above their own sexual attitude . But most striking both times I watched the film , even in its sort of un-reality and very ' movie ' kind of way is when Madeline says a very poetic bit of wording in bed in the dark . Even in the moments when Godard's off-kilter filming isn't as appealing as in other points , as one who is apart of this age group the characters are in , I got enveloped in their loose , tragic-comic conversations and observations ( not as preachy or didactic as in other works of the filmmaker ) . The ending , too , is perfectly shocking and puts a fine dramatic cap on what is really a bittersweet view of these people . And along with getting these characters right , this time and place , the places and people they encounter ( little poetic notes of their own , as on the subway or in the coffee shops ) add to its overall effect . One of the best films of 1966 .
before Machete , there was . . . Daniel Daniel !	This is a fun , rough and buoyant example of homage from the guys who would later collaborate on Man Bites Dog . It's an extended " trailer " for a spy movie with the hero , Daniel Daniel , and his attempts to stop a bomb plot or other . What the plot really is I can't say exactly , but there are some horrible but hilarious jokes at the expense of a black-faced character whom gets crapped on by his hero until the moment of his tragic death ( " Say bonjour , bonjour ! " ) Then there's characters we barely see but get the grand cast roll-out in the final few moments , and big action set-pieces set around what must be entire scenes from the movie spliced together ( one I loved was Daniel Daniel coming to the rescue of a bunch of kids in a museum about to be toppled by a hanging dinosaur skeleton ) . It's tongue placed firmly in three cheeks , and in the method of precise parody ala Grindhouse there's a gas to be had even if it's hard to recognize that it's all a take-off on European trailers ( bad voice-over included , as is often the case in the US ) . Shot in glorious CINEMASCOPE , this is not to be missed if seeking out the Man Bites Dog Criterion DVD .
wouldn't we all want to be in Benson Arizona ?	Dark Star is one of the best student films I've ever seen - and I stress the term " student " here as it is more than anything the inklings of talent , the audacity on display for fellow film-making students and peers and ( of course ) the filmmaker's own professors to see what they can do . It's rough and crude science fiction film-making , as if a bunch of dudes in a dorm decided to remake 2001 with a beach ball , a frozen commander , and an existential talking bomb . But it's also very , very funny , the kind of humor that is intelligently sophomoric and also acutely satirical to what the genre produces . In fact , to give an idea of what it's like , Douglas Adams might have taken a look or two ( if it played in Britain that is ) and the inspiration for Hitchhiker's Guide might be seen . It goes without saying , of course , that it's John Carpenter and Dan O'Bannon , who have had their own names attributed to various brands ( Halloween / Alien ) , without noticing that they're also excellent at delivering comedy through a filter of awkwardness , the bizarre , and even the bad-ass intent . On top of the humor , which never calls too much attention to itself . . . actually , scratch that , any movie with a beach ball as an alien and a rubber chicken used as a distraction during boredom will have to be considered a bit ' broad ' . What I mean to say is that there's a fine line that Carpenter and O'Bannon work at with the material ; the actors , of course , aren't the greatest at comic timing , and sometimes O'Bannon's Pinback sounds like he has just gotten out of a nerd convention with how he talks , most stilted of all ( with the biggest exception being his Diary entry scene , which is howlingly funny ) . Yet he and the other characters also serve a purpose for the story , however loose it is : there's an attitude of the 70s ( long hair , beards , a cluttered bedroom for the men covered in nudie pics ) that seeps in through the pores of Dark Star , a counter-cultural f-u to the establishment by proclaiming how preposterous it all is , and then having us laugh with it instead of at it ( albeit it's hard not to laugh at it once or twice , particularly with the little space-man models outside the ship in space ) . But if a comic sensibility , and a grasp of what it takes to subvert the genre just enough , is in reach , so is the technical aspect , to the degree it's allowed . The budget was a paltry 55 thousand , but given many other of its low-budget contemporaries ( i . e . actual B movies and not a student film ) it's fairly impressive . I loved seeing the layout of the asteroid field , as if from a doodle pad . Or the ship itself gliding over a planet , only a smidgen below a similar scene from 2001 . And how can one not dig the final shot , with an astronaut finding his salvation : a surf-board ! Counting in with this is the cinematography , fairly sophisticated for a student work , and the music ( from Carpenter , of course ) being a sweet mix of weird drum beats , a classical bit during the elevator scene , and a wacky theme that if otherwise used in any film would seem ridiculous . Given how lackadaisical , and nutty , and original the dialog and settings are in this great strange bird of a movie , the song fits right in . Both of its main creators would go on to greater things , to be certain , but Dark Star is a lot of fun , and surpasses any of its limitations of cost through ingenuity , deranged humor , and that spark of genius from time to time ( particularly with the climax ) that makes it builds up a cult crowd .
An anime treat	Spirited Away , the latest film from writer / director Hayao Miyazaki ( a genius to Disney animators , such as to Toy Story director Lasseter who executive produced the film for the US ) , is a wonderful family film , that works on numerous levels for kids , not the least being the creative storyline , and for older kids and adults there are lavish backdrops and characters right out of , well , an anime movie . The storyline , by the way , follows a girl and how she finds herself in a fantasy world where her parents have been transformed into pigs and spirits and other strange creatures prowl the landscape , and she has to everything she can to stay human and get a way back home , thought she'll need help along the way . A bit at times reminiscent of a Wizard of Oz or Alice In Wonderland in Japanese anime fashion ( perhaps building just on the fantasy elements as Miyazaki usually does ) doesn't disappoint for a moment as a marvel of imagination . Even those strident fans of maturer ( err extra violent ) anime pictures will want to look , maybe more than once . Works on many levels and I recommend it of course , if maybe a mild mark under Miyazaki's best work Princess Mononoke . ( or )
a film that challenges audience's expectations to the conventions of a war film	One of Godard's better films from the 60's , which like a number of his films from his prime era is usually either liked a lot or detested to hell , is almost audience-dividing on purpose . His film is a black comedy that sometimes is ( successfully ) deceptively a bleak drama of corruption of the working man in times of War . Stylistically it is Godard all the way , though one can't disregard the likely significant contributions ( though it may be hard to detect since it IS Godard's mouth all over the pie so to speak ) of screenwriters Jean Gurault ( usually Truffaut's co-writer ) , and ( apparently ) Roberto Rossellini . Rossellini , who was one of Godard's big influences , is countered by what was also a big influence likely on this picture , Samuel Fuller , the king of B War pictures . So one could look at the quasi-split of ideals in the film , of Rossellini's documentary style of telling it like it is , crossed with Fuller's hard professionalism and no-holds-barred view of War . Whomever influence comes through stronger , this is really Godard's show , and has here something that is fairly usual in terms of his challenging styles and criticizing past films ( including Truffaut with his own comments on War depicted in film ) , but also is unique for how it is presented , and makes it a difficult , though rewarding experience . This is the French new-wave equivalent , to put it another way , to Sam Mendes's Jarhead ; you're not sure if this really should be classified as a typical ' war ' film , despite being in a league of other films already in place . One thing that is as fascinating as it is occasionally frustrating is Godard's main male actors , Albert Muross and Marino Mase , are not very expressive , and of course are not really ' actors ' in the traditional sense ( at least at the time they were close to un-professionals ) . But maybe that is what's needed , dumb farm boys who are propogandized into going to fight for their invading , nameless country ; the opening scenes of the list of things the men will get is equally funny and troubling . Then the boys go off to war , and there is a really astute episodic kind of storytelling used , which works considering the short time length . One scene that really stood out was when one of the soldiers goes to see his first film ever , and is almost like some kind of primate seeing a woman disrobing on a screen ( it's also arguably the funniest scene in the film ) . When the boys come home they are loaded with pictures , in a scene that is the one that almost had me questioning if it was either really good or really too long ; the length of the list of pictures is like a litmus test for moviegoers - can you take all of these images , done almost to make a point that's not too clear ? But what makes Les Carabiniers work for me is how it is so un-like other war films that it stands alone on its own terms , like a French new-wave Dr . Strangelove ( though maybe not a masterpiece like that one ) . At times I wasn't totally sure where the satire started or ended , and there is a certain distance that Godard places with his many long-shots getting in as much landscape as tanks and soldiers with their guns . What's surprising is how the tone is always assured , which is crucial considering this is a story told through the side of the invaders this time , men working under their elusive King for land and riches and wealth . One of the best scenes I may have seen in any Godard film is when they have a woman who is at first thought to be ' a friend ' of the soldiers , but then goes off on a Leninist rant . The men are about to shoot her , but can't for a few minutes , as the words she says strike some kind of chord in their primal mindsets . Amid montages of archive footage of planes flying and bombs dropping , there's a scene that would never ever be in any ' conventional ' war picture . There's a real thought process going on here , and even if it's got some of Godard's usual ' f you , it's my style , take it or leave it ' attitude , it's not totally un-accessible either . It's a slim volume of gritty anti-War pathos , and it's maybe a tad under-rated in the director's massive catalog .
the outsiders who make it and the ones that don't ; a documentary with true rhythm and honesty	Documentaries about artists can go one of two ways , either very insightful , with images that stick with you , as well as possibly entertaining , or very boring . This will often depend on the merit of the filmmaker , and how personally they connect with the artist and the work itself ( some of it is more made for films to show just to get kids to fall asleep in school ) . Terry Zwigoff , however , is a filmmaker very much in tune with his subjects ; his fictional films , the comic-book adaptation Ghost World is cynical ( or skeptical ) but with true heart , and Bad Santa is as dark as comedies can get . With his friend Robert Crumb he gets one of the most candid , and smooth , documentaries from the 90's . It may mean more to people who are from that period ; Crumb is still a legend in the underground comic-book / art scene , not quite breaking into a ' mainstream ' but still with his immense cult . But for one from the following generation , I was often mesmerized by his work . A good part of the film is just Zwigoff using his camera to get into the main mind-set of Crumb , not just necessarily with interviews with his family members or friends and co-workers ( though there is a lot of that ) , but also through the presentation of his work , often in medium close-ups , with awesome blues melodies and tunes in the background . Crumb's work is morbid , satirical , drug-inspired , occasionally racist ( for a purpose ) , ultra-sexual ( the Fritz the Cat adaptation film of his work was the first X-rated animated feature ) , and funny in most respects . One particular description by Crumb over a comic of a woman with a headless body being seductive for a main character is very fascinating , as it brings out several different reactions when reading it - laughter at the random-ness of the characters , romantic drama with the man's lusting for this headless woman , and pure odd-ness at what goes on here . You scratch your head in confusion , or maybe have to put it down in disgust , but if you have the stomach for it it's somehow rewarding . If nothing else , the actual form in the ink and use of colors is often miraculous . Then there are the interviews . With Bob Crumb himself he's always in a fairly good mood , very personable around those he loves and admires , and those around him - mostly the women whom have inspired , terrified , and amazed him over the years - and without any shame or shyness about his work . And when it comes to his family they too are just as candid ; it's a little depressing , to be sure , to see the state of his brothers ( Charles , in particular , who is actually an identifiable character for many outsiders in the world , only to an extreme ) , and the tales of his father . Some of this goes to explain some things about the psychology of the Crumb mentality , but the fact is Bob Crumb does let it all hang out in his comics , as he admits " usually instinctively " . There is something about the subject of the artist as a confessional , as someone who is so personal that he can't necessarily projects to a specific ' audience ' . It's appropriate , therefore , that a filmmaker like David Lynch produced the film ; the similarities are striking in how they both reflect their own desires and hates with the idealized Americana of the 50's . At times ' Crumb ' is a little un-settling , but never for the wrong reasons . It's not for the average comic-book fan , and for those who just love and respect artists in general will find much to admire in Crumb's style .
such false advertising ! and now on to the compliments . . .	The big label on top of the title of the poster of Adventureland says " from the director of Superbad " . This is a given since it's true , they have the same director , but from the look of the poster and by some of the ads it looks to be very much in the vein of the gross-out sex gags and super vulgar humor that populated much of Superbad : teens will sneak in thinking they'll get more of that only this time at an amusement park . This is not the case , that should be made very clear . . . and yet there is something of a similarity . However gross Superbad might have been , the connection to the characters was strong because Greg Motolla didn't put up false barriers or a sense that despite the outrageousness these weren't real teens who had real aspirations past getting drunk and having sex . And now , in his more personal outing Adventureland , he moves on to make something that strays even more towards romantic drama than Apatow-company-linked comedy . It's a little like Woody Allen goes to an 80s party . I should explain : this isn't the super funny Allen I refer to , but the one who could strike a deep chord in revealing things about people in relationships , their flaws made succinct but also to make what we can like about them so relatable . Adventureland features some of the most identifiable early 20-somethings I've seen in a Hollywood movie in a while , and at the same time Motolla side-swipes past the clichés that bog down romantic comedies or romance dramas . If there's some familiarity that's to be expected : there's been first-love stories since sound movies began , and there will be more . But you feel the awkwardness without it being too awkward or self-knowing or " hip " like so many movies are about young people in their crossroads , and you feel that there's some troubling things going on with people who are intelligent in the midst of one of those " that-summer-this-happened " stories . It's about James Brennan , who comes back from college to find his parents don't have the money for him to go to Europe for the summer before Grad school ( or even for Grad school for that matter ) and has to get a job without any real past job experience ( he's a romantic-lit major ) . So , Adventureland , a typical amusement park with the silly games and the giant pandas nobody wins and the inedible corn-dogs , is where he ends up , and finds a friend in nerdy Joel and a girlfriend in Em . Em , meanwhile , is having a fling with a married man several years older , the park mechanic Connell , who is supposed to be a big-shot for playing in a band that opened for Lou Reed . It's the " summer-this-happened " story , with plenty of idiosyncrasies that lead up to a lot by the end of it all . What I responded to on top of the characters , who are never less than three-dimensional ( this is about the highest praise imaginable , I would hope , for this type of young-romance story , since so many rarely have 2D ) , is the bittersweetness of what happens . You can feel the weight of scenes where Kristen Stewart , a wonderful actress , is straining to hide away her affair with Connel while trying to actually have fun with with James ( played by very good by Eisenberg , continuing his streak from Squid & the Whale ) AND balance that with the already crappy home-life she has with a deceased mother and by step-mother . The script doesn't take any easy routes , and it never really judges anyone too harshly - just enough to make sense of what it was like in retrospect . It is self-knowing , but in the best way from experience and a loving sense of time and place . And in case you're wondering since the IMDb genre is for the moment only listed as comedy , there are some good comedy scenes and moments , specifically from Bill Hader as the boss at Adventureland . There's both subtlety and over-the-top bits to his comedy , such as when he's looking at the deliberately sexy Lisa P and says " Nah , I'm a one man woman " or when he goes from zero to eleven by raging at a guy who's gunning after James over a spat - and then goes back to zero again . Adventureland is really the most realistic kind of dramedy one could hope for right now , and it reveals a filmmaker who will not shortchange his audience with his characters . It's a vibrant , touching little movie , absolutely perfect for the young date-movie crowd , with an amazing soundtrack to boot .
it's not Chinatown , Jake , but it is nearly classic throwback to detective fiction	To compare Chinatown and the Two Jakes , which would probably take more sufficiently a whole entire other article , one I wouldn't print here , it might be noteworthy on the surface to also make a co-comparison in terms of iconic films . The Godfather 2 and Chinatown both came out in 1974 , and then both saw their respective next ( and as we sit here likely final ) installments come out in 1990 . Both were hyped to one degree ore another , and neither one lived up to the majority of the expectations that were already steadfast in everybody's minds ( and , to be fair , criticisms on both sides aren't entirely invalid ) . But probably even more-so for Two Jakes than Godfather 3 , Jack Nicholson and Robert Towne did have a solid story to tell in continuing along the saga of Jake Gittes , whom Towne envisioned not simply in the context of his homage mold ( Chandler / Hammett ) , but in a larger context than the novelistic noirs of old . This was the second part of a supposed trilogy , all based , according to Towne , on natural goods ( first part water , second part earth , third , the part unproduced , would have been air and focused on pollution in the 50s ) . It's easy to say that the Two Jakes is nowhere near the status of Chinatown , but then again it's also hard to say that Jack Nicholson is really as great a director than Roman Polanski . He probably isn't , this in spite of the fact that this could arguably be the best of the three films he helmed ( the others underrated Drive , He Said , and Going ' South ) . The best service that he does to the material is to make something that is by itself enthralling as a movie unto itself , while tipping the hat to all of the various supporting characters that previously appeared ( from Escobar to the snotty hall-of-records nerd ) in Chinatown . Only when Nicholson starts to get obvious , like with the flashes back to brief bits from the original film , does it get a little much . What helps too to distinguish it is a slight change in pace with the structure of the story . Not so much in certain mechanics of the detective procedural , as Towne knows he can't mess with that too much . The chief difference , which probably split and continues to split many fans , is the use of voice-over . Polanski dropped it from his film , having the audience find things out as Gittes did . But for Nicholson , the narration is something else entirely . It's used a lot more like in proper detective fiction , not so much as to guide along the plot but to ruminate , almost like some sage of a weathered snoop , and even if it's used maybe once more than needed ( which bit I can't quite point out ) it's very effective in adding a mood to the piece , a tone that complements the convention of " we may be through with the past , but the past is not through with us . " In this case , Gittes , as continued to be played by Nicholson with that awesome balance of cool thinking and wit , gets into a case with " another " Jake ( Keitel , what's not to say about him ) , and infidelity in the mix . But there's a lot more in store , including an audio recording of a crime , and some details in it that stir up everybody's attention . Meanwhile , a woman named " Kitty " , Jake Berman's wife , has something she's hiding from Gittes and . . . you get the idea . If The Two Jakes isn't always great art - and it's not to say there aren't some thrilling moments of pure cinema , like the opening shot or those scenes driving out in the fields of California ( and speaking of nostalgia , orange groves ) , and the Green Parot club , not to mention a couple of other notable exceptions - it's excellent craftsmanship , where it's like a yarn from the late 40s with a couple of extra spikes of plot contrivance and luscious dames that give our Shamus a bit of a loop at times . It works on that level entirely , of still being playful throwback and serious crime drama , and while it doesn't break that many rules there are for those who want to give it a shot . As far as long-awaited sequels go , for me , it could've been a lot worse .
one of the more entertaining , chilling , and tragic stories ever about High school	Carrie is from a novel by Stephen King , and directed by Brian De Palma , and it can more than likely be found in any horror section of the video store . But to me the film may lend itself more to being a kind of weird , darkly satiric take on High school life that only really gets into the outright horror in the last twenty minutes . For the most part Carrie could just as well be a fable about the ugly duckling or some other kind of outcast . Nothing in the film or story is necessarily subtle , but it's hard for me to carp - all of the one to two dimensional characters are brilliantly played , and through such fantastical material there is a truth reached that might not be struck with a different cast or director . It's a unique blend of theatricality , style , and some very realistic , harsh notes about societal repression . That it's fun , and funny , at different times also puts it a notch above other genre material ( certainly above other King adaptations about the mawkish loner with special powers ) . Sissy Spacek is in a career-making performance as Carrie , the awkward girl that everybody in school ( at least all of the juvenile teen girls in gym class ) teases to no end , who's own paralyzed way of being among people works against her . The first big chunk of the film is really dramatically satisfying and heart-wrenching with , aside from the obvious ' trait ' Carrie possesses , could happen to any loner teen . After an accident in the girl's shower , to which taunting reaches a high peak , all of the girls ( including the likes of PJ Soles , Amy Irving , and the very sexy btch Chris played by Nancy Allen ) get detention under the only one who really cares for Carrie ( Betty Buckley ) , and so the girls plot revenge involving the senior prom and a bucket of pig's blood . Meanwhile , Carrie still gets her ultimate repression by her bible-thumping , very nuts mother ( Piper Laurie in the most successfully over-the-top performance of the film ) . As the prom nears , a near iconic line ' they're all gonna laugh at you ' pops up , and becomes the crux of the last grueling act of the film . De Palma has only a handful of films that come close to this one for his sheer love for over-stylized , prolonged scenes that almost start to comment on themselves . And there's a really wonderful element to some of it , it's almost akin to Sergio Leone's the Good the Bad and the Ugly in just trying to see how far he can take his style before it might implode or get to just the right height of suspense . Obvious enough are the Hitchcock lifts in parts of the style , most notably in the climax with the split-screens and very similar music cues ( all he's missing is Bernard Hermann ) . But his style works to making scenes already with a satirical tinge funnier as opposed for just shocking edginess . My favorite was the scene showing the gym teacher working the girls hard out on the field , this reaching almost a cartoonish side to it . And , of course , what would a 70s horror movie be without an amazingly explicit , slow-motion jump-cuts in the girl's locker room ? This style works best with King's material , adding an extra emphasis on the emotional manipulations and cruelty , and rigid , constricting structure , that school imposes . Sometimes , too , part of the enjoyment in seeing a film like this is not just the take on a telekinetic getting her vengeance on her teasers and pranksters , but how it all fits well into a psychology and general outlook on High school . Certain scenes with the supporting characters are good at this , like with a very amusing John Travolta and Allen in the car . This is the kind of take on high school life that likely inspired other films like Heathers and Donnie Darko , but Carrie has a kind of timeless quality to it too . On the other hand , if you are looking through the store and want Carrie to be a genuine horror film - once it truly transitions into that section , it's ( appropriately ) gory , lavish , and unexpected ; I had already seen this climactic scene somewhere before seeing the whole film , but it still kept me on my toes , particularly the final confrontation between mother and daughter . One of the best King adaptations and a very good turn from director and cast .
the first moral tale is decidedly one-sided , but full of the strengths of both Rohmer and the New Wave	Eric Rohmer's The Bakery Girl of Monceau isn't a very great film - the chief liability is Barbet Schroeder , the ' Young Man ' as he's called , who isn't expressive much at all , almost stilted when he has to say his lines outside of the narration which is when he does fine - but it's one that has some very solid ideas about attachment to one who is more of an unknown , and possibly unattainable . Unlike My Night at Maud's , however , Rohmer doesn't infuse a religious context , but rather that of the anxious and romantic youth , of a guy who has nothing else to do outside of his minor class work than to find a possible one-true-love walking along a particular street of Paris . He waits all the time for a woman he was at first shy to introduce himself to , and doesn't see her . His habit of getting a cookie or two from the local bakery leads him to the bakery girl , a wide-eyed girl of ( only ! ) 18 , who doesn't go out with boys but may make an exception for the charming young man . Meanwhile , Rohmer lays on the moral dilemma - or sort of a put-on of a moral dilemma , which actually makes it more interesting - of this character while making it a surprisingly cool film directorial-wise . As great as he can be with his dialog , until this I haven't taken Rohmer as too much on the scale of being AS great as a director ( not bad at all , to be sure , though a slight peg less than his old buddies Truffaut and Godard ) . But with this small-scale story and totally on-location scenes , he has some striking moments in just showing the young man walking on the street - jump cuts , quite amazing even in such rough form - and in the bakery , where the slightest bits of a close-up or an image of a cookie dropping mark as something significant . There's even a moment or two when the young man is with his friend early on where the camera speed seems to come close to looking like a silent film . At only 23 minutes long , this isn't a very complex little film , and it ends sort of at a ' that's that ' kind of way , but it sets a very good precedent for the rest of the ' Moral tales ' to follow . It's the kind of short I'd probably like to watch again if I have a half hour to kill in a random moment in the future .
another Altman de-mythological exploration mixed with show-biz satire , but it's very underrated with a great Newman performance	A lot of reviews on this site keep this down as something of a misfire from director Robert Altman , that it might have been too easy a target or that it's being too cynical . Can there be enough cynicism in looking at the history of Old-West Americans and American Indians ? After so many years of Westerns showing things as black and white - of John Wayne Vs . Tonto and the like - there needed to be a good dose of reality , but not just by any run of the mill filmmaker . Altman is able to sympathize with the Indians while at the same time adding a certain mystery to them ( how they cross the river , come back from the mountains ) . On top of this he makes a very strong , funny comment on celebrity and mythology in a somewhat typical de-mythological style . It's not entirely an anti-centennial statement ( his real centennial movie is Nashville ) , but one that criticizes things while still staying true as a semi-serious comedy . In fact , this has a few of the funniest scenes in any Altman picture . Take when Annie Oakley ( Geraldine Chaplin ) is performing her ' stunt ' with her partner , and throughout the picture it's been a dicey and tense act with it never being as clear-cut as it should be ; Annie is always talking to herself in mid-shot , asking to try it again if she misses . Then when it comes time to do the ' stunt ' in front of President Cleveland , she shoots her partner right through the shoulder , with it ( mostly ) being passed off like nothing happened . Little asides like this that build up - or , for example , a hatred for birds that inexplicably Bill has against the cheery German singer who owns it , leading up to a frantic shoot-em-up against the bird's cage until it escapes . Sometimes it's simply " funny ho-ho " humor , the kind that one might have a quick chuckle and then see back to what's going on . But it's brilliant " funny ho-ho " comedy , where manners are tested to the extremes in the face of Buffalo Bill's troupe and the unmovable Sitting Bull and his ' voice ' played by Chief from One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest . There is actually something of a firmer story for Altman than usual , though that goes without saying it's like a belt thrown on once in a while with a pair of pants . Buffalo Bill is riding on his reputation , and hosts a big-time show that is a good lot like the circus only real physical prowess and weirdness replaced usually by good-old-fashioned American storytelling , which is , basically , that Indians killed a lot of people and then Buffalo Bill struck back . When Sitting Bull actually comes to the act to be apart of it , he has some conditions to be in it , many conditions , some easy ( i . e . setting up camp across the river ) , some that test Bill's patience ( i . e . changing the whole story of Sitting Bull to show Bill killing masses of Indians ) . Meanwhile , President Cleveland is coming for a special visit , Bill's drinking gets bigger , and he loses the thread of his own presumed skills like when he can't bring back Sitting Bull and his group when the " escape " to the mountains . This all leads up to a conclusion that has a double-side to it . On the one hand the very end should feel kind of conventional , where Buffalo Bill faces off against Sitting Bull ( or rather another actor playing him ) , and ' wins ' in front of the cheering audience . On the other hand this is preceded by a tragic note , and a very strange , near perfect dream scene where Buffalo Bill confronts and constantly shifting-position Sitting Bull , confronting him as well as his own ego and reputation . At the end of it all , Altman isn't saying outright America is evil or anything ; it's that there are some serious wounds caused not simply by the obvious Americans vs Indians but by over a century of holding up icons to the sky without the slightest gray area or real humanization past superhero status . And in the midst of all this , in the work of Altman's usual good ensemble ( Keitel , Joel Grey , Chaplin are very good , Lancaster good if in a superfluous mouth-piece role ) , Paul Newmna shines incredibly in a role that requires him to be star-like but to also get into the shallowness and inner demons of the character . It might even be one of the best performances he gave in his career : he's magnetic in personality , naturally comic , and haunted to a degree .
I like to revisit this movie every now and then , like a quirky , quintessentially cool photo in a pineapple frame	One of Wong Kar Wai's most experimental features ( and this is even for old Wong folks ) is one of his earliest efforts , done while in a creative struggle making his epic Ashes of Time . Chungking Express is light and frothy , featuring funny monologues about the importance of pineapple preservation and a charming , aimless usage of Mama and the Papa's California Dreaming . It's about the search for romance in a city that is dark and dingy and full of holes someone could easily fall into . But what makes it so charming , and interesting ultimately in that European art-house way , is how Wong Kar Wai keeps a rhythm to his story that doesn't follow rules , but feels right in a sense like some off-beat song on an obscure album only your hip friend down the block has . I'm not sure who , in the end , I would recommend Chungking Express . Probably film buff friends who enjoy obsessions over pineapple and girls . There's also a very good performance turned in by actress Brigitte Lin , who before this was a ( enormously popular ) pop star , and is slightly used as opposed to cast by Kar Wai as a figurehead , like some flashy , self-conscious symbol of a mystery in and of itself ( blond wig , going about the crevices of town on some criminal mystery , the music playing in tight but sweet strings ) . It's also great to see Tony Leung in an early role that allows him some space for some little notes of emotion we haven't seen in future Wong Kar Wai movies where he's the super-serious or melancholy lover . Not that there aren't moments of the melancholy in Chungking Express , but they're presented like it's the most important thing to the characters , and to the audience is , well , just another piece to their puzzle as a whole character . Little by little we see that this isn't much as a crime film in focusing on these two cops and this odd woman in a blond wig . Or even Fayes character . It's a question of what makes up these characters , when romance throws caution into the wind . I've seen Chungking Express in bits and pieces over the years , and while I will eventually get down and watch it from start to finish , all the pieces together ( not to draw any sort of parallel in what I described and how I view the movie ) stay fresh in my mind . I love revisiting the gil dancing to her own beat to California Dreaming , as if we're in the room too . I also love how Kar Wai flashes so many techniques into his story , the flashes of colors , the combinations and segues of film speeds and a kind of impressionistic style that puts up noir into a more emotional plane . It's one of the director's best .
maybe the most light-hearted piece Cronenberg ever made , still with one or two creepy moments	Camera is a loving exercise to the magic of movie-making as the subjects are an aged man who became that way while watching a movie in a theater ( based a dream Cronenberg really had ) , and a bunch of kids who have a 35mm camera and sound equipment and are getting ready for a shot . " They just figured it out , " says the old man on how they're able to operate film equipment . It's a moment like that which puts a genuine smile on my face - Cronenberg does love cinema , and not simply for the reasons that could be taken from his most notorious work ( i . e . Videodrome , Naked Lunch , Crash ) . The only times when one feels the old Canadian maverick kicking in is when we see the video camera moving in on the man's face ( Leslie Carlson as the actor , who has a great , unique face for long , lingering hand-held close ups ) . This is contrasted with the straightforward , innocent shots of the kids setting up the equipment . And then that final shot , where it becomes like a moment out of the best theater , if only for a moment . It's a nifty little piece that is a good accessory to see as a Cronenberg fan - the big pyshcological dramatic points are lessened for the sake of an intro to a film festival .
Jimmy Cagney , of course , takes this to another level ; very good direction to boot , a near-classic	The Public Enemy is not the best that the 1930s gangster movie period had to offer - Hawks ' Scarface and Curtiz's Angels With Dirty Faces certainly top it in terms of overall quality and bravura performances - but it is still one you wouldn't want to miss to understand the force that was and remains so potent today of James Cagney . While he's not quite alone in giving off an amazing screen presence with Jean Harlow as the almost love-interest it's his show all the way . He takes on Tom Powers with a conviction that is never too earnest but never too subtle to get the point ( though it's arguable that even Cagney has his subtleties , which only adds to his power ) . He talks faster than anyone but never loses one in his verbal fury , and just his look on his face ( eyebrows , eyes , the occasional devilish smirk or look of " I don't give a flying f " ) or the way he carries himself in a room , makes it something of a mini-masterpiece within its 84 minute running time . Does this mean it's his best performance ? Not sure , but it should be a top tier one , especially considering it got him so much notice back in the 30s - it's not just historical precedence but a purely entertaining work of a small-man-to-big-man saga . The story of its kind has been told and told again ( indeed the whole aspect of two kids starting young and then one turning criminal and the other straight , in this case shown with Tom and his brother Mike , would be repeated to better effect in Dirty Faces ) , but what draws one in , aside from Cagney and Harlow in her few weirdly captivating scenes , is how William Wellmna keeps things focused . As Scorsese notes on the extras on the DVD , music is a huge factor : it's all source material , with the ' Blowing Bubbles ' tune repeated to wonderful effect , and the lack of a conventional score where other directors would have tacked one on for safe measure . Say what you will about some of the camera choices , and some of the pacing here and there that now almost 80 years later is a little creaky , but Wellman's work is powerful and sustained for impact based on what he doesn't show . Many still talk about the hyped ' Grapefruit ' scene , and it's a funny moment not for the misogyny but for the absurdity of the improvisation ( oddly enough from what I had heard I expected it to be more brutal ) , but I would contend that the scene at the horse stables where we see Tom's psychotic sense of revenge played out ( it's second only to the Godfather as the best horse-related scene in a gangster picture ) and the climax in the rain with Tom going up to the building to kill the other gangsters reveals a filmmaker with something to say . If anything it's worth seeing the picture just for these moments where sound films came into being so much so that they still work amazingly today . It has a few problems , but The Public Enemy is something of a real must-see .
simple is as simple does , which includes stealing and living an isolated life	Robert Bresson's Pickpocket has many great moments , even as it didn't quite do it for me on a first viewing as a ' masterpiece ( some have said to see it twice , perhaps I will ) . Bresson's use of the camera is often intoxicating in the most subdued of ways ; at times it does take on the prowess of literature . But my only minor nitpick with the film is that it leaves a sort of cold viewing on a viewer , with such simplicity and emotions stripped from the character ( s ) that it's hard to connect . And yet , this is really made up tenfold with the sort of style that can be likely called Bressonian ; straightforward angles , tense medium close-ups , serene editing , and little to no music . Whatever it sets up for this actor to do , it sets up well . Indeed , the actor who plays the protagonist here is actually very good , aside from the disconnection , and provides an excellent way for us to get along his side . He is a decent person , but there are certain things that get to him , which is why he feels he must steal . At times I almost had a grin as he made some successful grabs , by himself or his cohorts . Was I rooting for him , or just pleased by the pay-off of Bresson's suspense ? Maybe both ; there is definitely one truly virtuoso sequence in the film , when the pickpockets go on the train . Like A Man Escaped , the only other Bresson film I've seen , there is that sort of dissection , quietly and without really digging too deep , into what a man wants with his life , or doesn't want . While the hero has only one determination in Man Escaped , to get out , Pickpocket has a man who doesn't know what to do with himself , only coming to a genuine catharsis behind bars . I think I like Pickpocket a little more , but I may like it even more on another viewing .
an exciting , bizarre-bravura turn of pushing-the-boundaries-of cinema	The Grandmother , like other surreal short films ( and , of course , like the rest of Lynch's work ) , is not that concerned with logic , at least in conventional terms . If there is anything at all conventional about the the film is that it has at its core that small statement on youth and innocence that can be interpreted a hundred ways to Sunday - if you're lonely and dejected you'll look for companionship . It's just that in this case the conventional wisdom of finding someone at the playground or at school is bypassed - here the boy , in isolation from his barking , mad parents , plants and grows a grandmother to spend time with . But is it all as it should be ? Lynch , much as he did with Eraserhead , leaves so much up to interpretation that on a first viewing it's almost not even necessary to find something coherent in what goes on . But in that sense , of course , many will likely be befuddled , disturbed , and maybe even offended at the lack of typical cohesion from start to finish . What it does provide , however , is a kind of cinema experience that has to be felt , seen , heard , taken in as cinema on the technical and artistic side of things always goes . Even when I didn't know what was " going on " with the boy and his grandmother and parents , I didn't mind as long as I knew Lynch was doing something with the camera or lighting or editing or music or animation or all of the above to make it a visceral experience . Yes , there are some tedious moments here and there ( which , even in being a 35 minute short film , are possibly more so than the ones in Eraserhead ) , yes the first two to three minutes takes some time to adjust to , and yes there ending is left about as ambiguous as can be . But it shook me up all the same , like the best parts of 90's music videos . Any time , for example , that Lynch used a sort of stop-motion technique during the live action I was thrilled in a way . The animated sequences have a crude quality that could only be matched by Gilliam's Python animations . And the actors ( or maybe just pieces ) in Lynch's macabre framing and set ups and pay off seem all perfect for the parts . If you're already a fan coming on to this DVD set of Lynch short films , this may or may not come as the most eccentric , wonderfully outrageous of the lot of them ; it could also be for some the most ' huh ' of all of the films as it is the longest and with the most density in the surrealism . It is the mark , interested in it or not , of an artist leaving something out for a good look and soak into what it is or could be or is lacking .
truly , insanely and shamelessly entertaining pot-movie spoof on action movies	It's a given that when you go to a Judd Apatow movie now ( and he's only directed two , but they're still ' movies ' anyway , despite the growing stable of directors ) you'll know what to expect more or less . After 40 Year Old Virgin , Knocked Up , Superbad , Walk Hard , and to a lesser extent Forgetting Sarah Marshall , there's an expectation - if you're tuned into the sensibility of off-the-wall , filthy but improvisational comedy - for it to be good , or even awesome in whatever ' fold ' of comedy its in . Pineapple Express , for the Apatow fan , is as awesome and dumb and illogical and purely enjoyable as comedies get this year , let alone for its ' fold ' , which in this case is the pot comedy cross-pollinated with ridiculous 80s action flick . It's awesome , for one thing , because the screenwriters Seth Rogen and Evan Goldberg ( also responsible for Superbad ) don't give a crap about making anything too , um . . . should I say realistic ? Maybe plausible is more the word in this case , as realism implies that there isn't spoof going on here , which there is , in the kind of subtle AND over the top craziness that one loves to see done right . In this case the movie starts out with an amazing opening scene set in " 1937 - The United States " , where a secret government test is being done on the effects of marijuana on a soldier ( which , oddly enough , make the soldier act and talk like someone in the 21st century , which makes it funnier ) , and there's a slight reefer madness tint to it . Then , after the initial set-up - where Dale ( Rogen ) , a subpoena deliverer and frequent pot smoker , gets in hot water for seeing a murder take place by a villainous drug dealer caught in a war with ' Asians ' , and then implicates his drug dealer Saul ( very uncharacteristic James Franco ) by leaving ' evidence ' behind of the film's title - the writers kick things off into a sly , really insane take off on 80s action thrillers . Make no mistake , they're true to the sources : this might be one of the most violent comedies ever made , a hard , capital R where the least violent bit was shown in the trailer with Franco badly , uproariously kicking his foot through the windshield during a high-speed chase . But one might ask , is the cartoonish violence enough to make it awesome ? Not quite - what really clicks for a viewer who wouldn't touch pot with a ten foot mouthpiece are the actors and how much serious fun they take the material . Rogen and Franco , the latter of which giving his best performance yet ( yes , best performance , see it and see what I mean compared to his so-so Spiderman parts ) , click instantly and work off one another in that great , somewhat predictable buddy-comedy mold . They bond , they argue , they separate for a bit , and then finally come back together for that show-stopping finale . To reveal what happens there , of course , would ruin all the fun , but everyone involved in the cast ( Danny McBride , Rosie Perez , Gary Cole , Ed Begley Jr , Kevin Corrigan , Craig Robinson , and all those Japanese or Chinese or Vietcong I can't remember ) pitch in for scene after scene that never fails to rise some laughs . In fact Pineapple Express is so funny , so relentlessly action packed and loaded with the kind of dialog that's brilliant for being so natural in its crude and stupidity ( again , an Apatow trademark ) , that it's incredible to think the director is David Gordon Green . This is almost akin to , though not to make a complete comparison , Terence Mallick or Darren Aronofsky helming a Mel Brooks production . What compelled him to take on a raucous pot-action comedy that continuously tops itself I can't totally say ( save for just wanting a change of pace in genre and control over material ) . But it's equally incredible that he manages to get in some moments of his own sensibility into the film in those little moments when Rogen and Goldberg don't have a lot going on , when the visual aspect can be emphasized . Not to mention , on top of this , he's able and ready to direct " genre " material without making it too serious . It's an artistic statement AND one of the most memorably brutal climaxes in recent movie history , and I loved nearly every " what-the-hell " minute of it . Where else will I get to see bullet-strewn drug dealers and ears partly chopped off treated with the reverence of the Daily Show ?
recommended for anyone interested in a ( rewardingly ) bleak futuristic thriller	Alfonso Cuaron , make no mistake , knows what he's doing with the style of Children of Men . Following from the same cues he started off with Y Tu Mama Tambein , his and Emmanual Lebiznaki's camera never stops to go onto a dolly or just to stand still , it's always hand-held and on edge with the characters and the dire situations they're set in 2029 Britain . Sometimes this allows for some really incredible long-takes implemented ( my favorite a very pivotal death / chase scene that occurs surprisingly early in the film ) , allowing Cuaron with complete subjective freedom of perspective . There's never a moment to relax in this world , as just setting a cup of coffee in the middle of the city square could have the next second arriving a bomb just next door . However , perhaps if only for me , the style called attention to itself sometimes , or to the fact that it's all ' just a movie ' . Not that there isn't some very gritty action and horrific bloody violence that comes out , notably in the climactic " uprising " as Clive Owen's Theo almost escapes being annihilated among the total chaos in an especially long take ( blood spats on the lens included ) . The whole set-up of the story of Children of Men is simple , and I ( unfortunately maybe ) knew most of it from the trailer . Owen works a dead-end job in the only country where there is some " stability " ( note the quotes ) at a time in the world where infertility is dead and the youngest man alive has just died . There's terrorists everywhere , no one can really rest easy , and the police state makes it very hard to get around on the roads , not to mention the immigration problem ( sound familiar ? ) . Enter in Julianne Moore's character , who was once lovers with Theo , and needs his help to get a foreigner across to safer grounds . But it becomes further complicated when the cat's out of the bag - she's pregnant , and needs to get to safety to have her child . So then the characters are off on the mission , however complicated further by the ( well laid ) twist that the group that were originally going to help get the woman to the " Human Project " - where she could be looked after with the best spark of hope - really just want the baby as collateral to propagate their uprising against the government . Meanwhile , the chaos continues and continues . In a sense , this is probably the bleakest futuristic " pro-life " movie ever made , however pro-life in relation to Children of Men is actually a necessity rather than a political or religious point . There seems to be no respite from civilization eating itself up at the thought that humanity will end if procreation becomes nothingness , and so part of the strength in Children of Men is seeing the conviction behind the main message in the film . In a time where there is practically a culture of death by way of a lack of governmental control and a burst of extremism , the only hope is new life , if only in a small dose . Populating around this message - which only becomes a little thicker by the end of the film - is a strong performance from Owen , who maybe doesn't have as much range as usual due to him being mostly a reactionary ( mostly with shock and conflict , and early on malaise ) at what's around him . Michael Caine also turns in the amusingly human supporting turn as a pot-smoking ex-political cartoonist . Even the woman who plays the most crucial one in the picture - who may or may not name her child Bazooka - is very good in the part . So why didn't I respond to it with overwhelming enthusiasm and with a place for it in my top 10 of the year ? Hard to say even hours after seeing it . Maybe there is almost a certain lack of momentum even as the clock ticks down on the pregnancy . The bleakness that carried over the picture is so thick and disparaging it's half a relief from seeing other futuristic pictures that don't deliver so much on the dread and decay of humanity gone to the dogs , and half a desire for it to not be as such . No doubt I recommend it to all who'd like a serious trip into an original Orwellian - nightmare - popcorn - thriller ( if that makes sense ) , though I don't think it's necessarily a full-blown masterpiece . . . AMENDMENT TO PREVIOUS REVIEW ( month & a half later ) : I rewatched the film , and I liked it even more ; it gets deeper , with its message more impactful and the staggering long-takes even more powerful - and it is one of the best directed films of the decade .
not perfect , but still a vital and truly virtuoso epic	Watching some of the sequences ( err , the entire of the film devoted to the battle on the ice ) in Alexander Nevsy , a film directed by the Russian legend Sergei M . Eisenstein ( co-directed by Dmitri Vasilyev in his only significant credit ) , made me realize how much must really go into directing , at least on a scale such as this . If I were a member of an awards group at the time of this film's release I probably would award Eisenstein with the director's award of the year , posthumously . It is such a mad stroke of cinematic genius to pull off some of things that are pulled off in the film , though for someone like this director after coming off of his best work - Battleship Potemkin and October - it could have been something he scoffed at at first . But amid a film that is sometimes a little frustrating with how little grays come in to the black and white subject matter , it's still a marvel of celluloid almost 70 years later . Lord of the Rings fans , meet the films ' grandfather , so to speak . To say that something is a propaganda piece already puts a connotation to it , and often a bad one . It is something that has a full-blown message to it , and a point of view . It's still a matter of hot debate ( see the swarms of argument over Moore's films for proof ) , about whether great art can come out of something that is point-blank meant to rouse the audience in a specific manner . In this particular case , the Russians against the Germans . At the time it was nearing WW2 and Russia once again faced the ' German invaders ' , and it's interesting to note that Eisenstein was actually commissioned to make this film , as a rallying call for the Russians to never forget a crucial piece of their history . The end result comes out as being something that is actually slightly common from seeing Battleship and October , however ; if nothing else comes through those films it's that Eisenstein is most concerned about how the image and the content can come together finitely for the viewer , that style can completely envelop the viewer without fail . On those terms Alexander Nevsky is fearless . But even with the whole idea of ' Russia great , Germans bad ' , there are some small moments where things are made a little less stringent , a little less strict to these ideals . For example , when we first see the Germans in Privka , they're not some faceless blob who are totally barbaric and have a blind conquering intent ( not that they aren't out to take whatever they can ) . They have their own national pride going too , that it would be nothing less for them to go forward with whatever their Christian-led masters tell them to . At the least , the evil of the picture has a face , however kept at a low minimum for the more prevalent side to kick in . There's also a brief scene , before the ice-scape battle , where the Russian troupe has a joke that's being told and laughed about , and it adds a little extra depth where else there might be precious little . Because more often than not in Alexander Nevsky , with its battle songs loaded with a pride in warfare , there aren't any complexities to characters , most notably Nevsky himself ( played in ultra-heroic fashion , only questioning near the start , by Nikolai Cherkasov ) who perhaps has to be this way in Eistenstein's intention of having him as the one infallible force to be reckoned with in the tale . After all , to be looking for naturalism in an Eisenstein film is like trying to find non-Kosher pig's feet at a deli . But the real reason to see the picture isn't the acting , anyhow , but for the look of the film , how it moves and takes in such an expansive environment that Eisenstein lays out . On the epic scale it's just as ambitious as his 20's films , with a number of extras not just in the main battle scenes but also in the scenes in the cities , of the hundreds of people rolling on through . In fact , I'd say that any director working in Hollywood or elsewhere thinking of doing some kind of huge epic , particularly war , would do very well to take a look at this film , even with just the sound off . It's even better if thought of as a silent film , with the visual strokes accentuated fantastically at times . One could spend a whole month analyzing the battle on the ice , how it starts with the German soldiers far away and then coming forward like bugs , and then how Eisenstein inter-cuts between close-ups of the actors fighting and then to wide-shots and with sped-up editing . And , of course , one can't discount the power of the music as well , Sergei Prokofiev delivering one of the great rousing scores of any epic work . All the while the director's editing keeps our eyes moving along with this frantic action at breakneck speed . If this was just a short film , it would surely rank with the greats , much like the Odessa Stairs sequence . If I did find it a little less than totally magnificent , it would be because of the faults that do come in from a director who is much more suited to the silent medium than for sound . While I have yet to see Ivan the Terrible , my one negative criticism would be of his direction of actors , which is really as broad as can be , with the melodrama at such a high-pitch its staggering ( the sub-plot of the two soldiers vying for the Olga is the best example I can think of ) . But even this considered , Alexander Nevsky overall is too extraordinary to ignore , and ratchets up an engagement in the action and the film-making to a level that puts a benchmark for films even today to try and live up to .
with the Beatles , Maysles style !	It was madness , a frenzy , a pop-music explosion that still has barely been topped in the US for sheer virtuosity and awareness . After holding off on an official US mini-tour until they got some top 10 hits - and then suddenly getting THREE that were simultaneously number 1 - 72 million people , more or less depending on who's reporting , watched the Beatles on the Ed Sullivan show when they finally played in New York city on his nightly program ( the filmmakers , Al and David Maysles , couldn't get permission to film in the CBS studio , so they just went across the street and found an apartment with a family watching it instead ) . In short , Hard Day's Night wasn't quite as zany fiction but a skewed documentary . For The First US Visit , on the fly and almost by total luck , the Maysles capture the Beatles in all their personal humor , affability , and knack with dealing with the press or the common fan ( or just a little girl at one down-to-earth moment ) . It was the start of their particular , wonderful style of " cinema truth " , where there are barely any interviews , the camera and sound is so technologically simple that they can film practically anywhere , and it verged on being a home movie . There are moments when it does become a home movie , which might be a flaw not really either the Beatles or the Maysles ' fault . The approach is so new that the Beatles themselves - according to Al on the extras on the DVwere utterly curious about how the equipment worked , and would sometimes , as would be the case during the first thrust of " Beatlemania " , be self-conscious and look at the camera . But the feeling for the most part is so natural and cool that we get to just see what the Beatles were like . . . which , of course , are the Beatles in all their fun , their minor moments of seriousness , their whole bewilderment at how MAMMOTH their coming to America had become . The Maysles can capture that and little details ( i . e . a woman in the background of a radio station playing a song and grooving along ) , which is great since the documentary is inter-cut with footage from the two Sullivan appearances ( NYC and Miami ) and a concert at Washington DC , shot live at times like a boxing match from afar . It's the ' early ' period , and it's loaded with the crying and screaming girls , and those wonderful hits " I Wanna Hold Your Hand " , " She Loves You " , " Twist and Shout . " It's all very sweet nostalgia and fun for the Beatles fan .
Immensely entertaining start to a wonderful , exciting saga	Superman is not exactly a pinnacle in film history , but is a great film never-the-less . There is so much to like about this film it boggles the mind . First off , Marlon Brando playing Jor-el in the way only Brando could . Second , you got Gene Hackman as one of the major bad-asses of comic-book adaptations . Even parents ( who might be reluctant to watch anything with their kids ) will want to take a look-see at Brando , Hackman , and Christopher Reeve as the man of steel which many baby boomers remember to be their child hood hero . In fact , there are many who do consider this the best super-hero film ever made . Its way up there for me , as it is a well done , with some great action and good actors .
about as visually striking as futuristic / sci-fi anime can get ; possibly Oshii's finest achievement	This has been counted by some as one of the best anime films , particularly out of the Manga group , of the 90s , and even by some die-hard cultists as one of the all-time great science fiction films . I might argue that not to be so ; it's too short to really take its full-on effect , and at the moment my view on the film is slightly taken aback by having seen the dubbed version - about as talky , if not more so , than A Scanner Darkly and even more loaded with exposition . But nevertheless I do recognize for certain Ghost in a Shell's total strengths , which are combining the elements of traditional hand-drawn animation , computer effects , and some kind of extra futuristic element that perfectly corresponds with the story . All of the sights that go by in the city-scapes and big electronic machines and weaponry and so on and so forth are about as close to being the anime equivalent of Blade Runner . It's a triumph , in that sense , of production design and technical grandeur . Even the musical accompaniment , especially the fairly chilling opening theme , is quite keen . If sometimes the plot becomes convoluted , it's not too much to bear ; as long as you pay attention - not like the sci-fi that might whiz past you in its dumbed state - it's not much of a stretch . It does leave off on a sort of open-ended note ( see other running anime series and sequel for possible details ) , and one that puts a lot of philosophical contemplations to go alongside the techno-wizardry , violence , and cyborg-nudity . But as it stands , Ghost in the Shell is worth it to check out , even just regular casual observers of anime . It doesn't leave the immediate wallop of a classic like Fist of the North Star , but it also doesn't leave you disappointed either . It has me anticipating the original Japanese language version far greater now that I know the dubbed-version's limitations .
Fellini's I Vitelloni transposed to rock n roll , teens , cruisers , and good vibes	They're each on the crossroads of High School into real life , either still deciding ( Richard Dreyfuss ' character Curt ) , or more just in the moment of their lives on a specific night following graduation ( Ron Howard's Steve , Charles Martin Smith's ' Toad ' , Paul Le Mat's Milner ) . It's a night filled with riding in cars , meeting , wanting , or getting stuck with girls and women , racing , getting into mishaps , all the while having the unmistakable Wolfgang Jack on the radio playing the hits of the day . In fact , as the co-writer / director George Lucas has said , the film is more like a musical than a real drama / comedy , where the music informs the action . Scorsese was using this technique at the time as well , and it has become as heavily influential in the style of adolescent comedies and many other films as the special effects in Lucas following film , Star Wars . Sometimes the music makes a scene funnier , or more somber , or just adds that little bit of excitement , but more often than not it comments on the action , which helps far more than a musical score would've done for the material . If for nothing else , American Graffiti's musical compilation is a masterpiece unto itself . Lucas ' second feature , American Graffiti - to date his one non-sci / fi & / or action film - keeps a cool , sometimes odd , but magnetic energy to it , even through some scenes that don't play great compared to others . Like with Lucas ' inspiration for the film ( aside from his own personal experiences and his own self ) , Federico Fellini's I Vitelloni , there is an original feel to the material , and particularly spontaneous in some of its humor , as well as the improvisational freedom ( or at least feeling ) from the actors . The main four characters , one a cool-dude ( Milner ) , one a nerdy type ( Toad ) , one the popular prom king ( Steve ) , and another the average Joe of high school ( Curt ) , each go through their own cycles of discovery on this night , and Lucas cuts their stories together wonderfully , never keeping the interest far off from the last story . Sometimes the humor doesn't connect entirely - it is a film of its time and a lot more for the generation of its time - but it is on the money for most of it . The female performances , as well , are memorable , and bring out some of the best laughs aside from some of the more uncomfortable or surprising bits . A lot of it is sarcastic , witty , and wild in the humor , but there is also the tender , more emotional side to it all ( much as would be in the Star Wars films with the comic relief ) . It's a well-rounded effort , and a small classic in the realm of 70's breakthrough cinema .
The makings of Greek tragedy , but Chabrol has more up his sleeve in revenge flick	In taking a slight cue from Alfred Hitchcock ( one of Chabrol's heroes ) , but going another step further , This Man Must Die follows a logical turn of events for a single father who's son is run over in a hit and run by some cruel man in a fast car . In Hitchcock's hands this might be led by elegant stars , have even moments of scathing wit . But Chabrol's vision is a little darker , more that is seething under this surface , with the bourgeois as much of the commonplace as just the backdrop for the theater of revenge about to take place . But like the old master , Chabrol takes a twist with the material : as the father , Charles Thenier , going by an alias as a writer of children's books , gets more than acquainted with a woman who is the sister-in-law of the killer , gets to know the family more , and gets to know slimy , shrewd businessman and big-time garage owner Paul Decourt more , he's not really the only one out for his head . As Chabrol goes further , it becomes a tale of Greek tragedy , or some variation on it . Paul's son , Philippe ( a character as played by jean Yanne as if almost out of Bresson ) , hates his father with a passion , as his father has no respect for or tries to encourage his son with what he's got going on at school ( perhaps conventionally , every scene with the father and son is a tense and violent outburst from father towards innocent son ) . One might think a collaboration might happen between the secretive , diary-writing Charles and the kind but frustrated kid , but this too isn't that simple . Chabrol also takes a smart tactic with that diary of Charles's ; it could be just a narrative gimmick , and at times it feels as just that ( maybe one of the film's only drawbacks , if only only on ) , but it does start to probe into a mindset that is one-track , and not without some reason in the genre sense . We're pitted on Charles's side , as he sneaks his way into Helen's heart , and then through her sometimes nice and other times ( i . e . Paul's mother ) savage in their verbal brutality . But this same diary works as a something of a step-up from a psychological MacGuffin . Chabrol twists around with plot into motivation , and he pulls it off with his shooting and editing style , which applies just small , precise touches of the good old French New Wave into the proceedings ( the occasional jump-cut , as any filmmaker knows , can't hurt under the right circumstances ) . What Chabrol's brilliant achievement is to transcend the trappings of a revenge film and to explore what the nature of malevolence brings past a simple crime - certainly these bastards have families , if they have the capacity to clear up their crimes with such skill like an owner of a hugely profitable auto-body / garage - and at the same time put a human angle into a plot that requires it . The actors do what they can ( the man playing Charles , who I have not seen in other films , is very good in the lead , as is in his own right the man playing Paul Decourt , adding some layers to this rotten being ) , and despite some clunky scenes that do have to deal with the plot , there's some wit thrown in under the surface ( " It's not a needle in a haystack , more like a needle in a box of needles , " ) . If This Man Must Die isn't a great film , and I'm not sure it is , it is at least a very successful example of finding some of the cracks in a revenge mystery , of adding that superlative mix of character into plot , and seeing what makes things like a diary , or a slip off a cliff , or an ambiguous ending , tick .
a Terence Malick production of a David Gordon Green film . . . so you know the stakes	David Gordon Green explores the story in Undertow with an intention to tell the story , but there's also an intention to explore the spaces his actors inhabit , or run to , or from , and occasionally with the lyricism of a grungy street poet . This isn't to say the film is pretentious ; it can be enjoyed by those who just want a good , harrowing chase movie . Yet it asks a little more for an audience complacent with the norm in Hollywood , used to the conflict being simplistic with respect to the characterizations . Its presentation calls attention to a director attempting to find the thematic beats through what could otherwise be a conventional ride . It's also no mistake to make the connection to films of the 70s , or specifically Terence Malick's austere visual approach ; Malick is credited as producer , so it's bound to have some informal mark of his own somewhere . It's really a tragedy of the rural family , where a single father ( Mulroney ) raising two kids ( Bell and Alan ) , the older one something of a troublemaker , constantly brought in to the cops . When the father's brother ( a perfect antagonist in Lucas ) gets out of prison and comes to visit , it's more than a friendly family call ; greed and vengeance bring him there , and a horrible incident occurs that sends the two children running away , now with their uncle in tow . He's after some valuable old gold coins - family heirlooms or sacred Mexican lot , depending on what story is to be believed - and nothing will stop him . Meanwhile , the two kids ( the younger of the two pretty sick most often ) are left to their own devices , looking for work , hiding in junkyards , or with the help of fellow underworld travelers . Aside from that , which is the basic plot , a lot of Undertow sways between tense and taut drama and action , with a couple of really visceral fights and bits of violence , and an understated character study . There's the performances that feel right in the thick of it , with Bell giving it all in a breakout role . But it's just . . . hard to explain the sensibility that gives this an edge over other dramas out there . The setting is one thing , where for the most part ( with a few exceptions ) Green doesn't succumb to total clichés with these southern hobos and backwoods folk ( or , at the least , there's a humanism caught by having what would appear to be non-actors in roles like convenience store clerks and tow-truck drivers ) . And also it's the cinematography , which is clear and cool and hand-held for some subjective impact , plus the eerie , unusual score by Philip Glass . All of these punctuations on a story that is dark and compelling are abound , but it's also this bond between the two brothers , and the memories that they share and how memories in general work into the narrative , that score Green success . It's about mood as much as plot , about sorrow and anger and fear and all these things , and it's never something to scoff as too artsy-fartsy . It's just about right .
constantly re-watchable with entertaining storytelling , a good serious neo-noir	Michael Mann's skills as storyteller , stylist , and controller of mood and psychology of characters is in one of its finest forms in Collateral , a summer blockbuster that's with equal measure of excitement and thought , dark humor and tough moments of violence and suspense . It's also one of only a handful of times in Tom Cruise's career where taking a chance dramatically with a complex character pays off . It's a 100 million dollar + grossing movie , but its story could just as well be one set in the noirs of the 40s and 50s - a cabbie with some aspirations for his own business ( and for a girl he picks up at the start of the film ) gets taken over by a hit-man who's doing his rounds of murders all in one night . There's also cops on the trail , as well as FBI , but it's really more than anything about these two guys and the very stark , expected but still compelling climax . After the set-up gets underway , the film is as much character study as a typical crime thriller , and it's one of those splendid examples of style matching substance , where both contain some unconventional bits in what could have been a lesser film . Along with a good script by Stuart Beattie , and Mann's perfectly nuanced digital night-time photography ( more suitable and exacting for the mood than the recent Miami Vice ) , there's the acting . First , of course , are the stars with Cruise in a turn-around role as the antagonist , who spouts out little bits of Darwin and I-Ching , but for the most part is a stone-cold sociopath . Cruise , wonderfully uncharacteristic for what he usually does in his star vehicles , is more low-key , ominous , and at the end quite dangerous . Jamie Foxx , too , in his real deserved Oscar-nominated turn , is also unconventional here as a common guy who's put between a rock and a hard place . Maybe his best scene , or at least the one I would show as him being a much better actor than he sometimes gets credit for , is when he has to meet Felix ( Javier Bardem ) to get a new ' list ' of people for Vincent . That and a few other scenes are both tense and with an undercurrent of cynical , harsh humor that helps balance out the dark nature of the events . Collateral is also pretty re-watchable for a fan of this kind of picture , with a great score / soundtrack , great locations , and a couple of interesting ending images .
near great straight-to-video movie that celebrates the legacy of JL	I'll be honest - I've never read a Justice League comic book , or watched much of the show . All of the superheroes featured here in the ' origin ' story of the Justice League are , however , either more than well known to me ( Superman , Batman ) or marginally more-so ( Flash , Green Lantern , Wonder Woman , Aquaman ) . Only one , Martian Manhunter , is off my radar , and maybe rightfully so as it seems to be something that's suited for the premise of this story , originally crafted by comic artist Darwyn Cooke , which is steeped in the America of the 1950s . But as someone who can attest to it , it's a perfect introduction to the DC heroes at large , as it delivers not only a riveting story of heroes banding together to act as such in a moment of great peril but an individual origin story ( Hal Jordan / Green Lantern ) that works just as well . In fact , only a couple of liabilities keep this from being one of the best straight-to-video movies , animated or otherwise , I've seen in many years . The premise is both simple and complex , depending on the point of view of the viewer and familiarity with the DC stock of characters ; a villain called ' Centre ' ( voiced by the inimitable Keith David , even under loads of sound effect work ) , who is enigmatic for some of the time as to what the hell he or it is , until it's revealed that he / it is an entire island ! It sounds like a job for Superman , but it's not that easy , and the period of Cold-War era makes it a little difficult for some of the superheros to do what they do best ( at one point , oddly enough echoing the Watchmen , the Flash steps down on national TV ) . In the meantime , there's a strange martian fellow who can shape-shift , and Batman seems to be digging further for clues , all leading up to a showdown that has to call together pure , unadulterated teamwork . Maybe not much of a summary , but the story is only half the fun . What absorbs someone into Justice League is how the filmmakers are able to take Cooke's material and not water it down ; it straddles the line between being a rollicking , action-packed adventure for the kids and being actually quite violent and quasi-adult themed for the older ones looking for that PG-13 to stretch just a little bit further ( there's one killing scene , I won't say which , that seems quite bloodier than some would be used to Saturday mornings ) . And there's a load of intrigue that's cooked up , on top of the conflicts of the characters early on like Wonder Woman's tike spent in Korea , on the topic of Cold War paranoia and nuclear horror . One of the most thrilling and chilling moments of the movie is a planned trip to Mars that goes incredibly haywire barely after leaving Earth's atmosphere . So , the content is fantastic , as are the formations of the characters , and the dialog stays true to the spirit of DC comics fare at its most questioning and inspirational . The only minor tiffs I had were a corny ending involving Superman and Atlantis , and a uber-patriotic coda that feels a little less cathartic after the whole build-up of " there's no democrats or republicans , etc " before the climax . Aside from that , however , I could barely find a flaw , and it even earns some extra points by taking the tools used for so long on the animated TV series ' and using bits of cooler animation techniques to spruce things up . If you ever wanted to watch a JLA movie , here it is . And to already committed fans , it's a small slice of awesome cake . I know I can't wait to dive right in ! ( yes , corny as well , but why carp )
not the all-time best Screwball-comedy , maybe not the funniest , but it has guts and energy and two giant performances	John Barrymore appears on screen under an ostensibly ego-centric persona . It's Oscar Jaffe's Oscar Jaffe by Oscar Jaffe in the Oscar Jaffe theater , so it's suffice to say he thinks highly of his craft . . . until he meets his match with Lily Garland ( once Mildred Plotka ) , a tender actress who just wants to act and shows passion in one moment of desperation that floors him . But Barrymore takes this character , and the subsequent ups and downs ( mostly eccentric and crazy downs ) he has with Carole Lombard and makes it something special . He claws his fingers and widens his eyes and curves and does maniacal things with his eyebrows , sometimes carrying a cane or a black cloak or at " the end of his rope " with a gun . He's like Count Dracula , Norma Desmond and a villain out of a comic-book all rolled into one devilishly clever and diabolical and wonderfully nutty package . This also means that Howard Hawks's film , a very good if not great comedy on the theater biz and BIG personalities that feed off one another whether they love it or despite it , gets a boost from Barrymore's performance . Make that a BIG boost , so much so that even Carole Lombard , who isn't any kind of slow-poke as far as whipping from one over-the-top emotion or another , can't keep up with how incredible a performance it is . It fills up the screen in every frame and almost threatens to come off the screen and take a few audience members as hostages . Oscar Jaffe is called everything from a phony and fake to a weasel and horror , more or less , and it's all deserved . But one thing he isn't is disingenuous , which makes him always compelling on screen . Some of his actions on the train of the movie's title goes almost TOO far , which is part of the point and some of Hawks's brilliance here . Trying to edge it back and it wouldn't work , and go any further ( which sometimes , like the argument scene with the kicking from Lombard ) and it goes into feverish melodrama . As it stands Hawks controls his stars just enough , and gets some inspired bits from supporting players like the guy compulsively posting stickers everywhere on the train and writing bad checks , and at worst it's maybe a bit stagy . At best it's inspired and genre-defining lunacy where all you can do at the end is roll your eyes at the characters ' shenanigans and know they deserve each other . Which works for us , since we wouldn't want it any other way .
one of my favorites from childhood ; leaves quite the impact	At a time when I was around 6-10 years old , give or take , I had an obsession with bears . Through nature documentaries , as well as the first inspiration being Winnie the Pooh , something about these creatures sparked my interest at that age . This film , in particular , had a very special place in my life at the time , and I saw it several times in that period . I saw it again recently and was struck by how it really is not the typical childhood movie . The humor in the story , where it's at , is fairly subtle at times or totally unexpected , and lacking in the usual pee-and-fart jokes now a given in most ' family ' films . It also has moments of true terror and suspense , some scenes of which did really keep me enthralled the first times I saw it . And , of course , there is relatively little dialog , being that the two or three male humans in the film don't strike up that much conversation anyway ( as hunters and all ) . So the film's story of the two bears is really based on bringing the viewer to be active in what goes on . If you're a parent reading this , and you're thinking of showing this to your kid , make sure he's not bouncing all over the place ( as I've seen happen in some movie theaters from time to time ) ; this is a film that should be taken in . In this tale of survival , companionship , and the odds of bears and men , the bear cub of the story loses his mother in a tragedy right at the start of the film leaving him orphaned . After this initial shock wears off , the bear meets another bear , a rather large , solitary Kodiak bear , by way of helping him after being shot . This compassion draws both ways as the two become an unlikely pair through certain usuals with bears ( hunting , fishing , mating , etc ) . But there are also the two hunters of the story , also in a father / son dynamic , who in the late 19th century have no endangered species acts against them . And while director Jean-Jacques Annaud , by keeping his story more with the bears ( mainly the cub ) as the focus of the film , the males of the story are not left completely one-dimensional . One of the most powerful scenes still in my memory is when the Kodiak is face to face with one of the hunters , who's been left armless ( gunless I mean ) , having to see the wrath of nature , and in tears because of it . Few films like these have been able to not only to get most of the truth of what its like for bears in the wild in a feature-film ( with one or two facts about bears changed for the sake of the story ) , but that it can appeal for children and not just some cult of a contingent interested in nature films . If a recent movie like Herzog's Grizzly Man paints the all-true picture of what its like for man to be with the bears , this little gem of the 1980's is a portrait of what it's like for the bears themselves . Another highlight - the frogs early in the film ( creepy , especially as a kid ) .
at best , 15 minute mini-masterpieces of parody , at worst . . . it's still funny	This is a series that , as with Robot Chicken and Metalocalypse and other Cartoon Network programs , never overstays its welcome . Even when not all of its silly jokes connect there's still a charm to the program , not as crude as ' Chicken ' but with a similar aim : make it quick and fast and try and fill up the time with gags that are for anyone who has watched Hannah Barbera or Superfriends or any given number of 60s - 70s cartoons . Harvey Birdman is a cool kind of attorney who doesn't sweat the big case or challenge , even if it's Yogi Bear's Boo-Boo as the Unabomber ( or " Unaboo-boo " , ho-ho , really ) or a divorce between . . . two " partner " characters ? We get characters quite familiar ( Scooby Doo ) and kind of not well known ( that " Huge " Indian is a great big genital joke if we've ever seen one , and it works ) . It also has some creative voice work to go with the animation ( Stephen Colbert is fantastic as Birdman's boss for one ) , and we get some classic moments of awkward tension broken with the over-extended laughing by the characters or some totally zany shenanigans . In short , watch it in its present state , which is an episode or two in-between longer programs , and you'll get some way better than average filler . Or , if you want that slightly twist on the repetitiveness of Law & Order , check out the warped and not-quite kid friendly spoofing going on with the resident Birdman .
Dumplings : ; Cut : ; Box : ; overall a very nifty , varied set of Asian horror	While not one of the three films in the collection of shorts put under the name " Three Extremes " will ever shock to the point of no return , they represent some of the sharpest wit , guts ( literally and figuratively ) , and psychological insight into what really creeps out , entertains and sticks with us as viewers . The first is Fruit Chan's Dumplings . This one had me intrigued on the outset because I had never seen a work of Chan's before - he's won many awards but is not as well-known a cult director as the his other contemporaries here - and by film's end he had me for quite a loop . It's surely the most depraved and intentionally " oh-my-God " type of short horror films one's likely to see in the years to come , mainly because it takes on a very basic and over-done topic , vanity , and is cooked up ( no pun intended ) with human beings ' attachment to new life . Mainly because , as Bai Ling's character demonstrates , it's so useful a old-age-prevention to eat aborted fetuses in dumpling form , as the main character , a former TV star who's worried about being appealing to her husband . This probably has the least depth , emotionally and psychologically , of the three films , mainly because Chan is far more interested in getting the audience repulsed by what's going on . It will certainly set the alarms going off for pro-lifers , but just about anyone will wonder how it can end like it does , with a twist that is just meant to add one more devilishly wretched twist on top of the baby-plate . Next up is Cut , a film by South Korea's newest sensation Park Chanwook . While overall his film is the most wholly satisfying and entertaining , it's not without a heap of ' hip ' shots , like the one that pulls back ( via computers of course , though very cleverly ) across the set of a movie being shot , or in some of those angles that one saw as being one-of-a-kind in Park's Oldboy . This time a similar thread emerges : a true-blue psychopath , an extra with a grudge , makes psychological mind-games with a director with maybe too much humility to him , as his wife is tied up intricately with her fingers getting chopped off one by one . There's a lot of real guilty-pleasure type laughs to be had here , with the black comedy reaching higher points than one would've expected even from Oldboy territory , where conscience gets thrown out the window and all that's left are raw human emotions and the dark side of circumstance . It helps that the extra , played by Won Hie Lim , is great at the part because there's no real sense of humor to him , but he still ends up being funny , like when he dances to that song from one of the Director's films . The final five minutes of the short ratchets up the terror that's been building up , and those looking for the same knock-out violent climax won't be disappointed . But it's the little moments too that Park gets right , as character , primarily the Director's , is never a very certain thing . Takashi Miike's Box is definitely , for my money , the best directed of the lot , or at least with the most measured for the characters in the story . This time the outrageousness of the previous shorts is replaced by a grim horror of complexes going back to childhood , of entrapment in the mind to memories that are too horrible to contemplate . An author seems to be revisiting things that happened as a child - the death of her sister by her own very strange accidental hands - and how a box figures its way into it all , on top of a very sick man - the girls ' father - with a half-white face . Atmosphere this time trumps perversity , though it still applies that Miike's film is a work that will be probably more haunting because of the complexities to how Kyoko faces what's happened to her sister Soko . I won't reveal what the final twist is , which is pure classic Miike , but the rest of the Box , which has very little dialog and many shots that linger longer than one might expect , is haunting and deliberately gut-wrenching . A circus atmosphere , of the sort here anyway , is no more or less realistic than the other scenarios portrayed in Three Extremes , but Box also has the upper-hand of reality blending with nightmares , and what nightmarish qualities always come up from them . What does the box mean ? It's not necessarily a MacGuffin , put it that way . So , if you make sure not to eat anything during the proceedings , and maybe have someone's arm to clutch during some of the bloodier and gleefully sick moments , Three Extremes should make for a cool night of viewing . The directors on hand are in their A-game forms , and it has an appeal that might reach the more hard-bitten veterans of Asian cult films due to the ingenuity of key moments as well as newcomers to Asian horror that might draw them in ever more than before .
how to act and love , by Demme and Vonnegut , starring Walken and Sarandon , what more could you want ?	To answer that question : that it was longer . Then again to counter that own point , maybe this was a film that was very close to Vonnegut's original story , thus not extending it to feature length or making it an actual theatrical release . As it is it should be just a trifle , but it's more than that . Director Jonathan Demme adds a light air of circumstance to the proceedings , and plants some of his trademarks ( notably the precise positioning of the camera on faces , as we all know from most of his films ) while letting the actors have at it . And it's quite an amazing piece for those who love theater , and how an actor's mind meets with heart . At the same time it's not sentimental ; this story of a woman ( Sarandon ) who keeps moving from town to town and never settling anywhere or meeting anyone , and a man ( Walken ) who is an introvert who lets himself out through incredible community theatre productions , who meet on the set of Streetcar Named Desire and fall for each other in the oddest way is about as charming as one could imagine . Aside from the power of seeing Walken take on iconic parts ( i . e . Cyrano , Stanley Kowalski ) , he's fantastic at being incredibly subtle and at underplaying his meek clerk-turned-star . If you want to see him outside of being the Continental or giving gold watch speeches , come here . And Sarandon is excellent too , in a role that requires her to be compassionate and kind and understanding and blah blah and she does it without flinching in a step . It's short , and sadly not longer ( though I'd love to see the 95 minute cut from Argentina ! ) , but it's one of Demme's better efforts of the 90s , a true small-town chamber piece of love .
not quite science fiction , not quite documentary - science-reality ?	While Werner Herzog has stated that he looks at his 1992 film Lessons of Darkness as a work of science fiction , it shouldn't be discounted as a documentary either . But unlike the recent Wild Blue Yonder , where Herzog made a true science fiction documentary , this time the line is further blurred by making everything involving humans ambiguous as to their connections with their surroundings . Despite the locations being discernible as to where it's at , and the two interviews being indicative of where the people are possibly from , he keeps his 54 minute plunge into the Kuwait oil fields a primarily visual trip . It sometimes even felt like someone had decided to do a documentary on some civilization in the future in some obscure sci-fi novel ( or , for a moment , like some wayward planet in the Dune universe ) . It's best then , as Herzog suggests , to take one out of context of the period , even if seeing the green-screen images ( however brief ) of the war conjures up immediate associations . If looking at this without the associations of the Iraq war part 1 or the Kuwait connection in it all with oil however ( as with Wild Blue Yonder not associating that its ' just ' NASA and underwater photography ) , it fills one with an immense wonder at what can be captured by a lens not bound by conventions . But amid the freedom that Herzog decides to use with his resources , he ends up striking his most visually compelling treatise on destruction to date . It's like he decided to take certain cues from Kubrick via 2001 , and from just general nature documentaries , in order to capture the sort of alien aspect to this all . Because the act of setting these oil fields , which were left in a state of disrepair following said " fictional " war , is like facing nature off on a course against nature ( fire on oil , then water on fire ) . There's also the element of industry that finds this way in this mix , especially because of the presence of human beings in this mix . Herzog , in avant-garde fashion ( ala Dieter and Yonder ) sections off the scenes with Roman numerals , and in theme and tone it does work ( e . g . a part meant for showing the machines trudging around is labeled as being part of ' dinosaurs ' , or when the people set the oil on fire and the others are " mad " in coming in on it ) . And eventually what starts out as just simple , yet spatially complex , aerial takes on the tattered fields , turns into an act of seeing ruin and something that would seem incredible in an objective frame of reference . But that doesn't mean Herzog limits it completely to total dialog-less landscapes ( which , as Herzog has said in the past , he likes to think in grandiose terms he " directs " ) of fire and obtuse figures fanning and producing the flames . He also gets two interviews with women who were around when the war was there - one who is given no words for what she says except that her husband was killed , another who had a child with her and who is now traumatized - and somehow this too works even out of context . I'm sure that if Herzog had wanted to , even in limited time and circumstances he was in , he could be able to work some political stance in the proceedings . His decision to keep politics or anything of the immediate recognizable in concrete terms is a wise one . Not that there isn't something concrete to seeing destruction of this magnitude . But there's an abstract quality to all of this after a while that makes it all the more real in nature , while still keeping to a control of the subject matter into something that looks out of this world , ethereal , and somehow unnatural while still being about nature all the same ( hence science-reality ) . It's almost too arty for its own good in a small way , with Herzog's inter-titles and ultra-somber voice-over becoming like gravestones marking the sections of one set of madness to another . But there's also a daring here that is totally unshakable too , and from a point of view of cinematography it actually goes on par ( if not occasionally seems to top ) what Kubrick did in 2001 or what Lynch could've done in Dune , which is that a filmmaker uses places and objects that are of this world , but then taking the audience to a place that is also assuredly not so . It adds a level of mental discomfort , but then that's likely a big part of the point - seeing the oil burned by order of a government that's been on the news we watch every night is one thing ( or rather was ) , but it's another to suddenly take it in another light , where in the realm of science-fiction it asks the viewer to raise questions via abstractions one might forget when taking it as complete truth . It's a hybrid film that you'd never see this in a cineplex next to the big-bang sci-fi action fare , but then most probably wouldn't want to .
the crew of the enterprise saves the whales , visits San Fran , other follies , very entertaining	This is probably one of the best examples of Star Trek being able to reach past its main fan-base . It's got some action out in space , but for the most part the story takes place all on Earth , particularly in San Francisco , and out in the ocean . It also boasts a very good supporting turn from Child's Play / 7th Heaven star Catherine Hicks as the unintentional tag-along on the Enterprise's mission . This mission involves an alien presence threatening to wipe out the oceans , and all life perhaps , with the only solution to move a Humpback whale to safer waters . But the film isn't really about the story , per-say , which could have been a problem as Star Trek is more than anything all based on story with characterization that grows in bits and pieces . By the fourth film in the franchise , however , after overly dramatic turns in parts 2 and 3 in which the main cast had been given enough time for the audience to know and connect with them , there's some fun that can be had . So the Voyage Home is more entertaining and thematically engaging - immensely so - about life in 1986 Earth . In a sense it's linked to another 1986 film Crocodile Dundee about a guy from out of town in the big city . But this time it's also a change of centuries and cultures , and such little scenes involving some of the oddities and quirks in the city , with Spock's analytic observations dead-pan enough to be funnier than by those of most regular comics . In any case this is also a kind of strange guilty pleasure for Trekkies , as it has the Enterprise crew doing something they almost never do - contacting with other humans on Earth . The scenes with Hicks primarily add some charm and interest , like when Kirk has to ask her out on a date . In general her role isn't necessarily the ' best ' in the film , but it doesn't hurt at all either . The scenes of action are ' safe ' enough for all ages , the main villains aren't flogged with make-up and over-acting , and the climax of the mission is enthralling like science fiction rarely can get without explosions or tragic feats of strength . Star Trek The Voyage Home is often really goofy , harmless , and playing to a pathos that speaks to not just Trekkies but also non-Star Trek fans , particularly , well , environmentalists . It's probably one of the best of its franchise - it knows what it is and it's got laughs for its audience and thrills for young and old alike ( and yes , it's a cliché that isn't how it really is here ) .
Coppola's gangsters and dancers saga that succeeds on its ambitions , if just by a hair	The Cotton Club has a reputation , in the movie world as well as in the history books , as being a notorious heaven / hell for most involved . Desptie it being over-budget and under-whelming at the box-office , what remains is probably one of the director's most provocative turns , with so much thrust into it that one ends up admiring the whole so much that it can be forgiven that it veers into the bulky side of things . It's near-classic pulp melodrama fused with the grace and intelligence of the Hollywood musicals and crime pictures of the period that would come shortly after the events in this film . It's also at times utterly pleasurable as conventional fare that knows what it is , as well as visually flourishing in cinematography and editing to go a little further with the material . It's risky stuff not because of the story in and of itself , but because of the chances Coppola takes with putting so much together . Unlike one of his contemporaries , Scorsese , and his film New York , New York , the Cotton Club even in its most dragging or trickiest points in the narrative reigns high as an original hybrid by giving something captivating on every side of the coin . Acting-wise , Coppola goes for the big ensemble once again ( a trademark of his films in the 80s ) , with the key ones allowing for the director to put a lot into each smaller group . The stars as the drenched-in-formula good looking ' musician-cum-actor ( Richard Gere ) and the girl on the side for one of the big mob bosses in New York City ( Diane Lane ) . the gangsters , all with specific characteristics that gain momentum as the story goes , like Dutch Schultz ( James Remar ) as the possessive paranoid killer , Bob Hoskins and Fred Gwynne ( what a combo ) as certain ' business interests ' entwined with the rest of the mob , and Nicolas Cage as Gere's younger brother , a hot-head racist who wants to take over ; the black actors , singers , dancers , all right out of Harlem and with its own stars ( Gregory Hines , in one of his very best performances / roles ) , and criminals ( Fishburne as a key part of this group ) . And the club itself is something of a character - as principle location - unto itself , as some surreal bastion of escapist glee ( if your part of the audience ) and gangland violence and bad race vibes ( if not ) . Coppola also has the occasional side character , like the MC at the club played by Tom Waits ( made believable all by a cigar ) , to not make either side too top-heavy . Whether one side bests the other or not is arguable . It's hard to say that there aren't some noteworthy scenes in practically every turn , even if they tend to go over-the-top ( like Remar with Schultz ) or almost too much on young charisma ( Lane and sometimes Gere ) . It's a credit to Coppola , at least on that front , that he corrals moments - like the break-up / reuniting with Sandman and Clay Williams , or between the two main stars when they're literally between white sheets backstage at the club - that add up to a lot in the grand scheme of things . His other main concerns , however , are music and the subtle presence of the camera . There's rarely a dull moment with the former , as Duke Ellington and Cab Calloway are presented , if only for fans , as legends unto themselves that even get fleeting glances on screen ( the Calloway number " Minnie the Moocher " is a hight-light ) . And Coppola's tie-in with Stephen Goldblatt and his editors is crucial , albeit using each to their fullest extent depending on the mood . The film moves pretty fast , narratively quicker than the Godfather films , but he only uses montage for pivotal cross-cutting moments , showing the rise and fall of the gangsters with that of the club gaining prestige ( the fall , in the big climax , is as magnificent as it can get in cinema ) , and the technical prowess is skillful and inventive . And all the same , it shouldn't all work entirely , because so much feels like it's about to explode at any moment , and nearly to a point where it edges on the point of being the same thing that Coppola is striving to homage ( shallow , escapist sensationalism ) . There's parallels between the struggles of musicians , criminals , and the others on the sidelines in show-business , and are exploited quite well . All the same it ends up not exactly a ' great ' movie , because the underlying ideas for something much deeper only work up to a point . Still , after a first viewing , and like with most other films from the director ( and , damned if I say it , the producer too ) , I wouldn't pass it up again on a viewing late at night ; it's one of the more shamelessly entertaining pictures of the mid 80s .
" Suck Satan's c ! " crazy , amazingly funny stand-up	How did it take me so long to come to Bill Hicks ? I'd heard about him for years , but only until a DVD was released with a few of his specials , and suddenly his lucid , spot-on sarcastic observations grew on me almost immediately . He goes from JFK to Terminator 2 stunts done by cripples to ' happy LSD trips ' to fundamentalists running the country , and there's rarely a bit where one doesn't just let out a whole lot of laughs . His delivery is a big part of it ; he sometimes is in on the joke so much so that he has no other way than to make a goofy face after saying something that we know is ridiculous about something . He also shows himself to be totally , wondrously ruthless when it comes to any lack of intelligence in a group of people - or just individuals , can't hurt - and in entire ways of living , like people in advertising ( " No joke , just kill yourselves . " ) But he's also just got a quick tongue , varying his voice and mannerisms , to fit the joke at the unexpected places . Even a bit that might run a little long , like his Goat-boy impersonation , has sparks of genius that are far greater than middling comics best stuff . I'm not entirely sure yet if he was a total genius or one of the 5 best comics ever like some have purported him to be . But on the evidence of Revelations and Relentless ( and , even more-so , his half-hour One Night Stand appearance on HBO in 1990 ) , he was a genuine talent , able to tackle all the big topics of the day and just in general , which makes the bulk of it last years on .
a contender for my favorite Quay brothers film	I like the Brothers Quay work in small doses , and all at once with one film coming after another it becomes too staggering an experience to handle . But seeing Street of Crocodiles really made it for me in terms of connecting it to other Quay brothers work , in terms of how their surreal representations and obsessions and neuroses come into their work , and how it pulled off so well this time . A lot of time their avant-garde impulses almost get the better of them , and many a fantastic image and sound is presented but without much context , leaving it almost impenetrable . I didn't get that this time around with this film - which happened to make Terry Gilliam's top 10 favorite animated films of all time - as it presents its ideas a little more coherently , and unlike other Quay work it ends not on a sudden beat but on one that actually makes sense , in its own non-sensical form . It's really just one of the most pure visualizations of a nightmare world envisaged , as a puppeteer opens up a box and looks in at a figure moving around in this run down slum of a city , where screws continually keep unscrewing from their places and deformed dolls go about as they please performing grisly tasks . This animated figure ( who really is anything but animated , as the character doesn't move around too much , except to continually look at things that perhaps he shouldn't , or doesn't understand at first ) gets embroiled in the dolls ' plans , which may or may not involve unscrewing his own head as well . At times it seemed like the Quays could go off again into the wormholes of their own visions , but they resist the temptation to go completely with the narrative - whatever there is of it anyway . Disorder and decay were words that kept floating in my mind , and all amid an atmosphere of not necessarily despair , but one that lacked much hope for any of its minions . Featuring some of the most inventive production design I've seen in any stop-motion film , and cinematography that still stuns me hours after watching it , it's a real little marvel of what can come out of the darkest corners of the mind , put to light and molded with the utmost care .
Carpenter at his most surreal , most sickening , and , in his own devilish way , most self-deprecating	I think In the Mouth of Madness falls into that column of John Carpenter films that fans of his will either like a lot or wont , and I could understand the points made for the latter . It is a little hard to get into , at first , as being a very strong film based on the sharply timed shocks and paranoia of Carpenter's horror as a director as well as the ideas presented by the writer , and it does veer into going into the same wild level of deliriousness that soon enough becomes the lead character . But it's a work as well where Carpenter is testing himself , and succeeding in a carefree but controlled way , where he goes for having his cake and eating it too . He gets to throw up on the screen some grisly ( and , as a possible tip of the hat to the groundbreaking effects from the Thing , a sometimes funny knock-off ) special creature effects and with some masterful displays in editing through the images of abstractions into the character's subconscious , while questioning what he's doing all the time , or at least the genre he and others ( notably Stephen King ) make their bread and butter . It's a sort of slightly smarter pulp sci-fi / horror piece , not quite at the insane brilliance of They Live though perhaps in its more deliberate fashion a little creepier , as investigator John Trent ( Sam Neill ) is investigating the disappearance of a severely popular horror novelist , who's books sometimes make people go a little nuts . Trent sees this first-hand from novelist Sutter Cane's agent , who comes at him wielding an axe ( it's one of those pure points in the film that mixed the macabre and satire , something Craven didn't quite get at with New Nightmare ) . He thinks it's a hoax , and soon discovers that he may be in a ( fictional ? ) town called Hobbs End in New Hampshire . What he finds , in typical Carpenter fashion , is describable as being a psychological flip-flopper , where Trent goes from thinking it's all a gag with it being very elaborate , to it suddenly not being , at all . Creatures ( supplied wonderfully by KNB ) start popping out , disgusting ones that aren't much human , and it even gets to Trett's female companion / literary liaison on the trip . Soon Cane is found in some dank cellar ( Jurgen Purchnow , one of Carpenter's most chilling villains in how subtle he is ) , and he has a new book ready for Trett to bring to the world . . . This isn't quite where the film gets weird , though it's probably a little before or a little after this point , and the kind of weirdness I had been hoping to build up . Although it does get close for writer De Luca to being shaky with balancing really dark humor - however in small doses , and depending on how seriously one takes the more overt horror elements - and at the plight of Trent's mind-set in the midst of total Armageddon , Carpenter levels the playing field without missing too many beats . I kept having my mouth hang open either in a ' what the hell ' mode or just in sort of plain shock . But it's an entertaining mix and match all the way for a genre fan , and Sam Neill is definitely up for the challenge of playing as well level-headed and rational Trett for the first half , then slowly but surely descending into his own subconscious state of peril - or , perhaps , Trent losing sight on what is perceived as reality or not . Only Neill could go between serious dramatic roles to films like this and Jurassic Park , where his characters ' confidence as the practical pragmatist starts to waver as a descent into disaster goes further and further . What Carpenter ends on in the last section of his " apocalypse " trilogy isn't necessarily a closed-and-shut ending either ; I sense that he wants things to be a little closer to the Thing's end , where it's all doom and gloom but there's a wink to the protagonist's state of mind . Trett's last minutes wandering the streets and going into the movie theater watching himself doesn't really spell anything conclusive , I think , which adds all the more to the fun and intrigue . He could just be still in his hospital room , still in the world that dismisses Cane as pulp-sensationalist trash , albeit successful pulp-sensationalist trash ( a little relevant today , eg Dan Brown ) , and not among the total bat-s mess that the world has become while locked in his padded room . It's a question left to the viewer , and a smart one to put up in a film that has by this point thrived mostly on its own sensationalism as well , tongue-in-cheek in the guise of crazy small-town break-out scenario . As a Carpenter fan , I say , bring it on .
to the joy of Bergman and combining drama and music	Ingmar Bergman's seventh film , To Joy , is actually a fairly bitter film , more often than not , in looking at the destructiveness of a marriage between two people who somehow got stuck with each other to fall in love . And yet there are some moments that are quite joyful , or at least in the terms that Bergman will allow from time to time , and they help ring this as less a total work of despair than an examination of ' average ' people who can't stand not having more . Stig ( Stig Olin ) and Marta ( Maj-Britt Nilsson ) meet as they're both musicians in an orchestra conducted by Sönderby ( Victor Sjostrom ) . She's the only woman in the orchestra , but it's not exactly that they have love at first sight in the slightest . Their connection grows following a party where Stig gets drunk and makes a depressing grandstanding fool of himself in front of friends , and somehow his downbeat manner is charming to Marta . Soon they grow closer , even fall in love perhaps , though their future marriage is complicated by Marta becoming pregnant . This scene , when she reveals it three months on to Stig , is the first real crack in the relationship . It only cracks more , with the occasional patch-up , and the question stands more or less - as Stig is looking back on the relationship following his wife and one of his child's deaths - is what could have come from all of this ? Bergman deals with his characters , at this stage in his career , in trying to just find the simple and really not very simple truths of what Stig and Marta are together and separate . For the first half it almost looks like Stig is a bit too two-dimensional , particularly for a Bergman film ( and Olin doesn't play him extremely well , even if he does deliver the beats fairly well , perhaps in line with his own character's inadequacies ) . He can't seem to enjoy anything that he does because he always wants more , to be a supreme soloist , than to have what he already has gotten . Marta , on the other hand , after having several potential men before going with Stig , tries her best to cope with having two kids that she probably wasn't totally thrilled to have in the first place . There's a great little scene where Sanderby recounts walking in on Stig and Marta after having some kind of odd tender moment ( as well as later on after having a quarrel ) , without them noticing Sanderby walk in , and the expression still underneath their faces when he formally walks in . In typical Bergman fashion we see the disintegration of a relationship ( quite a brutal argument in bed really , more of emotional violence than physical ) , even if the sort of ' patching-up ' period towards the end is a little weaker than what's come before . So on the one hand there is this aspect , the drama of two people having a constant push-and-pull tie that binds them through Stig's delusions of grandeur and self-pity and fear manifesting in other forms ( notably into the arms of another woman ) and Marta's own semi-helplessness , which is very good , if imperfect , as classic Bergman storytelling . On the other hand it's also one of the best examples of classical music being used as incidental music : there's not exact musical score like if we hear music accompanying the characters giving the emotional cues during an argument scene or when Sanderby offers advice or gets irritated at Stig , but rather the music of Sanderby's orchestra ( and Sjostrom , I might add , is pitch-perfect in the role of the weathered and brilliant second-banana conductor ) fills in the spaces at times of the emotional context . Probably the most successful , and joyful , scene is when Stig finds out Marta has the baby , by running out quick during a rehearsal , the music going along as he's on the phone , then continuing as he sits back down , and as Sanderby asks quietly of one musician who asks another to another to Stig what happened , as the music plays on . This , plus the second greatest cinematic interpretation of Beethoven's 9th symphony 4th movement in a climax ( the first being Clockwork Orange ) , make To Joy worth seeing all by itself , if only for Beethoven fans . As one of the several films included on the recently released Eclipse DVD series , To Joy will appeal to fans of Bergman's knack at telling of characters in shattered , honest romance , and to those looking for some classical music bliss and have seen The Magic Flute or Autumn Sonata too many times .
Another prime example of film-making from Mexico	Alfonso Cuaron's Y Tu Mama Bien is one of the better films of the year ( not quite best , but still highly recommendable ) . Cuaron , who scripted with his brother Carlos , tells a story with such a level of stark and touching realism that the audience will not only feel for the three main characters , but will feel like their along the ride with them . In this story , Tenoch and Julio are two friends whose girlfriends go away to Italy for a little while and are left with not much to do ( outside of partying and masturbation ) until they get an idea to go to a secluded beach called Heaven's Mouth and ask the married and 10 years older Luisa to come along . She agrees after discovering her husband cheated on her more than she could stand and this takes the movie onto a road trip with dialog and actions that , despite having the be read on the bottom of the screen in subtitle format , is much better than most teen movies that go for sex related dialog ( however , Cuaron had to go back to Mexico to make this type of movie so that the MPAA wouldn't s on it and make him re-edit it to a NC-17 ) and action . The only flaws keeping Cuaron's latest work from being a great coming of age tale is that the narration , while keeping in some good insight along the way , becomes heavy handed at times and gives information that is either humorist news along the area the characters are traveling or about the characters themselves which isn't a bad thing until it digs into things that don't have much relevance to the rest of the picture or even to the characters when you think about what is really up on the screen . Plus , the very last scene is too conventional to be placed as where the film leads up to ( he should've ended it when Luisa goes into the ocean the last time ) . But still , these squabbles shouldn't stop people from seeing this movie , overall it delivers splendidly in it's uninhibited and mature ways . Props also go to the performances by the three leads and to the cinematography .
a hot and heavy tale of romance gone bad , by Roman Polanski	I'd have to wonder how much hotter the book that Bitter Moon is based on is . I'm not sure if I would ever read it , but it definitely wouldn't be boring . Neither is the movie ; if anything , Polanski goes to such dark depths here that it's almost neglectful not to say that there's something old-fashioned stirring in the narrative . A British couple on their way via cruise to India run into a wheelchair bound would-be writer and his wife , who is a knock-out , and the husband hears from the now crippled man the story of his relationship . There's something wholesome that is ripped apart in the story here , and it's at its core a tale of passionate love and desire that becomes like a mind-game . Polanski's flashback narrative works well , and despite some corny bits early on in Oscar's ( Peter Cotoye ) tale of Mimi ( Emmanuele Signer ) , but this is contrasted with scenes that sizzle with great sexuality , the likes of which only so-much seen in 90s cinema . Then it transitions into the ' naughtier ' chapter , then going into the section that's most captivating : the ' can't - live - with - em - can't - live - without - em ' logic of their relationship , and how it then relates to Hugh Grant's Nigel and his flawed marriage to Fiona ( Thomas ) . Will he sleep with Mimi ? This question would be the shallow one ; Polanski's achievement here is expressing a savage bond that is like a slow-working poison , ready to affect anyone that grows closer to their very human tragedy . Sometimes seeing their past is disturbing , other times even darkly funny . But it's pure , unadulterated Polanski through and through . And special note should be given to Coyote : here's a character actor everybody sees from time to time , be it ET or Sphere or Femme Fatale , and this time he's put to a test that any actor would love . He goes through every emotion , sometimes put on and sometimes very raw and wretched bit from his soul , and it's an imperfect but powerful tour-de-force . Everyone else , Grant , Seigner , Thomas , are put in roles that their fit well into ( Grant especially as an up-tight yuppie sexually awakened / confused ) , but Polanski still uses them wisely from scene to scene . His wife , Seigner , is also sometimes a revelation in a role that should - and is - a possible one-note trap . There's complexity that she finds in her needy-cum-sociopathic mindset , and is sexy as all hell . It's overall and underrated work of minor genius , and may please those looking for a crazy tale of love and revenge .
a fairly short feature-length film , but within its parameters perfectly wonderful and adorable	I wouldn't be sure that The Cat Returns would have an appeal to audiences as wide as Miyazaki's directed films would , since as a family film it is mostly amusing or curious for adults ( with the good laugh or two at the American voice work if one is inclined to listen to the new English dub ) . But for children it's just about one of the best in the anime field , a work that provides that great dose of fantasy and enjoyment while sticking to those tried and true themes with kids movies that only work so often ( such as here ) . While " believe in yourself " is in fact such a cliché that it may eventually turn back around and become an original notion at some point in movies , in the Cat Returns it has that fresh perspective of a little girl , a genuinely caring and generous soul who's doesn't have many friends , who contemplates from time to time becoming a cat . In the Cat Returns , where young Haru saves a kitty from certain death while crossing a street and in the process is picked to become the wife to the Prince of the Cat Kingdom somewhere far , far away , there's even a slight Fantasy Island ala Pinocchio aspect to the piece ( which goes without saying the obvious comparison with becoming a cat by thinking or acting like one ) . It's all in good fun , but would one really want to be in a kingdom of cats presided by a Cat King who loafs about in total splendor ? Well , maybe , which is part of the conflict . But for kids this is just a core for the rest of the joy to spring out of . After the whole individuality-good aspect is covered , the rest of the picture has to entertain , and this is where Studio Ghibli works their usual best again . It's a gorgeously animated film , directed by Hiroyuki Morita from a somewhat original concept , delivering a wide variety of cats - small , cute , tall , proper , fat , fuzzy , shrill , sweet - and a great design of the Cat Kingdom itself with that shifty maze and giant towers . Morita almost disappoints with the running length : at 75 minutes , a few of those for credits , the Cat Returns could actually benefit from having more detail and bits of comedy and excitement . But it's then a backhanded compliment at the same time ; one has many memorable characters to pick from , like the big sidekick / bodyguard Muta , the King himself , Natoru the lackey for the king , and the Baron who is about as formal as a royal British officer . For children most of all it's the kind of treat they'll want to revisit many times , and a good point as well is the new English dub . It wouldn't be bad if the Japanese cut got some attention , which is the original and fine enough , but the voice-work from Anne Hathaway , Peter Boyle , Cary Elwes , Tim Curry , Eliot Gould , and Andy Richter is fantastic for sometimes so small or repetitive a performance ( as Hathaway points on the DVD , lots of screaming , varieties of yelling and yelps for Boyle ) that it's never less than delightful . The little kid in me , as well as cat lover , was very pleased . The only minor drawback is that some adults may feel a little left out of the simplicity of the piece on the whole as it isn't as all inclusive a masterpiece like Totoro .
If you're an Allman Brothers fan and you can find this , its worth the buy . . .	. . . However , there is only one minor complaint in watching a band as fantastic at what they do years and years down the line like the Allman Brothers Band on a concert DVD such as this - if you see them for real live , it's a far more rewarding and impressionable experience . To see these musicians , all extremely talented and skilled at improvisation and soulfulness , in the flesh , is a true treat for a rock and roll & blues fan . That experience is only slightly lost when watching a concert form of that on video ( this also goes with bands like the Who and Judas Priest ) . That being said , if you can find this video / DVD wherever they're sold , it's a worthwhile purchase , as the band goes through some of their classics like " Ain't Wastin ' Time No More " , " Come & Go Blues " , " Dreams " , and the best , " Whipping Post " , along with a few songs from their most recent album Hittin ' the Note , and of course their trademark , mind-blower jams . Some may be wary to check out this concert , especially if you're a ' die-hard ' , as Dickie Bettes of course is not in the band in this concert . In a way it's not too sad of a loss ; his songs of Brothers and Sisters were timeless , but over-played , and some new blood working with Greg Allman was just what the band needed . The fact also stands that Warren Haynes is one of the top five hard-rock / blues guitarists working today , as he alternates between this , the new ' Dead ' , and Gov't Mule , and the solos he takes are some of the most phenomenal ones in the past few years . His singing , also is a fine substitute for Bettes . Then there is also the dark horse winner in the new formation of the band , Derek Trucks , who also has his own nifty group on the side . His solos are just as impressive , and that he is so young ( he joined the group when he was in his teens I believe ) is an added incentive to check out his skills . It also makes for some fascinating alternating between the two , as Allman himself balances it out with his own usual skills . Aspects like the two drummers , both very good at what they do , and the ' trippy ' visual effects in the background behind them , are a little much at times , but don't detract from the great stuff in the show . And a venue like the Beacon , which for the Allman's is practically the equivalent of what CBGB's were to the Ramones , is like a second home for them , a good venue with a not exceedingly high crowd ( or maybe I'm wrong , I can't remember much of the audience at the show I was at , ho-ho ) . I can't compare it to any of the other concert DVD's out there from them , but on its own standing it shows the band in sturdy shape , with enough energy to blast off many of the current rock groups off the stage .
flawed in some small ways , but overall a crazily sincere masterpiece	There are ways to do romantic comedies , just as their are ways of doing sincere dark comedies set in mental hospitals , and Chan-Wook Park goes to fantastic and unexpected lengths of subverting expectations with truly nutty - and this may be the nuttiest movie to come out of Korea this , uh , month - ideas and visuals being explored , while never skimping on making these people to care about . And yes , the " cyborg " Cha Young-Goon ( Su-Jeung Lim ) , at first seems like a typical nut , or what one might stereotype as . Indeed , as I thought more about it , what Park goes for is almost experimental ; what would it be like to have as the pivotal character of a movie the person in the loony bin who is near unresponsive to other people and who won't eat any food ? At first we're plunged into her mind-set : she's a cyborg , after all , and she marks up her energy levels by her toes lighting up , and takes in such energy by licking batteries as opposed to regular consumption . But she also has a troubled past , though more-so in the memories of her grandmother , whom she was closest with , and who we see in flashbacks was tossed away into a sanitarium , as Young-Goon was eventually , instead of actually dealing with them as real fellow family members . It's hard not to get caught up further into her much more real plight when shock treatment comes around , and that the feeding tubes just won't do any good . From the sound of this it sounds like a really tragic story , and in a way it is . But on the other hand , it absolutely isn't all the same . It's Park's funniest film , loaded with his bravura sense of style that is brutally self-conscious with the camera ( lots of wonderful usages of color from greens to reds to whites and blues and so on , 360 ' pans , high-flying shots , a great split-screen involving two characters in two separate solitary rooms connected by two cups and a string ) as well as with very assured direction . To see someone make films like ' Cyborg ' or Oldboy is to see someone who doesn't mind obviously flashy moments , because there are just as many moments that are more intimate in connection between the characters . But as I said , it's a very funny movie , with the various character in the mental hospital veritable caricatures : there's one guy who got tossed in by apologizing to everyone involved in an accident he wasn't involved in , and one fat woman who when not stealing Young-Goon's food is trying to get static electricity going from rubbing her feet , and random characters doing wacky things in the halls behind main characters talking . There's a big belly laugh at the ' picture book ' of the Cyborg's , where it lists the seven deadly sins , inexplicably linked to the torture and murder of cats in the classic storybook pictures . There's even an actor who comes closest to looking like the Korean Bruce Campbell ! And the scenes with Young-Goon going into super-violent mode as the cyborg and shooting everything in sight ranks right up with the corridor fight sequence in Oldboy as Park at his most staggering in choreographing mayhem . But then there's Rain's character Park Il-sun , who is the counterpoint for Young-Goon , as he's just a crazy thief in on his fifth voluntary commitment . He'll be hopping around one moment , or imagining himself going very tiny so as to not be noticed . But what the two of them share , no matter what , is vulnerability , which soon they see in each other ( or at least Il-Sun sees in Young-Goon ) , with scenes showing either one crying their eyes out actually being earned . It's as much of a credit to the actors as it is to Park that none of this is false sentimentality , and out of the wild comedy there is subtext always present , of the director meeting the willing audience member halfway - it is a mental hospital , and no matter how crazy it can be they aren't tapped out of life completely . This makes up the emotional tie between the two main characters , and the struggle to compromise a mental state that can't be fixed and a more pragmatic goal - eating food - leads to a real emotional highlight . Only the denouement , or what could be considered that perhaps , as there's a nuke / bomb element thrown in with outdoor rain scenes that feel real unnecessary ( albeit there's a tremendous final shot for the film ) , and little bits involving the supporting characters that could be left out ( what's with the guy that won't stop yelling ? ) . Otherwise , this is still prime work going on , daring even , as far as blending together some real surrealistic tendencies with the kind of spirit that went into One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest . It takes guts to put the personal with the wacky , but somehow I'm a Cyborg , But That's OK pulls it off better than any other film I can't think of in recent memory .
an extremely personal , maddeningly absurd excursion into the loony side of Soderbergh ; one of the definitions of ' acquired taste '	From the prologue I instantly thought I understood the tone that Steven Soderbergh - writer , director , cinematographer , possible pornographer , and double-actor on Schizopolis - was going for : pure absurdism , not just with how the prologue is worded ( as the most important film experience of all time , the " full completed version " ) , but how he goes between all the different lenses like a young film student checking out the gears on a Bolex . But it's always a tricky thing going into a Soderbergh " experiment " , and that it could be a mish-mash like Full Frontal ( I've yet to see Bubble ) . And , in all truth , it is a mish-mash . It tells a coherent story only in that there's maybe two ( or three ) stories that seem to make any sense , but is scattered around scenes and freewheeling camera moves and editing tricks and music that come closest to that oft-mentioned critic term " off-beat " . And a lot of the time it seems to be so personal to Soderbergh ( real life ex-wife playing ex-wife , plus what may be his real kid playing Brantley's daughter ) , and so unconscionably irreverent , that it dares to run off the tracks any minute . But it's this fully realized move to just be silly and strange , to make just random moments of wild satire ( Rhode Island sold as a shopping mall , " Well , at least we didn't sell it to the fing Japanese " , and a man randomly getting caught up in a straight jacket by fellows from a mental hospital ) , more well-rounded jabs at the drudgery and pointless meandering of everyday white-collar work life ( is there a spy , or a mole , who cares if there's masturbation ? ) , and statements just abstracted as if done sort of by a spontaneous idea in the editing room ( title cards quoting a page in the script ? ) , that makes it such a daring work of ludicrous intentions . This isn't a filmmaker trying to make an innovative and possibly important film like Traffic , or even a fun mainstream romp like Ocean's Eleven . In fact , it's seeing the opening prologue , and seeing how the style takes off right away ( the title for the film on the shirt of a naked guy running away ! ) it sets off wonderful irony at every turn . Not that Soderbergh isn't being self-indulgent . In fact , I'm sure that's why there's something of an honesty to his going head-long into his own personal crises of dealing with a relationship or marriage , and throwing caution to the wind by making the emotional problems actually quite real while obfuscating them with some truly goofy vignettes . It's almost like directorial therapy : let the actors improvise , let it all be loose , and even have a truly warped storyline involving an exterminator , really an actor looking for motivation and a written scene ( ha ) , yet having in many instances moments of confession . Even if one might not know some of the circumstances surrounding Soderbergh's first marriage ( it's detailed in the book Rebels on the Backlot ) , it feels like it's coming from the heart a good lot of the time , which uplifts the comedy . A running gag late in the film , as certain scenes from earlier with the perfectly dead-pan Soderbergh and Brantley are repeated , has Soderbergh being dubbed over in Japanese , French , and Italian , though in scenes that involve break-ups , awkward sexual tension , and a reconciliation . This is not to say that Soderbergh isn't also more devilish than he's ever since been with his innuendo - make that outright hilariously immature sexual comedy - and it's amazing to see Soderbergh read a ' love letter ' he's written to his " Attractive Woman # 2 " , describing his profession of emotions in very graphic ways . And if Soderbergh does some strange things to surprise as the only time he's starred , let alone acted , in one of his films ( the scene where he's in the bathroom making faces at the mirror is one of those pure moments in absurd cinema that speaks to the success of paying homage to Richard Lester movies ) , his going for broke stylistically pays off too . Or doesn't , depending on how one can take the mix and match of film stocks used from grainy 16mm to the usual 35mm , jagged hand-held racing after the exterminator man beating up on a man and woman , extreme fast-motion film-speed , perfectly composed images like a boy in right field missing a baseball , and even documentary style in the scenes with T . Azimuth Schwitters . On top of the dialog being continuously crazy and self-conscious ( what's that film crew following along ? ) , it's possibly the best , or at least most fun , that Soderbergh has to offer as an independent filmmaker . So see it at your own risk , definitely check out the trailer beforehand to get an idea of what's at hand ( if the poster wasn't sign enough what a tailspin one can expect to get into ) , and if one is already a fan , if only in the guilty pleasure sort of way as I know I am , do check out the Criteron DVD for Soderbergh " interviewing " Soderbergh commentary , including the story how the deal for David Lean to direct two years after his death fell through ( damn Showtime channel ) !
elegiac , romantic crime-thriller about a detective in Amish country	The Amish are ' simple folk ' , as they say , with a moral conscience that is nearly impeccable . While they are super religious ( notice that they will never eat without first praying ) , their work ethic is next to extraordinary and they've fashioned their lives around a lack of technology , a distance from the rest of the modern world . Peter Weir's film Witness does what should be expected in a genre piece using this subject matter : place a regular guy ( Harrison Ford ) in the midst of this Amish world as a culture clash occurs . It sort of does , but what's trickier , and what Weir and Ford pull off , is to make it personal , of the disconnect between men and women and temptations . It's an R-rated movie , but not at all for sex , but at the same time there's a super hot scene where Ford dances with Kelly McGillis's Rachel in a barn to an old 60s tune . The tension is perfect . But the genre ? Yes , it's the sort that we've probably seen in other films , with a corrupt cop story pitted into a unique location . The difference is that Weir wants to put a more visual take on things , to not force the conventions down the audience's throat while also making things enjoyable . The scoop : a young Amish boy ( Lukas Haas ) is with him mother on their way to Baltimore to visit family , and he is in the bathroom of the train station . He witnesses behind a closed door a murder take place between cops . He narrowly escapes , and is the only witness to the crime . He spots the man , and it becomes clear that the case is a lot dirtier than Ford's John Book would've imagined . With this premise , and that Book is shot and must stay put in Amish country for a bit , Weir explores the nature of the characters in this situation as opposed to the by-the-numbers plotting of the story , which are ( thankfully ) darker than one might usually expect . And a good deal of Witness's success is Ford in the role . He strips himself of most of his devices as a usual star ( i . e . from the sarcastic tone of Han Solo or swagger of Indiana Jones ) , but still has a great ' star ' presence ; the producer initially cast him as he reminded him of Gary Cooper . He's charming and suave , but usually understated and strong in the performance , finding the right notes with McGillis for a romantic drama of this sort . It's worth checking out Witness for certain if you're a fan , or if you're interested in seeing this strange but sort of beautiful other world . Oddly enough , the musical score sounds a lot at times like that of Blade Runner ( the Vangelis-type synthesizer ) , and it threw me off for a moment hearing those tones put to the film's picaresque scenes . And yet there's something to be said about this kind of being like something from another world , or at least another time . Witness is thrilling stuff for the mainstream crowds , and at the same time Weir's direction is something not to miss , where he provides ample control for the story , but gives it certain twists and with a loom that tells of something more purely cinematic than a standard cineplex offering .
it shouldn't work , but it does - a series of stories of the bizarre and romantic ( or erotic , take your pick )	Whether or not you like some ( or just respond positively to some ) of Pier Paolo Pasolini's work , or you don't , will depend on how much one can take of provocative subject matter put forward in an upfront manner . For me , he's a director that can go both ways , be it completely muddled and pretentious ( Teorema ) or almost boring in its S & M tactics of twisted satire ( Salo ) , or actually dramatically engaging ( Mamma Roma ) , and he's never someone who takes the easy road . Arabian Nights is another one , as part of a ' trilogy ' of films adapted from famous , erotically-laced works of stories that have scandalized for centuries ( the others the Decameron and Canterbury Nights ) . Once again , Pasolini has a lot of people in his film that aren't actors , or even real extras - sometimes some people will just pop out , or a bunch of kids will run around , and they're plucked right from the scenery . If authentic , film fans , is what you want , Pasonili gives it , in all of the style of a guy out to shoot a documentary on the people in these settings and gets ( pleasantly ) sidetracked by a bunch of crazy-tragic stories of love and lust in the desert . As if done in a pre-Pulp Fiction attempt at non-linear storytelling , we get the tale of Zumurrud ( Ines Pellegini ) and Nur ed din ( Franco Merli ) , one a slave who is bought by the most innocent looking kid in the bunch of bidders . They fall in love , the wise young girl and naive grunt , but they get separated after she gets sold to another man . She escapes , but becomes the unwitting king after she is mistaken for a man . Meanwhile , her young little man is calling after her / him , and getting into his own trouble . Through this framework , we get other stories told of love lost and scrambled ; a sad and silly story of a man who's engaged to his cousin , and is thwarted by a mysterious woman who gets his attention , which leads him down a path of semantics ( yes , semantics , poetry-style ) and sex , leaving his much caring cousin behind . Then there's the man who woos a woman who is under the ownership of a demon , and once their affair is discovered some unexpected things happen via the Demon ( Franco Citti , maybe the most bad-ass character in the film despite the surreal-aspect of the showdown ) . And then one more story , which , hmm . . . . I could go on making descriptions , but then this wouldn't be much of a review of praise of the picture . Suffice to say it's one of Pasolini's strongest directed efforts , where he's surefire in his consistent usage of the hand-held lens , getting his actors to look sincere through dialog that is half ripped-from-the-pages and half with the sensibility of Pasolini as a poet ( yes , I went there in the whole ' he's a poet ' thing , but he is in a rough-edged and melodramatic timing and flow ) . He's also going for an interesting combo ; neo-realist settings for a good chunk of the picture , set in and around real locations in areas that don't need much production design , and an epic sweep that includes many extras , some special effects at times ( and how about that lion ! ) , and extravagant costumes . I also liked - if not loved - how Pasonili dealt with sex and more-so the human body itself . It would probably rightfully get an NC-17 if released today in America , and got an X when released in 1980 . The dreaded ' thing ' of a man is revealed about as often as a cut-away to a master shot of a building . Everything , in fact , is filmed frankly , without the style that tip-toes around the starkness of two people embraced and naked . But it's also not pornographic either ; if anything Pasolini perhaps doesn't direct far enough with the sex , as one body just lays still on top of another . There's a specific intent to dealing with sexuality in this world that respects lust and desire from the original text without making it blatant - only in one big instance , involving the fate of the man from the cousin story ( the one with Aziz I think ) revels in the horror of sex that was delved tenfold in Salo . Add to this the exquisite score from Ennio Morricone , who enriches any scene his score pops up , as a mandolin strings away and the strings rise with just a hint of the sentimental . Without Morricone , in fact , it might not be as emotional a film , when need be . And lest not forget Arabian Nights can be strangely comical , where Pasolini throws it back at the audience that he knows he's going ( rightfully ) into the surreal . Like with the story of the Demon and the fate of a man transformed as a chimpanzee , or the vision with the lion , or even the dialog in the pool with the three girls and the man , which is humorous while keeping a tongue-in-cheek . And there's even some good jokes to come out of the obvious step of having Zummurrud as the ' King ' when it's clear as day from the Italian dubbing that he's the ' she ' , so to speak , as it stretches out into a final scene where lovers are united and things are as they should be , however much the director is thumbing his nose at power and sex and the dealings of the heart with organs . Arabian Nights probably couldn't be made today , but could anyone else but Pasolini make it anyway ? There's daring in this film , and through the exotic exteriors and sets we see a filmmaker working along like there's nothing else to stop him , for better or worse . This time for the better .
one of Romero's most ambitious films is a grand entertainment	Knightriders does more than prove that George A . Romero , most known for his Living-Dead pictures , is really overall a great storyteller and developer of characters and , above all craftsman . But it also shows how a filmmaker can subvert a genre that is really hard to define ( is there such a genre as medieval racing , as it doesn't really fit into the typical ' biker movie ' mold either ) , while sticking to an ideal that is more old fashioned . Romero has an ensemble put together than could almost remind one of an Altman film , as if this was his Nashville . Yet in spirit I'm more reminded of a Howard Hawks film - a director who was an influence on Romero - in having a group of characters fitting an amusing , rousing adventure story where the old director's credo still stands - there's not much drama without action . What's even more surprising , or really what might come as more surprising to those who just stick to the Romero zombie movies if they happen to come across this , is the attention to characters , mood , and above all superlative craftsmanship . Ed Harris plays a King-like role that , much as in a Hawks film , could have been played by John Wayne . Like a Wayne character Harris is set in a very specific mind frame ( to the point , of course , of being stubborn and head-strong ) that can hardly be changed , even if he is a nice guy once in a while through his tougher moments . And , indeed , sometimes his delusions of grandeur have to face up to reality past the fantasy . But unlike Wayne , Harris has a constant , unwavering appeal as an actor , who is constantly watchable even in a role that doesn't give him as much to do as in some of his more memorable parts . He's surrounded by actors who have made up many of Romero's other films - Tom Savini ( who is quite good as an actor here , usually known for his great make-up ) , Ken Foree , Scott Reiniger , Christine Forrest , John Amplas , and Anthony Dileo Jr - and help back up his traveling troupe of medieval-times type of motorcycle riders , all who provide more or less very human characterizations . The story basically focuses on these guys and how the times seem to be catching up with them - and tempting some - away from the lower-end type spectacles for the locals . But , in the end , things get patched up and a ' for-themselves ' tournament is launched to determine the new ' King ' . The film is not impervious to criticism . It's a little overlong ( perhaps one too many a coda at the end , even as Billy's payback to the Deputy is one of the highlights of the film ) , and the usual social commentary that Romero strikes his hottest at is really , aside from the small bits of reality checks for the troupe , break down to the media being shallow and self-destructive by luring away Savini and some of the others . Such parts kind of seem weaker , and even for this kind of old-fashioned adventure / action story too conventional . Nevertheless there is so much in the film that is richly entertaining and interesting , with many little moments being some of the funniest in any Romero film ( including some high flying bits , and a hysterical cameo from Stephen King ) , and touching ones to boot in the climax . On top of Knightriders being an excellent showcase for what a director like Romero can be capable of with different material that covers dramatic ground , is his technical prowess . Coming off of another ambitious picture , Dawn of the Dead , his editing chops are still tight as can be , and seeing the riding sequences is downright exhilarating . Romero's eye and timing with the storytelling in action - and knowing how to keep things breathtaking ( as with Dawn ) without becoming too chaotic - is really un-canny and one of the most underrated aspects of his whole career , of which this would be his last credited as . Also accompanying the film is a sweet , pitch-perfect score by Donald A . Rubinstein ( not credited the site ) to the proceedings , and what pops out in the end of this epic tale of reality facing un-reality and the kinds of people to different degrees who stake their lives to such a cause and living . It's a near-masterpiece that is a nifty find if you come across it in your video store .
if only I could somehow bring Henri Langlois back from the dead . . .	. . . Because , as this documentary makes quite clear , Langlois was one of the greatest film geeks that ever lived , and it would be heaven-sent ( if there is a heaven ) to have him back at the Cinematheque again . And I say the word ' geek ' with the utmost enthusiasm and admiration and respect et all . Langlois was not just a film buff's film buff ( no New-Wave without him , hence probably most of today's cinema ) , but also open to anyone who might be interested in checking out his museum of cinematic wonders , where he collected objects and put them in the spaces and hallways with brilliant ease . He was probably the greatest programmer of any privately functioning theater ever . After amassing 50 , 000 + film prints over a span of a couple of decades , the Cinematheque in Paris became THE place where fans of film ( and auteurs to be exact ) could come and see entire careers of a director , or , more importantly , even bring their own film or a ' heisted ' print to be included in the archives . It was no surprise then when an incredible uprising occurred over Langois being ousted in 1968 , and when finally re-instated things could never totally be the same again . Rarely have I seen someone documented who in a way is as important to the history of film as any other important filmmaker from any part of the country . As Jean-Luc Godard says at the start of the film , " Langlois was like a film producer who produced a way of seeing films . " He was in large part preservationist who held onto original negatives ( sometimes in nitrate form ) and re-cut the films when only scraps and fragments remained of masterpieces , leading to people being able to see many films that would otherwise be lost . He was also in large part as enthusiastic as a little kid with a new toy when it came to finding an old silent film from Murnau or Eisenstein or something from Jean Vigo and sharing his love with other people who would either go on to be filmmakers themselves ( the ' New-Wave ' , to be sure , but also film historians ) , or the casual amirer of films . And another part was the museum he had built up like any other art museum , with the finest pieces of wares and artifacts ( i . e . the original ' mother ' head from Psycho ) , to invite film fans and even casual viewers to gorge on more than just memorabilia . It then becomes bittersweet - at first sweet - to see his story unfold via many interviews with associates , friends , filmmakers ( Chabrol , Roche , etc ) , and historians who knew how Langlois started small with passionate screenings in the 30s , then into a sort of resistance fighter for his films from the Nazis in the early 40s , and then finally expanding in the late 40s into the 50s to become the premier place for films that , unlike any other archive , were all inclusive for the audience . So , in a sense , we learn he was a filmmaker , but really as one who could make the films important and vital and presentable . He wasn't alone , as we learn throughout this entertaining look at his ups and downs of his career - we also see a bit into his personal life with his most close associate and love Mary , who was like a mother with tough love attached at times . Then , eventually , we see how he also had enemies , maybe as many as he had friends and followers , and somehow ( he wasn't " executive " material of course , and because he was private and with next to no funding from the French government , near dirt-poor while scrapping everything for his non-profit organization ) he got fired . It's amazing - on top of the previous footage of various film clips from the films he showed & / or directors inspired ( Vigo , Godard , Meilies , Von Strernberg , Murnau , etc ) - to see the revolution-style protests of his being fired by film directors and fans . It's actually , in all manner of speaking , inspiring . But then the bitter part comes in seeing what Langlois was reduced to after being reinstated - taking professor jobs on cinema across America and Canada and France - just to get a little more money for the fledgling Cinematheque . All of this ends up being told through Langlois and the other interviews as something that is saddening , but there's still always hope and more films to be shown all the while . While towards the end director Jacques Richard has the film lagging in the section about Langlois and his work on the museum , overall he really delves deep into this wonderful man's life , and provides a great way in documentary form to introduce future film-buffs into what it means to really put yourself completely on the line for film . On top of this , what it means to be independent of the system and get your stuff shown through someone who wont brush someone off with a desire to display their art ( the film the Dreamers put a good memory on the Cinematheque right at the start , though only briefly ) . Someone like Langlois , who was scruffy and boisterous and extremely intelligent and acute on anything film and preservation-related , also was great in how he wanted to look to the future just as much as looking to the past . Like any other print at the Cinematheque , this documentary deserves to be preserved too .
a sweet slice of latter-day Stones , apart of a 4-disc set	As a Rolling Stones fan , I'm obliged to try and report on how the Stones sound and perform on stage on their 40-year anniversary tour , to point out the good along with the bad , as they are in their sixties , and surely a band that has outlasted them all has lost its edge . I'm glad to report that they haven't , however I don't have much of a reference point to compare ; the only real footage I've seen of them perform in their prime 60's / 70's glory was in the documentary Gimme Shelter ( which isn't the best comparison to give , as half of their performances in the film were from the doomed Altamont concert ) . I suppose compared to the ' old ' days as it were , they don't have that sort of fresh look to them , of just coming out into the rock and roll landscape ready to take prisoners as the anti-Beatles . And yet , along with seeing this concert on television , I also was blessed with seeing them live on their tour in 2002 , and that like this special doesn't disappoint . Sure Mick Jagger is not quite the singer he once was , but he puts himself into his performance and presence on stage with a lot more energy than in the performances I've seen from the ' old ' days ( in fact sometimes he is very funny , maybe unintentionally ) . Keith is Keith as always , giving the audience two great renditions of " Thru and Thru " and " Happy " . Charlie Watts is also , like Jagger , unintentionally funny , as he his job has the least and most amount of energy required in the performance ( as Jack Nicholson once said , that right foot of his made them a lot of money ) . So basically what you'd expect from the hardest working rock and roll band around is what you get , and you get many solid , awesome ' best-of ' songs , many my favorites ( " Monkey Man " , " Midnight Rambler " , " Can't You Hear me Knocking " , " Jumping Jack Flash " ) . In fact , over the course of two hours , there is barely a song that they don't play that you haven't heard , and it has a very good variety . And in case the special doesn't have what you were looking for , it is included ( last time I checked ) as part of a 4-disc DVD set of concerts , one of the Garden show , one of a stadium show in Britain , and a provocative , mind-blowing theater show in Paris with many rarities ( a documentary disc is also included ) . This , overall , is the best of the three ; Sheryl Crow makes a wonderful guest appearance on one of the songs .
a film more for its great color photography than anything else	I remember seeing this film more than two years ago , and while the entire story is not very memorable ( I could probably not tell everything that happens in it now , which is perhaps more my fault than the filmmaker ) , I have a fond memory of seeing it in visual terms . Kenji Mizogichi , a filmmaker I'm only off-handedly familiar with , has here a very lushly made film , with perfectly constructed sets that spark a tinge of both fable and centuries-gone reality , and costumes that compliment the color photography . And that part , of capturing the images , is maybe the best thing that can be recommendable about the film . For a film about a Princess who was once lower on the ranks in the Emperor's home and becomes the Emperor's love interest , it provides such opportunities for a real vision to set in to guide it all . Mizoguchi provides it with his cinematographer Kôhei Sugiyama in order sometimes for the film to be told almost all on visual terms ( the filmmaker was most prolific in the silent-film era ) . So in the end , even as the story becomes a little cluttered with some scenes , it's never too complex due to the basics that the filmmaker is going for - and probably why it was picked up by Buena Vista distribution in the 1950s - a beautiful scope of Japan's regal side mixed with some of the lower classes . It's like a Shakespearean tale if it was superimposed into Japan and given a touch of that lost-era of color photography that was only matched by Powell / Pressburger's films .
Wes Anderson's latest trip of a comedy	Life Aquatic ranks up in the top five of the most original films of the year . It's a comedy , but when you laugh it might be at something you'd laugh at , or maybe not ( some of the reactions and timing is so subtle , and the actors pull it off , to add humor ) , and it's also a drama that takes itself just serious enough to work well as entertainment . Although for one there may be flaws - not all the jokes or humor works very well on first viewing ( although it could be on multiple viewings ) , and it's almost too much to take in all at once - there are also many pluses . For one thing writers Noah Bambauch and Wes Anderson ( himself director ) get out a story that is at the core fun to get into , even as it is with Anderson's trademark quirkiness with the characters . And , of course , there is a lead performance by Bill Murray that could rank with his best or worst depending on how you take his performance . Like with Lost in Translation , one could say that Murray is the key to the film's success - he's funny when he can , but he also is playing his Steve Zissou as a dramatic character as well . There's always that interesting line Anderson draws with his characters , and Murray proves that he's the kind of pulling off ironic , reactionary humor . And at the same time he's also dead-pan in his delivery - very few can pull off the ' mid-life crisis male ' in a film like he can . That Anderson casts the film with a brilliant kind of notice for the right talent and for the unusual - Willem Dafoe as Zissou's right-hand man , Angelica Huston as Steve's ex-wife , Owen Wilson ( who may be better than I thought , but I wasn't sure it was one of his very best ) as a hit-or-miss possible for Steve's son he's never met , Jeff Goldblum as the competition , and Cate Blanchett , providing enough along with her turn in the Aviator as one of the prime female acting talents in Hollywood . Filling out the story , which I would not want to spoil aside from what was in the one-line summary , are elements that Anderson has yet to really touch upon . While there was some violence in his debut Bottle Rocket , here he takes it another step where there are a couple of enthralling action sequences ( one of which incorporating The Stooges ' Search and Destroy ) , where it's filmed is intriguing as well , how it's paced . Not to mention French acoustical covers of David Bowie , and wonderful Animation set pieces by Henry ( Nightmare Before Christmas ) Sellick . . . it's very good , if not great , film-making overall , and if you cant catch it in the theater , it's of good worth to watch with friends on DVD .
As inspired and bizarre an anime sci-fi film you're likely to see , not perfect , but still a post-apocalyptic wonder	Science fiction films , even when they might be a incoherent in spots ( and maybe the story and action in Akira is not completely incoherent but as an American some of the Japanese styling is , well , fed up ) , are supposed to raise questions about human behavior and thought , and be intelligent enough to let the audience try to fill in the blanks instead of force-feeding the answers . The film Akira by Katsuhiro Otomo ( from the comic by him ) does just that , and at the same time is a visual extravaganza . It has been quite a number of months , truth be told , since I've seen the film , but many of the images , particularly the more grotesque ones but also the " simpler " ones , have stuck with me for so long . It's a post-apocalyptic take on manipulation of a person to serve what could be considered the " greater good " , but in the end , what does it feed but more destruction ? That there are some interesting action and character elements in the story helps , and after an explanation of what happened to the natural world ( by way of a large , atomic-like explosion ) , we're introduced to a group of bikers . One of them is Kaneda and the other is Tetsuo . Tetsuo , while on the run from some other bikers , gets caught up in a Government program that is all too elusive for his own good . After some crazy scenes involving his body changing around , it's clear that things have gone awry , on both his end and the government's . So it's up to Kaneda , with a little help from some friends to stop the forces that be from causing destruction . It is through the various confrontations that happen with Kaneda and the ' powers that be ' , and Tetsuo's reactions , that make up Otomo's outrageous , seemingly unlimited visual prowess . Aside from a climax that might feel a little ' long ' , however hypnotic , and how gruesome some of those transformations and the violence can get , it actually isn't necessarily as disturbing an animated film like the masterpiece Fist of the North Star or Ninja Scroll . It could even serve , as strange and ' heavy ' the film gets , as a good starting point for those interested in watching anime and have never been much exposed before . Some sequences , to be sure , are not for the squeamish . But there is also a certain innocence that goes along with the story as well , with the theme of experimentation on small children . When coming from a Manga comic book , it's also fascinating to see how the film also works as a kind of transition into what anime would completely blossom into in the 1990's ( for better or worse ) . And that the plot , once understood up to a point , is ' gotten ' it becomes very worthwhile , because it deals with questions that are always abound in science-fiction stories , and told with an energy not captured in American films .
wonderful and mostly heartbreaking melodrama from Fassbinder	Lola is a singer , and a sometimes-prostitute , in the whorehouse run by Schukert , a big vulgarian who also happens to have a land deal coming up and has such a reputation that he won't be hassled by a cop when at a checkpoint . A new building commissioner is in town , Von Bohm , and he's a very pure soul , non-corruptible , sensible , a ' moralist ' if ever there was one . But he's soon entranced by a ' chance ' meeting with Lola ( who is , actually , put on the spot to charm the straight-arrow Von Bohm ) , and soon he becomes enraptured with her , to his possible demise . If this premise is pretty much similar to the Blue Angel , it's intentional so much so that I would consider this a full-blown remake - Blue Angel set this time in post WW2 Germany instead of pre-War , and with some extra doses of socio-political context thrown in ( and , of course for Fassbinder , some added sensuality that works magnificently as classy-raunch , if that makes sense ) . Fassbinder's film Lola , one of his last and the 2nd part of a BDR trilogy he made , is sumptuous melodrama , filmed with such a vibrant and eclectic and varied sense of color with the lighting and sets and costumes - on the faces and bodies and sets - that one can just look at any scene in this and find something fantastically stylized about it . It should be a real horror-show fable , but Fassbinder is something much of a realistic-romantic , if that also makes any sense , in that he thrusts naturalistic actors alongside a few ' personalities ' ( one of them a great actor playing Schukert , Mario Adolf ) , among such vibrant sets like the inside of the nightclub and amid the turmoil of the post-war German setting where the economy is finally back in boom ( if not for everyone ) . Occasionally some of the musical choices - or just the abundance of them in nearly every scene - is a bit much , and I was thrown off by what seemed like maybe too much of a happy ending considering everything tragic that has preceded it ( Fassbinder doesn't let his characters completely off the hook , but it feels too clean-cut as well ) . However Fassbinder is also working on some prime material with a real eye for the harrowing scope of a tragic romance and the means of ' fitting-in ' to a urban landscape where , according to Lola , Von Brum doesn't really fit in . It's also got Barbara Sukowa as the title character , obviously in a career-high-point , and Armin Mueller-Stahl in another of a long series of really interesting roles where he can show emotions but very wisely and carefully and appears to be reserved - sometimes deceptively reserved like in Eastern Promises - and for Von Brum it's one of his best . Anyone who loves a juicy drama of romance and building-capitalist intrigue would do well to watch this . I'm sure it'll be one of Fassbinder's best .
much better than it really should be : it's Ford's 3 Men & a Baby , with a little Jesus thrown in	3 Godfathers is beautifully directed , as are most of John Ford's pictures , but I wonder how much the story benefits from having all of the Jesus / Christmas / 3-Wise-Men allegory attached to it . What makes it work isn't so much the religious connotations , which if anything are actually depicted by Ford as hallucinations and mirage-like visions ( the bit where Duke comes across the mule at the end of the cavern is one such moment ) , but in how the supposed ' bad-guys ' are humanized through their arduous trek through the desert and lack of water and through the simple act of taking care of a newborn . While one might feel the shiver of a contemporary ' comedy ' like 3 Men & a Baby as Robert , William and Pedro take care of . . . Robert William Pedro Hightower ( because , you see , the mother named the baby after the three men around her as she faded from life ) , it surprises how touching some of this really comes off , and how the usual ' bad guys will have to get justice ' is kind of turned on its head in the face of innocence . Wayne , Harry Carey Jr . and Pedro Armendariz are bank robbers who unintentionally blow their cover to a friendly Marshall , and are tailed by them more or less as they run out of town into the desert . Following a long sequence that seems like it probably served as inspiration for a similar sequence in the Good the Bad and the Ugly , Wayne and his two guys go through the desert - young guy Carey with a bullet wound - and lacking water and / or proper water tower . Then they come across a derailed wagon , a woman about to give birth , and are saddled with her baby . This could be handled really contrived by any other director , but John Ford takes his time with the direction , drawing out shots of the long walking stretches and tired but determined faces of Duke and Carey and Armendariz , and the sparse setting they're in , and it's sometimes really breathtaking film-making . The only problem then , from my perspective , is the occasional spouts of sentiment , sometimes verging into flat-out sentimentality , peppered by the obvious religious allusions . This works up to a point , actually , when regarding Carey Jr's character who has a lot of attachment to the good-book and quotes from that as much as the baby-instruction book . But only when it gets in the way of the story , and starts to turn it into an unintentional allegory and near Christmas movie , does it get a little silly . And yet I can't disregard how well crafted 3 Godfathers is , how ( dare I say it ) John Wayne fills in this role better than usual , if about as good as he could get with ' Pappy ' Ford at the helm , and some really juicy , memorable cinematic moments in the Western genre . In fact , it's such a well-told story I am almost willing to forgive the film for any of its faults - almost . It's actually kind of , well , sweet , which is rare for a fugitive bank-robber flick which wallows in the horror of nature that is the desert which , in a sense , automatically puts into proper perspective the scope of the Marshall vs . the 3 criminals .
a whole lot of classic horror ( and mostly classic comedy ) fun	Abbott and Costello make for one of those quintessential comedy duos , simply put . It's hard to mistake a more definitive ( and probably , for some , the greatest ) example of the two sides - straight guy and full-comic guy - in the skinny realist Abbott and the chubby , warmhearted but easily frightened Costello . It's clear that the latter is always much funnier than the former , but combined they're the kind of duo that will always garner a chuckle , if not outright belly laughs at every other moment ( just the repeated use of " CHICK ! " is a riot ) . This time the two get into a plot involving the Wolfman ( Lon Cheney ) , Dracula ( Bela Lugosi ) and the Frankenstein Monster ( albeit there is no Frankenstein in the flesh so the title is a slight lie ) , and how Dracula wants to get Costello's brain and move it on over to the Monster . There's other things that happen along the way , like Costello suddenly becoming a ladies man ( and why not after all ? ) , and a costume party that brings about a hilarious gag involving a guy in a knight costume not seeing a repeat punch-out . But mostly it's a wonderful showcase for Costello's excellent double ( sometimes triple ) takes , and his spot-on timing between his partner and his horror-movie counterparts ( watch out for Lugosi's eyes , they'll suck you in ! ) It ultimately doesn't lead to much that's deep , which is just the way it should be . If it's not a huge laugh every minute it's no biggie ; the ones that stick make up for really BIG gags , sometimes as simple as a look or glance or as complex as a chase through the jungle or the old " hidden-wall " trick in Dracula's chamber . It's a lot of fun , and should be considered a must-see for old-school comedy fans .
The Searchers redux - now with more Calvinism and porn !	Paul Schrader has admitted on more than one occasion that John Ford's the Searchers had a profound impact on him as a filmmaker and screenwriter ( inklings of it can be seen in Taxi Driver ) , and his second feature , Hardcore , has the theme of obsessive search for someone who may not even want to be found in full late 70s style and substance . Schrader has also made a very personal film , if one knows of his history : he grew up a strict Calvinist ( no movies until he was 17 , trembling just going into a movie theater ) , and then went out to Hollywood and went into the excesses ( drugs , women , movie-making ) . Hardcore is something of his own therapy , in a sense , as he comes to grips with growing up in a confining , ultra-religious Grand Rapids small town , and taking a character - George C . Scott's father figure - into a Dante-esquire journey into L . A . hell , as his daughter goes missing after leaving for a Calvinist retreat out west . On top of the homage for Ford's film , and with Scott in Wayne's role as a would-be hero that's far more complex , Hardcore is also like a mystery ' noir ' , where Jake VanDorn is in the seediest sections of L . A . trying to find any sign of recognition from people for his daughter . It would be one thing if Schrader made just a straight drama , with the opening scenes as the comfortable side that soon leads into the terrifying core of a whole industry based around sex and exploitation ( or just plain fun depending on the person ) . But there's also a heap of cynical humor , an edge that one saw spring up here and there in Taxi Driver . We see a porno producer shooting his first movie , which is amusing . We see Jake VanDorn go in disguise ( bad disguise , wig and moustache ) as a director auditioning for male actors , and at one point meets Big Dick Black , who is every 70s porno actor cliché in the book . And when Season Hubley's Niki comes to the scene , there are some moments that become more down-to-earth than one might expect from the conventional trajectory of the plot . Personally , I think the ending needed a little more clarity , or if it was the " happy ending " ( in quotes since it wouldn't really be one ) ala the Searchers , or maybe even a whole other route . What if VanDorn found her and didn't go home with her ? And what if there wasn't a huge climax of violence and bloodshed and breaking through walls in S & M apartments ? There's so much that feels really honest in the material , however strange or dark the material goes into , that one wonders if the ending makes total sense from what has followed leading up to it , which includes a daughter character we only know about as a " pure soul " . It goes without saying that Scott is terrific in the part , and he does a lot with the character even as we have to take him as he is with only bits of back-story ( i . e . divorced wife ) dripping in as the film goes along . He makes him believable even when he's a total , unwavering man-on-a-mission , and adds just that edge of complexity that's required with Schrader's text . Other players like Peter Boyle , Hubley , and Dick Sargent also provide some good supporting work . Bottom line , it's Searchers redux - not a masterpiece like the former , sure , but it's worth your while , and has an energy to it past its dated line of good old 70s porno backdrop .
A really good , fun movie	For kids , this film is like a kind of methadone for the heroin that is known as Pokemon ( in other words , watch the muppets to get off of Pokemon even though there is no comparison to the muppets ) . For some of us adults who grew up with the muppets , and this movie in particular , it's a kind of small-scale piece of homage heaven . This is a fun movie , plain and simple , which parents won't find too bad either . Story takes the trio ( Kermit , Fozzie and the Great Gonzo ) to London as journalists who have to investigate dastardly jewelry robberies . There's plenty of great gags , horribly awesome puns , the cool flavor of the ' Jewel of the North Atlantic ' , and a few cameos ( John Cleese and Peter Ustinov notably ) surrounded by the nut-house that is the muppet world make this a near must see . The musical numbers , by the way , are close to perfect . Jim Henson's first feature length film as director is close to being his best , though not quite .
BLEEP THE PIGS ! one of the most unconventional docs in years	Brett Morgan's Chicago 10 might not deliver any groundbreaking revelations about one of the most notorious of protests-gone-bad sagas in American history , where after four days and nights ( mostly ) non-violent protesters and loaded-for-bear police clashed horrifically on the streets of Chicago and then the masterminds in the ' Yippies ' ( i . e . Abbie Hoffman , Jerry Rubin ) were put on a trial where all were sent to some jail time . It's not about revelations , per-say , though one might say that the story itself - encompassing 1968's volcanic political and societal tumult - could be a revelation for some younger audience members numbed out by cable news and desensitization . What it's about is presentation , of taking apart agitprop of the period , assembling it together with rotoscoping of the Chicago 7 trial , music from the likes of Rage Against the Machine , Eminem and the Beastie Boys , and loads of raw footage documenting much of the actual on-the-street and behind-closed-doors action in Chicago . It's probably the most striking sort one's seen since The Filth and the Fury , however in a context of instead 70s punk rock 1968's culmination of anti-war demonstration . It's an ugly , breathtaking and ( unlikely ) savagely funny movie , where older viewers can experience their memories of a time and place in a sometimes bizarre and sometimes sobering context ( of hindsight being ' 20-20 ' ) and younger viewers ( i . e . guys and gals in their 20s and 30s ) get a peek at an era that seems all the more ballsy in the perspective of America's involvement in Iraq . Morgan also does something a little dangerous , but successful , in portraying the " heroes " for all they were in this time and place : stalwart idealists in the guise of immature not-totally American insurgents whose ' spiritual experimenter ' was oft-meditating poet-dude Allen Ginsberg . What to think of these men like Abbie Hoffmann and the leader of the Black Panthers ? A little biased ? Perhaps - but in light of how the trial went down , why carp ? It's editing is fast-paced , but not too much so , and its technique of animation is multi-faceted . On top of the rotoscoping ( some of the best in recent memory along with A Scanner Darkly ) , there's a night-time demonstration done in 2-D , like something out of a nightmare with its somewhat primitive movement , and then the figures of the Chicago 7 appearing before crowds ( usually with great voice-work from Hank Azaria , Dylan Baker and Mark Ruffalo , plus a great career finale from Roy Scheider as the cantankerous judge in the trial ) . It's the kind of visual assault that for the prepared is like a bit of ironic bliss . If you've seen the trailer , or know a bit about the trial , or about Chicago in 68 ( which Hunter S . Thompson , looking back in just 1972 , said brought him to tears ) , or just about the friction between anti and the establishment , you'll know if this is for you . It certainly is like nothing else you'll see this year as a piece of sublime , subversive history .
like finding an odd , surreal relic that still retains lots of its original awesomeness	Saturday Night Live first aired as , simply , " Saturday Night " , with its cast ( including quintessential members Dan Aykroyd , John Belushi , Gilda Radner , Lorraine Newman and Chevy Chase ) called the " Not Yet Ready for Prime-Time Players . It was a rough and sometimes crude and disorganized skit show , and it hasn't aired much over the years save for the obscure VHS title and if and when ever on repeat screenings on NBC ( that and the newly released first season DVD ) . With the untimely passing of George Carlin - now among a number of others , Jim Henson , Belushi , Andy Kaufman , Gilda Radner , Billy Preston , who have died - Lorne Michaels made the wise choice to replay the first episode in its unedited glory . It's not a perfect program by any stretch , but its messiness is half the fun . One might like one skit over the other , or prefer one musical guest to the other ( frankly , I prefer the funky beats of Preston over the melancholy Janis Ian tunes ) , or wonder what is up with these strange looking Muppets from Henson , or how outrageous Albert Brooks could get for better or worse ( there's both great Jewish jokes and crazy pedophile jokes in one-minute of time ) . But one thing that it can't be called is ingenuous . This is the real-deal in sketch comedy , and the writing is irreverence squared . Adding on to tis is the wonderful , classic presence of Carlin ( who originally would've been in skits had it not been for his cocaine habit at the time ) , who goes through Baseball and Football and his first thoughts on God to the New York audience . Even in this coked-up state he's on fire , in a laid-back sort of way . Featuring the first Weekend Update segment ( Hirohito Watch ! ) , skits ranging from Bee Hospital to a cheerful gun expo , and Kaufman's masterwork of awkwardness in " singing " Mighty Mouse , it's the seed of something rather special in television , and it's very enjoyable in its imperfection ( and , for some , a sweet nostalgia trip ) .
in-your-face theatrics of the period - and of the split between rigid organization and rebellion - and a wondrously filmed musical	Hair , at its best , has the same directorial energy that made Milos Forman's previous work , One Flew Over the Cuckcoo's Nest , and like that film it reflects quite well the tensions of a period . This time with more at stake with sex , race , war , the bourgeois , drugs , and all done to some of the most popping pop songs one could ever hear on a musical stage . In the translation from stage to screen Forman transforms the story of Bukowski from out in Oklahoma coming to New York City for two days before heading out to the army on draft into something that is too joyous to be full on farce or parody , yet with some of the stinging satire underneath like in much of his best work . It's a vibrant and alive work , even in the songs that , personally , didn't quite make it as far as being very memorable , and it's not too hard to see why it's admired a lot by musical fans today . The songs veer between real hair-raising ( some pun intended ) and heart-rending , cheerfully outrageous and almost in the fold of classic 50s musicals . I liked the little wink and nod during certain songs ( the names spouted during Sodomy and Colored Spade ) , the vocal force in Easy to be Hard , Old Fashioned Melody , and the bravado in I Got a Life , the title song , Going Down and the opening and closing numbers . Forman also has the good sense to not populate his film with many real stars - more so they're up and comers , people one might see soon get some fame ( Beverly D'Angelo and Treat Williams ) , particularly in having the quiet , reserved , and soon " freed " Bukowski with John Savage , who has a true fresh off-the-bus quality for the part . The spirits are high for a lot of it , with an interesting contrast formed from time to time about the opposing stubbornness on both sides ( the little arguments that Berger has with authority figures ) , that leads to the more ' heavy ' topics raised throughout . Some are , naturally , banged over the head - and I mean that almost as something of a compliment in this context - in class breaks and bonds and free love , et all . It's not exactly subversive as it could be , but then again Forman's ambitions aren't to make a totally definitive statement on the period , per-say , as there is a lot of the little drama and characters as in any musical-tragic / comedy , but at the same time there is a course taken to prevent any sappy nostalgia . It's as good as a Hair musical-movie can be ( with a PG rating anyway , though for its period it got away with more than it would today with the rating ) , which means that it's very good , near great in-fact ( some scenes are actually very great , or just in a weird level where you can't quite believe you're seeing , then accept it a few seconds later , and laugh ) .
a " cult " film that knows nearly no boundaries of creativity with its zany appeal	The Adventures of Buckaroo Banzai is a movie I dearly wish I could have seen on the big screen back in the 80s ( if I had been old enough for it at the least ) . It's so , well " 80's " but it isn't completely trapped in it . What it's about is . . . damn , should I even try ? Actually , it does have a cohesive narrative , and more surprising because in the first few minutes , even with opening crawl , one is a little lost in exactly what's going on except a ) Buckaroo Banzai had an American mother and Japanese father ( and is played by Peter Weller who doesn't look like the latter much at all ) , and b ) he goes through dimensions or something looking for martial arts moves . We soon find out he has mastered driving a car through mountains - since , you know , they are loaded with empty spaces and the particles are just so tiny to bother with - and has discovered an alien being , all of this in New Jersey . WHICH , you may recall , was the place where Orson Welles's rendition of War of the Worlds was placed in in the small town of Grover's Mill . . . turns out it wasn't a hoax and aliens had actually taken over Welles's mind and made him put on the broadcast . And , indeed , aliens have come to earth and may incinerate it and / or have the Russians involved somehow if Buckaroo and his men of scientists - cum - rock - and - rollers don't fight back against the maniacal Dr . Lizardo ( John Lithgow playing some kind of , um , Italian baddie zapped with Alien prowess ) . Can he do it in time or will the president have to resort to war ? Can he save his damsel-in-distress in the form of suicidal-turned-doctor Penny Priddy ( Ellen Barkin ) ? Why is Jeff Goldblum dressed up as a cowboy for the bulk of the movie AND from Fort Lee , NJ ( a town , incidentally , not very far from my own home ) ? All these questions and more are . . . answered I suppose during The Adventures of Buckaroo Banzai . This is like someone digested a whole truckload of pulp / sci-fi / whatever comic books and adventure serials - think Howard the Duck if it was intentionally awesome - and wrote a screenplay . Where else will we get Peter Weller , cinema's RoboCop AND star of Naked Lunch , playing a sort of super-hero who rocks out amazingly , invents things , propels through time and space , and can kill easily and swiftly while fighting for the woman on his arm ? And where else will we see John Lithgow snarl and bug-eye Italian ( ? ) and do all odds and ends of WOW things that mark this as a major career achievement ? Here is where , and it's a lot of fun to see every cheesy line spoke ( " Damn John Whorfin and the horse he rode in on " or " BigbooTAY ! " or even " If you fail , we will be forced to help you destroy yourselves ! " ) with the kind of delivery that just goes to show how much a would-be Buckaroo Banzai ala Southland Tales fails so much by comparison . It's a wonder to behold , with every crazy synthesizer beat , with every other new turn of a wacky performance , and of course that final end credits sequence that will be etched in my mind forever as something really great to keep me in my seat before turning off the TV . This is how a ' cult ' film should operate : don't try and please everyone , just do what you set out to do , however tenacious and maniacal and manic it may be with however many willing and able character actors and / or occasional stars , and you'll please immensely those who look for this kind of stuff . Like me .
gives you as clear an idea of Lynch as artist , craftsman , and all American quagmire as you're likely to see	Toby Keeler , with his unlimited access to David Lynch - behind the scenes during his films , with friends and family and collaborators , and in his painting process - has a documentary that's essential to get at least a glimpse into a man and his work like this . Lynch's films are abstractions , nightmarish landscapes and what is just around the corner in the seemingly brightest sides of small-town American life , and his art is a reflection not just of his own interpretations of people and places that are usually conventional , but that this interpretation springs out so many ideas that would not be there otherwise without the specific framework he's chosen . One of the most fascinating examples of this method of Lynch's in being a true master of mood is with Eraserhead ; he worked five years on the film , and Keeler shows us Lynch and old friends walking around where the original sets were , and with this revealing how after two years of painstakingly filming a movie ( a shot a night , nevermind a scene , depending on the lighting ) , a rhythm developed that was unmistakable . If one of the primary goals of an artist is to transport people to another place that is unconventional , but still grounded in recognizable emotional connections , Lynch is such an artist , as revealed here fully . Of course , as collaborator Barry Gifford explains at one point , Lynch is very complex . On the outside he's an " all-American " type of guy , affable , well-mannered , coffee drinking and cigarette smoking , into building lots of things aside from his methods of making painting ( what could be considered two sides to a coin of enjoying making ' things ' , we see Lynch using bugs to actually assist in making a painting , and Lynch himself creating many of the furniture pieces used in Lost Highway ) . But beneath this exterior image is someone who is so in touch with the dark side of human nature that it almost has to come out in the way it does in his films . From looking at clips shown in Pretty as a Picture , be they clips from his early short films like the Grandmother or the Alphabet , or even just little scenes from Lost Highway , one might think that Lynch is loony as a tune ( that's how I thought of him early on , just on perceptions from Eraserhead and Blue Velvet ) . It's something of an assuring , if a little over-stated in adulation , to hear that he's consummate as an artist and professional director , with the one surprisingly the most saying this is the producer of Lost Highway . For fans , to be sure , there's lots to soak in here , like seeing the little details in the process of scoring the film with Badalamenti ( each note carefully considered ) , or in hearing the Frank DaSilva story regarding his appearance in the Twin Peaks pilot ( or , speaking of TP , the soap in the coffee filter story ) . Seeing him in action filming is fascinating in that , in a way , there's nothing much out of the ordinary how he works , and if anything he almost seems passive , however always in control of every detail ( i . e . the death-row set ) . But Keeler also is wise to make this documentary appealing to people who aren't very aware of Lynch's paintings and the process with them . It might be easy , as spotting someone into surrealism like Lynch , to peg him as such simply for the obsession with the bugs . Yet there's more than just that aspect for Lynch , as there's a sense captured about Lynch of taking everything seriously - especially mistakes - for what it can be worth emotionally not just with the end product but in putting all of it together . And , in a way , looking at a Lynch painting or photo ( which one person describes as Lynch trying to get a painting to " move " as it were ) , one gets a sense of how an artist in general tries to achieve something of merit , if only on a personal level that might not even reach most people . Pretty as a Picture is at least worthwhile for anyone who's ever been all too long in the world of Lynch - the X family's house , the black lodge , Winkies , the apartment in Blue Velvet - but it's also made to be appealing ( as far as Keeler can make it , as he isn't usually a documentary filmmaker ) for non-fans as well , to get both a general and a specific sense of what the man can do with the materials he wants to work with . Quite frankly , if he wanted to film a fax machine I'd want to watch it ; it's probably not without reason he would film it too , depending on the idea of the moment .
a film loaded with libido and hyper-consciousness , a hallucination of abortions , murder and hockey	It's not in Guy Maddin to make what Hollywood people would call a " normal " movie . Armed with 8mm cameras , loads of lights , sound effects ( if not actual sound equipment ) , and a mind like a steel Dziga-Vertov trap marinated in Winnipeg and sex and murder , he makes movies the way he damn well pleases to do them , which usually are done like super-kinetic , libido-charged fever dreams that come to represent a kind of consciousness that could be misconstrued as a music video if not for the fact that it's a 1920's silent film about revenge-plotting women and blue hands ala Evil Dead that kill innocent victims while hockey is always a major subject ( and , sometimes , with players in full wax museum mold ) . It might not always make sense - and by this I mean relatively to some of Maddin's best and strangest like Brand Upon the Brain ! and The Saddestmusic in the World - but it's never less than boring and always more than enough for the open-minded . And by this I mean open-minded enough to find oneself in the horror-movie world of a hockey player named Guy Maddin ( yeah , not the first time and wont be the last the director has a character named by himself ) , who goes through a psycho-sexual-homicidal journey through a pair of blue hands which belong to a devious girl's father . They aren't actually his hands put on his , however , they're just painted blue . But there's an effect that comes with this : the hands kill ala Evil Dead without Maddin really wanting to . So come a series of events involving wax-painted hockey players who can come to life , an abortionist that works out of a beauty parlor , another woman who cant stand how Maddin waxes her legs , and , yes , plenty of frenetic Canadian Hockey . That's what it's aboot , so to speak , but there's more , much more , particularly in Maddin's 10-chapter set-up , and featuring Beethoven's 7th among other classical selections ( frankly I enjoyed the 7th in Saddest Music more , but this is even crazier , which helps ) . Everything moves at such a pace and clip you wont know what stops and goes . But Maddin's mind works wonders as a master of his craft and at relaying his own personality and life experiences in the framework of what is essentially a really demented B-movie . It's like with Jodorowsky : he makes movies with his you-know-what as opposed to his head . I wouldn't want it any other way .
just about the drollest , and sometimes just quietly crazy , black comedy about murder ever	A serene , Technicolor-awe-inspiring backdrop of autumn in New England , reminiscent of the ' cheery ' Americana of Shadow of a Doubt . There's also a cast of characters who are more wrapped up in their basic romantic entanglements than in he body of Harry , who should be the focal point of the story . Matter of fact , one of the greatest delights of The Trouble with Harry is that the so-called MacGuffin this time is the dead body , and not some random object . Harry could just as well be anything , but the only thing that is of concern is , of course , that he's dead . What I loved seeing , as almost Hitchcock being a surrealist ( he was a big fan of Bunuel after all ) as much as being a director of dark / light comedy , was the non-chalance treated with the body from those around it throughout . The opening scenes had me floored , grinning cheek to cheek and sometimes just chuckling or laughing hysterically , at some line or moment in behavior from Edmund Gwynn and Mildred Natwicks ' reactions ( or lack thereof ) to the dearly departed Harry on the ground . They go on and on talking about meeting later in the day , almost flirting by Gwynn's advances , and there's a DEAD BODY ON THE GROUND ! On top of this there's the reactions from a little kid who loves playing with a dead rabbit , Shirley MacClaine as his mother and ex-lover of Harry , and the artist Marlowe played by John Forsythe , who seems to take a detached position almost in spite of making a detailed sketch of the dead Harry's face . So all of this , done in a manner that should suggest reality but doesn't in the slightest , builds up to something that is like the other side of the morbid coin that one saw in Strangers on a Train . Murder is treated a few Hitchcock works almost philosophically , but with with an air of ' oh , it's just a little death , no harm really ' , and in the Trouble with Harry it's done to the max . A good portion of the movie has nothing to do with Harry , even if he's on the characters ' minds ; a lot of courtship goes on between the elder Capt . Wiles and Miss Ivy Gravely and ( very rushed , which is the point ) between Marlowe and Jennifer Rogers . Forsythe might not be the best cast in the part , but everyone else is , and they all bring something to putting whatever potential is in the script to the fullest . Sometimes it doesn't look like it should be funny , but then something else comes along - another strange line of dialog , another aside about Harry's body being moved here or there - that turns things on its head . It's basically Hitchcock having fun with something that , for him , is probably more lighthearted then it might be for most . It's not a totally pitch black comedy , but then again Hithcock is deceptive , devilishly so , in in making things as simple as they seem . As with Bunuel everything seems like it should be straightforward , which adds to the absurdity , until one realizes that it means to be absurd like some yarn that you hear from a fellow you don't totally trust but listen intently anyway . It's not quite one of Hitchcock's masterpieces , but it surely is one of the best among those " experiments " that the director made from time to time , testing himself and the audience and putting energies into something that could turn his reputation on a turn .
for the quality of the music , a full for spectacle and PZAZ !	Iron Maiden have a true sense of how to really put on a SHOW ( in caps ) , with their trademark metal brand going out to audience's the world over with the impact of a harrowing horror movie and the gusto of superb theater ( perhaps there's a reason why the lead young girl in Persepolis , in Iran of all places , loved Maiden enough to get it off the black market ) . I was there for their 2003 tour , and comparatively , even at a much smaller venue to see them at , their appearance in Rio in 2000 is no more or less spectacular . They deliver hard-driving heavy metal tunes , some faster than others , with the energetic , awesome Bruce Dickinson belting out the tunes ( pretty much , with some minor exceptions in belting out some complicated lyrics ) with the same power and vocal range that he had on the original recordings . Now , the music here and there , while usually spot on , does depend on its being effective if you really like their 2000 album , Brave New World . In truth , I didn't think it was quite a Number of the Beast or Seventh Son of a Seventh Son ; sometimes even repetitive and loaded with more thought to the words than the music , it's not one of their best , and those songs make up a good bunch that are on this tour . This being said , however ( and what a however ) , when Maiden is dynamite , they are fing dynamite squared . They deliver some of their most acclaimed and loved 80s period Dickonson songs for screaming Brazilians all rocking their heads off in the stadium , and the buzz makes up for any of the faults in the actual performance . And , of course , what would a Maiden show be without Eddie ! It's a damn hell of a good show , in more ways than one , and it should only be a disappointment to the most purist of Maiden fans ( i . e . can only appreciate the 80s stuff ) .
another of Cronenberg's true psycho-shock vehicles , and one of the most depressing horror films ever made	The Brood juxtaposes divorce , anxiety with parent-child relationships , with a story that is basically crazy vengeance that turns to ugly territory sooner than later . Like Scanners , it's only gruesome in short spurts ( some pun intended ) , and while it's noticeable Cronenberg doesn't have too much of a budget to work with , he pushes the seamless , straightforward style to a high pitch ; you know something bad will happen just as long as it has something to do with little Cindy ( Candice Carveth ) . The body and spirit and duality , per usual for Cronenberg , figure in , yet there's something that makes the Brood much more affecting as soon as it ends : we're dealing with the deconstruction of family ( one also could see this in more sexually frustrated and emotionally demented context in Dead Ringers ) , and as it turns out by the end things won't ever really be " happy " despite things being all wrapped up in a grisly and bloody manner . Cronenberg may had been going through some of his own personal demons during this period ( i . e . divorcing his wife ) , and this could be almost like it's own ' brood ' , a shot of cinematic horror right from the subconscious in the guise of a conscious look at how probing the mind can only work so much , and that certain problems can never be solved . Basics first : Oliver Reed plays a psychiatrist who is more like a hypnotist , as he performs an unusual procedure in a trance state with his patients to rid them of their past trauma with family members or other by getting it to break out in rashes or hives or even ( if it's malicious enough as with one man ) cancer . With Nola ( Samantha Eggar , definitely in the highlight of her career ) , she breaks out much differently , and with full knowledge of what she can do from Raglan . Little creepy children in parkas who lack navels start killing off members of those Nola was close to , including her parents , a woman her ex-husband Frank ( Art Hindle ) is interested in . Frank is at a loss what to do , but he does know her daughter is in grave danger even before this happens , as she has scratches and bruises on her back . How can the murder spree cease ? At first one might wonder if this also has to do with the little girl's detached performance , with moments of despair wrapped in a corner . This is actually more of a concrete vision of what the divorce had done , even though it looks even creepier and more disturbing that it can't be explained why she doesn't cry or freak out when she finds her grandmother beaten by hammers . There's a disconnect that Cronenberg seems to be exploring , and even when there seems to be a flimsy way of showing what the hell it is that Ragel really does , or how he hasn't been kicked out of business yet , his scenes are perfectly ambiguous : we can't totally be sure how he does it , but he does it , and it's almost his own worst creation with the case of Nola . But what's scarier , far more scarier than any typical serial killer or masked being or un-dead , is that there can never really be change to Nola , to the monster that she carries out of her womb ( one of Cronenberg's most notorious images ) , and it's a frightening implication on how uncompromising love and hate go together . If the lingering sensation that this might be far too much of a psycho-analysis type of horror movie , don't fret ; the little mutant kids or whomever are some of the most terrifying beings you'll ever see . Ever . They make Chuckie look like a Cabbage Patch doll , with their make-up distorted and gray , their expressions always that of something mechanical , and in a presence that calls to mind what they might have tried to do in cheap 50s sci-fi movies , only here done more expertly in not showing much at first , and then showing just enough to get the idea later on . It adds a whole savage element to the picture , where it wouldn't be if it was other beings like adults that were manifested ( probably even just as unsettling as the ending is with the scene where they kill Frank's would-be girlfriend at her job , which is teaching kindergarten ) . Overall the film isn't quite as structured or paced from the start like one of Cronenberg's best ( it's not until the first big killing scene , and then Nola's father's drunkenness , that the film really kicks into second gear ) , but there's enough to qualify it as a must-see from a director who challenges himself just as much as the genre , that there can be some exploration of the soul and the actual sickness of the mind behind the usual bloody slayings and conventional characters that populate these movies . Think of it as Jung at the drive-in .
The whole world is against them . But they still are awesome .	Kevin Smith has done something not too many filmmakers are able to accomplish . He has directed 5 films in a row , that have been in my mind all funny , often though provoking and just really good movies . This is the fifth movie , the last of his New Jersey series with his always present Jay and Silent Bob , is not the best of his series but it is still possibly the funniest film I have seen this summer . A consistently silly yet laugh out loud fest of jokes and usual one liners from Smith that scores well , even if it doesn't score as well as Dogma or Clerks . Here , the dynamic stoner duo find out through a weird new invention known as the internet ( a place to bitch about movies and swap pornography ) that a movie is being made about them , er , they're comic book alter egos from Chasing Amy known as Bluntman and Chronic . They get so steamed they head for Miramax studios in Hollywood to stop the movie . This starts the odyssey that brings up cameos including George Carlin ( sick , but still funny ) , Carrie Fisher , Mark Hammil , and basically most of the stars from the past Smith movies . This film is like a big inside joke , and if you get it , you'll like it more than others I guess . But it is still funny for anyone who wants a good laugh and is tired of some of the really lame comedies of late . It's a nice , if sometimes a little obscene ( not in a bad way ) , gem . One more note , not only does the movie bring mack many of the past stars of the view askew movies , but it also answers a question : what happened to Jay and Silent Bob after the end of Mallrats . Kudos to Smith and the whole cast .
One of the better Eastwood westerns I've seen , aside from the other ones	I haven't seen that many Clint Eastwood westerns ( outside of the Leone films , Unforgiven , Two Mules for Sister Sara , and High Plains Drifter ) , but I remember this one from about a month and a half ago , and like Eastwood's best , I got drawn into the story , and into the sympathies of the lead character , which I felt was the strong-point under the actor / director's control : a farmer , who's moved on from his old days , is living in the woods with his family . When a group of bandits come and burn down his house and kill his family , he gets devastated . Devastated enough , that is , to join up with a group of soldiers , left off from the confederacy , who are still after the union even though the war's over . Soon Josey Wales becomes an Outlaw , and is still on the track to seek vengeance on those who destroyed his life , but he can try to get back on track somehow . I wouldn't say this is a masterpiece of a Western - a couple of minutes I was hoping the film would get along to what I was hoping would happen next . However , I was more often than not pleased greatly by the skill and grace Eastwood had with telling his story , and indeed in this film the viewer gets a chance to see Eastwood in a slightly different performance than in his past films ( for one thing he does go through an emotional shake-em-up before the opening credits ) . And there are some good , nearly breath-taking gun fights to go along with it .
enough irony , de-glamorization , and brooding sensibility for two " anti " western westerns ; nearly as good as the hype	McCabe & Mrs . Miller is probably the film , if not as much than Nashville more than the Player , that critics praise to the heavens when it comes to Robert Altman . And why not ? Made right at the nexus of his cult status as a maverick , coming off of winning the golden palm for MASH , he had Warren Beatty and Julie Christie making a " western " where they all spat on the shoes of Wayne and Cooper and all the old fogies of movie westerns to put something uglier , cruder , and more honest in the sense of the spirit of the really gloomy towns of the North-West areas of the US . It's also got some of the most significant work from Altman as a real film ' stylist ' ( in quasi-quotes for a reason ) , as many times when watching an Altman film it looks like it's almost substance over style , as if one isn't aware what the camera or the edits are doing through the improvised feel and the emphasis on behavior and idiosyncrasies of the actors . This is an exception ; here he and Vilmos Zsigmond make just the look of the picture ironic to the context of the subject matter : it's a bright filter for most scenes , accentuating all of the browns and grays and dark areas of the outside mud and the inside whorehouse and saloon , and the red lights of the hallways . From a cinematographer's standpoint ( and even Kubrick attested to it in not knowing how Altman shot a particular outdoor scene ) , it is a masterpiece . It took a little while , however , for me to warm up to the movie at first . The first time I started watching it I turned it off after the first fifteen minutes : despite having some interest in the uniquely off-beat performance from Warren Beatty as the drunken , grumbling gunslinger-turned-businessman John McCabe , I couldn't stand the Leonard Cohen songs . Not that Cohen doesn't have some good songs that he's done here and there ( the best were used in another 1971 film , Fata Morgana by Herzog ) , but it's almost kind of dull hearing the opening intro Stranger Song . I gave the film another chance , and somehow I didn't mind the songs after a while - not because they got better on a repeat listen , but for how Altman also worked them into a bizarre form of irony , and not simply for a comedic gesture , perhaps . There's the scene , for example , where the prostitute goes ballistic and stabs the man outside , McCabe tries to intervene to stop her as the man flops around bleeding everywhere , and a Cohen song plays ( I forget which ) that sounds like it should be used to get a litte child to sleep . Altman uses the Cohen songs much like an old professional would use a western song for emphasis , but for different effect , and it starts to work but better . But back to the film itself : despite a first half hour that takes a little getting adjusted to - the pace of it and texture of the dialog , which despite being quintessential Altman is almost too much ( and , as many have pointed out aside from the die-hard fans , the sound mix is ghastly and not in a good way ) - this is a truly fascinating picture , a tale of ambition obfuscated by escapism into the self , either by prostitutes or booze or opium , and how the moral codes of the old west are nowhere to be found , aside from the greedy business-owners who want to buy out the stubborn mule that is ol ' McCabe . Beatty plays him totally unsympathetically , which turns it into a riveting turn : he's a real jackass most times , repeating his ' frog had wings ' joke despite it never making sense , and too thick-headed , in one of the only Western clichés used , to know a good deal when he sees one . Julie Christie , as the more head-strong but still corruptible and estranged madam of the whorehouse , is also perfect for the role , a part that demands some strength and intelligence , but at the same time needs some weird kind of vulnerability when she goes down her dark path late in the film . This doesn't mean that Altman is totally allergic to all things that come with the traditional western , but as the climactic shoot-out comes along it's less exciting in the traditional sense ( and Altman's form of subversion is a far cry from someone like Leone ) because of what's now become of the main character . We see the same depth of existential gone-to-hell thinking that goes in the best of westerns , but Altman doesn't allow ever an easy answer or a kind character out of left field . And this approach is almost to the point of stifling : it leans so much into criticizing the genre in its own storytelling that it threatens to become self-conscious . Yet on its own McCabe & Mrs Miller ends up as a testament to the genre while something of a reprieve ; we'll never quite see one as grungy , with the actors looking as though it were neo-realist in comparison to a John Ford picture , and with a wicked " frontier wit " again , but then who would want to try something like this again - unless it's The Proposition ?
extended and uncut : a near perfect B-movie made into just an very good one	Like Apocalypse Now Redux - with the exception being that it's in this case the Weinsteins and not the director himself , despite Tarantino saying that he prefers this new cut - the re-cut of Death Proof has been puffed up with extra scenes meant to fill up gaps and give fans some scenes that have been talked about but never seen . But also like Apocalypse Now ( and this goes without saying that AP is the greater movie ) , they're ultimately unnecessary , and despite the scintillating bits and the odd moments of humor and intriguing moments of dialog , it doesn't fare well to what was already spot-on on arrival in US theaters . It's a slight tragedy that the original 90-something minute cut won't be available to most countries , nevermind the US , for quite a while . Tarantino and editor Sally Menke have expanded certain moments ( a little extra bit of dialog outside of the bar , and Stuntman Mike putting in eye-drops ) , and inserted in much longer ones , like the draggy scene outside the convenience store where we see an unsubtle touch of QT's foot obsession . It's not that even these moments are unwatchable , or even poorly written or acted , and on its own the actual lap-dance as finally revealed is entertaining ( in and of itself anyway ) . But QT and Menke also throw off the pacing of the film that was already " too-talky " by some critics accounts , at least in comparison to it's brother Grindhouse flick Planet Terror , and the only people who might not notice that it's off will be those who never saw the original cut of the film , in all it's sleazy glory . It almost defeats the whole purpose of Grindhouse making a little 90 minute serial-killer-with-a-car flick into a two-hour movie . Now , these criticisms said , Death Proof is still THE Death Proof most of the time , which is one of the best B-movie endeavors in recent memory . No matter what's been added , even the fat to chew can't be enough to ignore the fact that it's one of Tarantino's most audacious efforts in a career with them going back to back . It's got those wonderful actresses ( Zoe Bell , Rosario Dawson , Vanessa Ferlito , Jordan Ladd ) , the as-a-given cool dialog and script turns from Tarantino , and probably one of the best movie soundtracks of the decade . And the car chases are still intact without much change , and they're as exciting as they can be - relative to how they were on the big screen of course - with the heart-stopping beats like Rose McGowan's scene in the car ( " In order to get the benefit , honey . . . " ) and the long chase through the backwoods of Tennessee . And , through thick and thin of the longer cut , we still have Kurt Russell in one of his most memorable turns . Stuntman Mike is a quintessentially Tarantinian creation ( to make alliterations ) , self-aware in the writing of the character as he's an ex-stunt man who worked on shows most girls in a bar would never know , and who has a dark side that comes out in the strangest moments . He's also slick as hell , recites a line of classic poetry better than anyone , and is totally hilarious after getting shot . Now to make a cheesy critic sentence : maybe the 114-minute cut isn't Death Proof , but Kurt Russell is ( till , you know , his actual death ) !
one of those finite definitions of a gritty B-noir , done just right	Writer / director Samuel Fuller is not personally attached to the material he presents in Underworld USA in the sense of it being autobiographical . But it is pretty likely , from listening to interviews with him and just from seeing his other work in the noir-esquire realm of motion pictures , that he knew at least the world these characters are in . Or at least he knows what kinds of emotions and what lies underneath certain aspects of lesser pulp fiction - and has a kind of journalistic sensibility that is all his own , telling it like it is from the mean streets of who-knows . It's got an assured eye working the gears , and it by-passes some usual clichés to get at some more interesting bits within some of the conventions . This is in the bones just a tale of revenge , but Fuller wants the little things and moments that make up such a tale , and how the characters can be more realized than might usually be . I liked , for example , early on when Tolly Devlin is 14 and makes a comment to his mother about something in the middle of their conversation - the mother doesn't say anything , but there's a quick , tight close-up of her face to catch the moment . It actually stuck with me longer than I expected , even as the main parts of the scene went along . Another part that really , really impressed me was when Devlin ( Cliff Robertson , not bad at all in a part that gets to stretch his skills somewhat ) , nearing the end of his prison term , and finally finds one of the men who beat his father to death when he saw when he was 14 . The scene is very tense , but somehow very human too , as Tolly has to contend with a dying man that he has to kill with his own hands . Soon , Fuller gets the gears of the story going further , as he vows revenge against the others who committed the crime , making him pull an undercover act to infiltrate the mob to get close to them , particularly Earl Conners ( Rober Emhardt , a plum role for him considering all of his TV parts ) . But he also falls for a woman , Cuddles , played by Dolores Day , and like Fuller's Crimson Kimono , the weight of the main thrust of what Tolly needs is balanced against what he could also have with his possible romantic interest , caught up in the emotional bog he's in . I liked a lot how Robertson tapped well enough into the character to make him plausible , even sympathetic . He understands what Fuller is going for , a slightly more realistic - or more powerful kind of representation in the midst of the hard-boiled dialog and more complicated scenes - as he's playing a character who actually has a past , a childhood shown as shattered and made as the complete context that he has to contend with as an adult , despite women around him telling him otherwise . I still remember plenty of shots in the film too ( not the gun-shots , the camera-work I mean ) , and this is after having seen the film months ago , and the driving musical score from Harry Sukman ( a solid Fuller collaborator ) . That Fuller extracts a good deal of compelling entertainment out of a premise that seems pretty standard and even slight is remarkable , and ranks among the other fine superlative B-movies he was doing at the time .
Altman in his 1970s prime ; a gambler-movie classic	California Split provides a couple of stellar performances through Robert Altman's direction . George Segal , who is an actor I'm not too familiar with ( I never watched the TV show ' Just Shoot Me ' or his other 70s movies ) , but here is very believable as the down-on-his-luck Bill Denny , a sometimes magazine writer who can be spotted at the track or in a poker room more often than in his office . He's befriended by Charlie Waters ( Elliot Gould ) , a character who is at first seemingly just that , a real ' character ' kind of guy . Gould is terrific at playing Charlie as a fast-talking ' , smooth-dealing kind of clever player , who sometimes makes bets as arbitrary as the names of the seven dwarfs . He , like Bill , makes bets and usually wins , but then still tries to talk down how much the mugger who robs him in the parking lot should take . He and Bill sort of go aimlessly around through most of the first half of the film , with the only sort of conflict coming up - as opposed to a driving force in the plot - being that Bill owes a lot of money to his bookie , which he has to earn up in Reno . By the end , however , there's something about the gambler's life that is left on a bittersweet note . The two lead males are contrasted against actresses Ann Prentiss and Gwen Welles , who are not really elaborated on much as characters aside from being possible hustlers or prostitutes of some sort . There's even a touching , ironic scene where Welles tries to seduce Segal , but to no avail on either side . Even in the quiet scenes with the main characters , Altman and writer Walsh are adept to make these characters seem always believable , even in their seedy , desperate mannerisms and leaps of thought . They know they mindset and lifestyle of the gambler ( both , according to the press notes , were affluent with not only card games but the nature of the gambling man and how he goes about his business ) . Sometimes the aimless quality about the first half is very funny , Gould's performance especially as the opposite of Segal's straight-laced and high-strung character . Other times there's a scene or two that seem unneeded or a little oddly put in , like an inexplicable scene where a transvestite comes to call at Charlie's place to proposition the ladies , I think , only to get swindled again by the Charlie and Bill . Such scenes though are meant for simple character lift , albeit not totally satisfying when compared to other scenes . But to see an Altman film , any Altman film , is to see a piece of what Altman at the 2006 Oscars called " one very long body of work . " In viewing California Split , I'm reminded as well of how substance , in a matter of speaking , trumps style . It's not that Altman doesn't have some kind of distinct visual style , in general I mean ( it becomes , truth be told , more distinct in Nashville and 3 Women ) . But in several during his career like MASH or Prairie Home Companion , his style doesn't go for being anything more than that of a straightforward , practically objective storyteller , getting the multi-character scenes and layered spots of dialog and conversation without getting in the way . It's almost ironic for the sake of what's going on ; his style evokes Howard Hawks's knack of storytelling in the visual sense , of being the unobtrusive sort . But it's in the substance that's different , because Altman isn't really interested in the conventions of stories . He's after character , mood , the little moments in the midst of conversations . He's a great director of actors and of setting , if nothing else . For the most part , California Split is splendid at telling more about the nature of the mind-set , of the attitude and near existentialism of gambling than any specific story ; there aren't any real contrivances holding these characters to the necessities of the script . And the ending gives a few really good questions to ponder : what does winning really mean after going through so much as a loser ? Is there a catharsis , or one worthwhile ? Altman handles this mood and these characters like a pro , with the end result being one of the most fascinating , unconventional and entertaining films made about the small , maligned world of gamblers .
Truffaut asks the question through a dramatic narrative - can humanity be brought out through science ?	The Wild Child could be the kind of movie that doesn't work . In a way it's hard to find what the dramatic conflict of the film would be if not for the push & pull struggle between the scientists and his ' test ' subject of sorts , Victor , the wild child of the title . But somehow it does - Truffaut laces the film with a kind of undertone of logic for the audience ( how can a boy for most of his life be out in the wild and become suddenly domesticated ) , while making a sort of nature versus society statement . The film also has the director's trademark lightness , which helps to not make the film's subject matter too bleak or disparaging . For it could be - Truffaut actually gives a kind of suspense to the narrative at times , that just when you think Victor is on his way to success , he stumbles and starts to act out on the floor or escape into the wild for a breather . It's a very curious film , not just because Truffaut ( in one of his few times ) gives himself the starring role , but also that the child - like Makim Munzak in Kurosawa's Dersu Uzala - had his only significant role ever in the film . And it's quite the seemingly impulsive , and always alive , performance that filmmaker's rarely get out of children . Victor is named this only halfway through the film , and it starts off with him being chased by a small mob and their dogs through the woods . It's maybe the most exciting part of the film , but then this segways into the early stages of the boy's troubles . He's placed in a deaf and dumb school , beat up by the other kids , and still with the passions and intelligence that the woods have given him . It becomes a fascination in the story of what the limits , if any , are for him to learn everything real boys do . Once he's put into Dr . Itard's ( Truffaut ) care , then the film sets off onto a very direct path - how will he learn , will he , and how long will it it take ? As with his other films , the literary aspect kicks in as the scientist takes repeated notes on the boy , using a kind of pre-Darwinian way of scientific methods . But it's within the little moments in the film , like when Victor is out on his walks , or makes his little successes , where Truffaut as a filmmaker picks up the best parts of the film . This could be a very routine picture , and for some it may actually be a little dull and disheartening . Will the boy ever learn ? The film actually does raise questions within its format , as it is based on a true case ( from taking science classes I know there are also others of this kind as well ) . It brings to mind about what is pure and delicate about the ways of an animal and what separates them and humans . Each little test becomes dramatic conflict in the structure Truffaut puts forth , and in a way it's rather experimental . And it even becomes delightful in certain scenes , like when he first learns how to ask for milk , and then this expands . This , along with a sweet Vivaldi score in the background , and interesting visuals ( love the iris usage ) , makes it a worthwhile entry in Truffaut's oeuvre . Not one of his absolute best , but up there .
near perfect Cavalry Western with Ford splendidly cast against type	In Fort Apache Henry Fonda , often the kindest but strongest of the kind figures in the movies , plays the General Custer-esquire Colonel Thursday , and John Wayne , often the one in the movies who will shoot Indians first and maybe ( if he feels like it ) ask questions later , plays the more level-headed / friend-of-Apache-Cochese Captain York . In any other Western the roles would be reversed , but John Ford trusted his stars as actors to not be type-casted , and particularly with Fonda he strikes some really rich ground . Part of that is in his direction ( maybe some of Ford's stern and sometimes bull-headed self could identify somewhere in Thursday ) , but it's also Fonda being able to find certain beats or pauses or inflections that add dimension to what is a mostly stiff and unmovable Cavalry Colonel who is a gentlemen second and a military man first . Wayne is also very good here , as he often was for Ford more than any other director save for maybe Hawks , as he's more-so apart of the ensemble as opposed to a full-blown star , and there's even some subtlety where it's usually not seen by him . The story itself is also ripe for Ford's wonderful blend of all-American warmth and critical-while-embracing of American West themes , and there's a lot of extra entertainment with the supporting cast ( mostly a who's who of genial drunks and weathered first-timers and ex-Civil War soldiers ) . And with one exception - a poetically ironic but unnecessary scene with Mrs . Thursday getting the telegram of his transfer right before the climactic battle - there's barely a scene that doesn't register as something worthwhile for the story , or for some interesting characterization , or even something in as simple as a dance between Thursday and O'Rourke that reveals how good Fonda could be at staying in character while in a formal bit like that . We're also given the proverbial ' good ' young-actor performances from John Agar as the West Point graduate young O'Rourke who's after Shirley Temple's daughter of Col . Thursday . Fort Apache allows for all of the thrills and curiosities of watching an ' old-fashioned ' Western , but there's more than meets the eye for Ford . It's all so deceptively simple ; it's not quite as masterful as the Searchers , but it's very close , at deconstructing the myths of strong American men going to kill Indians and win the day inn honor to reveal the savagery underneath where logic is thrust aside . But at the same time , Ford still celebrates the valor in men in the old west , and there's something of a forerunner to the message of Man Who Shot Liberty Valance : when legend becomes fact , print ( or film ) the legend - albeit with some truth sprinkled here and there . Surely one of the better Ford and Wayne Westerns , and one another in the equally ( or even more-so ) rewarding collaboration with Fonda , here revealing a whole other side than a Lincoln or Tom Joad .
the nightmare and ecstasy of selling your soul to you-know-who	Jan Svankmajer probably has visions and dreams that few of us would want to have , but luckily for us he's so creative and talented and all-that-and-a-bag-of-chips with a mound of clay and ( in this case ) marionettes that he can put them all on display on film . His version of Faust is sometimes confusing , bewildering , and , as I gathered from not reading the original play or ( sadly ) not yet seeing the Murnau silent feature , not altogether makes a lot of sense . This isn't to say the central premise is lost on me , which is of a man who conjures up the force that is Mephistopheles and sells his soul . This is of course shown at one pivotal moment in the film , but if you think you know what to expect from this outcome or how it's presented you might have to rethink things . If you've seen Svankmajer's other films , however , like Alice , then some of his approach shouldn't seem too far out . . . Actually , it is always very far out , but in an approachable manner , told often in a classical style of cinema that relies often on the unspoken . In this case it's not as non-dialog laden as Alice , as there are often scenes with the marionettes going on and on with their dialogs , and then with the man and the Satan figure him / itself ( whether it's a man or an ' it ' I can't say for sure , as Svankmajer makes it a being who materializes first as some skull , then into a near reflection of the man himself as some crazy theologian ) . What draws one in is the lack of abandon for narrative , and the chances he takes in making it self-conscious . It would be one thing to present the puppets themselves , but the editing is feverish ; cuts go between the puppets , their movements , and then those of the puppeteer's hands . We never see their faces , but we always know someone is pulling the strings . This is key . But beyond simply that , it's just a pure pleasure to take in how the filmmaker mixes the elements , tricks it up on the audience ( i . e . after the marionettes inside for so long , they bust out into the streets without puppeteer's hands ) , and with the stop motion , and the moments of Bunuelian surrealism with the man going between puppet form and reality , and then out in the middle of some field . I can hardly explain more , and it would be better , after all , if he was allowed to introduce himself . Staggering , near masterpiece work .
make sure to get the DVD !	Released a mere couple months after President Bush declared that " major combat operations in Iraq have ended " , Bill Maher brought his trademark ( and well-placed ) cynicism and poignancy to the stage . It was also intriguing in the presentation , aside from the stand-up material itself ; at the time Maher had a book out with parodies of 40's and 50's public service posters warning people . These come up several times behind Maher , and they aren't distracting , they help to add to the points in his act . He talks about the War , Bush , sexuality , and what went down with the 2000 election - " I ( bleep ) my wife " was one of the more memorable bits . I don't remember the special as freshly as I do of Maher's recent I'm Swiss comedy special , but I do remember having as many laughs as with the latest one , maybe more so due to it not being as familiar ( Maher had either just started or was going to start his ' Real Time ' show , and most of the points made here are new for the time ) . But as an added bonus if you can get the film on DVD is extra footage of an off-beat , hilarious Q & A with Maher and the audience . Some of it really catches him off guard , which is ironic as he seems to always be on his feet with his attack on stage and on his shows .
how did I miss seeing this movie till now ?	24 Hour Party People is just one of those movies that has that click with the subject matter . The actual style of the film corresponds with the music , the irreverence , and the energy of it all . But there's more than just the unconventionality of the script and direction ; the film has that sort of stream-of-thought , wry , distinct British humor to it , and a sincerity beneath the absurdist parts . It follows its main character down the line , in a surreal way like a documentary , if that makes sense - we move between Tony Wilson addressing the audience ( played by Steve Coogan , who is so on target with the honesty of the portrayal you can't picture anyone else in the role ) , an almost behind-the-scenes filming of it ( I think ) , and a dramatization shot on pure digital , independent vibes . Wilson , who sees the Sex Pistols play in Manchester ( his hometown , and the main base and heart in the location of this film ) , is also a journalist on television . He gets so enamored with what he sees as an extremely important part of history ( the viewer will get a good idea of this ) , he gets involved with the bands , the locals , and goes from just bands , to maintaining the Hacienda , a club . Some parts of the film one might expect , if considering it includes the rise and fall of fame ( or rather , in this film , a lot of times in the mind ) , and the drug scene coinciding with the music . One knows that Tony Wilson is the main character , the protagonist , basically in every scene , but somehow he does not become the only important part of the film's success . The music too is a huge factor , and the speed it sets for a movie like this . As much biography as musical , 24 Hour Party People brings to light the scene of Manchester as a history lesson , but an entertaining one to boot . Bands like New Order ( the form after Joy Division split ) will be known to most who follow music , but unless if you're not really steeped in the new-wave / dance scene of the 80's and 90's , some of the bands may sound totally unfamiliar . Still , this is not an automatic deterrent - the music is what it is , and most who will want to see the film will know what they're getting ( in truth , the ratio of British punk and new-wave vs . electronica is fairly balanced ) . But even when some of the music doesn't stand the test of time , it serves the story all the same ( some of the more interesting and darkly funny scenes are when no one comes to the club the sort of ' mix-way ' between the two musical eras ) . And all through this , Coogan plays it like a pro . The Coogan Wilson , of course , is far from the real Tony Wilson ( one of the DVD interviews says he's a ' Jerry Springer'-looking type ) , so it becomes more of being a character in this whole environment that springs up around and by him . In a way he's kind of like a British Andy Warhol with the idealistic , serious journalist instead of the painter / filmmaker . There's a sort of checked insanity that underlays some of his performance , and yet for most of the time , like a lot of the better British actors , he doesn't play it more for laughs than he needs , and when serious drama / tragedy comes up it's still kept to this reality . So , along with him , and the music , and the strange form of putting together a dramatized , documentary / musical / black comedy by director Michael Winterbottom and writer Frank Cottrell Boyce , it all gels . This is one of the finest sleepers I've seen in a while .
for some seeing this , it makes Kill Bill seem light-weight ; definitely not for the squeamish	I really , really didn't know what to make of Ichi the Killer the first time I saw it , however late it was at night on cable ( i . e . very after hours , almost up till dawn ) , and after seeing it a second time I'm still not sure . If it isn't one of the more overwhelmingly violent films ever made , it's at least that from Japan , where there's a whole film movement devoted to these ultra-violent ( likely deliberately so based on the subject matter ) tales of the dark side , like if David Lynch watched a boat-load of anime and was told to do a feature . In fact , this is what the very prolific filmmaker Takashi Miike has done here , and it took me a little while to figure that out . Obviously , through the use of different kinds of medium with the camera - there's never one set style , a lot of hand-held camera movements , digital , shaky , with editing going at a whiplash style or in longer takes - this is perhaps the point . Maybe what threw me heavily off-guard was that the film was based on an Magma anime-style comic book , which is possibly where the scenes and shots of extreme stylized over-the-top and often shocking violent acts had its footing in ( which is kind of redundant to say as there isn't one non-shocking scene here ) . But that being said , it's more what is being dealt with in the story and specifically with the characters that had a friend I was watching with say at least a few times " this is a ed up film man , damn " , and he wasn't without footing . We have here masochism deluxe in torture , sex , self-mutilation , etc , sex , rape , bizarre mind-control , and often done to a confusing pitch for those not ready for characters that sometimes seem to pop in and out or new ones out of nowhere ( Japanese audiences wont be thrown off possibly , but others may be wary of this ) . The premise has Kakihara ( Nadanobu Asano , with two faces as an actor that work perfectly ) , one of the more ruthless gangsters ever put to film , out for vengeance after a boss is killed . The one who's doing this and other killings is Ichi ( Nao Omori ) , who has a traumatic memory of being helpless during a teenage rape that messes him to the point of doing these acts against his better judgment . Mind-control , of course , is at work here , leading the gangster and the screwed-up innocent ( who happens to feel sexual masochism as Kakihara does in his own way ) to a shattering , ambiguous climax . A holier-than-thou moralist might look at this film - if one could stand through the whole thing without either being utterly sickened or just getting perplexed at the un-conventional story - and wonder how this can even exist . One might even look at how morbid the underbelly culture of Japanese entertainment might be for this . Obviously it is a morbid , surreal , and for a cult-audience picture ; this could never attract the masses who saw the Kill Bill films ( then again , just the opening title wouldn't get past the censors ! ) , and then again perhaps it shouldn't . In ways that really only became a little clearer on a second viewing , Miike is dealing with such depraved , unsympathetic characters ( even Ichi , who despite being an innocent in a way by route of his ' master ' , is like the anti-hero of Oldboy ) to not only push the boundaries of what he can do as a filmmaker with the mis en scene and music , but our own as well . And one should ask , would this film , with its rooms coated with blood and guts and moments of people getting split in half and , be as disturbing if it was just an anime adaptation of the comic book ? By doing it in this over-the top way , I actually found myself laughing at times ( perhaps inappropriately , who knows ) when these scenes were shown on screen . There almost had to be this very , very dark comic tone to some of the scenes in the film , otherwise it would just be too much to take . Sometimes the gravity does outweigh the laughable moments , and this need in Miike to push the boundaries does become much even for me , who was prepared for anything after hearing the hype ( not just too much in the content but in the style , perhaps making the surrealism of the environment into it not being interesting ) . But somehow Ichi the Killer is a film that works for its crowd and doesn't stop : depraved characters , crime without pity , and enough blood to make Tarantino's toes curl .
Good times , Cannibal Salad	Cannibal Holocaust was not something I exactly wanted to see , and I didn't rush out out to buy it the day Grindhouse releasing put out the uncut version on DVD . But I kept hearing that it was a movie that , if someone very interested in films - or just in the most shocking in the realm of cult and exploitation - this was something to see at least once . It's called the most notorious of its kind , and after watching it tonight I can report that it's not far from the truth . It is shocking , and horrifying , and makes you feel about the human race that everything at base level is so barbaric that it might not be worth a damn . But what could be just another schlock-fest from a director who just wants to chuck crap up on the screen in the form of bad acting and blood and poor craftsmanship actually isn't what's served up . On this level , it way exceeded any expectations I had , and is in fact one of the more satisfying exploitation pictures of the period . This is mostly due in part to the dedication on part of Ruggero Deodato to actually tell a story reasonably well , and to even throw in some biting ( however shallow ) commentary on the state of sensationalism on the news and how colonialism seems to repeat itself when the opportunity knocks with the wrong bunch of Westerners . The first half of the movie is told in a straightforward style , shot without any amateurish meddling however in low-budget form , as a professor at NYU goes on a search with a couple of guides to locate a documentary film crew that went missing in the South American jungles . From the outset , we're led to believe the worst has occurred , that the film crew got slaughtered and eaten by a tribe of cannibal natives . Some pieces end up standing out as shocking already , like a moment where we see how a man " deals " with an unfaithful woman , but for the most part it's relatively with only bits of action and terror . The second half , however , is when things get ugly as the professor , back in New York , looks over the footage shot on 16mm by the crew and sees how things really went down . Is it perhaps a little much on the part of Deodato to show how cruel and vicious and to a point fake the documentary filmmakers are in treating their subjects ? Yes and no ; yes because of course it is exploiting the expectations of the audience , and making it easy for us to not feel any sympathy for when the bloody , " realistic " climax rolls around , but not so much because he and his cast do it so convincingly . This is unlike the more recent Cloverfield where we're made to feel sympathy for the characters but are not given much of a reason to do so on the outset of this ' docu-real ' scenario . And there's also a stark message underlying this which is cyclical in nature , and without stating the very obvious last line that the professor makes at the end of the picture it is , in fact , a question of barbarism . I should point out that even when Cannibal Holocaust is at its most effective it's not any kind of ' great ' movie . It left me shaken and stirred and a little repulsed , sometimes a lot ( the turtle scene somehow really got to me more than anything , if only for the time and detail spent in wallowing in it , which was the correct decision based on the atmosphere ) , but it is only as good ( or bad depending on view ) as it can be based on the action and low-budget direction and make-up effects . Sometimes it is somewhat shoddy in production value , or in talent . But most of its flaws are supplemented by Deodatto's rigorous attempt at for one never making it boring , which is crucial for an exploitation picture in retrospect , and for also keeping the story focused and the continuing situation tense and bleak amid the shock value . There's some things committed here that I dare not reveal , but only so you can experience them yourself in all their faux-realism that , at the end of it all , has a slight , nasty satirical kick . There's guts here , no pun intended , and it's everything you've heard and then some - oddly enough , also a well-directed picture , despite the director's own ashamed ( though understandable ) feelings about the making of it today . Don't watch this alone !
a film that plays even better long after it's been seen , for its unforgettable characters and classic mode of subversion	Peter Bogdanovich obviously loves the old Hollywood films , Hawks , Ford , Sturges , Hitchcock to a degree , but has also claimed that " there's Renoir , and there's everybody else . " This can be seen , in a sense , in how he treats the material of Larry McMurtry's source . The Last Picture Show deals frankly with sexuality , but more impressively , and with more of a lasting impact , on how not being able to deal with emotions leads to a kind of nakedness and vulnerability that is shielded away , particularly in a small Texas town such as Anarene . Not much goes on - sometimes the only thing to do is to split town and see if it'll be possible to take an aimless trip to Mexico in the middle of the night - though that is just on the surface of a tiny town such as this . There's a sense of sexual paranoia , of loneliness , that gets tapped into very well by Bogdanovich on his two main plot-lines : one involving teens ( i . e . Cybil Shepherd as Jacey , Jeff Bridges as Duane Jackson , the Bottoms brothers ) , and their escapism into movies , sports , and sex , and a middle-aged woman ( Cloris Leachman ) and her lack of companionship , mirrored in her sort of loneliness by the barren side to the town itself , as people move out in droves . From the opening shot - one of the best of any film of the 70s - to the final scene with the screening of Red River , this is a near classic of the period , where there was an overlap between the past films with more of an emphasis on the proud and beautiful side of Americana , and the not exactly darker side but the one people usually wouldn't put on film . It's sometimes very funny ( how could finally ' making it ' with Jacey go wrong ? ) , and a little surprising in how it gets explicit ( pool scene is actually very steamy for a black and white movie ) , but there's an undercurrent that Bogdanovich doesn't play up too much into the last act , which has been building steadily through the film . Featuring other good supporting work from Burstyn and Ben Johnson , alongside the outstanding Leachman and promising Bridges ( Shepherd works best in the role when she has to quietly subvert , as Bogdanovich does more often , with the material ) , and a true sense for period as well as reality , the Last Picture Show has been fresh in my mind for years now , and I look forward to seeing it again like few other American films of 1971 .
The songs Witchy Woman ( women ) meets Sympathy for the Devil , combined for a comic fantasy	George Miller ( Mad Max ) creatively sets the stage for a story of three witches and one Lucifer , who are in regular human form , in a small , uptight New England town . Of course , for a tale like this one can try to suspend disbelief , and it has to be when dealing with the supernatural . Thankfully , Miller has great casting tastes - Cher , Sarandon , and Pfieffer are wonderful in their roles , each with an acute , potent sexuality that was at their peaks in the late 80's . And then there's Mr shark grin himself , Jack Nicholson , who gives another superb layer to the performance of the dark prince . There are other actors who have portrayed the man downstairs - Al Pacino in Devil's Advocate was the devil as lawyer , Billy Crystal was himself in the Woody / Dante sequence in Deconstructing Harry , even Elizabeth Hurley in Bedazzled . But rarely have they had this much outright fun and charm with the role , enough to almost make me , a man in his 20s , charmed too . Maybe it's the eyebrows . Nicholson gives one of his best over-the-top performances as the " horny-little devil " Darryl , who comes into town during a storm and cooks up more than that for his avid female guests . Of course , he doesn't have control for long , when the girls find they have powers of their own . When the movie gets overly fantastic ( which is a number of times ) it gets a little hard to take , yet the acting is above par , and the special effects are a delight .
beautiful in its lyricism , Bresson's Au hasard Balthazar is original and poignant	Maybe I'm not as completely overwhelmed with the work of the immensely revered director Robert Bresson as others are , and I almost wish I was more so . I do know from the other films I have seen of his - Pickpocket and A Man Escaped - that he is one of the superior craftsmen of his time in France , a veritable storyteller with a very precise , original craftsmanship and way about telling his stories that shows compromise is nowhere in sight . However I don't think , try as I might ( and I do love other films that do evoke religious connotations and metaphors like with Dreyer and Rossellini's films , which perhaps aren't as heavy-handed ) , to soak into all of the allegory of it all . When it comes down to it , Au hasard Balthazar is a kind of fable , and it is successful even as some of the Christian connections are lost on me . It is strongest at being a dramatic look at two lives where drama doesn't need to be put to highest heights or given a shot of adrenaline . There's almost something very worn down about the characters - as well as the donkey Balthazar - that is the best part of what Bresson does try to draw parallels to . His direction might be un-easy to get along with , but it is rewarding in a cathartic way too . Much has been written about Balthazar being a kind of saintly figure , or Jesus , who suffers all of his life and then at the end dies a sorrowful death for , perhaps , everyone else's sins . But if that side of reading into it isn't really suiting , and you're looking for just a really well-told story ( which is really all a fable can do ) , the donkey's - and Marie's ( Anne Wiazemesky ) story does take on a neo-realist side to it too . It's the everyday things that count in this world , and act as burdens that don't give people the kind of life and enjoyment they could have . While Bresson maybe doesn't have his great strengths in much of the dialog , his direction of the actors , which involved multiple takes to the point of ( as with the donkey ) beating the life out of it , is quite unique . Like with Pickpocket , you can tell something is so suppressed with them , even with the careless young man who Marie falls in love with - and later leaves - and the unfortunate drunk who ' takes care of Balthazar for a while , that it's no wonder nothing happy ever really comes to any of them . Also , the body language is so distinct and powerful that it really makes the uncomplicated nature of the photography and editing work that much more so . Turn the sound off and it might not even make a difference ( what with lack of music ) Two of my favorite scenes might likely be two of the best scenes I've ever seen from the few Bresson films I've seen . One is when Balthazar has a brief stint in a circus , and it's interesting to see how the simplistic nature of the story reaches , for once , an almost ironically amusing point in this scene . For a moment you're pulled into that illusion of a Disney movie - where an animal is meant to be more like us , but then once reality comes back in it wipes that all away . The other scene is during a dance in a bar , where everyone's bopping away to a jazz song , and the young man mentioned before , throws bottles and causes a ruckus , but no one seems to stop dancing at all . Are they too , who should be having a good time , that numbed by their lives to not be shook up by the disturbances around them ? It is a film that really does get you thinking once it ends , about how small-town society treats things in very set ways that make some like Marie want to just get out . There's an undercurrent in the story of money being an integral - and hurtful - part of the world , where pride and suffering gets mixed up in it too . But most striking when watching the film are the scenes with the donkey , who punctuates the un-wavering methods of those around him ( who very rarely are actually kind and happy around him , aside from the kids early on ) . These scenes display Bresson utilizing his storytelling and skills with poignancy that , if you can identify with the innocent ( s ) of the story , is kind of mind-blowing . Even if the film is possibly imperfect , it nevertheless left me feeling I had seen something special . Few filmmakers can get away today with putting together a tragic story and pulling parallels between a worker animal and a misguided young woman and how others out there try to live every day . It's a brave movie more often than not that might hit ( and has hit ) other viewers both young and old alike .
Fritz Lang and Bertolt Brecht's resistance juggernaut from WW2 Czechsovakia	Under the name ' Bert ' , Brecht teamed up with director Fritz Lang to craft this cunning and ultimately suspenseful tale that borders more than consciously on propaganda , but for all the right reasons considering the period . It wasn't a period piece but something urgent of the time and place - not to mention a stark battle cry from Lang , who fled Germany in 1934 following a calling from Goebbels to become the propaganda filmmaker of the 30s - and it stands still as one of those under-seen pieces where loyalties and betrayals and double-crosses and vendettas are all abound , and the truth is something tricky and twisty on either side . The main plot concerns the dramatized story of Reinhard Heydrich , the " hangman " , who is then put on by the Nazis as a figure of the past to haunt the Czech people : the assassin MUST be found . The assassin is Dr . Franticek Svoboda , aka Karel Vanek , who may also have another alias , and is well played by Donelvy , who hides with a Czech professor ( Brennan ) via a chance meeting weeks before with Nasha ( Anna ) . Once he escapes following a curfew that night , many people are rounded up - hundreds - to be executed by the Nazis if the assassin isn't taken in . Anna's family is questioned , her father on the list of those to soon be killed , but what of Svoboda ( and the resistance , or the cruel Nazis at the gestapo for that matter ) ? It's a typical Langian procedural in the very tense and exacting sense , and it's a lot of tense fun and there's always a sense of danger with how the characters cross one another in one scene to the next ( I loved when Vanek comes back to Anna after the first night , she's mad at him , but this is right after she's been questioned by cruel Gruber , performed by Granach as half caricature and half power-hungry monster , and there is a wire to her apartment , only to have him feed her lines through index cards ) . It's just as intense as a more modern espionage thriller , only Lang has the upper-hand at crafting it with an equal hand of social indictment ( like M or Fury , the people in the Czech city have a role to play in what happens , and there's great scenes of small mobs going crazy like in the movie theater ) and of a more general grilling of the sadistic Nazis . There's not much room to make them very three-dimensional , however Hangmen Also Die ! features the Nazis performed not in very simplistic ways . Maybe my favorite is the traitor - a Nazi collaborator played by the large Gene Lockhart who can go from being happy-go-lucky to frantic and pushy on a dime , and is the total puppet of the sneaky inspector Gruber , who is funniest when trying to get back to sleep following a night of frivolity with some girls . The storyline isn't completely free of a few heavy lines of dialog , and the whole sub-plot involving the ' is she seeing someone else ' thinking for Jan Horak ( O'Keefe , best at looking stone-faced in semi-shock ) who is the fiancé of Nasha is the least effective of the lot . But what is here is a striking example of balancing real thrills ( it's hard not to be on the edge of your seat in the last fifteen to twenty minutes , mostly as characters talk if not in tense cat-and-mouse theatrics ) and a great message at hand . Lang makes this a story meant to pull people into action - the film ends with " NOT " and then super-imposed " THE END " - and like with M , there's many a moment when the common-folk , like a maid or a taxi driver or butler , become the real heroes in saying who was where or what one did at a given time . And of course Lang is also totally on top of his game at crafting this with many images of sadistic shadows ( watch as Nasha is prisoner and a guard comes into a second shot in silhouette ) and enclosing angles .
perhaps the ' proverbial good vigilante drama ' of its time	Before I saw Death Wish , I knew there was more than just the context of it being a starring vehicle for one of the major bad-asses of the action picture , Charles Bronson ( who's best role is still the one with the least words , Once Upon a Time in the West ) , and that it contains the elements that would spark an entire sub-genre ( for better or worse ) . I knew that there was also a kind of historical context for the times , of how it was in New York City as well as in others during the 70's ( though especially in the 70's ) - I remembered my mother telling me about how the atmosphere of ' Death Wish ' with its thieves and rapists and abusers was for real , that they were around every corner , and that crime was indeed at an all-time high then . So watching the film with this in mind , it brings a little extra drama to the story of Paul Kersey ( Bronson ) . There is the style , and underlying humor , that appeals for the genre fans ( and there is a minor bit of exploitation in making Kersey a ' bleeding heart liberal ' with skill behind a gun ) . But there is also a sense of overall tragedy to it all . The tragedy comes out of a truly disturbing scene - Kersey's wife and daughter go home from the market , unaware that a trio of hoodlums ( one of them a fresh-faced Jeff Goldblum no less ) follow them , bust in , and beat and rape them . This is indeed so terrifying and real it tops a scene like the one in Clockwork Orange with the assault on the writer ; it's somehow even more shocking when its in an apartment in the now , with hoodlums as random and sadistic as the ones here . Kersey mourns the loss of his wife and daughter ( the latter to dementia ) briefly , but it sticks with him through the whole film , in one way or another . The first signs of him knowing what's around him on the streets at night ( and one of the funnier bits of the film's bleakness ) is when he takes a sock full of quarters to use on the hoodlums . This is short-lived after a visit to the south-west , where he gets slipped a gun in his suitcase . The rest of the film unfolds as it would , at least under the circumstances of the genre . Yet within the grip of Death Wish being a genre picture ( and this is something that the sequels and other lessor B films have forgotten ) is that there has to be a sense of reality , and real dangers , to the film , not to mention the sort of evolution of Kersey into how he becomes - a killer , a vigilante of the scum who try to rob and threaten to kill . Although the police procedural that parallels his story isn't as strong as his , it works fine within the scope of the story that has to turn out in a certain way . But there are other factors to go with it besides a strong story ( based on an even stronger book Brian Garfield ) . Bronson is , indeed , great at being , well , Bronson . If the violence in the film doesn't pull any punches for its time period , Bronson doesn't skip being good at showing Kersey's inner strength of defense as well as his weaker side . It's not a very complex performance aside from the conflicts midway through the film with Kersey , but it's in a way truer than the film could deserve . Michael Winner , the director , is also an asset with this , in giving to the film its gritty tone . And , as an added bonus , there's the sweet musical score from Herbie Hancock . Death Wish is a film of its time , but one that still has significance , and entertainment value for today . People my age ( i . e . college kids ) will be attracted to it for its ' retro ' style , and , as it is in the vein of a film like Taxi Driver ( though less visceral ) , as a stylistic action film . And for the older folks , the drama of the film , and the solid storytelling , will keep it interesting . In short , it's the proverbial good vigilante film of its time , giving Bronson one of his most memorable turns .
a story of the Blues - what they are , how to play them and with a minimum of musician-life drama	Howlin ' Wolf , aka Chester Burnett , came out of the deep south , out of the fields of Mississippi , out of a super-religious mother who stuck so firmly to her guns that Blues was " the devil's music " that she never spoke to her son for decades , out of racism and hardship , and made his own original , vibrant kind of music . He wasn't alone , as others like Muddy Waters came into prominence ( and , according to a special feature on the DVD that should have been included with the rest of the doc , had a rivalry for some time ) , and shook up popular music first for black audiences and then slowly but firmly whites . It's a remarkable journey , told with not a whole lot of style as a kind of direct-to-video approach , with a plethora of good facts and some humbling opinions ( one of Wolf's closest musician friends and band-mates , Hubert Sumlin , provides the most entertaining anecdotes as a die-hard blues-man through and through ) . Plus , of course , the music , with some rare performances and even some home movies shot at Chicago clubs , of the Wolf's presence and magnetism coming out in strong forcefulness as he does crazy things on stage like lick his guitar and crawl on all fours . Whatever you want to say about his music it's inarguable that he doesn't get your attention , if only through that distinctive voice that's a sounds like it's been run-over and resurrected as an all-powerful bad-ass . Thankfully , too , in such a short running time , there's a limit of how much drama there usually is in a musician-bio pic . Then again , Howlin ' Wolf wasn't as naughty as other musicians : he didn't sleep around as a ladies's man ( at least , from the doc's perspective , as much as say Muddy Waters ) , was a devoted husband and father , stayed away from drugs and most drink ( he was so against it he openly criticized Son House during a performance ) , and only had his one real stinging problem being a lack of communication with his mother . While one wishes the movie was longer - more detailed , more infused with that pure air of rhythm and blues - what's here is enough to whet the appetite . At the least you'll want to put on some Wolf on the stereo right away or rush out to find some kind of record . He wasn't maybe the # 1 best blues-man in America , but he certainly left his mark like only few others did . This doc is a good tribute to the Wolf's spirit .
excellent film-making with instances of some of the purest Russian cinema	It's such a bold stroke of cinematic prowess to make a film like Andrei Rublev , let alone at the age of 32 , 33 that Andrei Tarkovsky was . This is a film that , while ( from my perspective ) imperfect , breathes with the freedom and abandon of a cinematic artist paying tribute to art itself . In this case , Andrei Rublev was a real icon painter from 15th century Russia , who witnessed many a strange , amazing scene in his time , and all of which helped make him a better , more confident artist attached to his faith . I saw mostly the end section of the film a year ago , the part titled ' The Bell ' , as well as the end sequence in color , and was really drawn into the story of a young man obsessed with building an object that might help him in some way , but in the end reveals something rather astonishing . The end sequence itself , too , I might mark as one of the most beautiful , deliberate , and successfully astute scenes of capturing art ever put to film . It's all images of the real iconic paintings , all still around after centuries , put to music that adds such a religious height that even for a non-believer such as myself it was quite moving . This being said , as a non-believer , here and there in part 1 of Andrei Rublev , aka the Passion According to Andrei , a little much religious talk ensues and almost threatens to dull some of the effect of the film . Not without interest , of course , but scenes where characters or Rublev himself start reciting passages from the bible ( with one insert even of a simulated quasi-Crucifixion ) drag the film's pacing a little bit , which is important in its three hour + running time . Simply put , it's really , really worth a viewing of the film if you're at all interested in the " art films " of the European 1960s , as it represents a filmmaker's freedom in expressing the subject matter , while still having a deep personal connection with the material . And amid a scene or two that doesn't quite work , there are at least three or four that do fantastically . The sequences of the tragic-comic Jester , the bizarre ' witchcraft ' portion with the pagans ( quite amazing considering the time it was filmed , very entertaining ) , the violent , engagingly horrific raid , and the other sequences mentioned earlier , all make up the best scenes in the film . Amid the artistic dilemma that poses for Rublev , he is surrounded by the will , the damnation , the violence , the strength , the equal measures of ignorance and intelligence , and cinematically it all does come together quite well . With cinematography that's top notch ( with OK editing ) , a good , if very large , cast , and a real vision put to the test , this is a thoughtful , faithful kind of epic that is rather daunting to finally see in one sitting . But it goes without saying that there are scenes which could possibly stand alongside those of Eisenstein as the most powerful , emotional , and challenging - to - conventions - of - cinema type moments from Russia , or even Europe for that matter .
the simplicity of its message comes through powerfully through the use of Miyazaki / Ghiblis ' imaginations	It must have been a small but extreme labor of love to make On Your Mark , a short film directed by the great Hayao Miyazaki with his Studio Ghibli crew working at full throttle . It gets right to the heart of the idea in seven minutes through an immediate array of strange but deliriously exciting images , and its story gains momentum by the end . The end , also , is one of the happiest I've seen in Miyazaki's work ( if a little fuzzy with an angel flying high into the sky ) . On Your Mark tells of such a winged being who becomes prey to the horrors of civilization , plague , technology , when she only got there through a tremendous blunder . But when two men finally decide they've seen enough , they go through the security , through the swarms of bio-chemical suited soldiers , and through a desperate escape they make it through the explosions and action . All through this Miyzaki and his team create small wonders frame by frame , with small details like falling rocks just as fascinating as the large-scale amazements like the ' city ' at night in neon , or the shots of the getaway vehicle running along the highway , with the helicopters chasing afterwords . How or why this has happened to the angel is never made clear , but in such an amount of time Miyazaki can only show so much . What comes through best , in the end , is the immense talents of his team , his collaborators who transform such a near fairy tale into a one-of-a-kind show . The music , too , is a curious addition , as I don't think I would've cared for it much taken apart from the animation . With it , the song works on a romantically charged , epic scale ( if it were in English , I might've mistaken it for an 80s power ballad ) . It won't remain as a true landmark achievement for Miyazaki like Princess Mononoke , but if you're already a fan of his & / or Studio Ghibli's works and you can find it ( online is the best bet ) , it's more than worth it , it's a must-see .
ingenious little short , like a newspaper comic strip with sharp wit	Thank You Mask Man is featured as a bonus on the DVD of the Lenny Bruce performance film , and I was very glad I watched it . It reminded me of what I saw once in a Carlin special from the 80s where he put in little animated bits that all visualized his bits . That this comes more than a few years before that is impressive , but more so that it actually works to fit the riff-style comedy that Bruce excelled at . This is basically drawn like , well , basics - the comic-strip characters could've been taken out of any newspaper or other , and it's all crude to the point of not having to focus as much on it . Perhaps most of the strengths , aside from the curious , off-kilter nature of the drawings , do spring out of the material , as a story of a bunch of people having to deal with a ' masked man ' on a horse . It happens to be a good Bruce bit on its own , but then the curious thing does happen that towards the end of the film - when the townspeople then all taunt Masked Man to be gay - the comedy and the look of the film do totally gel somehow . That Bruce is also behind a good part of the style of the picture himself probably explains how some of the same inspired dementia in this story in particular ( one with an absurdity to it but also some truth sprinkled around ) merges with simplistically weird animation . It's probably not one of my favorites ever , to be sure , but I had a lot of fun watching it , as a crazy little anecdote given life and still kicking more than forty years later .
a basic tale of one-up-manship , but done in a great fashion of professional storytelling and acting	The Prestige is like a machine of tricks and wonders , and it ends up pulling off a lot more than it might have not been able to chew . Co-writer / director Christopher Nolan is very much in his territory here with this picture , and the sort of jigsaw-figure-out effect he had on his breakthrough Memento is redeployed here in a style that is never too deterring . He focuses so well on the two main characters , and the people focused around them , that there's no need to really feel as if one is being pulled away from the real emotional drive of each character . It's basically one big game that becomes something very dangerous once obsession becomes part of it ( as Michael Caine's character notes is what children do ) . But all the while I went along totally well with what the story went through , in all its twists and pulling seemingly simple little turns out of a hat , because Nolan made the storytelling seamless and has actors that are utterly dependable and pitch-perfect in their roles . Christian Bale and Hugh Jackman play the magicians , who start out as partners under the tutelage of Michael Caine's Cutter , who perform acts of not-totally-simple ' magic ' , which follow three main principles which are listed by Cutter at the start and end of the picture . After a tragedy that befalls their assistant ( Piper Perablo ) , the rivalry and , more crucially , the aims and wills of each side is put into play . On one side is Bale's Borden , who is , according to Jackman's Angier , living his entire life as a trick , which may not be far from the truth ( hope that doesn't spoil things ) . On the other is Angier , who becomes involved with the burgeoning technology of Nikola Tesla ( David Bowie , who is one of the lesser factors of actors in the film ) , who may be able to figure out how to make something truly unbelievable . Their fates become entangled in each side's pursuit to out-do the other in the public eye , with Cutter and the change-around mistress ( Scarlet Johanssen , in a spiffy English accent that works ) , on the sidelines . What makes a lot of this more compelling that it almost has a right to be is how much we're steeped into the mind-sets of these characters , who they get fractured by their own separate ambitions amid their skills . One is a better magician , while the other is a better showman , and each can't stand the other's talents in the midst of being somewhat intrigued and drawn to a kind of madness . And yet at the same time the personal also finds its way into the trickery of the film , and actually grounds things - seemingly of course - particularly with Borden's wife ( Rebecca Hall , one of the best in the film acting-wise ) who feels betrayed by the pack of lies and secrecy . The fates then of both characters becomes that of dealing with mortality , and how one can cheat death or not , or again , and again . Towards the end it does teeter much on becoming one extra ending that might not be needed , or a couple of minutes that feel packed in too tight . But all the while Jackman and Bale are constantly compelling , with little things they have in their characters that make them very much real for us , and then makes the final twist not too unworthy of what led up to it . It's like a twist mountain , or rather , a prestige . It might not be the best kind of ' prestige ' I've seen , yet I still highly recommend it as a cool treat of splendid storytelling in a story that teeters on leaving the audience with too much of a gasp in the extraordinary , and has just enough to pull back and have a few good surprises . It's one of the best productions to come out this season .
not really perfect , but then life ain't either	Cleo from 5 to 7 ( actually it's 5 to 6 : 30 but how it is sounds better ) is the feminine point of view of Paris , of a discombobulated woman on the edge of a potentially tragic discovery ( whether she might die of cancer ) , and it works because Agnes Varda is in love with the cinema and in love with Paris and in love with her character and star . The passion carries over what little flaws there are - I personally couldn't really stand the actor playing the soldier , though maybe it was some of the writing that came off poorly or self-consciously - and it works as modern film art for what it accomplishes which is one of those rare pure movies for women that doesn't reek of sentimentality or kitsch . It's got some hard issues to face , but it's done in a beautiful style with the camera - itself , as some have noted its own character - and modernity in its thoughts and dialogs . The star , Connie Marchand , aside from being an unusually beautiful blonde ( I almost thought at one point Varda couldn't get Deneauve and settled on a very respectable 2nd choice ) conveys that sense of being young and pretty and possibly talented but also unhappy and disillusioned by what might happen not just with her potential illness but herself in general . There's one short scene I really loved where she's just walking down the street and the point of view goes back and forth , jarringly , between herself and those men ( and men ) of all ages taking a glance or look at her . Is it because she's a semi-famous singer or because she just happens to be a pretty blonde walking down the street ? A similar scene occurs when she goes to a café and puts on one of her songs on the jukebox and everyone goes about their business . Varda , at the least , gets us as much as she can inside her head-space , be it in small scenes like that or something truly grandiose like when she sings the sad song written by Michael Legrand and as it continues and rises it culminates into something too emotional for her to sustain . She tries to explain it as well , which makes it worse . It also helps in Cleo from 5 to 7 that the structure is broken up as it is in the chapters ; another French New-Wave film from 1962 , Vivre sa Vie , may have featured a better structural grasp on the chapter break-up , but here Varda seems to suggest that it's based upon both the limitation that time presents for someone like Cleo and for a post-modern break from traditional narrative . Why be told simply " this is the end of a scene , this is the beginning , this is the middle ? " With Varda , as with others from that age group in France making movies at the time , there were no firm rules except to be true to the artistic self , and as the camera and editing take on lives of their own and the star becomes something more as the film progresses , it to becomes a strong piece of art . Some it dated ? Maybe , it's France over 45 years ago . But its impact remains due to its dedication to its character , to women living lives uncertain and odd , and to Paris .
One of De Palma's most entertaining works :	Blow Out runs with an idea and makes it work . Brian De Palma uses the idea from Blowup ( obsession over one real-time element involving murder ) , and transfuses it into his usual , dependable form of the suspense picture . He finds the right cast to take it through as well . This script could be taken in the wrong hands and made into lessor material , perhaps . But often it's not even the script that is as grabbing ( though it does , being De Palma in his prime , have its share of wit and sweetly honest moments ) as is the direction . This is a filmmaker very much in trusting with a specific storytelling style that suits the nature of the subject matter . You've got a protagonist thrust into a deceptive , shadowy kind of element , and because its a star in that role propelling it - alongside some ' choice ' villains , it's never too unbelievable in its own sort of world . John Travolta ( in a role displaying a little more of his range than usual ) is a sound recorder for low-budget horror movies , and going over a particular crash into a river one night by a curious couple of subjects , the audio drives him into an obsession . But the story doesn't dwell fervently into it like Blowup did ( then again only Antonioni , or maybe Coppola with his The Coversation , could make it that deep into it ) , and in a way it doesn't need to . With Nancy Allen , a cute , talented actress , there's the other part of the story to drive it forth , as she plays the passenger in the car who may or may not know more than she'll tell , even to her rescuer Travolta . Then along the way we meet some shady people including Dennis Franz and John Lithgow's characters ( the latter especially , in a role un-like him but made all the more compelling for it ) . It leads to a climax that is one of De Palma's best as well . Blow Out doesn't kid its main audience , and thats where it finds its strengths . It's in a realm of the psychological , but it doesn't steep itself too much to become more of an experimental film like De Palma's earlier films . It also lacks some of the weaker qualities that have come in some of his later films ( i . e . a good deal of plausibility or lack of caring about the characters ) . It at times shows its gritty side ( i . e . Franz's scenes ) , and it also includes some great scenes between Travolta and Allen . Simply put , it's a well-done movie .
a guide to having a baby , with stoners , and E ! news	My first reaction at the end of the film was probably too simplistic a comparison : Harold and Kumar meets Nine Months ( yes , the Hugh Grant / Julianne Moore pregnancy comedy from 95 ) . But the film actually carries off how so few romantic comedies know how - to actually give us a man and a woman to actually give a damn about . More than that , Apatow has matched extraordinarily well the shlubby but funny and down-to-earth skills of Seth Rogan with the vibrant , uncertain but ultimately believably conflicted personality in Katherine Heigl . It's a tough sell with it's premise , to be sure , that a very attractive E ! news reporter like Allison ( Heigl ) and a total stoner almost-bum like Ben ( Rogan ) could hook up over less than 12 hours and suddenly procreate , but there you have it . It's a premise that actually had me avoiding the film , even with the immense hype from critics as well as friends and family , because the footage shown in the trailer didn't seem to be that much to write home about . The actual finished product , however , is certainly the funniest American movie out so far in 2007 , pointed at the age variant of around 18 to , um , 37 maybe , with all of the supporting characters , as well as Rogan and co-star Paul Rudd as Heigel's brother-in-law via sister played by Leslie Mann , very sharp with levels of sarcastic wit and pop-culture references . At the same time Apatow gets some really amazing one-liners regarding Ben's friends joking on each other ( the bearded guy provides the most fodder , but the general attitude is ' hey , f it , lets get stoned " ) , but doesn't lose track of what he's trying to do , successfully . He's out to criticize as well as embrace a culture where responsibility for one's self has to do with how the other in the relationship is comfortable or dissatisfied with the other . And Apatow makes the Rudd / Mann relationship a kind of bittersweet ( much more bitter really ) counterpoint to the rocky start to Ben and Allison's ' shot-gun ' romance . There's silly one liners ( " I live in your phone ! " ) , goofy caricatures ( the gynecologists ) , smart aleck kids who know a lot of " bad " words that provides for some wicked laughs , and the usual mayhem in the delivery room an actual winner in terms of making it partly true and partly farce ( albeit Judd doesn't seem to understand , despite having three kids , what a woman is like throughout the labor process , as reconciliations don't usually happen aside from script contrivances ) . Yet all the while , it's a sincere film , with the relationships shown not as cardboard cut-outs but where the people actually have to deal , if eventually , with the lots in life they've got themselves into . What is it to balance love and commitment , Apatow is asking . There's even one shot that provides a note of discomfort with the characters of Ben and Allison as they have a bad argument in the car , the view being outside of the car in traffic , a distance kept because , and it's a credit to Apatow as a storyteller , we do care about what will happen in this situation . In fact , that's probably one of the best things to say about Knocked Up . Too often in movies , especially of the cineplex fare , the situation is more-so told than an actual story . This is one of those rare cases where the situation , a tricky one to surpass as it's been done ( the ' situation ' of pregnancy , not so much the one-nite-stand part ) , unfolds more as a story , and by the time the ' happy ' ending comes , it's not a cop-out or cheat . And this goes without saying that the actors , as well as the filmmaker , are totally assured with their comic skills , be they subtle ( the dazed look of the bearded " Martin Scorsese on cocaine " friend , even Rudd to a degree can be staggeringly subtle ) , or big ( the " second " sex scene between the main couple ) . Quite simply , it's THE rom-com sleeper of the past few years .
a compelling tale of the dangers of imperial dominance , how it spreads , and how political turns personal	The Wind That Shakes the Barley , the Palm D'Or winner , gets most compelling because of the ties that form between the political and the personal , between what is loyalty to one's country versus one's own blood and how the latter becomes almost irrelevant and taken for granted in the midst of the bickering of specifics . For a while , Ken Loach's film is suspenseful enough as a story of Irishmen rebelling against their dastardly British occupiers in militia-style tactics , practically guerrilla tactics actually , and there's not much sentimentality going on . But then when the Irish get a small sliver of independence , albeit still in servitude to the British empire , it sets off a chain reaction of infighting , of there being adequate freedom and not enough freedom , and two brothers - Damian and Teddy - get caught right in the works of it all , tragically so . Loach doesn't let either side off in this , and it adds to the complexities of the last third of the picture . Damian goes full circle as one who starts off not wanting to join the IRA , even after the death of a friend , but soon becomes more than he thought - a killer , of British as well as Irish ( a troubling , tense scene where he has to take out a boyhood friend over treason ) - and now sees that it's his duty to go for more than his brother settles for . But Teddy is not put as a simple figure of a submissive Irishman completely , and the emotion that suddenly starts to boil over in his contention and eventual head-to-head with Damian helps to not make it too shallow or underdeveloped . Some critics have called Teddy unsympathetic , but it's not that easy an assertion : circumstance in the face of something that has never been attained before might seem worth it on one side , even if on the other it seems maddening . Beneath this , however all the clearer in the scenes with the British officers early in the film as a horrible brutes who will torture and kill to get control and dominance over the Irish , is Loach commenting on the dangers of imperialism , of how it becomes if not contagious then almost something that becomes accepted if seen as something that has to be taken for a little extra freedom . In the process , one can see parallels to current events , more or less , and that it's filmed in a very immediate , staggering fashion where melodrama is stripped away . It would be one thing if Loach was making a simple message picture , and yet when it is loaded with ' message ' like when the Irish argue over ratifying the treaty it's still very engrossing , but Loach is interested too in the impact on close-knit relationships : the connection with Damian and his love , who he has to watch in pain from hiding as British officers torture her and burn most of her home down ; the lack in faith in institutions like the Church , connected to those in power ; and finally Damian and Teddy , two sides of very courageous , yet proud figures . It would be wrong to consider that Damian and Teddy are direct representations of the two sides of the Irish struggle , those that oppose and those that support the treaty with the British , wherein the Northern part of Ireland was still indebted to England . There's more depth than that - neither of the brother's deep down really wants this , Teddy more than Damian as the film progresses despite his political convictions , as Damian , played in a very strong turn by Cillian Murphey , trained to be a doctor , not in any military or political faculty . One can't say for sure how much of The Wind That Shakes the Barley speaks to the people of Ireland of today , so many decades after North and South and the IRA have gone head-to-head , but it contains the spirit that thrives in the better war films of recent years where thought is taken as precedence over action ( not that Loach is a bad action director ) , and the end result brings little happiness anywhere .
as a documentary it's decent ; as a companion piece to No Direction Home it's fantastic material	For any Bob Dylan fan this is a must . One gets to see his progression from the new darling of the folk scene ( elevated to the point of ultimate pretension by the line " He has his finger on the pulse of a generation " ) to breaking out the electric guitar for Maggie's Farm in 1965 . It definitely helps to know what the circumstances were with Dylan's presence at the Newport Folk Festival over those three years when watching the film ; if you go into it expecting the director Murray Lerner to spoon-feed multitudes of facts then you're bound to be let down . Only Joan Baez has a scene with some comments on Bob Dylan at the festival - the rest is just concert footage , with some sporadic bits for the announcer and shots and sounds of the audience or Dylan in a car surrounded by fans . As for the songs themselves , they are what they are : it's Dylan in both his prime as a strong storyteller and folk singer and as a burgeoning rock star that got a lot of " pure " fans very angry . The argument can be made both ways with 1965 : taken out of context the performance of Maggie's Farm is one of the most highly charged live rock songs ever recorded , taken in context it wasn't exactly the right time with such a picky crowd . It took guts on Dylan's end though , which is something that does come through consistently in the documentary . I mean this by what he sings about : his range is incredible when it comes to writing lyrics and relaying his stories and ideas , from Medgar Evers to his World War 3 Dream to Blowin ' in the Wind , and then on to something traditional but powerful like Chimes of Freedom . . . leading all the way up to what many consider his masterpiece , Like a Rolling Stone . If nothing else , the performances are essential , even if the film overall works better alongside Scorsese's No Direction Home , which is , of course , the definitive Dylan doc .
a trip into the reality of the virtual you might want to take , with Cronenberg as ' designer '	I first saw David Cronenberg's eXistenZ when it first was released in theaters in 1999 , and as the first that I saw of his ( in a sense , I was probably like Ted in the sense of not yet having the ' portal ' to his catalog of work ) . It flew mostly over my head in what it was conveying thematically , though I still thought it was pretty cool - not enough to immediately re-watch , however , leaving it on my VHS shelf to dust . Cut to eight years later , and having seen most of the director's films it seemed appropriate to re-visit this little science fiction oddity , which did ( as many critics at the time noted ) get underrated thanks to the Matrix . While the Wachowski's made the better movie , it is of note though that Cronenberg probably carries just as much weight with psychology and philosophy in his worlds , if not more so the former for sure . Plus - as was an unintended bonus having waited this long to re-visit the film - getting into Philip K . Dick works didn't hurt either in appreciating the bizarre but palpable world Cronenberg's created here . It's not just the Three Stigmata book , but also A Maze of Death , that could be called into comparison . Cronenberg's characters are either wise to the fact that the world they inhabit , a kind of futuristic time where it seems more like an alternate reality of the present , or they're closed off from it . The basic gist of the plot reads like pure pulpy PKD : a video-game designer , the best in the world named Allegra ( Leigh ) is on the lam after nearly getting killed at the unveiling of her new system of the movie's title , and Ted ( Jude Law , at first annoyingly whiny , but it's something one gets used to as he is a good actor above all else ) , a PR man , follows along to do what he can . Problem is , he doesn't have a portal for the gaming system to go through , as it's all a bunch of intestinal-type tubes and plugs into the base of the spine . Soon they find safe haven to play the game , but are they really playing it ? Are they suddenly thrown back into reality at a moment's notice ? There is even a twist ending , and then a catch on that ending , that has that great sensation of being jolted back , as Dick could do , but in a more visceral manner as only Cronenberg can handle . eXistenZ is crafty as a thriller , and inventive with the special effects : it's not without some notice that because of the devices and means of teleportation that there's comparison to the Matrix . But there's also a tendency to overlook how stark Cronenberg is in dealing with the violence - where the Matrix is slick and full of technical innovations to match its alternate universe , eXistenZ is shot and cut in a style that isn't too different from other Cronenberg movies , and in and of itself is probably even more graphic than anything Hollywood could easily cook up . This goes without saying , of course , that either film could , and has been , easy fodder for a philosopher like Slavoj Zizek to deconstruct : what is it to suddenly replace what is programed with reality , with free-will , with energy from one's own body ( or , as he says , libido ) into a new construct ? And as Maze of Death also suggested , quite chillingly , how far is the capacity for murder and mayhem and destruction and betrayal when all bets are off ? There's a moment when Allegra keeps saying , chuckling about it as the ski-lodge burns down and there's a tense moment between her and Ted , that ' it's only a game . ' Is that all ? It deserves to make comparisons to these other works not simply to add some puffed-up weight to this review . Cronenberg's film , albeit a little flawed ( it's a little tough to get into the flow of the two leads , who don't seem to have chemistry at first , and only as the " game " goes on does it start to gel completely ) , has the questions to raise to make it as potent a work as anything Dick could come up with , or at least following along on the path previously treaded . And , on top of this , he makes it a fun and wicked ride , with a great couple of scenes for Willem Dafoe ( " is it in the script ? " ) , a fascinating amphibian mutant , and a guessing game that isn't cheaply manipulative . Taking another look at it all years later , in fact , it's probably one of the better films to come out in 1999 .
nearly the best , or at least most overall satisfying , of the franchise ; has terrific ( and gleefully corny ) humor , big action , and superb characterizations	Sam Raimi knows what he's doing with the Spider-Man franchise . Some will come away from this third installment and disagree , that he's put out an over-long , angry / sad / delirious blockbuster that doesn't reach into the same levels that the first two films did . For me , if anything , Raimi has gone further in the best possible ways : he's made the kind of grand entertainment that he's been working for since the last two films . One thing to remember , of course , is that the Spider-Man movies are each rides unto themselves , with lots of emotional twists meant to get the audience sucked in by its complex human characters and the wild new villains . But this time there's a darker element to it - something that could be comparable to the Star Wars movies - where the old key Spider-Man concept ( power = responsibility ) is really put to the test . It comes in the form of a black gooey parasite-whatever that comes out of the remains of a small comet that's hit Earth . How it got there or why it does what it does isn't so much the issue as what it does to that which it connects to : it brings out what's easier to have as a person , vengeance , lust , greed , and above all a lack of conscience . It's an agent of cinematic contrivance , to be sure , but it's a crucial one for the series as Peter Parker has to come to terms with this other choice - and he's not the only one . There is a good deal going on in Spider-Man 3 , no argument about that . There's three foes of Peter / Spider-Man : Harry ( James Franco ) has gone fully into being a chip off the old block by taking on his late father's technical gear to get his own vengeance ; Flint Marko ( Thomas Hayden Church ) , escapee from prison , who is really the one responsible for Peter's Uncle's death , and succumbs to a particle-changing mechanism and becomes a Sandman ; Eddie Brock ( a surprise , Topher Grace ) , who's not so much a foe as a kind of cocky annoyance to Peter , and who doesn't really become much of a threat until the third act when aforementioned back gooey stuff comes into the picture . And there's some added girl drama with Gwen Stacy ( Howard ) , who comes in as an unintentional block in the way of Peter and Mary Jane's total happiness , albeit as not the main block . There's layers this time to the Parker / Spider-Man saga in that this is the first time we see Spider-Man as the hero of the city , or cheered on as such , and so this time Peter / Spider-Man is in the power position , which then goes on to affect his relationship with MJ . Then there's another line with Harry , who gets short-term memory loss after a fight , and what this brings out between the three of them ( Peter and MJ that is ) . Add on to this the black suit , and its own immense connotation . This is where Raimi has some of his most devilish fun as a filmmaker in years , but at the same time gets out of it on the whole some of those especially poignant and morally questioning points out of comic-books that many take for granted . Of course , it's hard not to laugh as we see the ' bad-boy ' Peter , with his hair ala Flock of Seagulls and attitude to spare . Yet it brings to question what Peter , not just Spider-Man , needs to be for those closest to him as much as with those in the city . And even more than the second film , Raimi and his cast get to some fascinating dimensions with the villains . These aren't just simple mutants or miscreants ; they've got incredible , massively damaging powers , to one degree or another ( Sandman can destroy the most and make the biggest impression , but Venom is the black suit personified as a real monster , and Harry has got only one real nemesis ) , and deep down are damaged themselves with how they've dealt with the real world and personal trauma . Even when Spider-Man 3 edges onto its most cliché and corny material ( including one shot with Spider-Man behind an American flag in his flight ) , it's a sort of earned corniness because it doesn't fail to be amusing , if only in recognizable ways ( recognizable in that we're all used to and respond emotionally to the characters ) , and leads up to somewhere satisfying on a mass-appeal scale . And one more note should be made to the visual effects , which are par for the course spectacular ( what else will one do with millions and millions and millions of dollars ? ) and expansive for the villains - the incredible detail with Sandman - as well as in general what isn't noticed during the fight and action scenes . But to me it's all the more impressive that Raimi and company uses all of these tools to his advantage by not letting them overpower the story at hand . Even during its moments of pure pop-opera and put-on magisterial effect , there's substance that's rewarding and a lot deeper that many in the audience might take for granted . By the end , nevertheless , it's a Raimi picture through and through , loaded with tongue-in-cheek bits and action-packed , high-flying theatrics , and ending on a note that makes the series feel all the more complete . . . . .
" Challenge me when you are ready to duel a god . "	Afro Samurai will stay in my collection as a pure guilty pleasure , a black samurai saga that has more than a touch of being made just right for die-hard fans of blood-drenched anime ( or , for that matter , members of the Wu-Tang Clan , for which RZA did the music , and is an asset via groovy beats and is an occasional deterrent with rap going on during a big battle ) . At the same time it's also got a little tongue pressed into cheek , as the usual clichés in a revenge saga get just the right touches of harsh comedy ( the side character Samuel L . Jackson mostly voices , Ninja Ninja as the fool of the series , gives some of it , and some of it just comes through the wild ways that the other samurais send out their forms of slaughter to Afro ) and rapid stylization , with not just one specific style , though it is mostly indebted to recent ultra-violent anime . Through first-time director Kizaki and the writers who are also working mostly as their first efforts , experiment with its " ghetto " influence with it looking as much like an exploitation flick from the 70s as much as a sword-revenge story ( many of those out for Afro's head could be compared to those out for Grier or Williamson's heads in the classic films ) . But it's also science fiction to a degree , or at least futuristic in scope , mixing feudal Japan with crafty cyborgs and robots and other technology thrown in ( including a robot clone of Afro who mimics his moves but not his subconscious ) . It's not anything exactly masterpiece-like , and after a few episodes it does come close to being a little tiresome in seeing Afro , who has little-to-no personality and just a straightforward bad motherfer attitude , on his quest to achieve something higher than his simple 2-level . But it's downright exhilarating , as far as today's anime can get , in seeing the extremely bloody swordplay and other violent bits that come quick but with a lasting after effect , and in seeing how the conventions inherent in the supporting characters , be they in flashbacks to Afro's training or in the present as the ones out for Afro's head on a stick . It might actually be too based on the action for some , and it is a little light on story as it goes along past the flashback episode . Yet with people like Jackson and Perlman as the voices behind the figures , and in such a distinctive blend of the usual and unusual in the genre , it's worth a look for fans , and maybe even as a curiosity to those who dug Chapter 3 in Kill Bill 1 .
it's cheesy , yes , but a lot of fun as the whole Jungian thing pans out	Let it be known - The Enemy Within is not great art . But it does come close to being a great Star Trek episode . Mostly because , in a way , splits down the path of William Shatner as an actor , or how much of an actor he can ever be . After a faulty teleportation back up to ship , ol Kirk is now two , with a doppelganger that beats people to a pulp and makes crude sexual advances to a worker on the ship ( probably one of the first instances of attempted rape shown on prime-time TV at the time ) , while the other ' real ' Kirk has lost his will to lead - he's unable to make decisions because his ' evil ' side is really the one that takes charge to lead . But what to do as Soolu is stuck on an icy planet ? This is all the stuff of pot-boilers , where you keep watching just to see what will make the Kirk's tick - or not - next . It's utterly classic comedy ( maybe unintentionally so , maybe meaning to be ) as ' evil ' Kirk tries to take over the ship incognito , but gets caught when he tries to get the ship away from Soolu and the others ! But then there's the existential crisis of ' good ' Kirk , as he doesn't have any real resolve as a leader , except in regards to putting himself , literally it seems , back together . In a way it's kind of trashy , and I could see why one or two Trekkies might find it sub-par . But it does give Shatner lots of freedom as an actor , unlike most of the time where he inspires the best in imitators , and I liked the dichotomy of the psychology present , even as dated as it is . How does one balance the good with the bad ? Control , it seems , at least is you're James Tiberius Kirk - which includes libido .
maybe not the greatest spectacle , but it brings on some true star power	The Wall is , indeed , one of the most awe-inspiring feats from the 70's rock scene . It may not be Pink Floyd's best work , but on the form of ambition it could rightly rank with ( or some would argue above ) Dark Side of the Moon . It's engaging ( if a little obvious ) with its messages on education , sex , the drainage of rock and roll , psychology , and the breakdown of society through fascism . It's more of a sensory experience than something traditional , like with the Who's rock operas . So here , shortly after the fall of the Berlin Wall , Roger Waters brought forth a worldwide broadcast of the wall , complete with a spectacle for millions to experience , and of course not alone . Here he is joined by such musicians as Bryan Adams , The Band ( of Last Waltz ' Band ' I mean ) , Cyndi Lauper , Joni Mitchell , Van Morrison , and the Scorpions among others . On top of this is the complete stage-show of the Wall that made waves when first done in 1980 . It's the kind of live concert one wishes was experiences in person as opposed to on the screen ; like with the live show in other venues with the complete Pink Floyd , something is lost when experienced at home ( the film is another matter , which is for my money one of the top 5 " expensive student films " ever made ) . On top of this there is also the factor of the special guests , and even the whole spectacle itself , getting in the way of what Waters does best . In fact , while he is usually singing the songs ( there's a great bit when he's in part of the Wall right before , or after , the hotel-room smashing ) , the other acts sometimes steal the show , for better or worse . Mitchell is good , the Band does a terrific job , and the Scorpions are hit or miss depending on how much of a fan you are . But that this is such an ambitious show , with such a huge , overpowering audience , is enough to suffice . The Gerald Scarfe production design / animations are a wonder to behold for the fans , and there are a few other surprises as well . There is also an interesting , if not perfect , rendition of ' the Trial sequence ' featuring a funny , scathing Tim Curry and judge played by Albert Finney . So , like other Pink Floyd or Waters endeavors , it's stretching the boundaries of what can be done , and more often than not it succeeded , in the wake of a triumphant fall of the real wall in Berlin .
it becomes addictive	I Love the 70s , which has in the years following its first on-air release , spawned off I Love the 80s , 90's , and their decade's sequels , is a show that is not immediately accessible , or at least wasn't for me . But the more I watched it the more I got into it . Especially because , well , I do love the 70's , however in the sense of the films , ( some of the ) music , the pop-culture stuff at times . It takes a little getting used to , perhaps , because the commentators on the shows can be a little much at times , or maybe just not too funny . But there are just some comedians or lesser-than-A-celebrities that need some time to grow on a viewer . A prime example of this is Michael Ian Black , who started out with the crew from the funny show the State , and also did Wet Hot American Summer . Here is is without a doubt the most deadpan sarcastic of the commentators , and at first it's sort of not funny . Then the more times I've watched him since , on this and the spin-offs , he's become pretty amusing . The same goes for a lot of the others on the show , which include dozens of celebrities from the period to comment on the shows , the music , the fashion , the toys , movies , and news stories that changed the decade from Vietnam to Watergate to disco and Jimmy Carter and onward . It's not Ken Burns type documentary stuff , it's just goofy entertainment that becomes good , watchable junk food TV . But that being said , it's probably one of my favorite kinds of junk-food TV on now , and is certainly one of the only things worth checking out ( at least once ) on the VH1 station .
better than I expected , and re-watchable	In watching Robin Williams's comedy specials from the 80's , I was struck by how much I didn't actually laugh . Considering it was his prime , a lot of the time I didn't quite ' get ' or really just take in most of the jokes he was doing , as a lot of them had him going out into the audience and just ragging on random people's items . Ironically enough he shines in this special , taking on so many topics it would make your head spin for me to list them all . But he's constantly moving here , like in his 80's specials , while still giving the audience some room to breathe here and there , without pounding over the head . He goes after plastic surgery , South American Soccer , the French , ( a bit before it started churning up ) the US and the Middle East / Iraq , and very memorably a tale of Jesus and his forgotten brother , Jerry . Even when one isn't laughing , it's still putting-a-grin kind of material he's working with . In the year last when he was really on fire ( he at least had one good film among three , Death to Smoochy , Insomnia , and One Hour Photo , the latter two in my top 10 of 2002 ) , for me he delivered his best in quite a long time , a wonderful comeback with enough sarcasm , energy , and curses to float a sinking boat .
both entertaining as a technical marvel , as comedy , and even as horror	John Landis has one of his most memorable films , as it challenges him as a director of comedy and horror , and he's rarely done better in the latter . While many of his best films are among the comedies that he directed for SNL alumni Belushi and Aykroyd and Eddie Murphy , An American Werewolf in London stands apart from those by casting David Naughton , Jenny Aguter , and Griffin Dunne in the parts - all practically unknowns then - and giving them some of the best kinds of genre roles imaginable . The two friends played by Naughton and Dunne are out on vacation , sort of , and they stumble upon a town loaded with superstition about wolves and other things . When Dunne gets killed and something , uh , peculiar happens to Naughton , it changes both of them - principally because Naughton keeps seeing Dunne , deteriorating throughout the rest of the film , even as he both turns into the werewolf ( " Beware the moon , David , beware the moon " ) and falls for a kind nurse played by Aguter . All three roles are realized well , though it might be prudent to put a lot of good will on the male leads , as they both go under Rick Baker's still show-stopping make-up jobs . This is the kind of production that could go in a few different directions , and for someone like Landis's skills it could've gone in those directions , either one , considering his background . It could have been a send-up much like his Kentucky Fried Movie . It could have been just dumb , pure camp like one of his lesser comedies of the 90s . But here he's really sticking to his guns to make it really believably scary , but also with a sly , coarse , and crude sense of humor about it . It's almost in tune to what would come a few years later with Ghostbusters , only without the mega-wit and overall mainstream appeal . It's a cult item that probably isn't seen by many as Landis's other films , yet I still remember things very well from the film years later , indelible things like the use of songs ( obvious , sure , by ' moon ' being all over the place , but everything from Van Morrison to CCR to the main Blue Moon theme used during the crossover are really dead-perfect for what's needed ) . Aside from the obvious make-up scenes , I remember being both freaked and delighted by the undead exchanges with David , especially when it finally reaches its purest absurdity in the movie theater scene . And even the ending , unlike other Landis films , is with a tinge of tragedy and sadness . This is not the ending a typical comedy director would bring , as by now we've really gotten on the side of David , the scorned protagonist turned bloody villain by way of a curse . Some of the scenes that end up cutting back to the old rural village , as I also remember it , were not my favorite scenes as they brought more of the superstitious stuff that is not necessarily needed . It's the bits with Naughton , with Dunne , and even with the lady of the film that make it worthwhile . It's fun but not too goofy or bad B-movie-like , and it's scary without being cheap . It's basically the finest synthesis yet from the filmmaker to combine his gory theatrics with his firm , cool sense of humor . It's also one of my favorite films of 1981 .
A great comedy	Rodney Dangerfield makes a great comic effort here as Thornton Melon , a clothing tycoon who sees that his son is hating college , so to help him out ( morale wise to the least ) he decides to become a student , with hilarious result . Formulaic in the wrong hands , but in the hands of the Rodfather , we see some great no respect comedy take place with his charm and personality ( now that's what I call marine biology ) . But the ultimate highlight is the scene with comedian / screamer Sam Kinison who brings one of the greatest scenes in comedy film history as Professor Turgeson ( of contemporary American history ) .
Invaluable to the Bergman buff , recommendable to one who isn't	There is a bias in my adoration of this documentary , Ingmar Bergman Makes a Movie ( a companion piece to the recently released DVD box set of Bergman's " Silence of God " trilogy , featuring Through a Glass Darkly , Winter Light , and The Silence ) , in that Bergman is one my personal favorite directors from Europe . Each one of his films , even the lesser ones I've seen , are loaded with a passion for the material , for the actors , for the pure theatricality of the drama ( or , every now and then , comedy ) being presented . It takes a little while to warm up to some of his more psychologically and emotionally heavy works , like Through a Glass Darkly , Cries and Whispers , and The Passion of Anna , but after viewing at least , if not more than , a dozen of his films , the serious film lover can obtain as pure and rewarding a catharsis as from the greatest works of all time . And , like the most mature of all filmmakers , he never panders to a film-goer's level of intelligence - what you see is what you got - and either you'll like his films for their level of intense human connectedness or distance and themes , or be put off by the lack of " mainstream " movie values . This documentary , however , should be , if not as special to Bergman fans as to one who might have seen one or two of his films or none at all , a fitting volume of what it's like to make a film . From the very finish of the writing stage until its premiere , Vilgot Sjoman interviews and interjects his questions and his camera at Bergman and the production of Winter Light . Aside from learning Bergman's influences and thoughts on the story and characters ( aside from his personal connection - his father was a Lutheran priest - to the religious nature of the picture ) , the viewer sees the costume testing , the location scouting , the actual shooting process involved in one small scene , looking back once the film's shot , the editing process , and personal reflections on the directorial process . There is even the critics ' responses , which is perhaps the one downside to seeing the documentary before seeing the film it's about - you may be intrigued by the details , but you don't want to get spoiled with information . One of the great strengths of the series of interviews is that Sjoman's questions are direct , concise , and bring out details from Bergman that would be harder for other journalists to conjure up . There is so much information extracted as to what it's like to make a film , to work with the actors , to get the little things right as much as the character's emotions , when and why to cut in editing , the rhythm of a film . For a film-viewer not familiar with Bergman the doc might even turn them on to him simply by his methods and philosophies . And for the fan , such as myself , there is a lot of insight that would be missing from certain books , such as the humor that goes on between him and his actors in-between takes . It's a finite , unique time capsule of cinema , even if you don't think Winter Light is all that great .
a funny and inspired pilot that's later been surpassed by its endlessly creative series	The original pilot of Curb Your Enthusiasm , which I've seen a few times ( sometimes truly forgetting that it's the pilot at all , as its stylistically 75 % of the time identical to the show ) , has its share of laughs . But it is , in its own right , a slightly different animal , so to speak , when compared to its 5-season-and-running TV HBO series . It's meant as a hybrid of what David was tinkering as the main premise of what his show would be about - mainly him getting into awkward bits of circumstance and everyday things with people ( mainly with some embarrassing or just strange results ) - and his stand-up routines countered with real remarks from Seinfeld and others . Despite what it might seem as too much going on in a one hour show , he makes it work well . The improvisational style later nailed to a T in the seasons to come is a little more primitive here , but Cheryl Hinds and Jeff Garlin are pros at what they do here . There's also a plot line involving David setting up a special on HBO ( hence the stand-up ) , and then at the last moment stopping to due his " dead " step-father . Like all pilots , its got its imperfections , but its perks outweigh the valleys none-the-less . Surprising still at least in having not seen or heard a shred of David's stand-up material before is how it's actually funnier than expected . It almost makes one wonder why there isn't the occasional drop of the real stand-up stuff in the series ( but then again , the very Larry David-esquire curve balls on the show are the bits of stand-up theatrical ) . It's worth it to check out if you're a fan and pass it by one night if by chance on one of the HBO's or on DVD ; it might be funnier as well if you know some of the other little back-story bits from the show ( i . e . HBO ) . A minor display of brilliance .
the kind of " old-school " thriller that could thrill today's moviegoers just as much as back then	With an all-star cast from the period - Bogie , Bacall , EG Robinson , Lionel Barrymore - and one of the most successful studio auteur's ever , John Huston , it's not too much to wonder that there is a bit of a high expectation before watching a film like Key Largo . I watched it very late one night , and did not feel tired for a moment . This is the kind of thriller that takes its time in the storytelling with enough attitude and specific scenes with pathos that add to its appeal . Bogie's character comes down to Florida to see an old friend , an old man in Lionel Barrymore . It's at a hotel that also features Barrymore's daughter , played by Bacall , and Claire Trevor as well . But then gangsters , led by Rocco ( Rosbinson ) , break in holding everyone hostage , even as a hurricane rages on outside . I would be inclined to note , as some other reviewers have , that the tendency for Robinson & / or Bogart to go with scenery chewing is almost a given of the dish that's served . But for fans of the two iconic masculine Hollywood figures , Key Largo is an essential viewing . Robinson especially has one of his very best turns as Rocco , a gangster without much remorse or sympathy , though some of his weaker side starts to show as the hurricane outside impedes further on their plans . A lot of the film , in actuality , is talk , and the film was even once a play . What Huston as a director is able to get right are the subtleties of certain scenes ( even Bogart's presence as a star is subdued at times with its supporting players , especially Barrymore ) . One that stands out for me is when Robisnon forces Trevor to sing , which she does with more emotion and fear than talent . I also loved the way the people outside of the hotel were left to fend against the storm and Rocco's insistence to keep them out - rather tragic in the midst of the rest of the story , really . But , when the film does pick up the pace with the action or thrills , the audience is not left unsatisfied after many scenes of back and forth dialog that rings as very ' movie-like ' ( " You don't like it , do you Rocco , the storm ? Show it your gun , why don't you ? If it doesn't stop , shoot it . ) The scenes towards the end on the boat are some of the better scenes Huston's done with the tension and excitement that he can stir up in his thrillers . Key Largo in the end turns up to be one of those full-on classics of the Hollywood Golden age that may not be seen as much as some of the other Bogart films or even his work with Bacall ( I would bet more have seen The Big Sleep than Key Largo ) . But I would definitely say for future filmmakers who want to get into the action genre or the blockbuster to take a look at this picture , that starts off with solid characterization - that we truly care about the good guys and despise the bad guys - and concludes with a good bang . And some hefty atmosphere on part of the hurricane doesn't hurt either .
Demme back in fine form and Hathaway with her first really fantastic performance	This pitch-black-comedy-cum-drama , Rachel Getting Married , bucks two kinds of marriage movies that are fairly common in the two sides of release : one is the schmaltzy , dumb mainstream rom-com like Maid of Honor or The Wedding Planner where A-List actors go in the motions of a batch of conventions-by-checklist , and the other is a glum , mean indie picture like Margot at the Wedding ( can't think of others right now like it's ilk , wouldn't want to ) . What helps it make it not just watchable , or appealing , but a very good movie , is the fact that the screenplay - by Sidney's daughter Jenny Lumet ( as every critic has noted ) - is very true to the tragic dimensions amid such a hectic weekend at a Connecticut , upper-middle class house where a wedding will take place with some bad memories and skeletons opened in the process . In fact , for all of Jonathan Demme's efforts to give it a raw and spontaneous energy - he's said it's akin to Altman but I sensed more-so Cassavetes - his approach works best , even at a rough-edged masterful level , when characters are talking / arguing / yelling in a room . Lumet's story involves the title character ( Rosemarie DeWitt ) in a weekend where there's much happiness for her and her to-be-spouse , and a good lot of tension because of her sister , Kym ( Hathaway ) , getting out of rehab for the weekend to come to the occasion . To say she's the black sheep is somewhat sugar-coating it , and nearly every moment Hathaway is on camera ( or , somewhat in the Altman mode , Demme manages to catch her off-guard in a moment or with a look ) is electrifying , by far her best performance if only because she finally has a character to really dig her ' acting ' heels into . It could be very easy , too easy , to make it a walking / bitching cliché , but Hathaway finds those moments , especially off of DeWitt or in one important scene with Debra Winger as her absentee mother , to make it as honest as possible . Although she is just one part of the component of the ensemble - what Demme focuses as an ensemble - it makes the film all the more remarkable than without her playing this troubled young woman with a past that puts a dark cloud over everyone around her . And around this theme of too much or ill-placed love in a family that should be nothing but happiness , Demme makes it both warm and sad in equal measure . Maybe I'm more of a sucker for harrowing familial scenes or a solid hand-held argument ala Husbands and Wives , but those come off a bit better than the bigger scenes of fun and excitement and enjoyment in the actual wedding proceedings . But just a bit - Demme's approach comes somewhere in the range of a home movie and , once or twice , reality TV , and it's a quality that , when not overboard , is really refreshing and inviting . Demme is fascinated by this multi-cultural group , with its eclectic music and irreproachable camaraderie , and he asks us to be fascinated and enjoy it with the characters . This is the only tricky part of the picture , but one I wasn't daunted by ; there's a real " indie-movie " spark here that's indescribable . At the end of it all , I'll remember Rachel Getting Married more as an exceptional experiment than a truly great film , but anyone completely sick of seeing ads for sappy marriage comedies or films that treat the families or people gearing up for a wedding like paper figures would do themselves a favor seeking it out . It is , in a square enough word , lively .
what is an existential threat in a post-nuclear age ? Kurosawa asks this in near-excellent film	In any other hands the weight of the subject matter of I Live in Fear ( or Record of a Living Being , which may or may not be the more accurate title ) would be handled with the ham-fisted pounding-over-the-head drive of a Paul Haggis . Under Akira Kurosawa's direction , however , there's somehow subtlety , or at least ambiguity , in how the characters are depicted in the scope of the message . It might have even seemed a little more dated - total blind fear and paranoia about the possibility of the bomb falling down and wiping out civilization - if not for the current state of affairs , in some parts of the world , regarding terrorism . What is it to be loaded up , whether it's from seeing it first hand ( which isn't to downplay the tragedy of that experience ) or being affected by media hype or propaganda , and made to believe that getting murdered in such a way to consider it an existential threat ? How does one contemplate something , like nuclear threats or terrorism ? Mifune's character , in a sense , might not be totally wrong . It's nothing to be ashamed of to take precautions to protect your family ( in ten years Kiichi Nakajima has had the H-Bomb threat on his mind ) . It's the extreme nature that throws his big family for a loop - taking everyone off to Brazil ( you know , like the song , as well as South America ) - to avoid the nuclear fallout from the presumed bomb drop . This includes a bitter family battle over his right to do this , or to sell the factory he owns and his family and others work at , and just how much to take him seriously . What ends up happening in Kurosawa's treatment of Nakajima isn't hitting you over the head with its message , be it that there is a big danger of the bomb or that you need to take care of the mentally ill no matter if they're right or wrong . It's about Nakajima in the scope of his family . The H-bomb fear is real for him , but it's seen by the family in a split vision - some will go wherever he wants to , and some want him committed and look to pilfer his will - that brings the drama . In fact , as one of Kurosawa's lessor seen works ( i . e . not as well-known as his classics from the 50s Seven Samurai , Ikiru ) , it's one of his most compelling . And Kurosawa has two gambles that he takes with the film , the kind that if they go wrong will affect the film in a negative way . The first is Mifune's performance . At first one might think he's playing it without much dimension , but there's something about his physical transformation that makes it a unique performance - almost an embodiment , to say it pretentious-like - one that makes Nakajima a purely neurotic character , with his big round glasses , buzz-cut hair , and grizzled , old look . We've never seen Mifune like this , and he adds great little note to a career that seems to be filled with mostly BIG performances ( i . e . Throne of Blood ) or star vehicles . There's that extra bit of effort , as Kurosawa does in the writing and spare direction , to add some humanity to a part that should be cut and dry . Anyone who wants to see Mifune the ' actor ' , should check out this or Samurai Rebellion for sure , as opposed to the ' bad-ass ' of Yojimbo . The second thing is the music , or what appears to be a lack thereof . The original composer apparently died midway through and was replaced , but it's ironic since I don't notice much of a music score at all during the film . There's the opening theme , which is quite extraordinary , but a lot of times we're just left in these awkward , tense dramatic scenes ( like the Office , only not funny ) . Unlike other Kurosawa small-scale dramas where the music is piled on a bit ( Scandal comes to mind ) , this is just very bare-bones in relation to the material . It's a little startling after a while , but it works .
Peace On Earth - Colbert style	Stephen Colbert's Christmas Special - The Greatest Gift of All ! ( soon to be out on DVD , naturally ) - sticks to two things at once : the tenets of the Colbert Report's rigorous and silly-cum-satirical bits on the religious right and Conservatives an other little tidbits that people who watch the Colbert Report know ( like , for example , Stephen's problem with " BEARS ! " ) , and to mocking the traditions of shoddy and schmaltzy Christmas and holiday specials . In a sense this is the opposite of the Star Wars Holiday Special , though not off at all on the laugh-count , in that the Star Wars fiasco was unintentionally hilarious while , of course , Colbert hits it on the mark again and again . His attitude here is one of running gags ( " Misteltoe ! " ) , over-zealous Christmas and nativity worship ( Toby Keith doing an actually funny song on Christmas-time pride and Willie Nelson as the 4th wise man crooning on about smoking pot for the Lord ) , and some gentle prodding at the " other " big holiday of the season ( no , not " America's Christmas : 4th of July " , Hannukah , featuring Jon Stewart's words of wisdom ) . Granted , it helps if one watches the Colbert Report a lot and is a fan , but a good deal of those who tune into Comedy Central likely are and will find it as entertaining as it means to be , even when an occasional song falls flat like the last number ( yes , the piano duet with Stephen and Elvis is clever in lyrics but just not funny ) or when one could actually pass for a Christmas song like John Legend's Nutmeg ( after all , there is Lil ' John , so enough said there ) . But it's little moments and giant / exaggerated facial expressions from Colbert that steal the show among the many cheerfully obvious bits of dialog , such as the reaction to the bear or the crazily inspired feat of George Wendt's appearance . So , load up on eggnog , turn on Comedy Central ( or pop in the DVD if it comes to it ) and croon along and stomp your feet to an awesome holiday treat .
a hybrid documentary of an incredible , relentlessly reckless story of film-making , and of a little anthropology too	Werner Herzog , the filmmaker behind Fitzcarraldo that the director Les Blank is documenting ( in part ) with his Burden of Dreams , says that he has no interest in making a documentary about the Natives that are all around throughout the filming , who are apart of the cast as extras and also do labor . I wonder if Blank had intended to make his documentary with them as well , but here we have Burden of Dreams going between states of mind , of one mind-set being one of the most troubled and ambitious auteur projects of the past half century in film , and another mind-set being the people . In a sense , that line Dr . Lecter quotes from Marcus Aurelius in Silence of the Lambs comes to mind - what is it's nature ? In this case , the ' nature ' is of not just one specific thing but a few : what is the nature of the jungle ( or rather the nature of nature ) , the nature of a tribe of people who could see this film crew and this director with his insatiable visions as something quite alien , and vice-versa at times , and the nature of film-making in general , particularly a film that by the dictations of the script and the wills of its director demand to go for the impossible . It's almost no wonder at one point that Herzog says , " I shouldn't make films anymore , I should be in a lunatic asylum . " While not everything that could go wrong on a film goes wrong on Fitzcarraldo - the making of it I mean , not the film , of which I've yet to actually see myself - but it comes close . Along with Hearts of Darkness and Lost in La Mancha , Blank's film ranks as a contender for showing the most chaotic film production imaginable , but perhaps outdoes the others with Blank's purer skills as a documentarian . One might almost hope at times that Blank might editorialize , but there's none of that here . The narration as well just gives the facts as if reading out of a film magazine . And what's extraordinary though is that you don't need to see Fitzcarraldo to understand what the film's about through this one . The story is , as Herzog describes , about opera in the jungle , and how an obsessed opera fan ( played by Klaus Kinski ) decides to lug his ship over a mountain so he can build an opera in the jungle . Soon , however , Blank shows that this very act becomes an even more daunting task / metaphor than Herzog might have intended , but never do we see him decide to just give up . " I live my life or I end my life with this picture , " Herzog says . It would be one thing if Blank just looked at the film-making process from start to finish with Fitzcarraldo , and I imagine Blank probably had enough footage to make for an even longer film just covering the odds & ends of filming . But we as the viewer soon come to realize that to make Fitzcarraldo requires an understanding of the people behind it , not just the main man behind it , but of the tribe . It's interesting to note that the natives Herzog uses the first time around show one side of the ' nature ' of what comes in filming in foreign territory : they attack the film crew , forcing Herzog to find a new location . This first major set-back is only covered briefly early on in the film , but it fascinated me how Herzog still remained undeterred , even though it ended up taking him another year to settle on the final locations . Then Blank turns his camera on the natives lending their support ( for more money than they usually get with the usual labor they work for ) , and it's done sometimes with the same care of getting great glimpses of the culture , of what habits and customs are with them ( like the alcohol / fruit that's a given for them ) , and how the tensions start to rise as the film backs up . Blank's camera is terrifically poised in these moments , and he ends up also getting a fine comparison between the film crew itself . Only Kinski , who I would think would be the only person more of interest , is usually left out , which is disappointing . But the real excitement is seeing the daily struggles of filming , and how the boat-over-the-mountain metaphor becomes apart of this struggle , be it something small like getting a rubber-skewer right ( which is very funny ) , or in getting that toughest of shots at the " magic hour " of the dusk . And the problems keep mounting , until what we see is a filmmaker almost too reckless for his own good , yet perhaps for his own sanity as well . I can't imagine what might have happened to Werner Herzog had he not taken that final shot , or if he had , like Coppola to an extent with Apocalypse Now , sort of succumbed to the jungle's dangers like a Conrad character . What we end up seeing of Herzog is perhaps a man under the duress and total stress of film-making - or total control , who can say - but even when he's at his bleakest statements , it's never boring or pretentious to hear what Herzog has to say about the jungle or the people or to see how he directs . And around Herzog , and that giant boat , and the natives and the jungle , Blank creates the kind of behind-the-scenes documentary unique , where psychology and anthropology get brilliant put into the context of ' filming dreams ' , as it were .
a kind of master's class in a schizo documentary - sometimes quite amusing and entertaining , other times very somber and depressing	This documentary , written , directed , and narrated by German madman maestro Werner Herzog , has very little in it that isn't worth seeing , and at its best brings some of the most captivating , candid , and entertaining documentary footage of the year . The subject matter is an environmentalist / bear nut named Timothy Treadwell , a nobody who became a kind of weird celebrity for living each summer on an Alaskan wildlife preservation with Grizzly bears . He also documented a lot of his time on the island , which Herzog chooses wisely for his film on him . Treadwell may or may not have totally believed a fate like death among his co-habitants would come ( there is one scene where he says he'd die for them , another when he says he's safe ) . But his fate did come , along with his girlfriends , rather grisly as we hear from the details ( which , wisely , we never see ) . One is tempted to comment on Treadwell , as he is ( much as with Herzog's protagonists in his fiction films ) possessive , ambitious , naive , dazed , emotional , but somehow in tune with his own sense of nature and the ways of the world . Herzog himself comments a good deal on Treadwell , when he agrees with him , when he doesn't ( Herzog , as Roger Ebert pointed out , does have a bleak world-view as opposed to Treadwell's overly optimistic one ) . What one can comment on is the execution of the material . We get interviews with Treadwell's close friends ( one platonic , one not ) , the people who found his and his girlfriend's bodies in the forest , and a couple of nearby experts ( one Native American comments on how Treadwell did what they had never done in 7 , 000 years , to cross a boundary that was respected ) . Herzog also gives us majestic , spacious images of Alaskan wilderness , and gives some ample time for footage of the bears and foxes . If not for Treadwell's rather high & low nature ( as a friend comments ) , this might be a very standard documentary on a bear expert . But because of the documentary - or near television hosting footage ( I sometimes felt like I was seeing a nicer , if stranger version , of the Croc Hunter ) - of Treadwell on camera by himself , the film gets another dimension . It's also a help that in combating the grim reality of what became of him ( Herzog's narration is this rather sad , if praising side ) , it's rather funny to see Treadwell in his behavior on screen . In some subtle ways he's in a more ' normal ' state of mind than the rest of us - he loves his bears ( whom , by the way , he gave names to ; he stands his ground against the occasional poachers ) ; he has that mix of sentimentality and rawness that is needed to live for so long in the wilderness . The absurdity of it usually brings the laughs , but even behind them there is always a constant curiosity about him . We learn that he wanted to be an actor , which lead to a bad , near fatal spell before his ' bear ' retreat , acting as more of a spiritual catalyst more than anything else . Even if some of this footage is a little zany , over-the-top , or may go far on his name , it is honest to a kind of schizo degree . We almost wouldn't want Treadwell to be normal , and go figure - Herzog would have no interest in him . In the end , despite Herzog's comments ( which aren't the best parts of the film to me ) , his film tries not to pass judgment on Treadwell , letting his actions and other testimonies speak for themselves . And , if nothing else , it's compulsively ( for a certain movie-viewer ) watchable .
a spectacular re-invention of the series , 2nd ( or perhaps as good as ) Burton's 89 vision	It's always a challenge to take material from the comic to the screen , and to make it powerful enough , and entertaining enough , without getting overly preachy with the material , getting hyper kinetic with the action , or worst of all losing your audience . The last Batman film , Batman & Robin , committed the later crime , and put a stigma on the franchise for several years . But now there is Christopher Nolan , talented director behind the cult favorite Memento , and the under-rated Insomnia remake of 2002 , who has taken the origins of the Dark Knight into a different direction , or at least to a better one . His film , Batman Begins , has the power , has the entertainment , and it doesn't cheat its target audience ( the die-hard Batman fans ) or the general public . There isn't as much humor as the first film ( this film's only tiny liability ) , but there is that genuine dark sensibility that can take in kids as well as adults . That the story and characters are as important as the action sequences and fights is another bonus . The cast Nolan has put together is no less better than expected . Christian Bale is , arguably , a more compelling Bruce Wayne / Batman than Michael Keaton , or at the least he tries to put some feeling into his performance in ways that either Keaton didn't do or just in a different way . Since Nolan has license to reinvent the series , he changes around certain elements with Batman's origin ( that I will not reveal here ) , and it brings about some changes in the line-up . Michael Caine is a good butler Alfred ; Morgan Freeman is dependable as always as Batman's supplier ; Gary Oldman this time is Gordon ; and Nolan is also wise in not only Bruce's quasi-love interest ( played by Katie Holmes , not too bad ) , but also in character actors like Tom Wilkinson and Cillian Murphy as Dr . Crane . And there's also Liam Neeson , in an unlikely ( though maybe familiar - Star Wars / Kingdom of Heaven ? ) mentor for Wayne to form his alter-ego . Simply this - Batman Begins works because as a summer popcorn action blockbuster , it's definitely not too dumb or tire-bound in clichés ( not that there aren't a few , which is a given ) , and it keeps enough adrenaline and surprises with the action / set pieces . The classic , Gothic look of Burton's films is gone for the most part , but what's replaced by Nolan is often creepy and urban ( if at least a consistent color of browns ) , which gives Gotham a cool edge ; sometimes I couldn't tell what was real and what wasn't . And I liked how Nolan did certain things with the structure of the story early on - which is his specialty as a true-blue professional - in a kind of non-linear way , keeping the audience off balance but not too much to know where things were headed . Basically , if you've been waiting over ten years for a Batman movie that works , this is it .
one fine courtroom drama : epic , cool , extremely well-plotted and acted	Otto Preminger's Anatomy of a Murder features a cast of some big stars ( Jimmy Stewart , George C . Scott ) , and some notable character players ( Ben Gazarra , Lee Remick , the underrated Murray Hamilton and Orson Bean ) , but the real big attraction for audience's is its 100 % absorbing story and whole lot of characters ( and , sometimes , those aforementioned actors playing them ) . It might remind some younger viewers of Law & Order , with it bearing a resemblance to Dick Wolf's show that is beat for beat as its sole fixation on the Facts In The Case . But unlike L & O , where any characterization is pretty much one-dimensional , Anatomy of a Murder is chock-full of development on the personalities , even for characters that appear on the witness stand for no more than five minutes . Preminger also has the daring to add some touches of comedy , or at least some ( for the time ) risqué humor and language that rises it not simply above other more standard pictures , but into a realm of truth that reflects what it's like to be in a court-room for a case such as this ( i . e . when the judge addresses the courtroom about the use of the word " panties " , he's also addressing the audience - don't giggle , it's a serious word . . . even if you might giggle for it being almost self-conscious ) . The premise itself , ' the core ' of it for lack of a better term as from what Stewart's lawyer uses at one point , is something out of vintage L & O : an ex army lieutenant ( Gazarra ) with a possible penchant for tempers and jealousy , kills a man who raped his wife one night driving her home from a bar . Guilty of the murder ? Not quite , says Stewart's defense attorney and jazzman Biegler , who goes for the temporary insanity defense . But past this premise , Preminger crafts a fascinating study of how character reflects everything during a trial , including ( maybe even especially ) that of the attorneys in question , who start to " provide the wisecracks " as the Judge says in deadpan . At first the case looks open and shut , but there's a lot more to it than meets the eye , and not just in the traditional form of a courtroom drama where there's a last-minute twist and some surprises in store for the jury and other attendees in the courtroom . And , sure , there is the former of those , but everything builds up not based solely on the facts , but on what is revealed , the underlying tension and anxiety for all parties involved . Stewart , of course , is up to task in one of his quintessential performances . But least not forget Gazarra in a role that should've nabbed him an Oscar , and for Remick who's Laura is both sultry and vulnerable . And who can't love seeing Hamilton ( the mayor from Jaws ) on the stand , or George C . Scott give a somewhat subdued portrayal that provides one of the slickest , most cunning prosecution parts in movies . He literally oozes his character's big-city gumption . Chock-full of snappy dialog that doesn't feel like it's been written for the usual MOVIE crowds ( i . e . it is still a movie , but there's a lot that doesn't feel forced or contrived ) , and scenes that deliver on shifting tones between comedy and melodrama on a dime , Anatomy of a Murder is a near masterpiece . It even goes so far as to appear to have a happy ending , and then give just the hint of ambiguity , or inasmuch that we as the audience , unlike the jury , can't be totally sure what the outcome really is . It has its cake and eats it too , all to one of the great jazz scores in cinema by Mr . Ellington .
a gripping , relentlessly bleak tale of Yakuza self-destruction	Takashi Miike has a knack at Yakuza thrillers . Some might not be very good , some might be some odd sorts of deranged masterpieces . But with Graveyard of Honor , I can only imagine how fantastic the original Kinji Fukasaku film from the 70s was if this might possibly be Miike's best " serious " Yakuza movie . This is to say that Miike turns down a somewhat typical level of madcap gore and humor for an approach that is kind of staggering , as though Cassavetes had some input on the screenplay ( or Abel Ferrara ala Bad Lieutenant for that matter ) . It's a solid piece of drama of a man , Rikuo Ishimatsu ( in a performance that , within the range , is one of a lifetime from Gorô Kishitani ala young Mifune ) , who unwittingly becomes apart of a crime family after saving its boss while working as a dishwasher . He serves some time for attempting to kill another gangster , he gets out , the years pass and he gets bitter , and in a fit of panic he bites the hand that feeds him - he shoots his own boss . From here on it's a path right to hell that Ishimatsu takes . Already one has seen him as a character with some demons he has trouble quelling . He's tough , maybe too tough , and doesn't have much of a sense of humor ( which includes around his woman , a timid creature who soon gets into the dank mess that Ishimatsu puts himself into ) . He also turns into a full-fledged junkie , and burns more bridges than one could ever fathom . What Miike crafts here is something that might not be his most inventive work , but it displays him as someone who has the range to plunge into real bloodshed and tragedy . It's almost the reversal of the cartoonish mayhem of Ichi the Killer - where that you almost were given permission to chuckle at the carnage and excess of violence , in Graveyard of Honor it's grim , ugly , the blood flowing hard and with bodies writhing in total agony . It's a rare instance for the director to present things about as realistic as he'll get , in edgy hand-held and compositions . But there is some style that Miike puts , appropriately and with an creative sensibility , on the material . The music crooning on and off is like that of New York jazz from the late 50s and early 60s , and I'm almost reminded of some lucid nightmare of a beatnik on junk ala William S . Burroughs and pulp fiction . As the downward spiral continues for this character , even if it starts to seem unlikely that it would go this far ( the escape from prison alone , intense for the self-inflicted horror done to himself , is just enough to swallow ) , we go right down with this character in his oblivion . It's hard to turn away , and there are moments that are gruesome not so much for what's shown , which can be a lot , but the emotional impact . Not to sound pretentious , but I'm almost reminded of some damned Shakespearan king or something , only here it's a sensibility of total unadulterated nihilism that propels Ishimatsu to his horror of an end . On the surface , it doesn't feel a whole lot different from other Miike Yakuza fare . Yet it's a little maturer , a little more tightly crafted and developed with the characters , and it has the mood of a filmmaker working outside of his reputation as a showman or provocateur . It's a real movie , one of the best in the Yakuza realm .
probably one of the best arguments for why AA should exist ; volatile , overwrought drama at its richest	Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf leaves no scabs or stones unturned with the characters . George and Martha are a couple who have a marriage that is truly love-hate . They can never be called too unemotional , though to say whether or not they're being truthful at all in the ' games ' they play with married Nick and Honey is a little trickier . Martha invited them - at her father's insistence ( he IS the chairman of the university George and Nick are professors ) - at two in the morning for a quick drink . Or rather , make that many drinks , like chain drinking , if one could call it that , where George and Martha prove themselves as pros in that area , with a bitter slang or enraged bout of bile at one or the other . This goes on the rest of the night , also leading to a roadhouse on the way to drive a flustered Nick and hammered Honey home , and then it starts all over again , with Nick and Honey picking up the tortured and , as well , fractured personalities of this middle-aged couple . Bitter , enraptured , hateful , and , in a way , also sort of filling a void , George and Martha become two of the most powerful characters in modern drama . Edward Albee's play is full of the kind of stinging dialog that made it controversial in the 1960s , and today it still retains its potential for hitting its characters on to the audience in a shockingly overwrought and , in connection with this , very funny manner . How can one not cringe and give a laugh of relief / perplexity when George goes to get a shotgun after getting p-o'd by Martha and then opening it up to everyone's shock as . . . an umbrella ! There's a dementia to these characters , but it's one that makes for the kind of drama that is lacerating and , as off-putting as the guessing game that the son element becomes in the equation ( dead or not dead ? ) , it somehow works . This was before most dramas of today are made with that big colossal twist that suddenly jolts the characters into perspective . Here , it just makes them more human and fallible and deconstructed . As Mike Nichols directs it , he doesn't shy from getting personal with his angles , close and intrinsic as , in a weird way comparable with , Bergman's Persona , also released that year . What Nichols and Albee present for audiences is a logical next step following other plays from before them that broke ground from the likes of Miller , Beckett and , especially , Williams - it's more adult , or rather more for mature audiences ( the first quasi rated R movie ever released ) , and it hits to a cynical nerve that was further gestating by this time in America , that everything would not be alright in the American marriage , that something , as Martha says , will " SNAP ! " It should also be mentioned , acting here is classic , fearless . Burton and Taylor have rarely been as good as they are at digging so deep into these characters that , especially with Burton , we can't imagine these people being anyone else . It takes a little to get used to Segal and Sandy Dennis ( the latter because her character isn't quite as " deep " as the others ) , but then again their characters are the uncomfortable outsiders , " us " as one might say ( however , as the play peels the layers away from the characters they're all rotten and ultimately very vulnerable instead of just " normal " ) . It packs a punch , it jiggles its little glass full of bourbon or brandy or gin , and as a first feature from its director it could only get better from here . It's a dangerously fun , dangerously emotionally violent picture . Will look forward to seeing it next time it's on TV
one of Herzog's very best ; it's totally gripping storytelling , stellar performances , touches of great humor and true pathos	What a way to have a little counter-programming this July 4th ! In a time when the summer blockbuster means sequels and remakes galore delivering high powered special effects but not much human soul , we need a picture with Dieter Dengler as the ' hero ' of sorts . It's the closest Herzog has gotten to telling a story of the purest kind of survival , where it's not about a guy out to kill all the bad guys in sight ala Rambo , but in its harrowing way much more extraordinary . As played by Christian Bale , who goes once again to be totally gaunt , Dengler is a pilot who's been stripped of everything except for his will to live - which he has in spades , and is both very strong and vulnerable at the same time . Strong in the sense that he's capable of organizing an escape for himself and his fellow prisoners ( including an unforgettable Steve Zahn - yes , unforgettable , not the usual tenor for Zahn , and Jeremy Davies , looking very much like Charles Manson ) , vulnerable enough to get close to Zahn's Dwight , leading to very sad results . LIke any great POW movie , Herzog does give his film many moments that aren't totally tension filled or with exposition relating to escape : there's humor , like with a prison guard who's a midget named Jumbo , or a dog with a few hind-leg walking skills , or the one prisoner who doesn't say a word but conveys " yes " without even nodding . He even has the wisdom to put the same educational short from Little Dieter Needs to Fly , for soldiers explaining what to do in case put behind enemy lines , only this time with the soldiers giving their own raucous commentary on the ship . And in what could be considered " conventional " in the sense that it's not totally abstract like Fata Morgana or wildly bleak like Aguirre , his style a lot of the time is that of a skilled professional as opposed to the great experimenter he can be . The documentary approach is still there , to be sure , but what's most fascinating considering the studio backing and slew of producers is that it never feels false as a Herzog film , that it still has the technique and approach to telling an epic story that his 8-man crewed films did . There were also many shots that I had rolling in my head long after the film ended . Featuring appropriately an emotional musical score , exceptional performances , and that good old jungle that's served as one of Herzog's love / hate facets of his career , Rescue Dawn is accessible entertainment that is also profound as a tale loaded with the kinds of ugly details ( though not too graphic in PG-13 form ) that wouldn't ever get by in the usual sentimental Hollywood malarkey . A must-see .
Just as amazing as part 1	Basically , if you saw and loved the first Robot Chicken : Star Wars special ( or , for that matter , if you saw it and hated it ) , you'll know what you're in for with this second part . It just continues on with more parodies of more things that will be known to casual fans and the die-hards . Sometimes , in fact , I can't seem to remember what some segments are from what special , since if you watch the two 30-minute episodes back to back it makes it feel complete . Then again , there are a few truly memorable things about this one ( I believe this one had Lando Calrissian's very badly times joke : " Who has two thumbs and betrayed his friends ? This guy ! Oh . . . too soon . " ) , or the whole bit involving that black-ball probe droid or whatever it's called . But the best thing of all is a running " plot " with the bounty hunters ad Boba Fett , leading up to a hilarious display of masculine pathetic prowess as Fett tries to show off to another guy trapped with him in the Sarlac pit . If for nothing else , for anyone on a level of Star Wars fandom , the opening with the Ewoks is worth your time scanning around on Cartoon Network ( or , for that matter , if and when they release Episode 2 on DVD ) . It's silly , stupid , sophomoric , and clever as all hell - like the show itself , if you're in the right mood and frame of mind for the sense of parody , it's bliss .
the reality of the making of the un-reality of Hollywood	Once The Player's end credits rolled , I was shaken , but in the kind of way that you are when you hear a really sly , long joke by someone who knows what they're telling is not hysterical but still has a wicked knack that will stay with you or gnaw at your side . Robert Altman's the Player , one of his very best films ( maybe his best ) made since the 1970's , is as much about the detached , perfunctory nature of these characters as it is a story of a murdering writing executive . It's not a satire in the sense of Dr . Strangelove ; there's nothing that's over the top for the audience . But it does get in some notes , practically without any pretense of going about it otherwise , about the sterility of modern Hollywood . As a film buff , while watching this movie I'm not even bowled over by the numerous cameo appearances by Hollywood's main stars and wonderful character actors . That's because Altman , while being un-obtrusive of what the actors are doing on screen , has his focus set very carefully , and it's in this precise kind of mode that it works best . It's not to say Altman's style doesn't have its own voice , and some of the shots in the film - self conscious no doubt - bring out the anti-Hollywood while Hollywood ideas . And working in the framework , not the dependence , of the story lets some interesting things of reality go on . When you see this 8-minute long take at the start of the film , it's getting the music of the film going right away , of the ' money-talks , BS-continues ' attitude of a Hollywood studio , not just of the main character Griffin Mill ( Tim Robbins ) . It may be ' just a movie ' , but it's also one with this constant feel of life going on , as Altman , through Tokin's screenplay , is a fly on the wall as it were . We see Mill , a writing executive , go through a rough patch with a certain writer ( Vincent D'Onofrio ) who hasn't heard back from him in a while . When a harsh accident occurs , Mill has to keep moving , not just with his job or his details of the night the two had , but with the writer's girlfriend ( Greta Scacchi ) who start an affair . Altman once said , quite famously , once casting is complete 80 % of his work is done . The Player is one of those major examples in Altman's career , and despite the fact that most , if not all , of the supporting actors ( who may or may not also be in their cameo roles ) are sublime in their roles ( Goldberg , Scacchi , Lyle Lovett , and especially Cynthia Stevnenson ) , it's a key Robbins turn . His career has often had roles where he can lay in a naturalness that other actors might not have gone for . He also fits the role of Griffin Mill much as he did for Andy Dufresne and Dave in Mystic River . Here he has a perfect quality in this character to , as Ebert pointed out , not be un-likable even as he is not a good person . I loved the little facial gestures , the seemingly controlled stares , and the small moments where his upper class facade starts to wear down beneath the bloodless business of making movie deals . His could be for some the only reason to see the film , and rightfully so , as I really don't think Altman would've been able to pull it off with another . It does almost add to what could be frustration for some by the end of the film to see what happens to him , but it actually is after thinking about it more even more satisfying an ending . A question the film ponders for this character is - if he can survive the reality when all he wants is a happy ending in the stories he hears ? And through this simplicity some compositions and scenes are quite remarkable ; that one single shot of a certain close-up of a sex scene not only plays brilliantly off of a script description earlier , but is one of the best scene-shots I've seen in recent movies . Very well done , if not for everyone .
for a certain comedy fan , it's the funniest film of the year ; Lenny Bruce would be proud	I say that part about Lenny Bruce being proud of this movie for a few reasons , and one is the sheer freedom of saying anything , and using whatever can work and really going as far as possible to make the joke funny ( George Carlin has also said this , that context is crucial ) . Another reason would be that the film-making style , much as in the structure of the aristocrats joke , is very improvisational , like jazz , and keeps people in their toes if not bursting with laughter . And another reason , more important and maybe not obvious , is that the film as with the jokes / comics , won't appeal to everybody - it shouldn't . But the fact that there are these dozens of comedians ( hundreds off camera as well ) who are well versed in this joke and its reputation its garnered over the years in their ' circle ' is a testament to the power of humor . I love great stand up comics , and the more random the jokes become , the more twisted and surreal and absurd the details are , the funnier it is . The Aristocrats includes many scenes that literally had me rolling in my seats . Indeed , like listening to jazz , once the film is over you may not remember many of the specifics of the jokes , but you remember like with a Mel Brooks film , what were the best parts with the joke tellers . Some of the highlights for me were from Carlin , Kevin Pollack , Bob Saget ( yes , Bob Saget ) , a 1st rate mime , Andy Richter , Robin Williams , a South Park clip of Cartman , Otto & George ( George being a puppet ) , and Gilbert Gottfried among others . Each one brings their own form of uproarious gifts , and take this joke that's from the vaudeville days and keep it fresh and alive . As I said , this film isn't for everyone , which is probably why its not in a wide release or given a rating by the MPAA ( in a way it shouldn't either , it goes beyond rating ) , but unlike a film like the Passion of the Christ , which could easily offend from the violence , the Aristocrats has the power to offend , or not offend , just from words . They're only words , but the strength and rapid fire behind the words is what counts . As the comics and other go through the kind of history and specifics of telling the joke , it leads into telling it themselves , sometimes its a little weak , sometimes its golden . But its for a particular comic fan who'll love this movie , who'll go into it ready for anything , not afraid that they might walk out in the first ten minutes ( and there were a couple of people who did when I saw it ) . It might of been too long if it didn't keep its momentum going for its audience , yet it keeps it up through the end credits . Basically , this is the kind of film to see with your friends so that when its over you can walk out talking and laughing about the film , much as you would after walking out a good comedy club . It's dense , it's fast-paced , dry , disgusting , over-the-top , poignant , crude , and wild . So , it is the sort of dream of Lenny Bruce brought to the forefront on screen - comedy can be an art when free reign is given , and even as desensitizing may go further along through the next century , the power to shock ( or as Carlin says ' surprise ' ) never gets tired .
One of the best looking films of the 80's from Ridley Scott	One thing can't be denied about the sci-fi epic Blade Runner : it's look of the future , while possibly not totally original , is original in tone and has things to look for in nearly every scene . At it's worst , Scott's picture is eye-candy , but tasty bits of candy I add . Ford plays the title character here , as an ex blade runner who is recruited back to track down the androids who are becoming human . Then the plot unfolds with him changing , and things around him as well . The story and characters may not appeal to everyone ( it might grow on multiple viewings as it did for me ) , yet the action , intensity and feel with grab anybody interested in good moviemaking . Visual effects - Movie overall ,
" I'll teach you to laugh at something that's funny ! "	There's been maybe too much hype about this movie , though at the same time it did affect me in the way it was intended for die-hard fans ( e . g . all the time this past week I kept thinking " ah , Simpsons movie " as I re-watched episodes from past seasons on DVD ) , and the anticipation almost became boring after so long a wait . The question then comes , was it worth it ? For all of the ultra ( and mostly kidding ) hype and ultra promotion and the almost decades-long wait for some people ? Absolutely . It delivers , at the least , a good time for those who may even just watch the show casually , and have even scoffed it off after years of shows that have spurned off from it like Family Guy . It's a reboot , if one can imagine , for those that think the show has gone too slack for the audience . But since it's an institution at this point , one of the longest running shows in the history of TV , what would one expect ? It also has what the fans want , even if it's in the smallest things like seeing Homer acting like the classic idiot that he is ( and with a pig no less , going from Spider-Pig to Harry Plopper . in a single bound ) or Bart acting like a proto Dennis the Menace skating through town without his clothes on ( d'oh , spoiler ) . But it's also - as more than a few fans and observers have said - like one long episode of the series . . . which can be said about most animated TV-show-to-movie transitions ( with the exception of South Park ) . Its plot is not too untypical for a Simpsons episode : Homer does something dumb , the town is in jeopardy , and only he and the rest of the family ( more or less ) can come to the rescue . It is a fairly simply plot , but then again , why carp ? If the writers tried to shoot for the moon with something too ambitious - or , actually , more-so than I actually expected - they could've fallen flat on their faces . It's this level of quasi-simplicity that allows them to go for jokes that might not get on regular TV ( this includes , to be sure , jabs at the ' crawl ' at the bottom of a TV screen , and the old " to be continued " gag ) . But this being said , as an extended episode , it's one of the best episodes ever made ! Praise enough ? What does a great episode have anyway ? What about a great movie ? There's a sincere attempt to just go for broke in terms of tackling all kinds of comedy : subtle and biting satire on current events ( environmental mishaps , governmental s-headedness and evil-doing , Tom Hanks ) , " scatalogical " humor , chiefly in the MacGuffin that triggers the rest of the plot ( that's a good pig ) ; total zaniness ( want to see Homer split into a dozen pieces as he has to come to an epiphany while stretched to Dali degrees ? ) ; and subtle-to-obvious jabs at religion , family , alcoholism , Green Day , and of course the Hollywood summer blockbuster itself . Where else will one see a bomb-detonator robot shooting itself in the head over the pressure ? The gags come at ten-to-twenty second clips much of the time , and it even has ( gasp ) some of the heartfelt moments from early on in the series , surrounded by jokes that still can hit best with a packed audience . It is , simply put , a true crowd-pleaser , one of the best in recent memory , and definitely aside from Grindhouse THE movie so far this year I will want to watch again and again . Woo-hoo !
aka : ' Some Country for Old Men '	Shine a Light displays , thrillingly and with the bombastic POP of a revisited ' happy place ' , why many love the Rolling Stones and many love the style of Martin Scorsese . It's mostly a concert movie shot over a period of two mights at the Beacon theater ( as if doing a workhorse revival of thirty years ago , while Scorsese was busy shooting New York , New York in 76 and doing the Last Waltz concurrently , this time he shot the concert while finishing up the Departed ) , with some choice documentary footage interspersed in between some songs . On both fronts , however minor the ( all archival ) interview footage is , it's a big success , visually and musically , as good old rock and roll performance art ( well , almost art , but I like it ) , and as visual virtuosity made incarnate . It might be easy to adulate the Stones , as well as Scorsese . They've been around for so long , doing what they do , with each side rumored here and there to quit doing what they do ( for the Stones it's every tour , much to their grinning bemusement , and for Scorsese it was a point in the 80s when he thought he'd have to leave Hollywood and make documentaries on saints ) . They're always acclaimed , usually big money-makers , and they've acquired a kind of nether-region between ' cult ' audience and full-blown mainstream mayhem . It's this that is , in a way , the subtext for Shine a Light . While Scorsese stays mostly behind the scenes , the Stones are up and front and in center of a marvelous performance , and showcasing the energy and level of pizazz that quiets the naysayers . They sold out , and it doesn't get to them a single bit . After some funny early footage of Scorsese ( shot usually in black and white DV by Albert Maysles , who also appears here and there ) getting into a minor tizzy about what the set-list is going to be , and getting some downtime with Bill Clinton , the show starts up like any good Stones show should - Jumpin ' Jack Flash . Then onward come some given numbers ( Shattered , Brown Sugar , Tumbling Dice ) , the masterpieces ( Sympathy for the Devil , Loving Cup , featuring an awesome Jack White , and Champagne and Reefer with an equally awesome Buddy Guy ) , and a lot of unexpected tracks too ( Live with Me with showy Aguilera , As Tears go By , some country song , and a kick-ass She Was Hot ) . For fans it's an amazing mix , and it allows for those who are just casual admirers to get their money's worth , primarily in IMAX . This is not just because of the quality of the music and the performances - which is , at its best , revelatory of what this band can do , at any age - but because of Scorsese's cameras , moving around in epic and roving fashion , edited with efficiency to not go all over the place or too slow , and , chiefly , to make it intimate like how many remember the Last Waltz to be ( lots of neatly defined close-ups , lingering on to capture these hardened rockers ) . And at the end , what is the point ? Is it just another blah-blah Stones concert movie ? Not necessarily . It doesn't have the heavy sociological context of Gimme Shelter , however it's not a little sloppy like Let's Spend the Night Together . Shine a Light celebrates its heroes , but it doesn't go completely overboard . Scorsese knows , as he did with Bob Dylan , not to get too cocky with these fogies . It's important to throw in those bits with the Stones getting interviewed , candid and without much overbearing ego present , and by the end you know there's still a place for them , firmly , in the public consciousness . They sold out in the most ironically good way in rock music history , with Scorsese now wonderfully in tow .
even more classic than the Abbot & Costello " Who's on First " bit , works for all ages	One of the creme de la creme of the Looney Tunes cartoons ( almost overplayed when I was a kid , though never under-valued by me ) , Rabbit Fire is the cartoon that puts a different kind of edge on the cartoon form - it's funny , but almost in a satirical way . This is the kind of stuff that almost shouldn't be funny for kids , but more for adults ; if not for the randomness of it all , the banter might go over their heads completely . Although I always thought of this episode as one unto itself and not part of a " trilogy " as I have read , this is definitely the most popular of the three , as I remember practically every line by memory . Elmer is having his Jonesin ' for ' Hunting Wabbits ' , and gets perpetually mixed up as Bugs and Daffy have a back and forth over ' Duck season . . . rabbit season ' . There's one scene involving cross-character dressing that is the key gag in the short , and it always keeps me cracking up . The last moment , in a way , is kind of deep . Who knows what season it is for hunting anyone , anyway ? It's a little classic in the world of hand-drawn insanity , and one of only several times Daffy Duck has worked perfectly in a three-piece grouping .
the most unsettling movie I've seen yet from Japan . . . until Miike's next !	I felt a little uneasy here and there watching this flick , mostly due to the fact that I was watching it in a sort of ' viewing room ' on a campus , where a bunch of TV's are set-up and people can watch whatever they want with headphones for the volume . Luckily , no one else entered the room - if so , I would probably have been reported for watching pornography , or snuff-film work , or both . I'm almost surprised this even came in the mail via netflix ( though not that it didn't , apparently , get theatrical distribution here in the states ) . Of the only handful of Takashi Miike films I've seen , this does definitely take the cake . If it's maybe not his absolute best maybe it's part of the appeal ; Miike is experimenting with the viewer's expectations , even his fd up Japanese fan-type ones . It takes the idea of doing a tragic-comedy on a dysfunctional family and turns it on its head , and puts it across the line of what should usually be acceptable with absurdism , and either have the viewer be pleased ( in a manner of speaking ) or utterly disgusted , or both , that they went over the line . And what a family indeed . It starts off as being something , in its own way , almost quirky in the view of a family on the brink . There's infidelity at first - the father ( Kenichi Endo ) , unintentionally video-tapes himself having sex with a certain girl . This is quite the graphic , uncomfortable sex scene , albeit with the most ' sensitive ' parts being blurred , and this cuts right away to something completely different ( if the Monty Python sound rings from reading that , it's not without some coincidence throughout the picture ) , as the father gets hit on the head by some guy with a rock . This guy , knick-named Q ( Kazuchi Watanabe ) , comes to stay at the family's house , where the mother ( Shungiki Uchida ) gets whipped with a cane by her son , who on his way to and from school always without fail gets beaten and robbed by bullies . She's also into heroin , but then later when something happens particular-like with Q , another unnerving revelation is revealed , one without really any explanation for being there . But I realized after a while Miike set it up from the beginning with Q suddenly entering into this world , and somehow for no actual reason being accepted . In fact , if you're looking for reason , you might want to look elsewhere , seriously . It's a look at the disintegration of a family using a medium within its video-work ( I was reminded of Godard's equally un-settling work of original sexually depraved and uncouth family in Numeroux Deux ) , and if taken really as being a serious work you might have to turn it off after a while . This is not something that I could easily do , however , as I had to watch what would happen much like in something in a Lynch or Bunuel film . It's actually not without some merit to compare him with those other filmmakers , as his work pushes the absurdism / surrealism to the brink , where there's no choice left but to laugh at what's going on . Take when the father decides to suddenly jump into his ' reality-TV ' time by taping when the bullies shoot fireworks at their house . Or when things start getting particularly disturbing ( necrophilia , yeah ) and the juxtaposition of father to mother in these scenes is extraordinary in deranged comic timing . After it ended , with the final shot leaving a look on my face like a dog in front of a different piece of food in the bowl , I knew that Visitor Q is a work that goes beyond taking an ultra-serious look at the world of these psychotic criminals - or at the least social introverts and with sexual intentions that go over the edge - it worked a lot better than it might have at doing just a straightforward mockumentary of reality-TV . I'm not sure what the situation of the degrading medium is like in Japan , but by sticking to mocking this family and they're near-silent ' visitor ' , and putting it all through a blender of crimes and misdemeanors that would make some faint on the spot , Miike achieves his goals more or less , whatever they might be . It's got some scenes that don't work early on , or maybe its just so strange to really get into the mood of it at first . Once hooked in , I had as much fun , in the most perverse voyeuristic way , as I did with Ichi the Killer . It confronts the viewer , and should be deliciously shocking and unrepentantly hilarious for years to come . That it's not for everyone will be known right from the first scene .
wild , romantic , original , pretentious-in-a-good-way , and joyful film-making	There are moments and scenes in Lovers on the Bridge that waver between being straightforward in their realism and the given grittiness of living life on the streets homeless and of those sudden romantic bursts that are also a given if you're French and wanting to show how wonderful and horrible it can be in a strange situation . There are many I could point to , but there's also a suddenness to the work , moments that pop out and make the viewer put into perspective the tragic nature of this story and the characters . There's an unpredictability , but not without logic or something in line with life in this situation and place . One such moment that few reviewers may talk about involves the character of Hans and his death . Throughout the film he's been more than wary of the presence of half-blind Michelle ( Binoche ) who has also fallen in ( possible ) love with Alex ( Lavant ) the drunken / druggie fire-breather , and for a while we as the audience see him as a rather ugly being . But then he opens up to Michelle - how he came to be on this bridge without a job , or without his wife and the death of his child - and he offers her to take her to a museum , which he has a key for from his job as a guard , to see a painting as close to the surface as possible late at night . He's actually quite a touching character gradually , still grumpy and grisly but with a conscience and feeling for Michelle's plight . . . Then as he walks down a set of stairs and comes to the side of the riverbank he slips and falls and dies . In any other hands this could become high melodrama , a director pulling out all the stops to make this a really significant event for these character Michelle and Alex . But just as soon as he was there , he's gone , and I was overwhelmed for a moment by pure anguish at this man's demise . There's other moments like that as well in Carax's film , where he substitutes stark poetry - or something truly alive and fast and ebullient poetry with his camera and wonderful , expensive set ( some of the time ) - and balances so satisfyingly between the grime and clutter of this little enclave on the bridge and the torrid love between two people who are together for various reasons , some known well and some intimated by just the slightest moves ( or lack thereof ) . With some minor exceptions like the very end , which leads to some curious and surreal ambiguity , it's a sensational ride . We're taken along on the story of Alex , a fire-breather as his only trade and with hobbies of booze and drugs in order to sleep , and Michelle , a painter who has nowhere to go except to old lovers she'd rather not see , or can't see because of flailing eyesight ( or , if she does , bad things happen - or appear to happen , again the ambiguity ) . They become very close , maybe too close for the extremely lonely and possibly brain damaged Alex , and pull off a money making scheme , which ends with a moment of a selfish act , as well as have nights of debauchery and excitement . The most notable of the latter , probably of the best kinds of exuberant , crazy type scenes in any motion picture , is when Alex and Michelle , smashed to hell , run and jump and dance to a giant fireworks display , with Carax pumping up Iggy Pop and Blue Danube Waltz music , and finishing off with a water-skiing down the river . This is one of those sequences I probably will never forget , not just for the power of the film-making but for the feeling one has for the characters at that moment of time in the movie : sublime , momentary escapism . Things end up getting very dark for the characters , not least of which for Alex who goes on a rampage tearing down posters looking for Michelle for an eye-operation ( this is one of those scenes that goes between reality and fantasy that's jarring : it verges on pretension , but I actually didn't mind it for how wrapped up one becomes in the plight of Alex with " his " Michelle ) , and the ending finds the two years later , changed only on the surface . All the old wounds are there , and how they'll exactly end up is difficult to say . But what is clear for Carax , after going through a story that features real homeless people in shelters ( this footage shot like a documentary , plunging us so far into this world we forget most of the time the bridge is a set ) , of numerous fights and cries and hugs and laughs and fights between the two would-be / may-be lovebirds , that what would be cynical in any other hands is treated as bittersweet humanism . Carax cares for these characters deeply , even the troubled Alex , and it's important to understand that in their downfall .
moving , informative , and two stories interwoven exceedingly well	Spike Lee's skills as a documentarian are astonishing considering his mixed efforts in dramatic features , which ranges from greatness to failures . With 4 Little Girls and especially When the Levees Broke , Lee takes focus of the subject matter , and expands upon the narrative to make the central story intertwined without losing anything close to worthwhile to know . It goes without saying it honors the memory of those four girls slain in the church in Birmingham , but it also honors the memory for the others who died and fought in the Civl Rights battle of the early 60s ( it was a battle by way of perpetration by the likes of " Bull " O'Connell , and the rabid racists like the only man who was convicted in the late 70s of the church bombing ) . Lee starts off profiling the girls and their childhoods , their parents and childhood friends recounting their innocence , their energy , being simply kids growing up happy but in the midst of racism all around them . From there Lee branches off - using the " white / colored " segregation of something as minor as a water fountain , to branch off to Birmingham itself , its history , being the focal-point of much of the strife for black people in the south , Dr . King's eventual and crucial involvement , and the white racists . It's staggering information one learns , even if one already thinks they know all there is to know about the civil rights struggle . Just the information on Governor George Wallace ( and , surprisingly , seeing Wallace interviewed with his near-gone voice and mind ) is enough to raise repeated eyebrows in astonishment . And then Lee brings it back to the girls again , and that fateful , cursed day that one family member said she saw in a nightmare the night before . The interviews are presented with unabashed compassion for the family members , but not with misplaced sentimentality . The case itself , and how it becomes one of the pivotal pieces that , tragedy besides , leads the civil rights movement even further , has so much power that it's impossible to dramatize it . Lee simply uses music , photographs , and the faces of those who knew these girls , as well as public figures ( i . e . Kronkite , Cosby , Jesse Jackson ) , to accentuate the material . It's skillful storytelling , and told with a story that needs to be told , and revealed to those who may forget the horrors of the American south merely forty-something years ago and more . Simply , one of the director's finest ' joints ' .
perhaps not the ' best ' , but surely my favorite documentary of the year thus far	Kirby Dick is a filmmaker I wasn't aware of before This Film is Noy Yet Rated , but now he is assuredly on my radar , if only for the determination in pulling off his main idea . Like Super Size Me , this documentary has a near-gimmick to it ; Dick hires a private investigator in order to track down the anonymous " parents " who decide why a movie will be rated R over PG-13 , and NC-17 instead of R . This even leads - more intriguingly - into the more deceptive group of appellant board members of the MPAA . So on the one hand the filmmaker has this extremely entertaining , guerrilla-style aspect to his film , with a hand-held camera in one moment in a fast-food place that draws attention to him , and detectives who will go to any length to get results . On the other hand he gets great interviews and clips and history about the film industry in the US and the near fascist style of the MPAA in relation to the several ( corporite ) studios . As a film buff this film already had my interest long before I saw it . For too long the topic of film ratings have both infuriated and fascinated me . Much of what ends up going on with filmmakers's battles with the MPAA to get their R ( and indeed the difference between millions of dollars in grosses ) instead of an NC-17 is staggering . That Kirby Dick get such insight out of the insiders ( two of which former MPAA people , and two who kept anonymous ) , filmmakers , business people , and other types within the industry , is a good help to add to the basic argument that there is some inherent problems with the current ratings system in the country . This is accentuated in comparisons between NC-17 and R rated sex scenes from other movies , and clips from films that received the NC-17 - or close to it - and the inanities and problems filmmakers have to get their whole vision against people who , of course , are not that creative . There are issues of gay sex in movies , how violence is vs . sex in allowance in ratings , and in the end how big business ( and religion ) are behind the scenes if not pulling strings then giving complete influence . All of this as a documentary ends up being pulled fantastically off , as it does at the core what a documentary mostly should - stir up conversation about the topic ( s ) , and at the same time still being entertained to an extent . And Kirby Dick even has a slight Michael Moore tinge to him as he goes full-on after his subjects ; one of which reminded me of Moore's own confrontation with Charleton Heston , as Dick puts himself in split screen with animated caricatures of his callers . But Dick also is smart enough to put such subject matter with good doses of humor . I loved the little animated explanation as to what each rating means ( including dead orphan and Almodovar jokes ) , and as he revealed with a near relish the full facts on every member ( most shockingly the appellate members ) . Even if you just have a casual interest in movies it should be worth your while , and especially if you're a parent - and try not to let the NC-17 rating deter you as it's in part just in spite of the mirror put up to the ratings board itself - it's especially prudent to see . It's got both tongue-in-cheek and dead-serious aspirations , and all the while making Jack Valenti look worse and worse . It's biased , to be sure , but for the right reasons .
one of the trippiest things you'll ever see , bar none , and it's extraordinary in its simplicity	Fantastic Planet has about a hundredth of the technical proficiency - or just money - that any given Pixar film might have in just its first couple of reels . But there's probably just as much invention and eye-popping mind-blowing madness , if not exponentially more-so , than any recent CGI film . It's , well , art . Yes , to throw a word as big and all-encompassing like that is tricky , Fantastic Planet qualifies as some kind of weird artistic feat of surrealism and pure science fiction . And by sci-fi I mean the cream of the crop in storytelling and ideas : it's about the impact of images in a strange land being somehow completely relatable , if only in social construct or satirical forms , as though we were witnessing Gullivers Travels mixed around with Dune and then filtered through some renegade animator that got through the gates at a studio and churned something out fast . It's like a strange revelation that won't leave your mind . And yes , leave no mistake , it also works very well as a " stoner movie " , one of those ridiculously warped visions that goes into the world of the imagination so heavily , with tangential moments in scenes ( the ' blending ' of the Draags in one scene , the constant flow of various monsters , the ' mating ' ritual , the de-Oming ) , with a soundtrack that's like a outstanding , unlikely collaboration between Isaac Hayes and Pink Floyd ( you don't know whether it'll split into Dark Side or Shaft ) . Premise is simple : a little oprhaned Om named Terr is taken in as a ' pet ' of Tiwa , and is half tortured half loved by her . But , as case happens , she outgrows him , and he runs away after being filled with knowledge by some machine . Then he gets sucked into the underground world of the Oms , where there's lots of mating and other activities , such as fights ( wacko scene with those teeth-filled monsters strapped on like Gonzo gladiators ) . But their civilization is in peril , and it's time to fight back ! Lots of classic myths pumped in , but at times you almost forget there's story , which might be half the point . The director Rene Laloux , along with collaborators like Roland Topor , creates a world unequivocally unto itself , where there are real strokes with pencils and colors and inks , where it seems very much like a collection of pictures from some obscure European fable book for kids , only loaded with some kind of life-force that moves like no other animated film ( maybe it's slightest , closest-distant relative is Yellow Submarine , which is still a stretch ) . Characters move in and out occasionally like a Terry Gilliam short - giant hand and other objects placed in almost jokingly , which makes it a lot of fun at times - and there's something eerie in Laloux's dedication to pushing the expectation-level , mainly because , as noted , we haven't seen this style before . It's a quiet form of sensationalism , where it sneaks up on the viewer , and then takes over a scene , growing little by little , like some weird plant . In short , he does his job as a genre director , probably on par with the great visionaries , while using some primitive methods of animation . But through imperfections there's more expressive tendencies , moments of chance and random visions like a monster springing organically about to eat another , or to go through bizarre mating rituals as Venus de Milo statues with blue heads . Or , in other words , as my long-winded adulation goes to say , a superb " stoner movie " . Not that being sober will make you absorbed any less ; it's a compliment , in a sense , that in its glory of its time it reaches a true cult impulse , where children can enjoy its wonderful glimpses of the " fantastic " , and adults can have another more mature , thought-provoking input in its implications on power and human nature .
Odd , Funny and Touching	Boogie Night's has to be one of the funniest and oddest films I have seen in a long time . It is a homage to the pornography culture and to adults who will never grow up in California . The film also has brilliant acting , writing and camera work and is P . T . Anderson's best work yet . Some of the great stuff in this film is the acting which is some of the best of the decade . Including Burt Reynolds as the director Jack Horner ( this is his best piece of acting since the 70's ) , Julianne Moore as the struggling mother Amber Waves to the young actors and in a very good performance , and Mark Wahlberg in his best performance yet as the kid Dirk Diggler with something extra ( 13 inches to be exact ) that will make him a star . Also , the supporting cast is top notch and provides a lot of unintentional and sick comedy . But the real good stuff comes from the director Anderson . He gives us a look into a subject no one else has seen before ( or has wanted to see ) . The writing is funny and touching and the length gives the film time to sprawl into the masterpiece that it is . One of the best of 1997 .
Good work by Scorsese , very very good , almost sobering to the senses	Martin Scorsese takes the lessons learned by the likes of Rossellini , Pasolini , and in-between regarding religious pictures and makes one that appropriately makes it right . This time around , you don't necessarily have to be completely into Jesus or a Christian to see the heart and intelligence put into the material . Paul Schrader's script distills what must have been a mammoth book of ideas and stories from Kazantzakis and what's provided is obviously controversial . But its message is not layered with anything to insult the viewer's intelligence . There's real food for thought here , even for those who don't believe in myself ( if anything , it shows Scorsese , in one of his five best films , showing the notion of making a difference in his other films sticks out great here ) . A little long , but never gets boring , and even features one of the all-time champion final shots in any film . And Willem Dafoe makes for a candidate for best Jesus in any film . One of the best films of 1988 .
A red-blooded western with enough cinematic fireballs for four more	Sam Peckinpah proves his worth as a great director from the second half of the 20th century with The Wild Bunch , a film that breathes life as one of the 60's best , a blockbuster caliber picture that gives its audience what it wants - a cast of famous old-timers and some newcomers as well ( lest not forget Ernest Borgnine ) set the stage for the tale of robbers and killers in 1913 who want a large final score after getting screwed over , even as bounty hunters follow ominously . Even the slower moments are elegantly staged ; there is always something to look for on the screen and Peckinpah brings the violence so thick that while it doesn't compare to today's big-budgeters , has all the reality in girth . The characters are generally well-rounded , the suspense fierce , and the violence is handled with the same kind of precision as the ones with just straight-on dialog . Masterfully directed and acted with the great flair of old-school character acting , The Wild Bunch is a brash , essential Western that's a worthy watch for the fans from when it was released and people from later generations as well .
As much as I loved this film-buff docu-delight , it's hard for me to give it a grade . . .	. . . and my reasons for which are simple - there are so many great films presented and discussed here ( most of them by their own directors and stars ) , so many clips of infamous moments in 70's movie history , and in fact a number of films I have yet to see , that it wouldn't be fair to grade this work . By this logic I shouldn't have given grades to other movie documentaries like Martin Scorsese's Personal Journey through American Movies and My Voyage to Italy . But while those films were on the basis of one man's view of cinema , narrating through most of the way , Richard LaGravanese and ( the late ) Ted Demmes ' A Decade Under the Influence lets the films and the creators speak entirely for themselves . What makes ' Decade ' worth at least one watch for film buffs , or just anyone who likes the films of the late 60's-70's in America , are the levels that it goes to , that in the uncut version ( three hours , not the theatrical version , which I have no comment on ) plenty of ground is covered . Interviews include the likes of Scorsese , Robert Altman , Sidney Lumet , Julie Christie , Jon Voight , Francis Ford Coppola , Paul Schrader , Pam Grier , Bruce Dern , Peter Bogdanovich , Roger Corman , Dennis Hopper , Robert Towne , etc , and there's a constant flow of insight from start to finish . The way the clips and directors / actors pop up , edited together in a flashy and quick style , is also fascinating . The one down comment I have on the documentary is that most of the information presented has been reported on in various books , like Easy Riders , Raging Bulls , and though I haven't seen the movie version of that book yet I'm sure it would have covered many of the films and directors and incidents as here ( in fact , the book of that is one of the best I've ever read . HOWEVER , this documentary serves as something special for film buffs and occasional movie goers of the future - they can look at this and learn not only about such well known pictures as Easy Rider , The Last Picture Show , Annie Hall , Coming Home , and lessor knowns like Scarecrow , Panic in Needle Park , The Landlord , Joe , They Shoot Horses Don't They . They can also learn about who influenced them ( new waves of Europe and Asia ) , who they served as influences for , and how the subject matter that created controversy after controversy still serves as intriguing and chancy material for the contemporary crowd . Seek this out !
DeSica's first true mark on the world of neo-realism is a small ruby of its time and place	Sciuscia , or Shoeshine , tells a tragedy involving two boys , Pasquale and Giuseppe , both of whom try and make money from shining shoes , and also in dealing with black market goods . They hope to buy a horse one day ( a wonderful opening shot of a horse running fast gets this point across since this is at its core a film of adolescence ) , but complications involving Giuseppe's older brother and gang land the two boys in jail just as they have enough for the horse . The film then deals with the boys in the reformatory / prison , over-crowded with conniving , shady influences as cell-mates , as well as the people who run the prison . To tell anymore of the plot would ruin it for the viewer who would go out of his way to find this - it's near impossible to find , which is a shame since The Bicycle Thief and Umberto D . are readily available in most stores and rentals - and it's enough to say that much of the film relies more on character than story . Because the director's dealing with a group of near total unknowns , they come first . This film , by Vittorio De Sica , was made very soon after the War had decimated the country he lived in . He didn't just want to make this movie , he had to - these characters are as real as their backdrop , a country still in the aftermath of a fascist state of affairs , and since the film deals with children there's all the more emotion to it . The only , very minor liability in the film is that the drama in the material isn't as simple and everyday as DeSica's later , more famous efforts ; if it was under different direction it could've become a forgettable tearjerker . But the tragedies of these characters , Pasquale and Giuseppe , is splendid in the humanity that they feel , as it unfolds , and by the end it rings as true as any other given neo-realist effort of the late 40's and early 50's . Shoeshine is one of those rarities that may give a tear-jerker to someone who isn't expecting one , and I mean that as a compliment . Note , if you find this tape , it may be rather grainy and slightly shifty in frame , and the subtitles aren't complete - not to downplay the worth of the film in and of itself , however .
one of the very best films I've ever seen ? not sure , but it surely invites another viewing	Bonnie and Clyde is , to put it in most basic terms , what Warren Beatty said to Jack Warner when the lights came up after the screening for the late studio head after he asked Beatty , " What the f did I just watch ? " Beatty replied , " It's what the French would call an ' homage . ' " Warner's response : " Ok . . . What's an homage ? " He didn't get that this was something of a kickback to movies of old while also paving the way for the future . In fact , the film was originally meant for one of the Cashiers du Cinema directors ( either Truffaut or Godard , who both passed eventually ) , who specialized in homage . Whether or not Bonnie and Clyde is a bonafide classic - it is for critics and viewers , and not without some good reason even if I'm still a little unsure of how to place it - it does have a good chance of standing the tests of time , as people are still ranting and raving about it some forty years ( and a new DVD release ) later . Short of it is the ' same old story ' , boy meets girl , girl falls for boy , boy gets girl to rob banks , girl and boy go on the run , boy can't do well in bed with girl ( wink wink , nudge nudge , say no more ) , boy and girl team up time to time with others on the run , girl and boy get gunned down by hundreds of machine gun bullets . The long of it is that Penn , his DP and his wonderful editor Dede Allen , and his cast and crew made up a kind of lyricism to the pulp material , that in-between the goofy interludes of fast-speed chase scenes and banjo-picking music , there were sprinklings of poetry , and candid sexual material . For the poetic part we see some shots that elevate this into another realm , moving not always on a beat to plot but based on mood and the locales ( one shot I distinctly remember rises above a field of grass or grain as Bonnie goes after Clyde or other ) . For the sexual part , it's the first film in American history to address impotency , and a quasi-Freudian breakdown of ID manifested through the gun and crime and showmanship . And sure , some of that banjo-picking kind of dulls the thought going into Bonnie and Clyde that this will be the most cutting-edgiest of all the cutting edge late 60s movies . But Beatty and Dunaway , as the young lovers with " nothing better to do , " as well as Hackman and Parsons ( and a cool bit part with Gene Wilder ) , are terrific to look at as they get at some complexities in each other's push-and-pull relationship , giving their all to portray the ballsy attitude of 30s gangsters while revealing in the uncertainty and existential abandon of their generation . Without going into too many platitudes about what the film meant or what impact it had at the time ( as I didn't live at the time I can only speculate or go on past records ) , Bonnie and Clyde does break ground in one respect that would definitely resonate with the likes of Peckinpah , Coppola and Scorsese : violence isn't candy-coated anymore or done for an faded effect . Inspired by the likes of Kurosawa and Russian propaganda-style editing , audiences got catapulted to the kind of state of mind that meant to transport them into the danger and mayhem of the gangster life as well as , mayhap , Vietnam , particularly with the iconic climax . As pure film-making many of these scenes , especially for the latter for which Allen was snubbed a well-deserved Oscar nomination , are incredible . Emotionally it's brutal and verging on being too chaotic for its own good . Somehow Penn is able to merge the style with the emotional impact , however , which is a marker of why Bonnie and Clyde is such a success artistically . There have probably been better films to come from this , but it remains potent nevertheless .
still a gigantic achievement in epic film-making	What distinguishes Ben-Hur as a powerful film in epic scope is not simply that it is shot and stylized and acted and executed in action sequences to iconic effect ( though there is that to a degree ) , but that it's human dimensions stay intimate in scope . I was expecting what I had heard about with Ben-Hur , and got that - the vengeance plot , the chariot race , a story of redemption with Christ as a background figure and major presence - but I wasn't expecting such things revealed like the devastation left on a family by leprosy , and the disintegration of one's morality by the cloud of vengeance on one's mind . Even if you're not much of a Christian ( and even as a non-practicing Jew as I am ) , there are some deep chords that are struck with the material for an audience that is going in not expecting a lot of sermonizing . Only in the final reels , as we see first-hand the ' Christ ' as he is sent to die on the cross , does the film get overbearing with the symbolism and heavy weight of the circumstance of this being a " tale of the Christ . " This isn't to say also that with Judah Ben-Hur having the strife in coming to terms with his family being at first , he thinks , dead , and then later as made deformed thanks to the Roman's imprisonment , that this is all the film is . It's also grand spectacle , a film that takes you along on its epic ride with imagery that pierced the public consciousness so strongly that you've seen the scenes as parodies or referenced before you've even seen the film . Surely we have the chariot race to contend with , which has been so influential on modern action sequences and chases that Lucas copied most of the choreography for the pod race in Phantom Menace . And to give credit where it's due , you could show that same sequence in any theater today and it would unquestionably bring down the house , not just for its technical achievement but for the visceral impact ( i . e . the downfall of Ben-Hur's rival by his own undoing ) . But there's also other great images ; possibly my favorite are the scenes with Judah Ben-Hur as # 41 among the rowing slaves , all moving at the whim of the drum beat . That in and of itself would make Ben-Hur a must-see . But then there are more emotionally impactive places and settings , like the valley of the lepers , Judah's struggle across the desert ( and the tastefully done angle of Jesus ' back only ) , many others that would take too long to mention . It's all so massive a production that it's almost TOO big ( according to Charlton Heston the budget , at 14 million then as the most expensive film ever made , would today cost something like 250 million ) , and it's a credit to William Wyler that he never makes it too dull , even as supporting characters may verge on leaning to overacting . With only calling attention to it at certain moments ( and sometimes not at all with a more subtle effect ) , Wyler is a virtuoso here in corralling all aspects of the production under his firm handle . And then there's Heston , who gives one of the very best of his ( now late ) career . He's full of bravura and gusto , and seems like a guy - for those guys who crave action film stars - who can get things done in the right mindset . But he's also excellent at conveying the tragedy of this character , a very good man with high ideals who becomes corrupted by his need to get his respite . Underneath all of that machismo and the swagger that eventually became old hat for Heston , is a strong presence at the helm of Ben-Hur . Stephen Boyd , too , is also very good as the boyhood friend turned rival . In fact , most of the actors here are very good , from Hawkins to Hazareet to Jaffe to O'Donnel and so on , as they all contribute to the epic scope . It's massive and directly concerning the efforts of then Rabbi from Nazareth to bring peace and love to humanity . Despite it being not-too-thinly veiled religious fable ( and not without a couple of things noticeable as parody in Life of Brian ) , Ben-Hur is a great success for its time , surviving today in good , not-too-dated tact .
" He is Alive ! "	Z is one of top crop of the truly incisive , daring and most cinematically successful conspiracy / political thrillers . It is this because of its attention , lucidly surprisingly given its often non-linear structure , to its plot filled with many strands and possible loose ends , and because its director Costa-Gavras injects the story ( told " deliberately " on true events , apparently from recent Greek history ) with a taut , exciting and efficient post-modern aesthetic . There is very little time to breathe ; one wonders if we might cry at the end not simply because hope seems to be all but lost but because of its breathless attitude and pacing . There's life here , and it's being crushed bit by bit . And , contrary to some criticism , it is not just some piece for liberals or " socialist scum " as one IMDb reviewer wrote ( half ) jokingly . On the contrary the story - an investigation into the assassination of a prominent figure of peace , the Deputy as he's called played by Yves Montand , and how a prosecutor ( Perier ) and a photo-journalist are the only halfway decent and / or objective ones to sort out the bottom-to-top corruption - is essentially about speaking truth to power in an unjust society . What power , perhaps , is part of the conundrum in this case . Even the top brass attorney general doesn't buy the ultimate sum of the facts tallied by the prosecutor at the end , bringing to the bittersweet ( more-so on bitter ) end of the tale . Gavras ' film is loaded with dialog and inquiry , scenes of tense intimidation and harrowing and jerky inquiry , and the usual set-pieces of action and suspense for a work like this that relies on sometimes documentary approach . The latter of these isn't too frequent , but two prominent sequences ( a nasty fight in the back of a pivotal pick-up truck , and a chase by car after a witness ) are extraordinary in frenetic energy , cinematography and ( strange and cool ) music score . The acting is also spot on , from the poker-faced prosecutor to the stalwart General to the dedicated photo-journalist with sneaky tendencies ( we don't know for sure if he's legit at first sneaking on on Deputy's grieving widow ) , and all these fellows in between like a simple non-partisan soccer fan witness , not to mention the deputy's widow herself . Everything just about clicks in Z , and most frightening of all , there's still a feeling of relevancy nearly 40 years later . It's not simply the conspiracy-plot stuff , as we've seen that either in crazier modes ( Winter Kills ) or in more ambitious Hollywood skewering and prodding ( JFK ) . It's the direct-hit of how everything seems to seem fishy , from the government to the military to the police to just the common grocer or barber , and all having to do with one political siding or another or some gleaming on to power . It's in part a big product of its period - aside from being a true story cleverly without direct names and spoken in French instead of Greek it must have been really potent during the rallies and riots in America and elsewhere in Europe - and in part just purely amazing film-making that dazzles with its story and doesn't let up in keeping us attentive to the horrors at hand .
some kind of insane and intensely tense thriller that rarely comes around anymore	The Hitcher is guided to being such an awesome feat because it features a character and a performance that lift reality into hyper-reality , and it's frightening and fascinating to see how the character John Ryder becomes like a presence as alarming as just a state of mind than as an actual threat . It may be a super anti-kindness to an extent ( one could say that Jim Halsey is asking for it simply by picking up the man in coat and thumb out in the dead of night in the rainy desert ) , but once it takes off from its point of departure it doesn't stop . In that sense Robert Harman's film could make some comparison to Spielberg's Duel , only this case in place of a truck is , well , Rutger Hauer . It's a purely relentless cat-and-mouse game , as ambiguous about what lies behind the dark forces of life and death as No Country for Old Men ( if not quite as timeless as that film ) . It should be said , plain and simple , Hauer's performance here and maybe in Blade Runner are his definitive work as an actor . He's does sometimes so much with so little that even when he's not on screen or isn't in frame he gives the chills incredibly by his face , those eyes peering out . Him and Kinski have that affect , though with Hauer there's something about him that could , under other circumstances , look very kind and heartfelt . But between scenes like his " talk " with Jim at the diner to his mere ( more than usual ) startling re-appearance in the motel room lying next to Jennifer Jason Leigh , one can't help but feel his character and performance to a degree straddle the line of reality and the supernatural , as if it's all allegory while at the same time directed and acted with such a straight face . Considering the whole concept is based off of the Doors song " Riders on the Storm " I hope that comes as as sincere a compliment at possible . But Hauer isn't alone in delivering an uncommonly good performance in a thriller . Years before he became just another hack-actor looking for whatever work he could ( such as last year's War of the Worlds 2 and Day the Earth Stood Still ) , C . Thomas Howell was delivering the goods and this shows him in his own right as a fine counterpart to Hauer . At his older actor's level ? Probably not , but it's hard not to feel for him and see him go deeper into the insanity of the story as it unfolds . What will finally lead him up to killing this psychopath on his trail ? Will he have to take a cop or two with him ? The dilemma is further compounded by the immediate task to stay alive . In a more conventional neo-noir it might be simply that Ryder would set up Jim with these crimes or whatever on the road and that Jim would have to do heavy jail time without any witnesses or evidence of the existence of this " Mr Ryder " . But the writer of the script , Eric Red , is far more interested in the minute-to-minute danger present with Ryder's vendetta with Jim . What is it about death or murder that keeps this young guy from going for it ? I have to wonder if Christopher Nolan watched this film , and particularly studied the climax , for the Dark Knight ( one can see the ambiguity with his Joker and obsession against the Batman as a comparison to Jim and Ryder ) , since at the least the Hitcher delivers so strongly on counts of storytelling , acting , cinematography , even the somewhat dated 80s music sticks tough . And in case it needed it , the action is cool too ( maybe too cool in that way that sadly inspired Michael Bay to produce a remake ) . Not for the squeamish , and certainly not for budding Rutger Hauer fans to miss , the film is something of a minor mid-80s classic .
A daring debut , fusing melodrama , film-noir , and a realistic approach later to flourish after the war . . .	Ossessione , adapted loosely ( or if it is as loose or close to the version I saw of James M . Cain's The Postman Always Rings Twice with Jack Nicholson and Jessica Lange I can't be certain ) by first time director Luchino Visconti , is no less outstanding with usage of mis-en-scene , music ( both diegetic and non-diegetic ) , and the acting . I didn't know what to expect Visconti to do in his approach to the material , after seeing La Terra Trema and seeing how sometimes his political motivations snuck in a little bit . But this is a totally character and emotional based drama , bordering on melodrama ( however , without the conventions that bog down lesser ones ) , and with the style in the finest path of the budding film-noir movement , Visconti creates a debut that's as involving as any other neo-realist film . Neo-realism , by the way , could rightfully be claimed as this being a forefather ( along with De Sica's The Children Are Watching Us ) , which that would take shape after the war . Although love and romance is more in play here than in some of the more famous neo-realist efforts , it's dealt with in a bare-bones storytelling fashion , and it's laced with other familiar themes in neo-realism ( the lower-class , death , desperation ) . Aside from the story , which is simply as it is described on this site , the artistry with which Visconti captures the images , and then layers them with objects ( a shawl over Gino Costa's profile when in guilt ) , shadows and darkness that tend to overcome many of the later scenes in the film ( usually over Gian and Giovanna ) , and the feel of the Italian streets in many of the exterior scenes . Domenico Scala and Aldo Tonti ( who would lens some of Rossellini and Fellini's films ) help in envisioning the look of Ossessione , which is usually moving in on a character , then pausing to read as much emotion on their faces , their voices and mannerisms lovely and ugly , sad and dark and romantic . I think I've just scratched the surface on how effective it was that the film itself was moving me along , even as I was in fear of the futures of the two leads . The two leads ( Massimo Girotti and Clara Calamai ) portray all the compelling , truthful , and near-operatic emotions , and the key supporting actors are also without their attributes . It's a brilliant , crushing adaptation , and it points as a striking signpost of what was to come for Visconti in his career .
If you love diving into a character via roadhouse blues in France , you'll really like this movie , if not love it	The first thing to take note in Red Lights is that the story is not rushed : Antoine ( Jean-Pierre Darrousin ) is perhaps a passive-aggressive , or maybe just having a mid-life crisis . He and his wife Helene are planning for a trip to pick up the kids from summer camp . But the drive hits some things in the way - he has a beer and a whiskey before leaving ; a traffic jam gets to Antoine ; he drinks again at a roadside ; he and his wife bicker ; he drinks again ; she leaves , and once he realizes he can't catch up with her , he decides to have a night with a little more drinking ahead . While he says he doesn't drink too often ( " two , three times a year " , he says ) , this night is different . Especially with a fugitive somewhere out on the loose , as the radio says . Cedric Kahn is a skilled and trust-worthy director ( via France ) for a few reasons in dealing with his latest film Red Lights . He doesn't make the pace in the tenser scenes ( with a couple of juicy exceptions ) really quick cut like in a choppy Hollywood piece . He brings an interesting blend of visuals with the city and the roads , the cars , then as it grows darker outside , the lights outside become key . When Antoine awakes the next morning on the roadside , he's out in the country . As well , he has a great blend of music from Debusy , whom I may have heard before this film but never recognized . It's a fascinating element to add with the impending doom of the film's story . But the key thing that the director can do for a film is the right casting , and here's it's impeccable in dealing with the three leads . Jean-Pierre Darrousin is terrific at conveying the mind-set of this husband in a rocky relationship . Then in the second and third acts , despite what he's doing on the road , he keeps consistent in keeping as the film's reluctant hero . Credit should also be given to first-time actor Vincent Deniard , who is perfect at being the " quiet one you got to watch " . And Carole Bouquet is a fair counterpart to a Darrosin . Although the denouement starts to drag , for my money the film's main chunk doesn't . It would be one thing if Antoine just got drunk . But there's also a good interest in the talking points with the character , as he decides to blow his mind in the process . Red Lights is definitely an art-house film that won't please everyone ( the film ends rather realistically , without the kind of extra bit American audiences might want that's more intimate here ) , but it's still very compelling .
the quintessential romance of Wong Kar Wai	In the Mood for Love , a film shot in an improvisational style with the actors and , frankly , the most mature and least feverish lensed and edited work of Wong Kar Wai's career , is about two people who know exactly what is right and what is wrong , but have the feeling , the emotion , to possibly cross the line . Why shouldn't they , after all , when they both suspect that their respective spouses are having an affair ? But this , for Wong Kar Wai , is far too easy for the audience to expect . We want these two characters , Chow ( Tony Leung ) and Chan ( Maggie Cheung ) to be together not simply as friends , or even playing their ' game ' of acting out like they're married , but fully invested in each other's ever growing affection and companionship . That they want to , desire to be together , and cannot - or , in fact , will not - is part of the challenge . And it's quietly , subtly thrilling . It's always something special to see a filmmaker challenge the expectations of an audience saturated with the usual , and In the Mood for Love is certainly unusual in the respect of how it treats its characters which is with a frankness , naturalism that seems at first to be not out of any old 50s or 60s melodrama . It's because these two people , who live so close to one another and grow a bond as they do , that one thinks that they are bound to be made for each other . Whether they are or are not isn't the point , however , but how little by little the same things that go on for them , the routine of day to day life , gets splintered . The perception of their realities are broken down until all they have left is each other , and out of fear , apprehension , all the common fears of adultery , they don't go where they know their respective spouses have . It's almost more appealing to see their restraint , the passion buried right under the surface . But the director doesn't make this a detached experience . On the contrary , despite his ditching of the constant hand-held and strange lighting of the 90s , things move at a pace that is , simply , meditative on romance , the little details that can come up with repetition , the slow-motion , the violin music . Just a simple pan done across a dinner between Chow and Chan is extraordinary for what precisely is shown . Objects seem elegant , like Chan's dresses , which she wears just to go out for an errand , or even some things that at this point should be a cliché in movies : the look of cigarette smoke , and scenes with rain . He and Christopher Doyle bring one into , as it goes , another feeling within scenes that add drama , sorrow , and , of course , love , where otherwise it would be just mundane and kind of strange . Towards the end ( i . e . Cambodia ) it gets strange anyway , but for a while it's sublime . And lest not forget stars Leung and Cheung , both regulars of WKW's films , who inhabit these characters as opposed to playing specific parts ; they're people sort of stuck where they are in life , one at a printing press the other a secretary , and they both have possible dreams for themselves ( mostlty for Chow as a serial novelist ) . Together , they start acting out the roles of each others spouses , sort of filling in the spaces left behind , and the actors convey the sense of slight hope within this hopeless relationship that few I could imagine ever pulling off period , much less in this setting . It's all a combination of factors , between the subtle experimentation with the direction , the realistic edge of the actors , the music , the clothes , the direct lighting , all of it comes together better than in any other film I've seen from this HK romantic wildman . This might not mean it's for everyone , however ; it's the kind of film one gets tuned into , like some far-off radio station that's clear as day , but uncommon in a lot of ways , too .
an modern artistic triumph for all involved	Michel Gondry , credited as the director and co-writer of Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind , is only partly responsible for the success that the film achieves . He implements a awe-inspiring blend of style to a story that is perfectly non-linear . But then there is also the madman genius of the current screen writing plane - Charlie Kaufman - who has written three of the most ingenious , funny , and human of " little " Hollywood movies ( Being John Malkovich , Adaptation , Confessions of a Dangerous Mind ) . He understands , and perhaps likely experienced to a degree , what a relationship holds to - the truth , to understanding , and then when it ends , how out memory changes the relationship . Enter in the concept that makes ' Eternal Sunshine ' something of a un-official science fiction film - the Lacuna corporation , led by Tom Wilkinson's character , can erase just one person out of your memory , all of the experiences that you and the significant other had . So , when Joel ( Jim Carrey ) goes in to erase his memory of Clementine ( Kate Winslet ) after finding out she did just the same , he enters into a mind-warp . He goes through memories they had , happy ones , sad ones , some that are just what makes up what you have emotionally with the one you've loved . And sometimes , and to the behest of the assistants of Lacuna ( Kirsten Dunst , Elijah Wood , Mark Ruffalo ) , Joel doesn't want them all to be erased . As I mentioned , the plot is non-linear , which could've gone the wrong way if not done with skill . With a film like 21 Grams , which has a talented director and cast , the non-linear structure isn't necessary . But it's an asset that the story doesn't start from A to Z . To assist Gondry with this , he has the extraordinary Ellen Kuras as DP and Valdís Óskarsdóttir , an editor from Iceland . Their collaboration is crucial with Gondry and Kaufman ( and co-writer Pierre Bismuth ) , as they bring all of these un-real images a real quality . Quite simply , there isn't a finer example of surrealism crossbred with realism in any other American film so far this year . The usage of lights , cuts , and with the kinds of special effects not expected ( i . e . no CGI ) , add to the effect it has on a viewer . That the characters of Joel and Clementine are as enveloping as they are is also a credit to Kaufman . But then there's one more part that completes the success of the film - the acting . Jim Carrey , very simply , is at his very best . He finds a balance from certain scenes in being like people we see everyday , feeling low , not much of interest , inward . And then when the memory erases begin , we get to see him act funny , but not like the kind of humor he brought with Ace Ventura or Dumb and Dumber . This is Carrey knowing this character just well enough to play off his counterpart , played by Winslet . She , meanwhile , is perhaps at her best . Her character is eccentric , funny , insightful , and wanting . She pulls it off . As do the supporting actors . There's not much more I can say about this film , except to say that even after seeing it three times , I feel like I could watch it over and over and see a new shot , a new sequence , and new set of emotions tied to things . It's very likely one of the great romantic comedies of the decade .
A sprawling , deliberately paced , and generally a superbly crafted piece of work	It's been said that when one watches a " spaghetti " western ( one of the " Man with no name " films with Clint Eastwood ) filmmaker Sergio Leone's trademark cinema style and flair for clear storytelling is instantly recognizable . This is no truer than in his most ambitious effort , Once Upon a Time in America , in which his usage of close-ups , concise camera movement , sound transitions and syncs , and the sudden change in some scenes from tenderness to violence . And , he pulls it off without making the viewer feel dis-interested . Of course , it's hard to feel that way when watching the cast he has put together ; even the child actors ( one of which a young Jennifer Connelly as the young Deborah ) are believable . Robert De Niro projects his subtitles like a pro , with his occasional outburst in the right place ; James Woods gives one of his first great performances as Max ; Elizabeth McGovern is the heart of the film ; and Joe Pesci should've had more than just a one scene appearance , thought it's still good . It's a story of life-long friends , in the tradition of the Godfather movies with obvious differences , and the story cuts back and forth to Noodles ( De Niro ) in his old age returning from exile , looking back on his childhood in Brooklyn , his rise to power with his partners , and the twists come quite unexpectedly . The pace is slow , but not detrimental , and it gives the viewer time to let the emotions sink in . The story is also non-linear , and yet doesn't give away facts to the viewer - this is something that more than likely influenced Tarantino ( and many others ) in style . By the end , every detail that has mounted up makes the whole experience rather fulfilling , if not perfect . Finally , I'd like to point out the exceptional musical score . Ennio Morricone , as it says on this site , has scored over four hundred films in forty years , including Leone's movies . This would have to be , arguably , one of his ten best works - his score is equally lively , saddened , intense , and perhaps majestic for a gangster epic . Overall , it's filled with the same spirit Leone had in directing the picture , and it corresponds beautifully - there are some scenes in this film that would simply not work without the strings .
inspires the righteous outrage every American ( or just anyone period ) should have about torture " policies "	Taxi to the Dark Side accomplishes what a documentary , or just a concise analysis , regarding all of the facts in one of the many nightmares the United States ' involvement in the middle east should : to inspire the utmost disgust and condemnation of a system that has become as corrupt as it has ( or rather always has been with this bunch ) . It's uncontainable to think how all of this started , grew exponentially , and resulted ultimately in the horrors at Abu Gharyb and Guantanamo Bay , in that it is nestled in the twisted , criminal ( yes folks , criminal ) ' policies ' of the Bush administration . But Alex Gibney's approach isn't narrow-minded but multi-faceted : he's interested in what a complex , ugly organism torture has become , the psychological just as much as the physical , and he has a man at the center of it . Dilawar , an innocent taxi driver from a poor farm in Afghanistan , was swept up by three other Afghan soldiers and sent to Bagram prison , where along with other supposed terrorists or terrorist collaborators was tortured ( in his case especially in brutal fashion , as we learn in graphic description from those who participated first-hand ) , and died from the trauma . His death was a controversy , but not one that ever got the kind of attention it deserved ; until this documentary I never even heard of Dilawar or even much about Bagram prison . Yet it was at this prison , as well as the first biggie interrogation of the would-be 20th hijacker of the plane on to crash in Pennsylvania ( which , by false confession , led to an over-excited but false-rooted assumption that Al Quaeda had links to Baghdad ) , that led to Abu Gharyb , which revealed the horrors of soldiers in unyielding terror over their subjects but , more importantly , the virus that spread through the chain of command . Gibney's approach is approximate and expertly probing : it's not enough to just focus of Dilawar ( even as his story could make up a whole legitimate documentary alone ) , or on Abu Gharyb . As in his previous film , Enron : The Smartest Guys in the Room , it's essential to dissect this wretched beast from top to bottom , to see not simply the soldiers first-hand accounts , but straight from the horse's mouth the words from Cheney , Rumsfeld , Powell , and Bush himself . Because , in reality , there is something to feel sorry for with these soldiers . It can be argued , and not without just cause , that what the soldiers did at Bagram , Abu Gharyb , and to an extent even at GITMO , was wrong and rotten and they could have said no and so on and so forth . However , as with the ground war situation in Iraq , it's all about the chain of command , and the fact that no matter what the parties initially responsible are not held accountable for any of their actions . It's almost frightening to forget the amount of footage available with these men like Rumsfeld and Gonzalez and Cheney where they not only admit to being fine with torture tactics - and whether or not it's psychological torture or not is besides the point as ALL torture IS torture , albeit a facet that Gibney brilliantly chronicles in the history of the CIA to its ' logical ' extension in recent years - but set it up in legal wrangling so as to not get it any trouble for what they've done which is , of course , breaking Geneva conventions and whatnot . If I sound like I'm sounding bias with this , then you should leave this review right now . There is no bias when it comes to this issue ( or rather there SHOULD be no bias , as for a split second McCain showed until he relented recently that torture isn't as bad as he used to think ) . What one sees as the line between what is proper interrogation of a subject and outright abuse to get that " ticking time-bomb " is revealed by Kloogman from the FBI , who paraphrases how an interrogation would usually be done and lays it on the line that this form has actually had results - not pain and death or , at best , a bull court at GITMO where it's like a joke Kafka wouldn't write . Gibney presents all the information with the bluntness that's required , with testimony , footage from press conferences and commissions ( i . e . that cringe-inducing bit with Gonzalez where he has a horrible pause when trying to answer a simple question about whether or not to condone torture ) , and it's presented lucidly , edited for a cumulative effect and with the skill of a filmmaker in total trust with his subject ( s ) to take all of the pieces into a whole that shakes one to the core . And all of this would be powerful enough to make an impact , but with the recent explosion of news coverage on water-boarding - and that the CIA has admitted to torturing three subjects - Taxi to the Dark Side remains startlingly relevant . In fact , it's even more tragically relevant than last year's Sicko or even No End in Sight . From the tragedy of Dilawar to the tragedy of Abu Gharyb , which was like Salo turned into as shockingly real as could never be imaginable , the Bush administration has put the US into even more danger than ever before by resorting to the lowest form of humanity , condoning acts to the soldiers that sixty years ago would never be committed in the harshest of circumstances on our side . This , again , isn't some silly bias , this is just fact . It's enough to make one sick to one's stomach , and as long as a film such as this exists , the pain can't be brushed aside or dulled by diverting network news .
One of Bergman's most interesting works as a director and one of Ullman / Josephson's very best	Scenes from a Marriage ( the TV version , even as the theatrical cut is still very good and worth the time if the only copy available ) is an intimate , naturalistic portrait of a couple , who at first are seemingly happy , then aren't , then try and find out where they go wrong . It's involving drama at its nexus , and for those who love the theater it's an absolute must see ( aside from the theme , no music , all talk ) . Johan and Marianne are two of Bergman's most interesting , true characters ( among his countless others ) that he's ever presented , and like many other film artists , you can tell he's lived through at least some if not most of the emotions and trials these characters have been through . Along with several supporting characters , two of the more notable ones played by Bibi Andersson and Malmjso are a perfect contrast in the first episode of the series . The conflicts that are established throughout the series never pay-off in a mis-fire . Craft-wise there is almost no style except for the minimal lighting by the great Sven Nykvist . And the dialog that goes on between the two leads goes from amusing to tragic , from romantic to bleak , and with all the emotions that I ( as one who's never been married ) can only guess can be as so . Bergman's script would be just that , a poignant , very profound lot of bits between two people more or less on paper , if not for Liv Ullmann and Erland Josephson . They turn on the emotions intuitively , like they've been these people somewhere else at some other time . Or rather , the husband and wife don't have very complicated jobs or economic situation , but the problems lie on the emotional plane , and the intellect they try to put to it . Johan loves another woman , how does that affect Marianne ? Marianne asks for a divorce , how does that affect Johan ? What will they do to cope ? These are questions Bergman poses for his actors , among plenty of others , and they pull off the emotional cues off of each other like the most wonderful theatrical pros . It's hard to find anything wrong with their acting , cause they don't over-do it ( unless you're not into Marianne's changes in feeling in some scenes , which could be understandable ) , and the bottom line is that despite it being in Europe thirty years ago , it's highly possible these people could be in your house , or in your neighbor's house . Ullmann's Marianne is the 180 of her character from Persona , who could only let out emotions once or twice , mostly as an observer . Josephson's Johan is complex behind is usually sarcastic and simple demeanor - what drives him to do what he does in episode three , or in four ? What will the conclusion lead to ? Bergman creates a drama that is never boring , never diluted , and asks us to search for ideas about love and relationships we sometimes try and push away . It's a superb , concise treatise about the nature of falling in and out of love , how to differentiate what love is , and essentially what a marriage is . I can't wait to see the sequel , Saraband , which is Bergman's ( definite ) last film .
One of Bunuel's more well-known works ; an interesting morality story with Deneuve	Luis Bunuel , notorious for his use of simple , striking , yet un-cannily affecting surrealism in movies , keeps it down to a lower ( yet still imaginative ) key for Belle Du Jour . This works though because un-like a film like Discreet Charm of the Bourgeoisie where surrealism was like another character amidst the other character's dreams and nightmares , this one only keeps in surrealism for the sake of the lead character's inner demons poking up through the every-day malaise . This lead , Severine , is played in one of Catherine Deneuve's key career performances , that finds that two-sided-ness she feels while married to her husband Pierre . She loves him , but there's something that she's not getting out of the marriage that's leaving her empty , aimless , and her fantasies - however in the realm of ( dark ) fantasy - go to show she needs to do something during the day . She then finds out about a high-class brothel with only a couple of workers already employed . At first reluctant , she gives in to her temptations , serving the odder types of Paris looking for a good time , with one of them , Marcel ( Pierre Clementi ) falling head over heels for her . What seemed most intriguing about the film was how Bunuel dealt with the themes - the two crucial ones being morality and sexuality . His imagery is direct , maybe too direct , but it gets its points across with a realism that is alluring and far & away ( almost like a satire of such a life ) . She can't stop what she's started , and she doesn't really know how to end it unless she gets caught . Then with the sexuality , it's never over-emphasized ( i . e . no nudity , outside of a quick couple of shots of nudity ) , and no one is shown having sex on screen . What comes out is the emotional tally of Severine , the other girls , and the supporting characters that come in and out of the brothel . It may seem dated at moments , and the observatory notes go to making the film seem a tad longer than it is . But never-the-less , Belle de Jour is a worthwhile , memorable effort of the 1960's cinema . And , at times , it's quite funny .
one of the funniest new shows on prime-time ; it's charming and witty , and with enough ' quirk ' in dialog and style	Barry Sonnenfeld was the right director to helm the opening of Pushing Daisies , an original mystery / comedy yarn about a pie-maker named Ned ( Lee Pace ) who can bring a person back to life with a touch , but there's a catch , more than one , in scheme of things . It's also about a childhood friendship that went awry , and the mending of it years later as he redeems himself ( albeit , sadly , without the " emotional Heimlich maneuvers " let alone a kiss between the two , the girl ' Chuck ' played by Anna Friel ) . It's just the perfect kind of light and frothy texture , with visually vibrant exteriors and sets and production design ( the opening field reminds one of the field that Van Gogh painted once , to get all artsy ) . But at the same time it has a kind of stinging wit to it at times , where the actors know how silly this all is , but play it straight . It's not laugh-a-minute ala the Office or cynical like House , but it's got a ring to it that's just there . The " Umph " people talk about with certain projects is here right off the bat . Aside from the chemistry the stars have ( i . e . in the scene talking about the euphemism for hugs ) , as well as funny supporting work ( Chi McBride , who's always good for a ' what the hell ' look without straining himself , and Kristin Chenowith who's adorably odd ) , it's strangely fable-like even as it has its feet set firmly in the ground of the 21st century . And at the same time there's a structure set up to it : there will be crimes solved each week , as the dead ( hopefully in one minute's time ) will give their input on a certain huge decision in their lives , the end of such . It plays freely with the unexpected while set in a near storybook narrative ( Jim Dale's narrator veers into this being like some bedtime story spiked with existential mania ) . Now , it won't be for everyone ; it almost veers into being showy with its dialog , with the wit put on and on and the incidents so bizarre in their comedy ( i . e . ' there's a truck on fire , run gravediggers , come on out of that coffin honey ' ) . It's concept , to be sure , needs a big suspension of disbelief . Yet Pushing Daisies is one thing most network TV shows aren't : fresh in irony , strong in character , and extremely , unexpectedly funny . It also helps that , for a TV show , it's got terrific direction and visual POP to it . Can't wait for more episodes !
the classic , deluxe film-noir by Orson Welles	Orson Welle's Touch of Evil is so good a film that I would probably place it right behind Citizen Kane ( or , at least , on par with the Trial ) . He brings to the screen a distinct sensibility to what would be just otherwise B-movie pulp entertainment . It is just that , entertaining , but it's one of the rare moments in film-noir that you can truly lose yourself in the camera-work ( that opening shot , or really shots , is a landmark ) , the moments of montage , and some of the surprise performances . It's a mesmerizing film of mystery , suspense , and a Mexican Chuck Heston . Here , Welles plays Hank Quinlan , a sleazy cop who gets tangled up with a narc ( Heston ) and his wife ( Janet Leigh ) in a small border town . Not a bit over-done with its grit and panache , with great make-up on an already heavy Welles . Russell Metty gives some of the best cinematography ever . It is , simply , one of the definitive film-noirs ( just as long as you stay away from the 96 minute version , which is akin to bad milk , and go for the original director's cut which is 112 minutes and is close to gold ) .
A merry-go-round of a Hitchcock mystery , bordering brilliantly on a yarn	Alfred Hitchcock's 2nd to last British based film in the thirties is this classic little tale of a little old lady ( played in such sweetness by Dame May Whitty ) who disapears on a train . What makes this such an interesting story to unfold in the Hitchcok tradition is that is starts off as almost a comedy of manners . Margaret Lockwood , staying in an inn , is disturbed by an odd music playing and a clumping from her ceiling . Above her the manager finds clarinet player Michael Redgrave playing to a trio dancing around in a circle . Seeing this I laughed out loud , not remembering until the first murder that I was about to see a good old Hitchcokian story unfold . Possibly one of his best mysteries , this is a pleasure for his fans to behold .
the most operatic documentary-style epic ever made - fearlessly unique	The story of Brian Sweeney Fitzgerald , aka Fitzcarraldo , is as much the story of his magnanimous pie in the sky ideal to push a boat over a mountain as it is Werner Herzog's own mission to film it . More than a mission - as anyone who saw Burden of Dreams can report - an obsession that might cost a few lives , a good deal of money , and bring a lot of strange first-hand looks at the lives and mind-sets of the natives , but will still bring the greatest of wonders if it gets pulled off . The boat over the mountain is part metaphor , anyway , though not one that's easily pegged into a corner . Achieving something against the odds is something that has been covered in many great films , a quest through man's indelible need to make the impossible possible , be it in a David Lean picture ala Lawrence of Arabia , or in one of Cecil B . DeMille's pictures ( and , at times , I wondered if the spirit of one of those old time epic filmmakers came into his mind , if only in bits ) . All the while as Herzog is out to map the course of this man who just wants the purity of opera in the jungle , but through a style that is completely all his own , which means that it's not just about one man , but also about the ones around him , the methods to following such delusions of grandeur . Like Aguirre , there's a God complex working in Fitzcarraldo , only this time it's not in the total shroud of madness . There's room for irony , spouts of wild humor ( sometimes from Kinski , like when he tries to play an opera record for disinterested party-goers early on in the film ) , and an overwhelming fascination with what's all around Fitzcarraldo , the jungle , nature , the natives that dwell there and always stick to their indeterminable ways . Watching how Herzog maneuvers through his bulky story is ceaselessly compelling , even in the moments where he just lets the camera take everything in : the waves crashing all around , the boat set against the jungle-scape with the opera singer Caruso in the background , the many faces and poses of the natives and their moments of pure calm versus their unpredictable nature ( why do they put on face paint like they're about to go to war , and then nothing happens , don't ask me ) . And like in many of his best films , Herzog manages to get much more out of his actors / non-actors and his locations than it might have seemed on paper . Poetry gets set into motion with seemingly the greatest of ease , like a scene where a few natives on a small canoe look on , and Fitzcarraldo thinks about stopping , but they just go on as it's not even worth it , or when he and his first-mate and couple other regulars on the ship try to eat , only surrounded by the natives . Or the shocking moments when after victory seems to be achieved , all is in peril as the boat flaps about on the river and the recording still goes on and on , haunting as anything the jungle can compare to . Indeed , the jungle itself becomes another key part of Herzog's metaphor , even more so than in Aguirre , and it's perfectly exploited ( or rendered , depending on point of view ) for Herzog's own feelings about the jungle . It's an environment dangerous , alluring , and with the capacity to fear its awesome mass as well as beauty ( or , as Herzog said in ' Burden ' , it's lovable against better judgment ) , so it's not all taken in at a distance - there isn't so much a real sense of escapism via the hand-held shots unlike in the epics of the directors previously mentioned . Fitcarraldo's own quest then is against nature's own ways - nature is objective and always the same - as the simple notion of moving the boat , and then doing it , goes against nature's true nature , if that makes sense . In this sense it's a great film of the objective , to which Herzog goes to lengths to capture , and the fantastical and subjective , which comes through the operatic portions , and not be bound by nature's usual ways and common sense . Thus it makes perfect sense as well to have Kinski along for the ride , even if it's not his greatest achievement with his most frequent director . It's all in the eyes , practically every step of the way , that one believes this man even through all of the follies and naive flights of fancy , and it's the closest Kinski probably ever came to playing the romantic lead of an adventure picture . Some of the usual scenes of ' damn he's nuts ' come up , like his ringing of the town bell . It's another in the line of outcasts he played in Herzog's films , tormented and always in craving for something more , though this time not in a bleak manner . There is the problem that Kinski's presence would be undermined by the many " adequate " images Herzog loves to achieve . Luckily , he stands his ground , and even contributes to the poetry in times of just listening to the Caruso , and gazing on at his dream coming true on the mountainside . Fitzcarraldo isn't perfect by any means , as it ends up by way of the nature of Herzog's storytelling to almost tell of too much in his scenes . And the English language track I heard sometimes dilutes a few of the performances by feeling too dubbed and a little ridiculous in some instances . But these are just tiny mentions that get overlooked when looking at the success of what is done . Only a director as intelligently deranged and confident as Herzog could have dreamed up this film ( based on a true character ) and make it as real and alive as the greatest of epic adventures .
Smarmy , cynical , satirical - truly a cult of a cartoon comedy show	Duckman was a show that used to be on during the last hour or so before it was time to sleep about ten or so years ago . It was a contrast to a lot of the kid-type of animation I was watching at the time ; I was still a minor junkie for Disney and Looney Tunes stuff , and most Saturday morning cartoons were still on the run-off of the peak from the days of Ninja Turtles and Batman . But also around this time I began to recognize that the more raunchy , mature , surreal , obscene , and ( though I didn't know the term at the time ) satirical cartoon shows were more creative than the stuff I was used to . Around the time of Beavis and Butt-head , Ren and Stimpy , and even The Maxx were hitting TV sets via MTV , USA put out two shows - one of them was Weird Science , and the other was Duckman . I've always remembered a few key bits from the show , and some of the lines are very quotable to those who haven't forgotten it completely . Luckily , I found a tape recently with about six episodes I taped long ago , and the jokes stayed very fresh . And the delivery of the jokes are rapid-fire a lot of the time in the better episodes . In the voice department , the choices in talent are top notch for the story-lines , which are usually just an excuse for crude , fascinating parodies of pop-culture , politics , movies and TV shows , music , detective mysteries , and the dysfunctional family unit . Jason Alexander is a wonderful choice for Duckman , and his performance is a comedic 180 from his days on Seinfeld ( even if there might be some similar characteristics here and there ) . Also , the voices of Gregg Berger as the unmistakably monotoned and deadpan Cornfed , Dweezil Zappa as the hilariously inept Ajax , and Nancy Travis as the sex-starved , obnoxious Sister-in-Law Bernice , all contribute in a full amount . Along with some great writing - even when a joke isn't sure-fire , the wit behind it compensates - the animation style , while a far cry from some of the refurbished , computer-enhanced product of today , is inventive and often abstract . It has that home-made , gritty quality that Beavis and Butt-head or South Park would later have . And , like those shows , if you're a little kid , I mean little as in younger than I was watching the show , you may not understand most of the jokes ( i . e . there are enough stripper and VD references to fill two shows sometimes ) . But it's inventive to catch if it's on TV late at night , and it functions rather well in that time slot . One can only hope for a DVD box set . So , to no one who's barely or even never heard of this program , here's a general note : think of this show as if Dashiell Hammett met up with Walt Disney and decided to go to slum part of Vegas with a free mini-bar and make a collaboration in the vein of Luis Bunuel and The Simpsons combined . Not to mention , it's by the group that did Rugrats . ( strong )
one of Jarmusch's ( and Murray's ) best	It would be hard for me to recommend this film to some people , even if as a particular film-goer as myself it kept me in my seat as it went by with its deliberate ( or slow as most would put it ) pace . For an actor like Bill Murray , this is a 180 turn from his classic comedy roles in Caddyshack and Ghostbusters ( both films I love for his style of quick witted , instantly quotable lines ) - this time , as I've read , he and writer / director Jim Jarmusch took the subtle , subdued approach of Buster Keaton , but done all Murray's way . He continues the sort of ' phase ' he's been in starting with Lost in Translation and going somewhat into The Life Acquatic - now his is reactions which make up the best parts , and the occasional zingers work well against the supporting cast . The reason one might consider Broken Flowers as Jarmusch's most ' mainstream ' film is because it is filmed a little more like one , very steady camera-work , and seeming a little more like a Hollywood type film with the cast ( Sharon Stone , Francis Conroy , Jessica Lange , Tilda Swinton , Chloe Sevigny , Jeffrey Wright among others ) . And the story seems like something one might find in a conventional romantic comedy - Murray plays Don Johnston ( not Johnson , as a running joke in the film ) , a fading Don Juan type who is very well off but also rather isolated with himself . Around the same time his current girlfriend leaves him , he finds a mysterious pink colored letter in a pink envelope . Wright , playing an amusing neighbor of Don's , sets him up to go on a search to find the long lost son the letter alludes to . He reluctantly goes on the search . What is interesting about a filmmaker like Jarmusch , with only a few others I can think of , is that his pace and style and way the film unfolds , my heartbeat never goes too fast or too slow with the rhythm , and it stays consistent . When the climax to the film comes , it's more contemplative than exciting . As Don visits the four women , who each give him something different to offer ( if not answering his questions for the ' mystery ' ) , the comedy kicks in , but as with the scenes with Wright's character Winston , it's not often ' laugh-out loud ' funny , but the wit is there . Some of it is surprising ( the daughter character , Lolita , brings a big laugh ) , and just strange ( Lange's job as an ' animal communicator ' ) , but it's often not so much about hitting for big punches as for more realistic ones . We get long ( some might say too long ) breaks as Don drives in his car , and then something more comes along . For me , at least , it was rather compelling in a minimalist way , which is what Jarmusch is a master of . Some have said that the ending was unfulfilled , that it didn't serve a purpose and left the film with unanswered questions . I found the ending to really be even more fulfilling , perhaps on an existential or some kind of unspeakable level , than something that would typically be cooked up in Hollywood . As Murray stand in the street , the camera moving around him and stopping on him , it had me thinking and finally feeling some emotional attachment to Don . Early in the film , he's almost too subdued , and has an upper-middle class status that brings a detachment like with a lead in an Antonioni film . He says he's content with being on his own doing whatever , but by the end he has come full circle . Murray plays these last couple of scenes wonderfully , bringing one to see that the film is not about the usual solving of a mystery of ' who is my son ' . It's about searching , and finding a connectedness to people . This , again , may sound off-putting to people who just want to be simply entertained , and it may be boring & / or pretentious to the core mainstream fans of Murray . But his performance , and Jarmusch's direction , makes its best way in a realm of its own , taking a simple premise and giving it an original take , and substance , and a specific rhythm . In other words , Jarmusch fans need not be frightened that it looks less ' artsy ' than a film like Dead Man or Mystery Train , and for those who loved Murray's work in Lost in Translation will find a similar wavelength to cling to .
documentary and metal fans rejoice !	Anvil : The Story of Anvil has got those absurd moments ala Spinal Tap , to be sure . Indeed at one point when the camera follows the band walking down a hallway about to go on stage I put a hand over my eyes thinking they were about to get lost . But it's also got the heart and some similarity to The Wrestler . This is a film that has a bittersweet tattoo on its hands , mostly bitter , a bit of sweet , and a whole lot of optimism with the chaser of stress and the very upfront possibility of failure . There's such a connection to these people that what was uproarious in Spinal Tap carries a whole other dimension . Anvil is the hardest working metal band that hasn't caught a break in years , but they play and play their heart and soul out for all it's worth even when nobody ( or five people in a 10 , 000 seat arena ) shows up . They've got big balls , maybe the biggest of them all , but can they get that record break even in their Canadian homeland ? At the same time that the lead singer Lips carries that determination and optimism , now in his 50's and playing in Anvil for over 30 years , there are some moments where he just breaks down . We see real hardcore screaming matches between himself and his friend Robb Reiner ( not that Reiner , oddly enough director of ' Tap ' ) , and it's not like what one saw in 2004's Some Kind of Monster where we saw a group of millionaires whining in argument over recording an album and going into group therapy . This is about real stakes , of friendship and what it means to stick together in something that may be a failure for the most part . It's so real and raw in presentation that you are on the edge of your seat wondering " can this be the end ? " The film follows Anvil , half with original members and half with new ones , as they first go on tour in Europe ( while on vacation from their actual pay jobs , which include for Lips driving grocery supplies - again , a supermarket job ala Randy The Ram Robinson and breaking concrete for Reiner ) , and after the initial high of going on tour in Metal havens like Sweden find that their manager is misguided and without proper English and they barely get paid for gigs they actually play . Then when they get back it sets in that they don't really play anywhere and are deteriorating away - until the initiative comes to Legs that an album must be made , and their only real big-time major produced record , produced by the guy behind many of Black Sabbath and Thin Lizzy's records , tries to get them to do it . But there's money problems . There's internal strife . There's getting the record actually distributed . There's getting gigs . In scenes that are both weirdly , awkwardly funny and as sad as a burning orphan we see Lips on camera talking about how much this new record will be great even if it doesn't sell much at all , or how they've stuck together through thick and thin . If you never met the man you might think the band is a joke , but the brilliance of the filmmaker behind it - big-time Anvil fan Sascha Gervasi - is to get us as close to these people , with real families that have mixed feelings about their husband's or son's or brother's career choices ( or lack thereof ) as honestly as possible . There's even a couple of moments where mortality and longevity are given immediacy and depth , so much so I could only think of last year's Young @ Heart at topping it . Aside from it being gripping documentary work and a fine , dark and often slyly funny look at the triumph of the spirit of these guys ( we even get as the finale , as with Tap , a big quasi-comeback concert in Japan , only here with the potential to bring some in the audience to tears ) , it's a sensational metal movie . These guys are legends to other guys like Slash and Lemmy and Lars Ulrich for a reason - they are that greatest - metal - band - you - never - heard of , loaded with energy and craziness ( one of Lips trademarks was using a dildo to play his guitar on stage ) and the verve that at the least gets attention . If you're at all a metal fan or admirer and don't know them before seeing it , as was the case with myself , you'll want to track down their albums and see what they got to offer . They got the right stuff , and the movie is a testament to their gifts at being a fantastic " old-school " metal band and being the sort of tenacious human beings that get people rooting for them every step of the way . As the line goes from the Wrestler : the only place I get hurt is " out there " ( points to outside world ) .
The only horror movie , make that movie period , you will ever see a possessed tree limb act as a dildo .	While that first line might be a bit of a stretch , it gives a bit of mind about what to expect from Sam Raimi's The Evil Dead , a horror movie so vulgar , so gorish , so unexplicably twisted , that it's incredibly ingenuous until the last shot . Even for a low budget film noticably shot practically on a shoe string from a corpse , it's balsy . The story starts off , and in times steers towards , the area of horror cliches , and yet by the time ( s ) we see the demonic characters , and the blood that goes along with it , it's accepted with the territory . The Evil Dead is to me one of those horror pictures like The Texas Chainsaw Massacre or or Night of the Living Dead that goes to show that within the muck of endless B horror films that those with little money to spend can concoct something that shows craft ( and good old chills ) triumphs over money every now and then . And if you happen to view this as a comedy , it goes for laughs in certain spots as well , albiet twisted to a crazed T .
definitely one of the high points from the series ; even better live !	I'll be honest , I don't watch Buffy the Vampire Slayer regularly - not now or even really much when it was on more in syndication and in its original run - but I did watch it casually sometimes with friends , and did enjoy the occasionally corny fights and angsty teen drama thrown in ( plus , Anthony Stewart Head is quite the cool mentor ) . I had never seen this episode either , but had heard a lot about it from my girlfriend who is a much greater fan of the series than I . An incentive finally came to watch the episode here , where it's all practically singing and dancing with all of the usual characters coming into the swing of things ( by way of a spell of course ) , as the episode is now presented under the ' Buffy Sing-along ' in certain theaters across the country ( if it's not near your city or town , it might be soon , it just left NYC ) . I was expecting a jovial enough time with the audience participation , but nothing great . Needless to say I'm writing this comment mostly to covey how immensely entertained I was by the whole shebang . Joss Whedon , who wrote and directed the episode , alongside his musical collaborators , really ' get ' how to make the wonderful contrivances of musicals fitting for their own types in their show , and it's a feast for fans and still provides many great , up-beat , catchy , and funny songs all the way through . It also helps that the cast in this case is a knockout more often than not , even with Sarah Michelle Gellar not as the greatest singer out there ( she had to take singing lessons to prepare for the episode apparently ) . It would be hard for me to explain to much to such casual watchers of the show like myself , but if you know all the continuity of season five and six then it's no problem . Basically , a spell is cast somehow , and everyone breaks into songs and sometimes dances too , and moreover it brings out the emotions that the characters have been hiding ( i . e . Spike's love for Buffy , Giles reluctance with certain matters , Willow's own love - which is rather graphic when you put the lyrics into total context ) , and also conjures up some demons who have a leader who will make the spell-caster a Queen . The revelation of this , of course , is just another of the jokes . While I'm sure I would've still had a good time watching the episode at home , it's recommended to try and catch the live show just as much . The episode gives so much for an audience to chew up and have fun with , especially late at night ala Rocky Horror , and it makes for grand silliness even when things seem darkest in the storyline and psychologies . The music , meanwhile , is keen and tight and rhythmic without being corny ( I loved the Spike song , and even the power ballad from Giles was fun , plus the demon song & dance ) , and the lyrics strike up enough wit for three episodes . The dialog from Whedon is also top notch ( i . e . " So , Dawn's in trouble . . . must be Tuesday " ) . And the whole time , when I wasn't laughing from the totally unexpected bits and complete adherence to cheerful whimsy , I had a big stupid smile on my face ( if you see it live , by the way , feel more than free to sing-along with everyone else ) . While I wouldn't discredit that it has merit alongside the rest of the season , as a stand-alone episode it takes the cake , and even could compare with the likes of Singin in the Rain as a truly happiest musical time .
A dark family drama in the guise of a typical Romero horror-fest ; one of his best as writer / director	One of the two horror film sleepers of 1977 were not necessarily definable under the usual typecasts of the genre : David Lynch's Eraserhead , which drew itself more to a kind of surreal horror from paintings and animation ; and this film , George A . Romero's Martin , where the horror is not what is usually expected from the director . Indeed , before I saw this film I generally related Romero to the status of a horror-film maverick , where he brings out much of the violence and tension in his films that we as the audience wouldn't get on TV . His subversion's of the genre , however , can be sensed in his zombie satires , as he makes his characters and situations , for the most part , far more believable aside from the dark fantasy / graphic comic-book quality of the designs and look of the films . There's something to think about with his films , even as flesh and blood get tossed about . But this time , for Martin , he made a story that deals with the human relationships even more so than the creepy and supernatural elements of his other works . Martin is a vampire movie , and there are some key scenes that deliver the good for the fans ( and , again , going against expectations , as if Romero was a " new-wave " filmmaker from Europe ) , but also giving something for people who may not be expecting depth in the themes and situations with these people . The main characters of the film , aside from the protagonist Martin ( a twisted and very confused protagonist at that ) , are all developed very well , and aren't necessarily one-sided or even two-sided portraits of caricatures in other vampire movies . For example , the sort of ' Van Helsing ' character in this film is in the form of Martin's uncle Tada Cuda , played by Lincoln Maazel . He's the only one that knows , and is terrified of , Martin's secret life , and upon first bringing him into his home , Tada tries to use crosses and holy water on Martin . Martin can't be fooled , and so Tada resigns , for the moment . While Tada is the kind of typical , harsh old man that acts like something of an antagonist for him and Tada's daughter , he may not be entirely one-sided by the end of the film . The theme of Christianity , as shown in certain variables as the film cuts to black and white flashbacks , explores it in a very on-target way . Why do vampire movies have this kind of magical ability to wash everything with a cross and silver and garlic ? Martin seems to ask these same questions , when he calls up a radio show ( his only real output of his frustrations , though a media that still treats his despair as a joke ) . Martin himself , played in a peculiar , low-key way is John Amplas ( an actor who has his peak in this film , having only appeared in bit parts in other films , mostly Romero's ) . He is often observing , never sure what it is he'll say , and much to how his character is and evolves , has skills of a predator . He was perfect for the role , as he has a level of vulnerability and sincerity that can be connected to , while at the same time in a conflict about what to do with his craving for blood . That the other actors , all indie actors ( one of them , Christine , played by Romero's wife ) , are really quite good with the material , helps the feel and flow of the film . Some directors can't stand editing their own films ( John Ford once said he hated sitting in on it , as other have as well ) , and while they sit in with the editors and make notes , few actually go to the machines and do the work themselves . Romero is one of the few that seems to really enjoy the process , and has fun with it . In some ways his movement within the frame , and with the pacing of Martin's sense of reality and of the past , makes the film seem like it should almost belong in an art-house ( so to speak ) as opposed to at a midnight cult-horror theater . That's not to say he doesn't have it in him to give people their money's worth expecting to get the pants scared off their waists . In fact , there is one big sequence in the film ( where Martin stalks and attacks , needle in hand , a married woman who's having an affair ) that is one of Romero's most suspenseful and unusual . Not to mention there is an ending that wraps everything up rather terrifyingly - one knows something like this would be coming , but not from this direction . Simply this , Martin is smarter for it's regularly intended audience out for simple thrills and cheesy characters - it's a drama that involves searching for companionship , the significance of religion on people , and trying to fit in to one side or another . And it's also a low-budget 70's horror film with a few scenes that hit more on a visceral level than on cheap effects ( not to say there aren't a couple , ho-ho ) . To put it another way , I viewed the film for the first time on a video released in the 80's . Now I'll be on the look-out for the DVD a . s . a . p .
one of Danny Boyle's best !	When film can uplift someone emotionally by having two characters who should be together , ( mostly ) want to be together , and who are as the cliché goes " made " for each other , and it's done without false sentimentality ( different from sentiment , which Slumdog has in spades ) , it can be one of the best things in movies . Danny Boyle's film is one of those and , like another masterful take on romance from this year ( WALL-E ) , it utilizes cinematic style , urgent and sometimes feverish and joyfully passionate turns with the camera and editing , to take us to incredible heights . In fact , this is very much a Capra-esqe picture , but in a manner that doesn't insult today's intelligence or betray any of the characters ' genuine emotional components . Boyle plunges us into the story of Jamal ( Dev Patel , as older Jamal , in an outstanding breakthrough performance ) , who lives a young life in the slums of Mumbai and Bombay and other places , with only his older , mischievous brother Salim , and a girl named Latika . They're the " Three Musketeers " of the story , but they go through a series of circumstances and events that pulls them apart , brings them together , and tears them away once more via gangster connections with Salim and Latika's basic imprisonment under the mob or whoever's control . Like in any strong love story , we got to have someone to root for , and Jamal is one that makes us root for him so much along the way ( not least of which when he is in the midst of his nail-biter of a shot on " Who Wants to Be a Millionaire " ) because he is a good person , a genuine one , so much so there may be one or two scenes we might wonder if Latika is " good enough " for Jamal's overwhelming desire to be with her , to take her away from all the terrible elements of slum life . But ultimately , they're a as pure souls as are , in their own rotten way , the criminals , and even the ( eventually ) conflicted brother Salim . A lot happens that I could go on more about in Slumdog Millionaire , but it's moot to try and go into the big plot points or even some of the surprising twists . This is just absolute , crystal-clear terrific storytelling by a director who trusts his actors to find the ripe nuggets of truth with the characters - what makes them basic and honest or dishonest - when faced with the various clichés or conventions or a story like this . And on top of having a great cast , and having such a wonderful and varied taste in music ( some Indian , some not ) , and of a deft attention to the plot as it skips from back and forth from the interrogation of Jamal to childhood and back in little flashes , it's also as dazzlingly filmed and executed via cinematography as anything from Boyle's cannon . He's never one to lack appropriate style or to push the envelope just a little further to make his stories so absorbing ( Trainspotting and 28 Days Later come to mind as prime examples ) , but rarely has one seen so much attention to the raw power of the characters and the actors as in here . Even with Millions , also dealing with mostly child actors , Slumdog Millionaire gives Boyle a showcase for his talents as a provocateur with the camera , as a constant experimenter , while making sure we don't lose sight of those he's got in his sights . It's more than just appropriate to use such force as a filmmaker for such a tender and tragic / hopeful story , it's almost required . Boyle reaches up to that and then some : some of the shots in this movie are hard to lose out of your mind ( that sudden vision of the blue Hindu child during the massacre is one , but there are countless others ) , and I for one can't wait to revisit them again .
( review of the 5-hour cut ) A total , un-abashed work of art that you'll love or hate . I loved it , and it's likely one of the great epics I'll ever see	As Ingmar Bergman's " swan song " ( which wasn't necessarily the case once After the Rehearsal and the recent Saraband were released ) , Fanny and Alexander was a film I saw many months ago , in its truncated , 3-hour version . I knew I had witnessed something special , something life-affirming , and above all a work that contained enough poetry , passion , and humanity for two movies . But I also felt as if there was something missing here and there . So , once the complete TV version was released , as with Scenes from a Marriage , I jumped at the opportunity to view it in its entirety . Broken up here into 5 Acts , Bergman takes another semi-autobiographical approach to his storytelling , and it's a sumptuous tale of a turn of the 20th Century family ( the Ekdahls , comprising of Oscar and Emilie , the parents , Fanny and Alexander , the kids - Alexander being mostly the driving force behind the story - and also the other relatives Carl and Gustov Adolf , brothers of Oscar , Helena , Alma , Lydia , and also the housemaid Maj ) who own a theater company . What makes Fanny and Alexander work as a major achievement , if anything else for my money is that all the elements seem balanced out over the acts , with story and characters , each sharply defined . The first act unfolds with attention to the little details and the more prevalent ones in a family gathering . A key speech made by Oscar is a haunting bit of foreshadowing before they set off for the family dinner . This scene , involving more or less two dozen people , is sometimes very funny , sometimes a little unnerving , and towards the end depressing . But scenes such as these reveal how wonderful and exciting Bergman can be with his material and actors - despite it taking place in 1907 , you can see these people in modern settings just as easily . There's also the scene involving Oscar with his children before they go to sleep , in which he tells them a story , which ranks as one of the more memorable , touching scenes of the film - from here , we can understand how this brings to Alexander ( Bertil Guve , in a performance that is touching by being so straightforward with the innocence of child-hood ) to the state he's in for much of the rest of the picture . Then the second and third acts come around , and the tragedy unfolds as penetrating as I've seen in any film , much less from Bergman . It wouldn't spoil it to say that Oscar succumbs to an illness , and passes away . From here , Emilie ( Ewa Fröling , a performance meant for Liv Ullman , which she fits just as well ) tries to go on as usual , and it just doesn't feel the same . She seeks counsel from the village bishop , Edvard Vergerus ( Jan Malmsjo , previously in Bergman's Scenes from a Marriage ) , and subsequently falls in love with him , or at least thinks she does . They get married , and the children are forced into leaving ( almost ) everything behind to live at his dreary , caged residence , a far cry from where they once lived , a place lush with colors and life in the rooms . Both of these assets are provided by an Oscar winning production design team , and the foundations of how these two , including as well the theater , display how period-perfect some of this can be . The last two acts are when things get rough , which is a standard Bergman is known for . This kind of standard , if I could call it such , includes his personal connection to the Christian church , in particular with his father being a Lutheran priest . I'm not guessing on how fact based Bishop Vergerus is to Bergman's life , and I really don't want to either . One of the things I loved about the film ( than some likely hated on it's original release - I know , for example , that my father was devastated after watching this film ) is how the good and the bad , or what could be seen as good and bad , are paired off , and how the middle-ground is just as clear or un-clear . Emilie is a good person , wanting the best for her children and for herself , but she doesn't know how to do that without someone to bring guidance when she cannot after grieving for her dead husband ( who appears sometimes to Alexander , which is another matter ) . Alexander , who is a child raised with all the enthusiasm to express himself as such by his uncles and particularly his theatrical father Oscar , is good but lending himself to not being too firm on what's real and what is not . The Bishop , on the other hand , is one who , as he says at one point " has only one mask " . His is a puritanical approach , who sees imagination in only one strict aspect , and has terms of love that are by his code of living and understanding of people . Veregus , along with his family that live in fear and suffering ( Harriet Andersson's character , and with the character of the heavy , ill aunt ) , know little is anything about how the Ekdahls have lived . What ends up happening , even from the get-go of the third act , in the fourth and fifth acts Bergman reveals Bishop Veregus to be an immense antagonist , one that allows just enough sympathy in one or two spots to not throw something at the TV , but with the kind of language that only the most terrifying of movie characters possess . Bottom line , this character , whether you like the film or not , is one of Bergman's greatest creations , and is pulled off by Malmjso with icy , disturbing perfection ; it's one of the most memorable of the kind in film I can think of , right up there with Nurse Ratched , HAL 9000 , and Darth Vader . But what torment and anguish the characters , as well as much of the audience , seem to endure in the fourth / fifth acts ; there also comes revelatory moments of sheer beauty and enchantment . A couple of scenes involving Alexander in the puppet shop , for example , display a level of artistry that goes between Bunuel and Disney . And a particular , long soliloquy by Isak ( Erland Josephsson , not under-used at all ) to the children is a poem unto itself that gives me an idea that Bergman had he not gone into theater and film , would've been one of the great poets of the 20th century . As the catharsis comes , it comes with a kind of justice that works in the only way it satisfyingly could have . With the fates of the Bishop , Emilie , and Alexander and Fanny brought to a close , as with the Grandmother , the uncles and aunts , and so on , it's all very symbolic , metaphorical , and real , and it gels together . One last note - Sven Nykvist , who one his second Oscar with Bergman for this film , creates the kinds of shots that some could only have in their dreams . When he visualizes something for Bergman with the forces of light and dark , with the subtlety and nuance , it's all the better . To put this all in another way , I could go on and on about this huge , heart-rendering work , but it all comes down to this - as an emotional , intellectual , and spiritual ( surprisingly for me , who sees religion as a kind of fantasy ) sort of film-viewing experience , Fanny and Alexander is one of the most profound I've ever had . Some may feel the same ; some may want to forget they ever experienced it . But one thing the film does is stick with you , if only for a little while , and that's really what a film can and should do . . . . by the way , the 5-hour version , at least in America , is only available on a high-priced special edition DVD pack from Criterion , but for the viewer who's already a fan of the film , it makes for a great holiday gift .
Godard has a great piece of Parisian character-fiction	( minor spoilers ahead ) I've started to get a little more used to Godard , and now by My Life to Live I know I can expect anything from him , though it's sometimes a style that he presents frankly , stylishly , or in an experimentally real approach . Along with his masterful cinematographer Raoul Coutard , the mis en scene he creates in each episode is equally satisfying . And there is a terrific balance in how the camera may just stay for minutes at a time on a character before moving and how the camera may show off ( impressively ) for the viewer . For example , there's a moment when Nana ( played by Godard's wife Anna Karina ) is a café , and gun shots are heard outside , the camera seems to cut - or move - to the sounds and beats of shots being fired , tracking like this all the way across the bar to the window . It was stunning to see that being done , not just for the sake of the scene's twist to intensity , but it perfectly skims the line of stage-ness and reality - if you were positioned in that café , how would you see things as your head turns to look to the street ? Godard raises and answers some film-making questions that pay off in the best new-wave type fashion . His dialog , too , is fascinating , and a philosophical discussion between two characters gives me an indication as to what might have inspired Richard Linklater , perhaps . Then there's Anna Karina as Nana , a woman who leaves her husband and child ( you have to listen sharp to note when the child's mentioned ) and gets kicked out of her home by the concierge . She has a job in a record store , but doesn't keep it , wanders the streets , sees a movie ( very emotionally touching scene ) , and tries to get an acting job , or some money together . Then she gets drawn into , without an ounce of remorse , the prostitution ring-around , learning that there isn't nearly as much emphasis on lawbreaking in the business in Paris as there is with medical concerns . Karina , with a face , eyes , hair , and body that has a sweet level of ( distant ) attraction , plays Nana in a wonderful way - we get inklings that she can be happy ( dancing to music in a pool-hall is the highlight ) , though she's at best when she hides it under her demeanor . She smokes , she has a lot of sex , she has talks that sometimes don't go anywhere , but is the viewer ever let in to who she really is or what her motives are day to day ? This is a credit to her , as well as Godard , in creating this memorable figure in the early 60's New-wave of French cinema . Credit should also be given to Michael Legrand's theme ( though repetitive , has a sort of purpose for many scenes ) .
a truly methodical , cool hybrid of old-school classy heist films with some extra element . . .	Rififi , directed by Jules Dassin , is in line with the Melville crime pictures ( particularly Bob le Flameur and to a point Le Cercle Rouge ) of being totally focused on story and character and making sure not a word is spoken that doesn't need , and was ahead of its time . Ionically , it still has a kind of professionalism among its characters , a kind of respect ( if not for selves than for others , a kind of duty ) that rings well in post-WW2 France . Its actors carry faces for these characters that say ' we know what these guys are about ' , and from there the story takes off . Maybe it's because I have a weak spot for heist pictures , particularly where we see just the nuts and bolts ( err , actual physical side ) of how a heist is pulled off . One of the problems with how the actual heist is filmed in today's movies is that it's all very fast ( i . e . Snatch ) , or done in ways we've seen too many times before . Dassin , like Melville years later , decided to create practically a silent film of a heist , sound effects included . The tension that builds up in this scene may not top what Melville had in ' Rouge ' , but on its own level it achieves its own greatness and momentum , and just as crucial originality to what's been done before . There are some kept close-ups , for example , as the safe is being cracked , that mark some of the best I've seen from France at that time . An added plus for the film , aside from the larval-stage new-wave touch to the film , which in the end makes it a little more modern , is that the story works so well and differently . It becomes completely about character at points , and then keeps up the thrills . The last ten to fifteen minutes are down-right miraculous ; like with another classic heist picture the Asphalt Jungle , it's not even the last stop that matters , but all about how much one will go past the call of duty , putting humanism over greed . You almost wonder in all the exhilaration of the camera flying by the trees at a high speed with the car that he might just make it . Dassin has here a very entertaining and intuitive film of its genre , with a nifty little musical number as well .
Fractured Magnificence ; one of the great tragedies of cinema ( not the film per say , but its history )	It's almost common knowledge in the realm of the film world about the history of the Magnificent Ambersons , which leaves a minor problem when trying to criticize it . Orson Welles made the film's final running length at around two hours and fifteen minutes . While he was out of the country filming ' It's All True ! ' ( another doomed film in the Welles cannon ) , RKO pictures , the studio that had granted Welles total freedom for Citizen Kane and a few future projects , cut out fifty minutes ( mostly of the last fifty ) , put a happy ending , and released it on a double-bill with a B movie . Although it's attributable in retrospect to the War starting up ( after all , who wants a - downer - period piece ) and to the difficulty the studio had with Welles ' reputation , the fact that the 90 minute version that now exists is the only version available is a tragedy in and of itself . Unless if someone follows the wild rumor that a print was dumped by the studios into the ocean and pulls it up , this is all we can get . Still , incomplete Welles is more satisfying than no Welles , or most other studio product of the period . Welles takes Booth Tarkington's novel ( inspired in part by Welles himself as a child - George being Welles ' name ) and makes it into a sumptuous , striking , and altogether unique drama of the changing of the times , and how people cope with changes or go with them . The story is one of those involving the minds and hearts of the upper class . Joseph Cotten ( as usual charming & / or cool , dramatic ) is Eugene , the man who wanted Isabel Amberson's hand in marriage . She married another man , and their child George was early on a hard-head case ( these scenes are some of the best of the film , with deliberate staging of close-ups , medium shots , and basically setting up the technical style of the Wellesian cinema ) . As he grows up , he's still a little hard-headed ( played in one of the top , intense performances in any Welles film by Tim Holt ) , as he is against the changing of the times , in particular of Eugene's re-founded courtship of the mother following his father's death . There is also the character of his Aunt Fanny , in another perfect performance from Agnes Moorhead ( the mother from Citizen Kane ) . Alongside this examination of a family's downfall amid the changing of personal relations , and of George's own complex emotional problems , and of George's coming-of-age , there's also the examination of the transition from the horse and buggy to automobiles , to the heavier boost of the industrial age . Welles as a narrator is somber , observant of it all , and mostly leaves the film to his actors . There's some real thought put into the issues , and not just through the realistic ( though of course theatrical ) dialog , but more specifically through the style . ' Kane ' introduced audiences to Welles knack at long-takes , deep focus , unusual and expressionistic close-ups , heightening the drama that unfolds . ' Ambersons ' is no exception , and there are some very memorable scenes where the camera just stays on people , and then when it moves it makes the mis en scene more concentrated , direct . The use of light is also equally impressive at times - like in interior shots of a staircase when George and Fanny are in an argument , it's all encompassing , and not distracting enough from the story . The best consistency of any Welles film , even when it has some flaws , is the control that can be seen through much of it ( there's also a very spooky shot that stays with me towards the end , as the camera pans across the town's buildings , Welles ' mournful narration over it ) . But then we come to the ending , where things come to a screeching halt . I'm not against happy endings , they can be almost mandatory in certain formulas in films . However , it sort of takes an excellent film dealing with strong , novelistic issues to a bad place when things are resolved in the way this film does - George gets in an accident , he loses the use of his legs . But then a scene comes ( and one can tell the immediate change in the style from Welles to the studio's ) where loose ends get made , and without anything leaving curious for the viewer . I'm still not sure if anything else within the film was cut-out too , or if even I might have been fooled at another time by something not of Welles in the picture . It's depressing to be sure , but at least there is enough left to analyze and contemplate in the Welles ' oeuvre - in some ways it goes more ambitious than ' Kane ' , at least in its period realm , the questions it raises . The lessons the history behind the scenes gives for future filmmakers and studios should be remembered , even as mediocrity ( like RKO tried its best to make this film as ) continues today in Hollywood .
astonishing performances , absorbing play , direction that keeps things moving	It was a wise decision on the part of producer Ely Landau - one of the only wise ones , as seems to be the history of the flawed ambition of the American Theater Company's movie adaptation productions - to hire John Frankenheimer as director . He was known at the time in the movie industry for churning out high-charged action and adventure pictures ( i . e . The Train , Grand Prix ) , and the occasional dark classic ( The Manchurian Candidate ) , but he started as a television director , and with a play that ran like The Iceman Cometh there would be needed someone who could track the stinging , meaning-of-life-and-death dialog of O'Neill's play with the camera and not make it feel too ' stagey ' . This might be difficult to surmise that he made it fully cinematic in the sense of using more than one set or exteriors , as he didn't . Everything is confined to that set of Harry's bar . But within this precise , necessary limitation , Frankenheimer delivered one of his best projects . Then again , how could he not with the source material ? It's about some of the richest theater ever produced , least in the 20th century , and is considered by many to be O'Neill's epic masterpiece . It's a tale of a community , a quasi-family of bums and stragglers who're stuck more or less in a dive down in a seedy section of New York city in the early part of the century , awaiting the return of Hickey ( Lee Marvin ) , a big force of a man who works in advertising . This time things are a little different , however , and a new revelation leads the men ( and a couple of the women ) to wonder if he's flipped his lid . Around this premise of a dark secret or a certain feeling of " death " that Hickey has brought with him , O'Neill creates an ensemble that's unforgettable in its mix of light and dark , principled and sleazy , afraid and just downright kooky . There's a whole mix ; there's Larry the ex-anarchist who's slowly dying inside ( Robert Ryan ) ; there's the depressed-cum-demanding kid ( Jeff Bridges ) ; Harry ( March ) ; the bartender / pimp ; a black gambler ; the " Limey " ; the " Tarts " ; and a crazy , rambling European screaming about socialism from time to time . And despite what some may have said comparing it to the 1960's made-for-TV version directed by Lumet ( which I would love to see but is at the moment unavailable ) , I'd be hard-pressed to see a cast better than this . Just a reminder : Lee Marvin can act , amazingly , and here he puts his chops to such a test that he rolls on to his climactic , half hour quasi-confession like it's the performance of his life . Ditto for Ryan and March , and for them it was more-so ( Ryan knew he was dying , adding a poignancy to what was probably his best , most subtle work , and March is captivating as the stubborn old drunk owner ) . And Bridges , in a role which he said made him want to continue seriously being an actor , is hard to take one's eyes away from , even as his character wavers from being sympathetic to unlikeable in a single scene . And the bulk of the supporting cast are all wonderfully played and transposed , injecting life into a play that requires it to keep it going full throttle . It's not an easy thing to endure ; it's four hours long , and for the first hour here and there one has to go through some minor early morning drunkenness from the characters , which isn't the least effective portion of the play as well as the film . From there on out , if one is tuned into O'Neill's precisely harrowing story of the bums and drunkards and outcasts and all very flawed human beings , it will work wonders even in its sparsest moments . The ending , I might add , is about as perfectly bittersweet as I've seen this side of Woody Allen's Manhattan . Frankenheimer's work is a nearly forgotten gem .
Freud on brilliant parade with a mind-expanding look at the powers of cinema , and what makes up fantasy and / or reality	There's the danger with the critic / philosopher Slavoj Zizek with his film , directed by Sophie Fiennes , which takes together a wonderful amalgam of silent , horror , sci-fi , surreal and other contemporary thrillers together to make his points ofr Freudian comparisons to overload . But in the Pervert's Guide to Cinema he also makes even the more far-reaching points a point of departure from any other analysis I've seen on a collective section of films . While it doesn't cover the expansive territory Scorsese's movie documentaries cover , the same attachments are there , and Zizek has a definite love for all of these " perverse " examples and films , primarily the work of Hitchcock , Lynch , Chaplin and Tarkovsky . Yet one shouldn't go into seeing this - if you can find it that is , I got to see it almost by luck - thinking Zizek will just try and dissect all of the psycho-sexual parts or parts referring it in an obtuse , deranged manner . If anything he opens up one to points that might never be considered otherwise - would one think of three of the Marx brothers as representations of the Id , Super-Ego and Ego ( Harpo's example is most dead-on for me ) . He's not just one to take on the classics though , he also considers the food for thought in The Matrix and Fight Club - in representations of the split between fantasy and reality and if the matrix needs the energy as much as the energy needs the matrix for the former , and in the attachment of violence in dealing with one's own self as well as ones double in the latter . He even throws in a piece from the pivotal moment in Revenge of the Sith when Anakin becomes Darth Vader , and the implications of shunning away fatherhood under that back mask at the very moment his children's births happens elsewhere . The ideals of fatherhood , male sexuality , the male point of view in turning fantasy into reality ( at which point Zizek rightfully points to as the moment of a nightmare's creation ) , and female subjectivity , are explored perhaps most dead-on with Vertigo . This too goes for a scene that Zizek deconstructs as if it's the Zapruder film , where he dissects the three colliding points of psycho-sexual stance in the ' don't you look at me ' scene in Blue Velvet . Now it would be one thing if Zizek himself went about making these sincere , excited , and somehow plausible points just face on to the camera or mostly in voice-over as Scorsese does . But he goes a step further to accentuate his points of fantasy and reality , and how they overlap , intersect , become one and the same , or spread off more crucially into some netherworld or primordial feeling for some characters ( i . e . Lost Highway ) by putting himself IN the locations the films take place in . Funniest is first seeing him in the boat " heading " towards the same dock Tippi Hedren's boat heads to at the beginning of the Birds ; equally funny is as he waters the Blue Velvet lawn he goes on to explain the multi-faceted points of Frank Booth ; only one , when he's in Solaris-like territory , does it seem a little cheesy . But Zizek seems to be having a lot of fun with this set-up , and after a while one bypasses the potential crux of this gimmick and Zizek's words come through . There were some films I of course would've expected , chiefly from Hitchcock and Lynch , but a treat for movie buffs come from seeing two things - the movies that one would never think of seeing in a film about films titled the Pervert's Guide of Cinema ( top two for me would be the Disney Pluto cartoon and the exposition on Chaplin's films , albeit with a great note about the power and distinction of ' voice ' ) , and the ones that one hasn't seen yet ( i . e . the ventriloquist horror film , Dr . Mabuse , Stalker , among a few others ) that inspire immediate feelings of ' wow , I have to see that immediately , no questions asked . ' Zizek is a powerful writer with his work , and puts it forward with a clarity that reminds one why we watch movies in the first place , to be entertained , sure , but also to have that actual experience of sitting down and having something up there , as he put it , looking into a toilet . It's probably one of the greatest films about cinema , and in such a splendidly narrow analysis of how Freud works its way into films regarding desire , the Id / Super-Ego / Ego , and of the supernatural in fantasy , that you may never see . . . unless distribution finally kicks in , if only on the smallest levels .
Marvelous study of character and atmosphere , a neo-realistic triumph . . .	One of Roberto Rossellini's masterpieces , Germany Year Zero , suffers only from one minor liability , which is not totally the filmmaker's fault . The film was shot in German with the native language , but it was later shown around the world ( at least I think around the world ) in an Italian-dubbed print , which is also the version currently available on American DVD . True , Rossellini ( as far as I know ) didn't speak German , and he had it in Italian so he wouldn't have trouble getting the film distributed in his native land where he broke ground with Open City and Paisan . But it is a fair enough indication that not EVERYTHING in a film such as Germany Year Zero is based in total reality based on seeing this version . Once this is looked past though , one can get into the actual story and characters , which is what Rossellini is after - getting at least the emotional loss in this world perfectly clear . Germany Year Zero - the third in a so-called trilogy of films that began with his breakthrough Open City and continued with Paisan - was brilliantly executed , in the quasi-documentary cinematography by Robert Juillard , the appropriately sorrowful score by Renzo Rossellini , and in the performances by first timers like Edmund Moeschke as Edmund Koeler ( the main character ) , Ingetraude Hinze as Eva Koeler ( Edmund's desperate sister ) , and Erich Guhne as Herr Enning ( Edmund's ex-teacher who becomes a crucial supporting character ) . Edmund is a pre-teen who's lived through the devastation of the War , like his family , the families he lives with , and everyone else around him in the city , and he tries to get work despite his all-too-young age . Things seem bleak for his family , as his brother doesn't want to work for fear of being caught as a prisoner of the war , his elderly father can't work , and his sister goes out every night looking for things that only help herself . When Edmund runs into his once school-teacher ( Enning ) , who is part of the cold , evil remnants of the Nazi regime , and this leads into the last act of the film , with startling , heart-breaking results . While the story of Edmund - and of the line that scorches a kid's conscience between childhood innocence and the horrors of the real world - is a compelling and historically important one to tell , what Rossellini achieves here more than anything is the sense of dread in a desolate atmosphere . He achieved that in Open City too ( I have yet to see Paisan so I can't comment ) , but that film had the tendency to take a little too much time involving us in sub-plots . In Germany Year Zero , however , the images presented stay with the viewer long after the film has ended since they're akin to the kind of sensibility Polanski had with The Pianist , in a technical sense - we're following someone in his own personal struggle for survival in an environment that's in rubble , with many of the people around the character without much hope . There's also the theme of sacrifice , like in the other two films in Rossellini's trilogy , and that plus a theme of a sort of helpless hope in human spirit , stays true through the seventy minutes of this film . Highly recommended ( the language dubbing practically regardless ) .
truly devilish fun and mind-blowingly entertaining as classic cartoon style , but also very successful in storytelling - magnifique !	It's pretty easy to make little rodents charming and fun characters ( just ask Disney himself , to a clichéd extent ) , but it's even harder to make them work in such a way that's original and exciting as comedy in conventional ways for today's audiences . But Brad Bird shouldn't be lumped into the group of today's CGI animators . He doesn't really think in those terms , but rather in how to make things look real , and yet at the same time keeping in full mind that it's a cartoon , not reality . This goes not simply for the rats themselves - the funniest , probably even funnier , that Disney's remotely had to market since the Great Mouse Detective - but the human characters too , who have their own distinct shapes and qualities based on personality and relevance to the story ( whether they're good or bad , or maybe even more complex too ) . He places the designs for the characters right up there with the rest of the atmosphere , and then also adds in just the right way to make that wonderfully formulaic Pixar storyline - you know a lot of what may unfold , though not everything , and you know that you're in excellent hands because of the levels of detail and nuance in the comedy chaos at times . It'll be hard to beat this ( to put it in a corny phrase ) ' gourmet selection ' as the best animated film of the year , and certainly the best that Pixar's done since , um , the last Brad Bird movie ! The story is the fish out of water , or in this case rat , where a little rodent named Remy , who is totally immersed in the style of Augustus Gusteau , a famous French chef who dies , and who's position is filled by a lowly garbageman named Linguini . He can't cook , of course , but somehow Remy , separated from his rat family , cooks something up on the spot as a not-quite accident , sending Linguini as the one who supposedly made it . On the fluke , he becomes the new chef at Gusteau's . . . only , the chef's a rat , literally , hilariously pulling Linguini's hair to make him a cooking puppet ( early on this makes for some of the best physical comedy of any Pixar movie ) . This fluke becomes the start of the usual ball of string unraveled bit by bit , involving an heir to Gusteau's fortune , a love interest in aggressive chef Colette , and Remy's reconnection and estrangement from his huge rat clan and his father . All the while Bird throws in such dangerous and downright devilish comedy for a G rated animated movie . And there's morales to be learned too , or sort of taken away , I guess , only this time in the true Disney form instead of Pinocchio and Jiminy Cricket , it's Remy and the , well , illusion of Gusteau's ghost appearing to him as a quasi-conscious . What makes Ratatouille stand out of the pack from the fellow summer far of the moment , particularly 4th of July fare , is how there's such deft to Bird and his team navigating along the lines of making the comedy work to its excessive lengths while always keeping a firm grip on which turn the story will take next ( the moments I didn't quite expect - the whole heir angle involving Linguini , and the climactic scenes with the rats preparing the restaurant's dinners , all washed before going to work , and keeping ' under wraps ' the health inspector at the same time ! ) . I probably laughed just as much during this film as I would at something much raunchier like Knocked Up or Grindhouse , to give recent examples , but as mentioned there's a riskiness to Bird's style here . One scene I particularly loved is when Remy is training linguini to command the muscle-controlled hair pulling scheme at his home , and there's a build-up to what seems like a knife going to cut into his fingers while he's chopping vegetables ( up to this point he's been hopeless in his training ) , but at this very point where we should expect the worst , which is funny unto itself , it starts to level out and he's sort of under control . Sort of in that he'll still be naturally clumsy enough to spill the wine on his own head . Same goes for little things like the quite silhouetted bit Remy passes by with the lover about to shoot the other and then falling into full embrace , or the actual fellow employees at Gusteau's , one of who has the wildest thumb ever shown in a movie , least of all a ' family ' movie , that I can remember ( albeit Bird does come out of working on the Simpsons ) . So many masterstrokes of comedy go on that it's almost neglected to note how exciting a lot of the film is too , the run-around Remy has in the kitchen first time he comes in or the chase through Paris between the crooked head cook Skinner and Remy , and how seamless voice-work and the ( now highly expected ) advances in Pixar's technical innovations go together . It was a good guessing game who was the voice of Ego ( it's O'Toole , but then it could be any given old regal British person ) , and to pick out that it's Ian Holm or Garofolo voicing some of the other parts , but it's not something that is immediately meant to be stand-out like in other CGI movies where it's being sold mostly on celebrity voice talent . It's almost like a lot of this comes quite naturally to Bird and his team , and yet because it isn't it reverts to becoming all the more remarkable . Ratatouille is simply an exceptionally fun picture , loaded with sight gags and puns and slips of behavior , and never overbearing with any of the usual messages that come pre-packaged for kids in these movies , all the more remarkable as it comes nearer to Pixar reusing previous ones .
sometimes classic teen soap , sometimes classic wild comedy , always witty and kick-ass and heartfelt	This is Joss Whedon's baby , at least for most of the time ; towards the end of the series he wasn't quite as involved as he was at the start . Which sometimes happens , unfortunately for most viewers , towards the end . But for a very large majority of the run of the series , this was some of the most intelligent stuff being offered to the ( primarily ) teen-girl demographic in prime-time , and by far the best show on the old WB network . And after seeing the first two seasons back to back , sometimes half a season in a day , and seeing various episodes scattered about over the years , it definitely confirms Whedon as some kind of minor genius in this form of storytelling . It might not always be as funny as it thinks it is , or kick as much ( believable ) butt , but , another but , I'd never turn it down as a recommendation for anyone the least bit into vampires and romance and comedy . . . and watchers decked out in tweed and British accents . One line summary : Buffy Summers ( Sarah Michelle Gellar , displaying more range than 3 movies combined ) moves to Sunnydale , meets friends Willow and Xander ( Hannigan and Brendon ) , where she must take the role of Slayer - there can be only one with one or two exception-episodes - and also has to fend off love-cum-enemy interests like Angel ( piece-o-hunk Borenaz ) plus a solid ' master ' or other enemy every season . This is so condensed as to be used for pitiful soup ; the point of the show , or one of the points , is to posit the angst and trials and tribulations and occasional big-fun of high school teen years with the fantastical struggle of vampire wars . The mythology of vampires on the show is great , what comes up of it when need be , but like the X-Files there are also brilliant stand-alone episodes as well ( one of my favorites , Ted , happens to showcase the late John Ritter , or those that can be stand-alone but require plot schematics like Once More with Feeling that make for pure , outstanding entertainment in any genre ) . At the same time that we get some cool monsters and critters and demons and whatever , often acting out of good lore or just manifestations of the human condition ( to get all philosophical here ) , Whedon and his crew are often very good , sometimes with real emotional vigor , in getting us to really feel for all of the characters , even if it's in the worst ways for the villains ( albeit I find Spike to be as much of a wicked bad-ass as much as just wicked more often than not ) . It's not uncommon for Whedon to reel out the tears from his female viewer-ship - sometimes , as with my own wife to get personal here , more than once - and it's a sign of a writer and other writers tuned into the aesthetic of full-formed human people . It goes without saying ( most of ) the cast ( when not , see Michelle Trachtenberg ) is just as tapped into the nature of the characters , the rampant but carefully laid humor , sometimes laugh-out-loud funny , as well as the tenderness and harrowing moments of existential umph of living in Sunnydale and fighting vampires . So gather some friends , or board up the windows and doors at night , and get in on one of the underrated shows of the past 15 years . It's not just for your teen daughter : you can get in on the fun and drama and cool special effects and fights ( not so much cool CGI though ) . Notwithstandin its flaws , it gets a firm A verging on
easily my favorite ' variety ' show of the 1970s ; so many memories , laughs , songs , and strange creatures and friends	I used to watch the Muppet Show a lot when they re-ran old episodes on Nickelodeon in the 90s , and saw a large variety of episodes , some that they released on DVD in patches a few years ago . It made me very , very happy though when I got my hands on the season 1 DVD set ( albeit with some cuts made due to song rights and whatnot , which is a little disappointing but nevertheless a collector's item ) and could get into the predictable - which is part of the fun - and great oddities and regulars on the show . Maybe I might be partly biased , as I've always loved the Muppets , particularly the movies and other little diddies they've done . But the show could be either a superb show for the whole family , or a little hit or miss depending on the audiences of today . For kids - as the original ' pitch ' on the DVD says - there are a lot of quirky , odd , and assuredly original creations aside from the common muppets ( Kermit , Fozzie , Gonzo , Ms . Piggy , Rowlf , Stanter & Waldorf , etc ) , but there's also some really , really weird moments on the show , such as dancing slinkies and a character like Crazy Harry who's only function is to make things explode with a Peter Lorre-esquire expression . For adults and older teens , such bizarre things and the assorted lot of memorable guests ranging from musicians ( Elton John , Alice Cooper , Paul Williams , etc etc ) comedians ( John Cleese , Harvey Korman , Peter Sellers ) , and many other surprise types like Vincent Price and Harry Belafonte , are appealing , but what about the really goofy gags and infinite lot of bad puns ? For me though , everything about the show is terrific in its sort of low-budgeted TV 70s way . It's very nutty , but it's alive in a way that makes shows of today pale in comparison . In the first season it establishes itself as a wild lampooning of variety shows of the period in general , with the guests almost as a given being apart of the jokes , and with running gags , a quasi central ' storyline ' going on backstage , and like on any variety show giving full-time for jokes , musical numbers sometimes with upside down chins making faces , and just very unexpected bits with the Muppet creatures and puppets that you will never see again . And the wit that goes through the entire series , from episode to episode , sometimes varies , but is always with a great wink and a nod to how silly it is , but at the same time it's also very smart-being-stupid humor too . An example of this would be when CLeese was on , and having to help Gonzo fix his long-arm problem after catching a cannonball . It's at equal turns overall cartoonish , exciting , whimsical , and it usually attempts to work best for young and old alike .
certainly the most entertaining , riveting , and wholly satisfying medical show on TV , at least now	When one gets a little tired of there being too much about the doctors and not enough about the patients - or at least that so many overlapping characters and plot lines get thrown together - on ER , there's the temptation to go elsewhere . For fans that is ; I was always more of a casual admirer of the show , but couldn't really get into medical dramas in general . House MD , however , is not so much about your typical medical drama , even if it does appear to be . Watching it for a few minutes it will look like a standard : doctors try and figure out what's wrong with a patient , with it being more like a scientific process then one might expect , and it's not always 100 % guess right . The difference is , we get a wonderful mix of doctor characters who are given just the right moments of development and exposition and strong and captivating medical cases varying from episode to episode . It's structure then , in a sense , is like Law & Order , only with the predictability factor eschewed by the fact that the character of House , and his staff ( which may come under some change in season 4 if it comes ) , are not kept as simple expository units for the plot . It is , even with its cynicism level sometimes quite high due to its main character , probably closer to life than we might think watching the high melodrama on ER . And , of course , it's Hugh Laurie that will either draw a viewer in or just make him / her think ' he's what all the hoopla is about ? ' Laurie , who's already won an Emmy & / or Golden Globe for his performance , is like a consummate professional only with the level of sarcasm one would expect from Garfield the cat , only if he weren't a cat but a , well , Vicodin popping screwball in his early 40s . He's always got a remark around the corner , or maybe two in thirty seconds depending on the situation or who's in the room , and Laurie makes House never into a caricature , and even makes him compelling when the drama has to get sky high ( i . e . getting off Vicodin , a major crisis with a patient , a crisis with one of his fellow staff like Foreman's viral infection ) . He's like one of those cool detective heroes on those mystery shows from the 60s and 70s , only more acidic with his tone and , in his strange way , more sympathetic then one might expect . At the same time Laurie is surrounded by supporting players up for the task , and handles guest stars just as well . Overall , it's not just another simple medical drama but more of a tragic-comedy where the errors spell big problems , and the two sides of saving someone's life and making quick quips about things whether the mood is light ( House to Wilson about his change in a tie ) , or dark ( will they figure out what the hell is wrong before death comes around ? ) , is all part of what's fun and truly compelling about the material . It's also one of the few shows on right now , especially for prime-time network TV , to work as well with character with story .
watched it mostly cause it's a QT episode , his trademarks included , but still quite sharp and dramatic for regular fans	I must confess , I'm not an avid , or even really regular , viewer of ER . A few episodes sometimes stick out that I have seen , a few really indelible images ( i . e . there's one episode , which I can't totally recall , that has a woman with a bug in her ear that creeped me out intensely ) . But as with CSI , another show I'm not very keen on , I decided to check out a specific episode based most of all on a credited director - Quentin Tarantino in this case . Amid the big frenzy over Pulp Fiction , he got offers all over the place , and this was one of them that he took on , as he " put on the scrubs " QT himself called them , and also in a very rare case took the helm as director and not ( also ) as writer of the episode . This episode starts off quite intensely with , what else , a woman on the verge of delivery of her child . Right away some of that Tarantino edge comes in with the hand-held style , and while it obviously isn't there , one could guess if this weren't a network show it would be cursing galore . The episode then unfolds with some of the character drama unfolding , but for the most part it's really focused on two things - a big helping of some head-rushing , manic hospital work on some wheeled-in-right-away patients , and on pregnancy and giving birth and such . There's even a bit of tenderness towards the latter part of the episode , which might come to be expected with the title . But those who , like me , will seek out the episode for likely QT trademarks wont be too disappointed . He does stick with the main form of the show , and if one didn't know he directed it it might be seen as usual - though above average usual - ground being covered . The hindsight does trigger some grins during the episode at the recognition of certain things , like the shots that track along ( I remember there's one scene where the camera goes from one conversation to another , almost no cuts really between the two ) . And the aforementioned big ER scenes are a bit bloody and almost veering to the over the top . It didn't surprise me it made it on TV , but the intensity of the cuts and the action kept things going along quite well . In short , an obscure little treat for fans of QT , and for fans of the show it provides equal doses of regular-character drama and pathos on mothering and delivery-room semantics .
strangely insightful , feverish trip into the consciousness of Bob Dylan - public as well as mythic and personal - and great tunes !	It's not quite as the ads have said - there aren't six people specifically playing Bob Dylan . It's fragments , pieces , all making up a tableau regarding the myth , history , pop-mania , arrogance , self-deprecation , strange humor , and undeniably powerful musical ability of Bob Dylan . It's Todd Haynes working wonderfully without a net on what isn't a film that will be for everyone , much like Dylan himself . It shuffles around the six perspectives - albeit never in a manner that is confusing or too startling in terms of the storytelling relating to each other - and it does depend a lot on how much one knows about their Dylan history ( Woody Guthrie , Pat Garrett and Billy the Kid , horrible husband , erratic rock star , folk legend-cum-born again , and the enigma always hiding that wound up more contradictions than a pretzel smothered in ice cream ) . Godard would approve . For those that admire Dylan , or at least can understand how hype and fame can merge with the possibility of Dylan as an outsider in the 1960s of all times , and knows at least a little bit ( the " hey , it's Alan Ginsberg ! " gag , as he rides up alongside Dylan's limo , played by David Cross , is one of the funniest things I've seen in years ) , and can respect how the filmmaker pays respect while ultimately adulating the whole ideal of a iconoclastic figure , the film serves up many moments of " pure " enjoyment . Others , who know him as writing Blowin ' in the Wind and All Along the Watchtower , and know him as the guy on that album cover with the girl on the New York street , might be a little more perplexed - actually more-so than a little . Haynes's film can be argued on the flip side of the coin as pretentious doodling and meandering with Felliniesque aspirations and grandeur Americana . On the other hand , at least for the former , the same can go for Mr . Dylan . Does he care what he says ? Who's to say ? If for nothing else , aside from the brilliant editing and mind-blowing camera-work , edging on the sublime , see it for the songs , of course ( including a mixture of classic Dylan material , some of which is not new to my ears , some is , and very well done covers ) , and for the performances . Cate Blanchett is a marvel , totally deserved of another Oscar nomination , as she digs deep into the most well-known period of Dylan's height of glory ( and the tipping-point , as we see , prior to his real-life motorcycle accident ) , with the bushy hair and the kooky manner of speaking and almost shy demeanor , Blanchett makes it all her own . But lest not forget Christian Bale and Heath Ledger , who may actually fare a lot better here than in the upcoming Dark Knight ( who's to say , of course ) , as Bale especially takes on the persona of the young and reinvigorated Dylan , looking exactly like the ' Times They Are-a-Changing ' form , and Ledger as the devilish , mean womanizer side . And the little black kid and Richard Gere are OK too - actually , the black Kid , Carl Franklin , is more than OK . The point is , I'm Not There is exhilarating for the open-minded , revelatory in spurts , and with that kind of rush that a story , fable , history , and musical mixed together can bring only so often in cinema . And like Dylan , it's post-modern to the point of at one moment scratching your head and another moment wanting to clap your hands like hell . It makes Across the Universe , frankly , look like Child's Play in comparison . The Beatles , I might add , appear in the most blatant ( and uproarious ) cameo of the year .
They don't seem to make movies like this anymore , do they ?	While the question is a bit rhetorical , I do mean it - you don't see that many movies made anymore like this , The Last Detail by Hal Ashby ( Being There ) and Robert Towne ( later to write another Nicholson gem , Chinatown ) , where the story is just a baseline to the characters studied in subtle and not so subtle ways . It even grows on the viewer if seen multiple times , where what seems to be dragging on is loaded with nuance . There's a level of existentialism to it : how free are Buddusky and Mulhall , or their choices ? Probably not much at all , at least not any more or less than the doomed Meadows . But this is not the only method of Ashby on the material , there are also superlative performances from Jack Nicholson , Otis Young , and a newcomer at the time , Randy Quaid . Nicholson and Young play Buddusky ( Bad-ass ) , and Mulhouse ( Mule ) , who are assigned " chicken-s detail " , to transport petty thief Quaid , sent up for eight years in a naval brig . On the way up the Eastern seaboard , the three stop in Washington , New York , and Boston , and the two try to show the youngster a good time before imprisonment . Probably one of the most under-looked pictures of the 1970's , though one of the more note-worthy , especially for it's attitude delivered ten-fold by Nicholson's Cannes winning Buddusky , and Towne script . A scene in a bar in Washington and a scene at a Nichiren Shosu meeting steal the lot , though there's plenty to look for . It's one of my favorite tragic-comic sleepers , and one of Ashby's best .
melodrama lifted up into perverse tragedy as only Bunuel can do	It might appear to the uninitiated that Luis Bunuel is making with Tristana at first a good but very predictable melodrama that turns somewhere in the second half mark into a strange power-play of desire turned on its head . But in reality , when looking at it after seeing a couple of his films , Bunuel's work with Tristana is somehow kind of touching . He cares about all of his characters - none of whom what they seem or dumbed down to Lifetime movie levels - and in this stuck-in-its-ways society there are boundaries that are crossed in tragic means . Usually one might expect some dark or subtle comedy of manners or satire on society , but here it's stripped away , as it was for some of Viridiana , and all that's left is a spare , tense and expertly manipulated tale where the tables are turned once or twice on the couple of Don Lope ( Fernando Rey ) and Tristana ( Catherine Deneauve , maybe her most physically demanding of her two Bunuel roles ) . One thing that's extraordinary about how Bunuel directs and allows for his actors to play the scenes is that the emotions are only heightened to a certain level , and never with the aid of things like music or tears . It is what it is : Don Lope has taken care of Tristana as her guardian since her mother died , and now has inserted himself as her father / husband figure , with his servant Saturna ( stern-faced but understanding Lola Gaos ) a kind of unofficial confessional . Tristana wants some freedom , just to go out and walk around , and feels caught by Don Lope even when not doing anything . . . until she meets Franco Nero's Don Horacio , a painter who could promise a new life . This goes without saying that one should take it for granted that Tristana isn't that young and could take care of herself without Lope , but maybe this is part of the point of the slight absurdity - and eventual tragedy - of this struggle . Two years go by after she leaves Lope for Horacio , with a tumor in her leg . She's now a cripple , and now once again a kind of mental prisoner in Lope's home ; the complexity of old man Lope as being duplicitous is seen right after he finds out she's sick and Horacio asks for Lope to help keep her home , and he nearly skips home saying " she'll never leave again ! " All of this , leading up to a final twist that is very satisfying if extending the tragic dimension of Lope and Tristana , would be soapy and tawdry and , possibly , very standard in other hands . For Bunuel , there's a lot of personal ground here ; I wonder at times if Rey is a little like one of those actors a director of Bunuel's auteur-stature uses as a means of expressing himself through an actor , or if it's just because he's so good at playing wicked AND sympathetic bourgeois . And the mixture of ideas , if not really themes , covering what's love and over-control , religion , deformity , a free will are potent and exciting even in such subtle and ( as Maltin said ) serenely filmed territory . It's also a minor triumph for Deneuve , who between this and Belle de jour did some of her best work as an actress for the notorious surrealist . Her character's continual dream of Lope's beheaded top dangling from a church tower is the closest we see to a classic surrealist scene , though it's reminiscent of Los Olvidados as brilliantly expressing one character's mind-set . Deneuve is up for the challenge of putting up a tough interior and exterior presence ; she gets paler towards the end ( if this was for real or just a bad print I couldn't tell ) , and there's a lot of pain in her eyes and expression throughout . It's great work for one of the director's most subtly demanding works - beneath its conventional framework of a love-triangle story is sorrow and horror at the human condition .
The beginning of the new and improved Muppets ; one of Henson-and-company's best	This sprawling , part-homage-part-totally original fantasy brings us Jen , the last of a group of near extinct creatures who is the only one who can save all existence by bringing a crystal shard back into the balance of the dark crystal , in order to save the world from the evil Skekses . This is quite an enthralling film , and like with the other full-on Muppet films this works on different levels for kids and for adults . Kids may be both scared and enthralled by the scope and details , not to mention the graphic nature of the darker elements portrayed ( as a kid I cringed a bit when the ' vital essence ' scenes came up ) . And for adults there's a lot of great craftsmanship that goes into the story , which is with all of the effects and over-the-top creations very well told by directors Henson and Oz . Without the massive usage of CGI or the more controlled visuals from the past fifteen or so years , the mix of the production design ( maybe some of the best ever in any fantasy film ) and the inventiveness put into the set-pieces and character-creations , is a knockout even by today's standards . It's almost a shame looking back on how a film like this that employs so many people and such time is now spent clicking away on a computer to get it all done . As it is , the Dark Crystal is one of those few examples in post-modern cinema that it does seem something like a sci-fi novel come to life .
One of my favorite Altman films , though it goes without saying . . .	I've seen this film on TV several times now , and it is one of the best treatments of a Raymond Chandler novel to date . Mostly because of its filmmaker , the unconventional-by-necessity Robert Altman , who brings a much more spontaneous feeling to Chandler's trademark wit and cynical character Philip Marlowe . Like with MASH or some of his other key 70's films , Altman breaks through expectations , making Marlowe in present day of the time , and in a way it works better this way . There is an anti-establishment feel to Marlowe , this gum-shoe who is more of a law unto himself . Elliot Gould , who plays him sometimes as a little aloof but really on the ball most of the time ( and with a sarcasm that out-ranks other actors who have played Marlowe ) , is terrific in the role . Sterling Hayden , who has a supporting role as the Ernest Hemingway-type novelist connected with the investigation Marlowe's in , and it's definitely his most unconventional performance ( not the same manly tough guy of Asphalt Jungle and the Killing ) , with some more emotion and substance . In a way it's a very quirky kind of treatment of Chandler at times , and also still very funny , which is what it needs ( like the neighboring pot-head girls of Marlowe's , whom I'm sure was an addition on Altman's part ) . So with this combination - Altman , Chandler , Gould , and the great writer Leigh Brackett - it's hard to not at least like it a little , if not a lot . It also has a topper of an ending , almost applause worthy .
a vibrant , strange , and completely absorbing look at the strife and creation of two brothers	Robert Altman makes one of the great films about artistic expression , the utter and complete frustration with it , the dregs of having to go through the motions in a capitalistic society where taste is so subjective that it combs over the fact that an artist needs some recognition . We never see Vincent Van Gogh , via equally frustrated ( though nowhere near as insane ) brother Theo , sell any of his work , and it doesn't help things that as things get more and more desperate , and funds dry up and mental disintegration kicks in , Vincent just starts to snap or look like he'll snap any minute . It's a powerful film not because so much of the full-on drive of the plot , as Altman is infamous for making that the secondary characteristic ( if at all ) of his films , but for the camaraderie of two brothers , of the very intense push-and-pull between the two of them . It also helps that Altman has three very crucial and , ultimately , exquisitely successful assets . First are his two main actors , Tim Roth and Paul Rhys . Both actors make up the brothers as having a similar temperament : anxiety brushed over by a quiet , isolated mind-set . But as brothers , the two of them act them as two far reaching personalities that somehow come back to the other through some form of need . That , in a way , is a subtext to much of what happens to either brother , of a need of acceptance never reached , either through financial gain or reputation , or just through some semblance of sanity or reason for being with the opposite sex . Rhys is perfect as an uptight , shy , but also very conflicted - sexually and sort of existentially - about what to do with his life , and with his poor brother . He has that look in his eyes like he's a solid individual , but seething underneath is rage and discontent , despite his best efforts . He pulls off this emotive being quite well , even if dipping a little into over-acting at times ( he might seem to yell every other scene ) . Roth , meanwhile , gives one of his crowning achievements as an actor , worthy of Pacino . When he's not going totally ape-s in throwing stuff on the ground or painting his or another's face or doing the token ear cutting scene ( it's only a lobe , by the way , sorry to disappoint ) , he seems to be perfectly still with a calm voice , but eyes darting much of the time around . Roth makes Van Gogh less a caricature and more a full-bodied being , as far as can be in an Altman film this understanding of the nature of an artist of the period . You're never sure when he might suddenly snap back , and its equally tense and compelling to see Roth in the scenes of Van Gogh painting , in a field of flowers giving up or when he's transfixed in the act of creating when drawing the prostitute when she's not paying attention . This leads to the second asset , which is Stephen Altman's production design , where nothing is left to the imagination . This , in a way , allows for an almost surreal feeling underneath the veneer of the straightforward . It looks all as if it's shot on location ; even the paintings look like they were on loan from the big galleries of the world . And the third asset is Altman himself , though more over his trust in the material . One might wonder what Altman made his own of the script or what was already there . But it seems very much a move from the director to see how the film opens , which is odd and interesting , as footage from an auction where a Van Gogh fetches tens of millions of dollars goes on , with the audio transposed as if it were on some radio somewhere that doesn't exist in the background during the first scene with the brothers where they argue about money and painting and going to Paris . Throughout Altman is always assured with the lens , allowing his actors total freedom , and in this he evens gets creative as his main subject : watch the scene with Van Gogh in the field of dandelions , as his camera starts to do the small zooms and pans with the surroundings , as opposed to just the actor ( this also goes for when Vincent and his first lady are in the gallery with the long landscape portrait that at first looks like a shot out of Antonioni ) . And Altman never goes for easy or cheesy stylizations when it comes to Vincent going off the deep end - we're given a look at it all as if it's so very simple , which makes it even more effective for his intents and purposes . A tale that acts as a slight cautionary tale for aspiring artists , while also probing a mind so delirious and brilliant that it acts as a tale that offers up many interpretations psychologically and historically , Vincent & Theo is ultimately worthwhile for its collection of superlative scenes , of passion running through even in the smaller moments between characters . And the musical score is affecting as well - think a baroque duet with one side a punk rocker .
the best documentary you probably didn't see in 2007	In Lake of Fire , a film that Tony Kaye - director behind American History X ( which he wanted to be named under the pseudonym ' Humpty Dumpty ' following a loss of final cut ) - has been shooting footage for over fifteen years , is about all you need to see to know the fundamentalist and existentialist ramifications on the abortion-in-America issue . It covers all of the pro-life advocates , the murders of doctors and bombings of clinics , footage of actual abortions , and even an interview with the real-life ' Roe ' from Roe v . Wade . It covers about as much ground , in interviews and footage of those at rallies and on the street and so on and so forth , that can be covered in two and a half hours . But what builds up Kaye's film to such a potent focus is that Kaye doesn't let out necessarily what his stance is on the issue . I think this was the way to go , and not necessarily because it would be insensitive one way or the other - in order to take as objective a stance as possible ( which , in this case , is so next to impossible because of the subjective point for a woman when it comes time to decide on the pregnancy ) , it works best to let the sides speak for themselves . As it turns out , he doesn't let the pro-choice crowd be the only voices of reason either ; one actually sees , when there isn't total crazy Bible-thumping rhetoric , some sound arguments against abortion . And why not ? It's one of the murkiest of all issues in the annals of history , not just American . And as we learn painfully in Lake of Fire , no matter what the most savage and hypocritical of the maniacs who try and stop abortion practices and doctors ( in the old Malcolm X ' by any means necessary ' mold ) , women will always get abortions if it comes down to it . Kaye's scope is large and all encompassing , with interviews from the likes of pragmatic minded Noam Chomsky and Alan Dershwitz ( the latter's parable about the Rabbi hits it the nail on the head , if there could be a nail in this ) , to intelligent pro-lifer Nat Hentoff , to Roe ( real name Norma McCorvey ) who got converted to being pro-life after setting the stage for all of this in the 70s , to the clean-cut psycho Paul Hill . Then there's everyone in-between , from radio show hosts to priests and pastors ( one of which , an uproarious ' Lamb ' protector ) , and then to doctors and professors . Not one word is wasted , which is staggering unto itself for over two and a half hours . What one sees is the issue of choice in general , but also the nature of zealousness . To be sure , the pro-choice crowd are far less zealous than those who use the bible ( or the Pope or just any thoughts about heaven or hell in general and who they think will go to where or not ) as a blanket of protection . And Kaye's style for this is like that of mourning for lack of disagreeing to agree , and vice-versa and in-between . His cinematography shoots things in a stark , gray tone , while Anne Dudley's music - very akin to American History X - is that of the utmost tragedy . There are many beautifully shot scenes , from close-ups to cut-aways , but one that strikes me the most is during the Q & A at a doctor's office with a woman who is about to get an abortion . As far as the issue itself and how viewers will take to it . . . It's not cut and dry . It won't reveal to you anything that might change your opinion , if it's already steadfast , about the issue . What Kaye does do , and it's a brave feat , is to not candy-coat a thing , to be provocative but not to a point of no return , to make clear what is at stake in what it means for a human being to take a life , any life , and how we approach that . As a man I will never have to make that choice of ' do I or don't I ' in the first trimester . But as Lake of Fire makes perfectly clear , it's a civil rights issue through and through . It also makes for some fantastic cinema through someone as meticulous and exemplary a filmmaker as the ( unprolific ) Kaye .
a melodrama that crackles with vitality decades on	Perhaps embarrassing to say , I've finally come to Michael Powell and Emeric Pressberger , the writer / director duo behind classics like this , Tales of Hoffman , the Red Shoes , and The Life and Death of Colonel Blimp ( this despite knowing for a few years already that they were a primary influence on Scorsese , one of my favorites ) . This film , which I picked up almost by accident at the library , exceeded my expectations , if only as a ' period piece ' In all , Black Narcissus , about a group of nuns who go to a secluded Parish in the Himilayas , each Nun experiencing , for better or worse , the startling , picturesque , and affecting atmosphere of these people , is a film that could only be made by these filmmakers , who have such a control over the style and characters that it often flows like music . Even if you don't go for the performances ( and I do mean melodrama in the ' old-school ' sense , not to sell short the term melodrama as something less than regular drama ) , the visual aspect of the film is worth it . Jack Cardiff , who was one of the early British experimenters with Technicolor , provides Powell and Pressberger a plethora of painting with lighting , and with textures . This is the day before the real visual delights were all up to the cinematographers and the director , and here there are examples with colors on the clothes of characters , on the sets ( yes , they are all sets ) , and especially in the enclosed rooms made of brimstone ( there is one scene where the use of yellows and oranges and different types of hues is enough to want to hang it next to impressionist paintings ) . Cardiff , in ever deserved for it , won his Oscar for his work here , and if you love just simply the ( right ) usage of the early Technicolor process , this is for you subject matter otherwise . But in terms of acting , going back to that , it helps that the performances are convincing enough , and sometimes even haunting . Deborah Kerr is a strong presence as the head Nun Sister Clodaugh , who wants to see her mission through to its strongest point , for these people to survive rightfully within the realm of the Lord . There are also other effective supporting performances , but none more everlasting than Kathleen Byron as Sister Ruth . She , to me , is a character that is a little more for the audience to identify with in a way ; the one who had her faith beside her at the start , and yet found herself in a downward spiral with her faith . In the last twenty or so minutes of the film , I really got the most interest out of the film subject-matter wise ; her turn makes what could've been cheesy and over-the-top into something special . The make-up , and her expressions and movement and reactions to those around her , practically qualify her for this to be her best performance ( and I say this having seen little if any of her other work ) . It's always something to see the character of good turn to doubt then to evil , and this is something indeed . In short , whether your catholic or not , if you love cinema , Black Narcissus deserves one chance . It may be ' dated ' for some , which is fine , and maybe the subscribed melodrama may not be everyone's cup of tea . But if you give yourself to the film , to let Cardiff and Powell and Pressberger show you what they got , it may also be very rewarding .
you almost can't believe a man like Dieter existed , but here he is , in brilliant Herzogian detail	We see at the beginning of Little Dieter Needs to Fly Dieter Dengler , the subject of the film , an obsessive-compulsive . Or at least that's what he seems to be by way of constantly opening / closing doors and with his large stock-pile of food in the cellar . In a way director Werner Herzog sets up a central question , in a manner of speaking , to why Dieter is like this . Well , in fact , he's not necessarily obsessive-compulsive as he is just , well , prepared . And why shouldn't he be after the life he's lived ? Aside from the juiciest , most dark and exhilarating and frightening and just downright haunting story of survival that's the core of the picture , the back-story to Dieter is fascinating too . Dieter's own childhood , for example , was already a slog from the start , being in post-war Germnay , poor in a family without much food or prospects , eating wallpaper for " the blue in the walls " . But enter in a passion , an un-yielding desire ( which , of course , is part of Herzog's bread & butter and love of man in his films ) , which is flying , and for Dieter there was nothing else but to fulfill this . What it ends up leading to , after becoming an American citizen , is more than he could've bargained for . Dieter is one of Herzog's most compelling , quirky , and compassionately observed figures in his whole career , a man who's memory is scarred by brutal memories of his time being a Vietnam POW , though at the least it provides for some of the most compelling storytelling in any documentary of the last 20 years . Ironically , the storytelling comes through - unlike in The Wild Blue Yonder - mostly in lots and lots of exposition from Dieter on some of the most minute details of his time in the different prison camps ( the torture tactics , the bugs , the brutal , wretched violence and threats like with the wedding ring tale ) , and leading into the most interesting and sad portions with his best friend Duane . They escaped the prisons together , but found that their journey to reach Cambodia would not be so easy . Now , through most of this , the talking does something that is enthralling , which is that as Dieter goes through his stories and occasionally does re-enactments ( in fashion Herzog could only do , with Dieter already middle-aged being led in handcuffs et all through the jungle ) , one can picture all of this in the mind . It all becomes even more vivid to try and get these little details and the intensity of it all together into a form of reality . That Herzog keeps these portions simple , and knows when to hold Dieter back in his answers , makes him all the more a key figure of interest . He's not ever totally ' normal ' , but unlike a Timothy Treadwell , you wont think ever really about laughing at him either . So , along with his hero ( whether of war or not is hard to say , as Dieter disputes that claim as saying the ones who died were the real heroes , typical but perhaps quite true ) , Herzog stylizes his film with a mix of old stock footage when detailing Dieter's early life ( the period footage of WW2 scenes and post German rubble is always a captivating sight , and with Herzog gets up a notch in his timing and assemblage with music ) , and in capturing the footage of Vietnam in aerial viewings of jungles and fields . Herzog is also very wise at not injecting politics much at all into the proceedings , there's no ' I was used by the Americans ' or whatever thrown into the mix . There's even a sense that Dieter doesn't hold too much of a grudge with everything that happened to him , that it's just what happens in time of war ( and , of course , he WAS dropping bombs on people from his plane ) . Now , through much of these harrowing - and even in the smaller bits involving what went on in prisons , bathrooms and the scraps of food it's always harrowing - luckily Herzog keeps a level of humor in check as well . One of my very favorite scenes in the film , where Herzog breaks away for a moment from Dieter , is when he shows a ' trainee ' film used for American soldiers meant to show what should happen in case they get abandoned in the jungle alone . . . with all of the gear that they could possibly have including a knife , a flare gun , and a very fast helicopter to come around ( and this is put to hilariously dead-pan voice-over work ) . Yet even the moments where one laughs only brings to mind the moments of absurdity in a time of absolute crisis , and how one can't ever really imagine what it's like to be alone in a foreign territory surrounded by people who will do anything to keep said person as a form of collateral in war-time . Dieter , aside from knowing that flying and airplanes are the only way of life he would ever want to have ( and Herzog ends the film on a wonderfully somber , elegiac note where he flies over a large field of airplanes ) , knows what it is to have to survive at all costs . But yet , as well , as in many of Herzog's protagonist driven films , there's the near unalterable spirit that will keep on enduring if one's strong enough , even through horrid moments ( the fate of Dunae ) and problems all the way up to the rescue by the helicopter ( is he American , or a spy , they ask on the chopper ) . Dieter is such a man with a spirit , and he's given via Herzog a fantastic , tragic , creative , well-shot , albeit maybe too short , tribute to his life . And , of course , it pumps me up even more for the upcoming dramatization Rescue Dawn .
the stuff of legends , as they try not to be , as Woody Guthrie personifies the quest and struggle of the working man	Bound for Glory breaks the trends of the usual bio-pics on musicians because Woody Guthrie , unlike most , sincerely wasn't out for fame in the usual sense . He liked recognition from time to time , and to be able to get his voice out to as many people as he could . But - and this is from the looks of the film and from what else has come up about Guthrie - he never sold out . He wasn't a political figure , but his songs had that driving force of politics , of something inspirational , that couldn't be reached through typical rhetoric . When Guthrie goes through the fields of workers picking artichokes or workers at a factory and he goes on and on singing his protest songs until the bosses beat him up and wreck his guitar , it's about as close as a political act as one has ever seen a singer / musician in a based-on-a-true-story picture . But at the same time Hal Ashby isn't out to make an entirely explicit ' message ' heavy movie , even if there is , of course , messages to be taken to heart . It's about the man himself , and the times and circumstances that drove Woody Guthrie on his own , apart from his family , in mid 1930s depression era America . One could look at the film as an examination of a man caught in such dire times , of a country where the line between rich and poor was so significant there was barely any middle ground . But one can also look at it as the story of a wanderer , someone who - as his protégée Bob Dylan would later make as his proclamation in Like a Rolling Stone " with no direction home " - always felt a little restless . His journey is what really counts and shapes his music and outlook . It almost comes close to what it must be to have faith ; if you want to sing , just sing , as Guthrie tells a bunch of kids ( a little simplistic but with a kernel of truth ) , no matter what it's about . To suddenly find more meaning in the songs from the circumstances becomes part of the narrative , of a man who could be a hero in the historical sense while not being the kind of man who would be entirely one to aspire to be . He's happy to just walk down a road and sing his songs for anyone who will hear , as his family leaves him behind and any chance of conventional success floats by the wayside . It's hard not to make messages in a film where its character in real life once had the ultimate f-you to the establishment right on his guitar case ( " This machine kills fascists " ) . But it's the high skill of film-making , and the performance at the lead , that enrich what is already potent , awesome material . Haskell Wexler , the late-great cinematographer behind Cuckoo's Nest and Medium Cool , puts his stamp significantly as a work of Americana of the traditionalist sense : a dust-storm is like something both alien and beautiful , while the train scenes are exciting , lush with vibrancy with dirt all around . Ashby , too , has a mark here from his editing days ; there's not one transition from scene to scene that doesn't have a fade , making it a step removed from the usual lot of films at the time ( even Ashby's ) where just a straight cut-to or a jump-cut would suffice . He could've made this film , in the technical sense , twenty years before and it wouldn't of made much of a difference . And finally , David Carradine . If Kill Bill is the guiltiest pleasure of his career , Bound for Glory is his serious triumph as an actor . He's got that quality , which may or may not have been like the real Guthrie , that sucks a viewer in even when the character does something or says something that shouldn't feel like it's the thing to do as the protagonist of the story . He's a character led solely by his convictions , and Carradine enriches that through the performances of the songs , and his own self-confidence radiating just walking down a road or going to do something out of the goodness of his soul . From every moment he's on screen , as if in some kind of folk-rhythm mode out of Kung-fu , he's mesmerizing , in a performance that should've been nominated along with De Niro , Finch and Giannini in the best actor race ( albeit more low-key than the others ) . Bound for Glory is a blissful epic of conscience , and a kind of eccentric story a man who lacked any cynicism in his being . Plus , of course , the songs are great , as they're played on the spot without any over-dubbing .
Like a personal blend of quasi-bourgeois drama filmed in a meticulous , documentary-implied style	While The Eclipse is one of the most superbly directed films I may have ever seen , on a first impression it was ( obviously ) a lot to take in all at once . As with his other films , L'Eclisse isn't for everyone . But Antonioni distinguishes himself here as a great artist of the medium by not only creating the kinds of compositions ( lensed by Gianni De Venanzo , who worked with Antonioni on Il Grido and La Notte as well as the WW2 documentary Days of Glory and Fellini's 8 ) no one could ever justifiably imitate correctly , but creating a depth to the substance . On one hand one aspect of L'Eclisse that's appealing is how it balances out the style and substance ( though the style is arguably the more distinguishable and greater than the two ) . On the other another aspect is that it could put off viewers not terribly familiar with Antonioni's psychology ( which , like Scorsese for example , is at least consistent and engaging with the rest of the director's catalog of work ) . How intently he gets inside Vittoria's head , and at the same time maintains a detachment despite the varying emotional contexts , is extraordinary , if highly personal . Like Vittoria , Antonioni does something that's fascinating throughout the film - though one doesn't know what it is exactly that holds Vittoria , and for that matter Piero , in their respective attitudes , one doesn't feel quite left out of anything heart-stopping for the story / character's sake . The film lets us in just enough as to no keep us curious , and it also doesn't keep itself in a depressive tone , as it is realistic to how the people in this city exist . In fact , there's another facet to L'Eclisse which especially worked for me - the poetry that slips itself in small doses amid the visual sweep . Whether it be one of the long takes , an elongated view on a building or street-light , or on Vitty as Vittoria , it's in the observation that subtext forms . This is the kind of motion picture that a shot-by-shot analysis would serve like would a Picasso or Chagal . And as a plus to the film's success are the actors turns - Monica Vitti is the only actress from that period and country I can think of who could've pulled off what Antonioni wanted in Vittoria . Her face , after being in front of us minute after minute , becomes familiar despite her inner-angst . She knows what Vittoria's fears and loss of vitality means for the story . She's not a person without a laugh or smile ever , yet those emotions arrive only after the known mood is peeled away like a layer of skin . " To love I think one shouldn't know the other , " she says , almost arbitrarily . " But then , maybe one shouldn't love at all . " Is this Antonioni hitting the hammer on the head , or is it just one of those kinds of comments a woman like her would make ? As in L'Avventura , there is the mystery around the female lead . Is love beyond her reach we might wonder , or has the idea of it vanished under false pretense ? Alain Deleon also deserves credit for his Piero , as he counters her quiet , more fogged demeanor as a stockbroker in Rome . That under current to the story - the major bustle and noise of the gamblers in the stockbroker's hall - is also part of the contrast , to the stretches with minimal dialog and sound . The last act , which regards Vittoria's relationship to Piero ( a time after he empty break-up with her past lover Rodrigo ) culminates in an astonishing feat of storytelling and film-art . As it becomes all the more evident neither one will arrive at a certain ( usually ) desolate cross-road corner to meet up , the idea of an eclipse over these people and places is hypnotic , unique . For its time it must've been quite a stroke by a director , and forty or so years later the whole sequence leaves its effect in due . Haunting formations beneath and surrounded by the sky and clouds , and it's a bit intellectually loaded . There can be any interpretation for this climax ( or as one could claim an anti-climax ) that isn't manipulated by Antonioni . The sequence , as with the rest of the film , asks only to see the world based on how one would think it can , or will , be seen . And it fits memorably , like bedroom slippers , into the prime of Antonioni's career as an auteur . Among the three films in Antonioni's films from this period of his career ( 1960-1962 ) , this is the one I'd recommend the highest . The Eclipse is also the kind that's nearly mandatory to see more than once if sincerely interested in checking out at all ( in other words , don't watch it with pre-conceived notions of this being a dramatic love story with solid conventions to it ) .
" In Paris , lovers have their own strange ways . "	In what could have been seen as a coup towards the sexual " revolution " ( purposefully I use quotations for that word ) , Jean Eustache wrote and directed The Mother and the Whore as a poetic , damning critique of those who can't seem to get enough love . If there is a message to this film - and I'd hope that the message would come only after the fact of what else this Ben-Hur length feature has to offer - it's that in order to love , honestly , there has to be some level of happiness , of real truth . Is it possible to have two lovers ? Some can try , but what is the outcome if no one can really have what they really want , or feel they can even express to say what they want ? What is the truth in the relationships that Alexandre ( Jean-Pierre Leaud ) has with the women around him ? He's a twenty-something pseudo-intellectual , not with any seeming job and he lives off of a woman , Marie ( Bernadette Lafont ) slightly older than him and is usually , if not always , his lover , his last possible love-of-his-life left him , and then right away he picks up a woman he sees on the street , Veronika ( Françoise Lebrun ) , who perhaps reminds him of her . Soon what unfolds is the most subtly torrid love triangle ever put on film , where the psychological strings are pulled with the cruelest words and the slightest of gestures . At first we think it might be all about what will happen to Alexandre , but we're mistaken . The women are so essential to this question of love and sex that they have to be around , talking on and on , for something to sink in . We're told that part of the sexual revolution , in theory if not entirely in practice ( perhaps it was , I can't say having not been alive in the period to see it first-hand ) , was that freedom led to a lack of inhibitions . But Eustache's point , if not entirely message , is that it's practically impossible to have it both ways : you can't have people love you and expect to get the satisfaction of ultimate companionship that arrives with " fing " , as the characters refer over and over again . The Mother and the Whore's strengths as far as having the theme is expressing this dread beneath the promiscuity , the lack of monogamy , while also stimulating the intellect in the talkiest talk you've ever seen in a movie . At the same time we see a character like Alexandre , who probably loves to hear himself talk whether it's about some movie he saw or something bad from his past , Eustache makes it so that the film itself isn't pretentious - though it could appear to be - but that it's about pretentiousness , what lies beneath those who are covering up for their internal flaws , what they need to use when they're ultimately alone in the morning . If you thought films like Before Sunrise / Sunset were talky relationship flicks , you haven't met this . But as Eustache revels in the dialogs these characters have , sometimes trivial , or ' deep ' , or sexual , or frank , or occasionally extremely ( or in a subdued manner ) emotional , it's never , ever uninteresting or boring . On the contrary , for those who can't get enough of a good talky film , it's exceptional . While his style doesn't call out to the audaciousness that came with his forerunners in the nouvelle vague a dozen years beforehand , Eustache's new-wave touch is with the characters , and then reverberating on them . This is realism with a spike of attitude , with things at time scathing and sarcastic , crude and without shame in expression . All three of the actors are so glued to their characters that we can't ever perceive them as ' faking ' an emotion or going at all into melodrama . It's almost TOO good in naturalistic / realism terms , but for Eustache's material there is no other way around it . Luckily Leaud delivers the crowning chip of his career of the period , and both ladies , particularly Labrun as the " whore " Veronika ( a claim she staggeringly refutes in the film's climax of sorts in one unbroken shot ) . And , as another touch , every so often , the director will dip into a quiet moment of thought , of a character sitting by themselves , listening to a record , and in contemplation or quiet agony . This is probably the biggest influence on Jim Jarmusch , who dedicated his film Broken Flowers to Eustache and has one scene in particular that is lifted completely ( and lovingly ) in approach from the late Parisian . Sad to say , before I saw Broken Flowers , I never heard of Eustache or this film , and procuring it has become quite a challenge ( not available on US DVD , and on VHS so rare it took many months of tracking at various libraries ) . Not a minute of that time was wasted ; the Mother and the Whore is truly beautiful work , one of the best of French relationship dramas , maybe even just one of the most staggeringly lucid I've seen from the country in general . It's complex , it's sweet , it's cold , it's absorbing , and it's very long , perhaps too long . It's also satisfying on the kind of level that I'd compare to Scenes from a Marriage ; true revelations about the human condition continue to arise 35 years after each film's release .
For me this rivals Breathless as the first great French new-wave crime film - a character study with a great character	Bob Le Flambeur ( the gambler ) is played by Roger Duchesne in a performance that is as cool , concentrated , and amusingly intense as Jean-Pierre Melville's direction is . This is a film that's about a heist , but it's not primarily so . Bob is the main guy , " a legend of a recent past " , who makes it his pleasure ( and perhaps curse ) to use whatever money he has at the tables and at the track . He even has a slot machine in his closet . And as the aging Bob , he also keeps an eye here and there over the young Paolo ( Daniel Couchy , in a subtly amateurish but impressive performance ) and the beautiful Anne ( Isabelle Corey ) as a sub-plot between them unfolds . Bob , meanwhile , in the midst of his danger of losing all he owns , gambles a big one - to knock over 800 million in the Deauville casino using the ( old ) professionals from before gangsters changed in France . What unfolds from there is no less than remarkable storytelling and style with pinache . On a budget that must've been ultra-low for the times ( perhaps not El Mariachi low but perhaps more or less Clerks ' budget ) , Melville , along with his cameramen Henri Decae and Maurice Blettery , the shots and images are magnificent . Even when shooting on streets there's an American feel that Melville is fusing into his own French-Parisian rhythm , and it never crosses into the dangerous realm of parody or ( worse ) of a low-grade B-movie . The sense of suspense is kept just right , the humor that does pop up ( the kind of slick humor one would see in a Bogart movie ) is timed to not over-stay , and the pace is tight while some scenes move slow , but in the kind of slow pace that doesn't meander a bit ( like , say , in Breathless ) . When the climax comes , we don't know whether to root for Bob one way or the other , but one thing is certain , Bob will be remembered . Classic
Favorite Hitchcock and likely one of the most challenging , harrowing great films ever	Alfred Hitchcock's Vertigo is probably his most discussed film , and I believe that since it is so controversial - and yet living up to such hype by having a level of mystery , daring and true human interest that is open to interpretation - it gets better with every passing year . It deserves more credit than it gets ( like most of Hitchcock's films ) and though it is well credited with it's intrigue , I think that Psycho ( not that it is a bad film ) gets more credit than this film should get . There are at least a few reasons for this , arguably of course . One , the acting is spectacular including James Stewart in one of his very best turns as the weary , emotionally perplexed and obsessed cop with a slight fear of heights and a ' thing ' for a certain ' dead ' woman . Hitchcock's leading lady here Kim Novak , is equally interesting and ambiguous as the leading lady ( or ladies ) . Two , the atmosphere Hicthcock invokes in this film is just right for the psychological tailspin that Stewart gets into , with the usage of lighting , real San Fransisco locations , and particularly the color green all to perfect , eerie effect . And three , there's Bernard Herrmann's score , on par with the Psycho score though maybe even better as a straight piece of classical music in the guise of tense , haunting movie music . It's also the kind of picture that is a MUST if you've already seen it , or even if not , and it comes around town on the big screen as all the images and dark scenes come into great view . Not one of the more outright ' fun ' Hitchcock films , with the few chuckles plain comic relief , and maybe his best serious work .
might be Fuller's most underrated ( and one of his most under-seen ) films ; a great work merging pulp post-war drama and documentary	Samuel Fuller knows war , and is one of the only directors in American movie history who could accurately portray the horrific experiences of it in a form like the motion picture . His pessimism and idealism , if that sounds a little odd to mix together , work for him as a storyteller , and at the same time he's always out to tell the truth , however brutal ( or put into melodramatic constructs ) it can get . Verboten , however , deals with the post-war experience , as we only get in the opening scenes the big boom of WAR - in bold for a point . The opening shot is like one big exclamation point that seems to continue on into the rest of the scenes : a dead soldier on the ground , the camera pans up , we see another soldier shot down in war-torn terrain . Simple , direct language . Then Fuller punctuates the intensity with something interesting : the title song played over the opening credits as both irony and sincerity , and then Beethoven music over a shoot-out between Americans and the Nazis . Sgt David Brent ( James Best ) is shot , the battle goes on , and then it transitions to him being treated for his wounds . It might lead one to believe that this will be a somewhat conventional WW2 flick ( somewhat in that one usually wouldn't find Beethoven and , later on to an extent , Wagner put into these images ) , but this isn't the case . Instead , Fuller makes this a ' Coming Home ' kind of movie , though not at all in the sense that ' this soldier comes home injured and so on and so on ' . Instead of really going home , Brent stays on in Germany , as he's fallen head over heels for the woman , Helga ( Susan Cummings , pretty good at pulling off the German accent ) , and wants to work in a smaller capacity in the military so he can marry her . What he doesn't realize is that a ) she wants him more for money so she can get food for herself and brother , however this gets complex emotionally at the point of revelation to the slightly naive but heartfelt Brent , and b ) there's an underground Hitler youth sect called the Werewolves , who want to pick right up off where Hitler ended - starting small , despite argument within the group - by attacking the very government that's now embedded in Germany to give them , as Brent describes , a " blood transfusion . " With this , plus footage from the Nuremburg trials , and ( as narrated , I think , by Fuller himself ) a quick , no-punches-pulled history of the Nazi war crimes piece by piece , we get a multi-faceted look at a society in the dire straits of an immediate post-war environment . While Rossellini handled it his own way with Germany Year Zero , Fuller tackles it with layers : first there's the love story , or what is the tragic downfall of a man who can't see anything past what he thinks should be reasonable , that it's his wife and a child on the way that he can't leave , until the revelation that he's ( partly ) been swindled . Baker and Cummings , along with Harold Daye as Helga's young , confused brother , perform at with the utmost detail to emotions ; these aren't very easy B-movie parts , though they could've been that . Then another layer is the political one , the struggle of a society to come to grips with being conquered , and a mentality which is made sensationalized , to be sure , by Fuller , in respect to making the Nazi's a total no-gray-area thing : they're evil , particularly when they cancel out reason to meet their ends . And finally there's the layer of style , which is strangely absorbing . This is probably one of Fuller's ' talkiest ' films , which isn't a bad thing considering it's one of his best written scripts , as the characters don't talk simply or in too many platitudes ( with the exception of a small scene where two characters talk about the Hitler youth as juvenile delinquents , which is actually , according to Fuller's autobiography , probably another layer to consider in the subtext and the 50s period of movies ) . And Fuller shoots this almost in a real European style , when he's not going for fight scenes or battles , as the editing isn't always very fast , and sometimes a cut won't happen for a full minute , or longer . There's an odd tension that grows out of this , especially when there's something said by a character that gets another one wild-eyed or suspicious ; Fuller could easily go for a big close-up , but there's a more sinister , cold quality to not moving away from two people in a conversation without a simple over-the-shoulder deal . But when it requires it , like the big brawl outside the American military office , or the Nuremburg footage spliced into Franz's memories of the Werewolves , Fuller can be as stunning stylist as ever . Very hard to find , but extremely worth it if you'r either a fan of the director's or of WW2 movies set in Germany - or even just a history-buff - Verboten ! is an intellectual experience and a strong emotional one , with a cast that is better than expected from a B-movie , and an attitude towards the ' other ' that is equally damning and thought provoking .
a combination of Rome Open City and Wiesel's Night ( and like both , an extreme , personally felt story )	In 1988 Grave of the Fireflies was placed on a double-bill alongside My Neighbor Totoro . Two of the most endearing films ever created - animated of otherwise - were paired alongside one another , more than likely to balance each other out ; after being submersed in a pure tale of innocence and delight like Miyazaki's great film , there could be accepted such a bleak , heartbreaking story of survival . And both films , incidentally , were based on true experiences , and while Miyazaki's story wasn't without some sadness in real life ( his mother was really sick with TB in the hospital ) , Akiyuki Nosaka's story is one drenched in the worst horrors imaginable for a child . It's basically about two siblings , an older brother and younger sister , who are left practically orphans in a Japan completely devastated by the constant barrage of bombs falling all around , and with very little hope in sight . This lays the groundwork for their relationship , a bond very fragile and incredibly endearing . Not since Rossellini and De Sica had a filmmaker , in this case Isao Takahata , touched a nerve so deeply etched out in deconstructing the horrors of wartime . By leaving us with these two characters , who piece by piece are stripped of their innocence in just the simple task of fending for themselves in a shelter ( they at first stay with an aunt who considers them freeloaders ) and scrounging for food any way possible , we're left with nothing else but their struggle , essentially . The backdrop itself almost becomes abstract , something so huge that we don't even know that it's Americans dropping the bombs , as it's already too much to grasp that a child's parent is no longer with them . Like Elie Wiesel's book Night , the backdrop and horror is used to pit these people in an untenable situation , and it can only end , honestly , without compromise . So , indeed , Grave of the Fireflies is bleak as hell , but compelling because it doesn't stray from its path with these characters , and that in many scenes we're connected to them without the overbearing heart-tugs of a common Disney feature ( though , ironically , as Ebert points out on an interview with the DVD , the big eyes in most anime is based upon those in early Disney films ) . The animation is exceptionally refined without being excessive in violence ; images are visceral for just what is briefly revealed , without the extraneous shots that one might see in a work not meant in a G-rated film ( i . e . when Seita sees her mother , dead and wrapped in bandages with the maggots and bugs crawling all over ) , and at the same time there's a sense of wonderment as the two children watch the fireflies in the shelter . The voice-work , too , doesn't strain credulity - these sound like , if it were a regular live-action feature , the kids who would play these parts ( and , speaking of neo-realism , the two credited for Seita and Setsuko never worked before or again ) . Most often , the film is heart-rending because of how things build with the situation . It's tragic enough to see the loss of the mother on the son , but then to hide it from the little girl becomes a greater challenge . Each time a layer of emotional defense is peeled back , it becomes harder not to connect strongly with these characters , such as when Seiko casually says she knows her mother is dead as she buries the fireflies and Seita finally cries out for the first time , or when Seita is left broken and humiliated after being beat up by the farmer for stealing food for sick Setsuko . And , finally , there's the last ten or so minutes , which I won't mention here . Suffice to say it's one of those times in movies where the opening of the film - Seiko dying homeless and famished - is explained to a perfect degree by film's end . It's a harrowing experience , and one of the very best animated films .
The Breakthrough	To say that this film isn't good and original is to insult film-buffs everywhere ( or unless you are the average film person ) . This was a amazing ( and original ) breakthrough for stars Harvey Keitel and Robert De Niro ( who knew they could look so young ) and co-writer / director Martin Scorsese . Before this he made small films that didn't pull in that much ( except for Woodstock ) , but this was a big leap that depicted what he knew best , the street life . Great drama , great direction and great scene ( and violence ) depiction make this a great film to see for all film buffs and especially Scorsese fans .
the most irreverent Italian satire you've never seen , this is one of Pasolini's very best	How I love a film that taps into the absurd while staying true to the symbolism , and in the process mocking it and then creating symbolism again . It's a very tricky thing - Bunuel was one of the masters at it - and Pier Paolo Pasolini , in one of his rare outright comedies , does just that . The Hawks and the Sparrows is simple enough to explain , in its central conceit : an older man ( Toto ) and a younger man ( Ninetto ) are walking along on some not-totally-clear journey ( Toto might have some debts to fix or something , and he has apparently eighteen children ) , and they meet a talking crow , who talks and talks a lot . Then they get into some strange happenings , all comical . But it's the kind of comedy then that Pasolini uses like some deranged poetic waxing on about silent comedy and theories on God and faith and love and politics and , uh , stomach cramps I guess . It's completely off the wall , at times like a roadrunner cartoon ( or , for that matter , the best Buster Keaton ) , and it's told with a dedication to the comic situation . It's masterful . At times it doesn't seem that way though . It could , in less concerted hands , be more scatter-shot , with some scenes working better than others , and with the one sure bet being the crow ( voiced by a great Francesco Leonetti ) . But from the start , Paoslini is completely confident with the material , from the opening titles that are sung ( heh ) , with the throw-away scene with the kids dancing at the restaurant ( with an amazing Ennio Morricone rock song that pops in and out of the film ) , to the sudden inter-titles ala Monty Python ( " the crow is a " left-wing intellectual " ) , and then onward with the little stories within the framework of the ' road movie ' . The biggest chunk Pasolini shows us is the story of two monks - also played by Toto and Davoli - who are instructed by their head monk to talk to the hawks and sparrows and teach them about God . And they do , in bird speak ( which is also subtitled in case it's needed ) , and then go through an allegorical tale of the ins and outs of faith . It takes some wicked subversion to make these scenes work , but they work hilariously , to the point where I laughed almost every minute of the sequence ( as well as with other ones , the exception being the archival clips late in the film of the protest marches ) . Pasolini once said he was " as unbeliever who has a nostalgia for belief " , imbues the story of the monks with a sense of charm to it - you like Toto and Davoli in the parts , not even so much that they're good in the roles , which they are very much so , but because there's some bedrock that the satire can spring from so easily . He , via the exceptional Tonino Delli Colli , films the Hawks and the Sparrows as strong in sumptuous black and white as any of his other early-mid 60s films . But there's a lot more going on within the comedy ; it's like he skims a line that he could make it as , like with some of his other work ( unfortunately ala Teorema ) pretentious and annoyingly trite in its intellectual points . But as he goes to lengths to put a spin on it , it turns into pitch-black comedy , revealing him as an even deeper artist because of it . Take the birth scene , where the weird theater-type troupe who drive around in a car have to pause in their play on " How the Romans Ruined the Earth " , and it suddenly becomes a sly farce unto itself . Something that should be sacred is given the air of playfulness , as though everyone is told " yes , it's alright to be in on the joke " , where Toto covers Ninetto's eyes , other actors in the group pray , and then walla , there's a baby , clean as day . Morricone's score , I might add , brings a lot to this air of fun and playfulness , even when ( and rightfully so ) it goes to the more typical strings and orchestral sounds than the rockabilly , which sounds more like unused bits from Pulp Fiction . And finally , there's the crow itself , which unto itself - had Pasolini not made it mockable - would be funny anyway , as it's a frigging talking crow who for some reason follows the men anywhere they go . It's already allegorical of a sort of guide or voice of reason on their journey , which is fine . But including the ending especially , Pasolini allows for the joke to flip over itself . With the Hawks and the Sparrows , we get the absurd and the surreal , placed wonderfully in social constructs , and it reveals a filmmaker who can , unlike but like his controversial reputation presents , open up a whole other perspective with a strange twist that mixes classic Italian film style and scathing subject matter .
still one of the top comedies about utter frustration	The Exterminating Angel , what a movie - I've seen it twice now and each time it went against ( in the best possible way ) my better logic . It's a work that's the product of a kind of madman place , and it stays impressive forty plus years later due to its humor . Like Dr . Strangelove , or maybe more so akin to a Kafka work submerged in Catholic plague , the film subverts expectations . At the start of the film , Luis Bunuel makes it clear as day that his only explanation is that its nonsense . If one were wanting to dig on a pure comedy level it would work because the dialog is so strange and out of place ( if taken seriously ) but consistently so , and the timing of the sort of downward spiral that plunges into the denouement ( if there is one ) . If one were wanting to look at it for more of the technical reasons , its peerless - Bunuel has a steady , carefully controlled camera , quite tradition at times . But then at others he reveals his revealing , awesome flashes of symbolism , which may or may not fly over some viewers heads . And then , if one were to go so far , on an existential level it goes into the realm of nothingness , a kind of study of how a nonsensical existence , trapped for reasons not made clear to the viewer ( barely to the rich cast of bourgeois , a running gag almost ) , which also calls in the Kafka aspect . By the hand of a surrealist comes a deadpan satire , and it almost becomes a dark fable ( the Catholic aspect to the film ) by the end . It's a rather shocking film on the first try , which is why it probably had some controversy when it first opened . Giving it another chance , the film works better , on a more sensory level almost . This is the kind of film where you're either scratching your head and turning it off midway through , or laughing ( while in the grips of cringing perhaps ) and in a weird awe . One of Bunuel's very best Mexican films .
One of my new favorite heist pictures : a smooth success for Melville and his cast	Jean-Pierre Melville is a director I've only recently gotten acquainted with ( I need to see Bob le Flambeur and Le Samourai again to fully grasp them ) , but in watching Le Cercle Rouge ( The Red Circle , supposedly based on a saying in Buddhism ) I realized I was watching as skillful and absorbing a crime film as I had seen in a quite some time . Though his film has dialog , it is mainly to keep the film's scenes rolling along , adherent to the plot . What kept me on the alert , even in seemingly mundane scenes / sequences , was the emphasis on the characters ' movements , or behavior patterns . Melville has his story laid out , and he is careful to take his time to tell it ( this could seem boring to some , but it does seem to work since he puts a little more emphasis on the weight of the characters / environments over plot ) . Yet look at each of the four main players : Alain Deleon as Corey ( just released from prison , scheming a new heist ) , Gian Maria Volonte as Vogel ( escaping & on the lam from hand-cuffed custody , meets Corey by luck ) , Yves Montand as Jansen ( an aged pro with many years of experience with weapons , a friend of Vogel ) , and Andre Bourvil as Mattei ( an experienced investigator , who is on the look-out for Vogel , and on his toes with internal affairs ) . Each of these actors plays their parts with precision , detachment , and they each have their own kinds of moments that indicate to the audience what their personalities might be besides as criminals and cops . The heist sequence gives little hints , for example , like how Vogel cops-a-feel off a female statue while passing down the halls , or how Jansen takes out a flask and merely has a whiff of the contents ( and what a dream this guy creates ) . Even Corey's movements involving a photograph of a woman arouse interest . As absorbing and cool the story becomes , and as great the skills were to make it happen ( via cinematographer Henri Decae , the editing , and the musical score by Eric Demarsan ) , it's the people on the screen that gain fascination , in how they stay true to their natures and ideals . Not a film to be missed by French new-wave enthusiasts , and modern-day crime movie buffs might want to take the 140 minutes to soak up the atmosphere of Melville's work . A suave piece of film-making that still ranks as one of my all-time favorites .
Life is But A Dream ( after a reviewing )	David Lynch's Mulholland Drive brings him in the territory of Twin Peaks , Eraserhead , but more-so a highly-charged form of surrealist thinking singular only to Lynch regarding Hollywood to make the best films of the year , and of his career . The film is a twisting , meticulously crafted and acted cinema piece about many a lot of things . At FIRST , the basic plot : a woman ( Laura Elean Haring ) survives a car crash and stumbles down the hill next to Mulholland drive and walks into a woman's house she has never met before . She also has amnesia , and when the woman ( Naomi Watts ) , an actress , who is currently occupying the place lets her stay for a few days to get her memories together , the plot unfolds . Other side stories are interestingly blended into the rest of the movie involving a troubled director ( Justin Theroux ) who is forced into things he didn't intend on , the woman living in the house who tries and goes for auditions , etc . But the plot ( even the part involving Haring ) isn't even the big part of the movie . Lynch , like he did in Eraserhead , exposes the audience to logical and realistic ( er , in Lynch's sense ) scenes and then sidesteps into a surreal and dreamlike world . . . or what one might THINK is the dreamworld . Yet it's really about dreaming , one might think , as reality and fantasy become part of the pieces of Lynch's method . What is it to have a dream , anyway , Lynch may be essentially asking the audience ? And what is it to have things both idealized and ugly in equal measure , reflected in the subconscious , and drifted back during sleep like some kind of wavelength that is personal but psychologically sound , more or less ? And , most importantly , why do we need fantasy ? Well , there needs to be a divide , Lynch may be supposing , between fantasy and reality , but at the same time , for the sake of art and cinema , the line needs to be blurred as well to reach underlying truths about what it is to create , what it is to act , what it is to be controlled in the measures of creation and reinterpretation . These might be pretentious points presented by another filmmaker , but Lynch , for all of his abandoning of conventions ( albeit with a firm , knowing embracing of the intent in conventions , archetypes and clichés from Hollywood films ) , is nevertheless a superlatively entertaining writer / director / sound editor , who makes some of the most profound and everlasting statements ever about Hollywood and the illusions created from reality ( whether manufactured ala 50s singers in a booth then put on film , or in some capacity regarding a dirty dude behind the Winkies ) while never losing the power to make it one hell of a ride . And by ' ride ' I mean the ride of a filmmaker overwhelmingly yet carefully confident in what he wants to convey : of the corny light and contorted ideals that comes out of the darkness of Diane's dreams ( I'll relent and say that it makes the most sense , even though I'd love it just as much if it didn't go so easily for sense ) , and that , of course , it's all about emotional response . In short , it's one of the must-see films from the 2000s , not just for Lynch fans but for those who might never think of going near a Lynch film : it's funny , it's tragic , it's mysterious , and it's both dense and simple in equal measure . Like music , it'll either rock your boat or leave you dry and for me it still rocks my boat to this day .
A Great Film	Ninja Turtles . Anyone born in the 1980's remembers the phenomenon that swept the country during the late 80's and early 90's . And this movie proves what was once a big icon fad that was the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles . This movie is well made for a kids movie , and it is my favorite of the series of films . I even like this more than the TV show . It has more drama and action than the other parts . And it's dark , I like that in a kids movie .
a chilling mystery where psychology and sociological perspectives are a little more of the dramatic juice than the outcome	Henri-Georges Clouzot's Le Corbeau is at once a story loaded with the kind of tension and thrills and dramatic questions that keep an audience guessing like any good mystery , and as well an indictment of the crueler , more paranoid and darker sides to all people . At the time it was looked upon as being quite controversial , namely because it was released at the height of the Nazi occupation in France . The film does have that immense level of accusation ( one sometimes thinks of the simple French phrase ' J'accuse ! ' when watching it ) that evil can happen not simply in the realm of fascism and dictatorial agendas of mass murder and control , but in seemingly ordinary folk in towns and villages where an unkind word can spark the worst intentions . Not only does one think of the Nazi occupation in this context , but also the Salem Witch trials , or any time when it's not even about the end result but about getting the task done at hand , to rule out seeming evil by the power of fear and corruption . There's even one of the great sequences showing in clear view how emotions can boil over so high where mob-rule becomes demonstrative of a form of sociological ills . We see a funeral taking place - a character from early in the story received a letter from the notorious ' Raven ' , an anonymous madman who has been spreading gossip about many in town , specifically a doctor Germain , but when this man receives it it drives him to suicide . During this , a letter falls out of the buggy carrying the hearse . First we get a very important set of shots showing how everyone who walks behind the buggy never stops but always glances at the letter addressed in bold to the townspeople . Suddenly one reads it , and an uproar occurs against Mary Corbin . She runs in a frantic pace and mind-set ; even as she runs away from what is stirring into a mob out for the simple satisfaction of getting someone in , be they truly guilty or not , and Clouzot never shows us the mob running after her , but keeps the sound rising even higher and higher of people gaining in their angry calls against her . Then a moment when she finds solace in an empty , shattered room , there are still words scribbled on the walls , and finally they catch up to her . It's such a rich sequence in technical-cinematic terms , yet there's also a lot to think about in terms of the nature of the people , of the society at hand - or , as the opening line suggest , any town . Le Corbeau is incisive and questioning of what it means to have not just trust in a town , or a respect for confidence , or really what it means ( probably more than anything ) of the innocent revealing the guilty where they might be ( i . e . the scene where Vorzet and Germain quarter the adults in town to see if their writing styles match the Raven ) , but also what is compassion or forgiveness or love or any of that which is not really evil . It even does , albeit through a lot of talk - through the old Vorzet played by the great Pierre Larquey - try to examine how the personal intermingles with the professional , and what might seem crazy or stupid gossip is really just as evil as murder . The premise is simple : a doctor ( Pierre Fresnay , best known from Grand Illusion ) starts getting letters , saying very key words like ' abortionist ' and ' liar and fraud ' . Of course , once the first part gets out , things start to go haywire in the town , though not until others in the town , including those as high up as the mayor , receive similar terms of " this is what you do in your secret spare-time " . It sets off a chain reaction , which also includes Germain having to reveal finally his true dark past - one that reminds the audience that what is hidden should stay that way - but that the women in his life , Laura ( the elderly Michel's young husband ) and Denise , his on-off love-interest - and a break in Germain's character as at first a shrewd bourgeois and later a man of more emotional depth . But there's more than just Germain's fate and reputation at stake in Le Corbeau , and what gets pointed out about how good people can go ugly , or the power of what SHOULD be chaos and hysteria that can be bought into , or that the old phrase " judge not and ye shall not be judged " could never be more pertinent . This all said , Clouzot's film is not actually as preachy as one might expect from this description . Here and there Vorzet does go on and on , with his manner of speech all too uncanny , but beneath the deep scope of more intellectual and even political agendas there's an engrossing whodunit here as well . At the same time one may be thinking about how this relates to the period and geography of what it was made , it's really just a supremely timed and fascinatingly shot picture meant to appeal to mystery and thriller fans up for something different ; only the process is a little more skewed . I'm even a little reminded of the recent film version of the Zodiac story , where the medium of communication from unknown outsider to the mass public and the consequences are far more stronger and with more possibilities realized than the end-result . It's also surely one of the true classics made in France during WW2 .
a tale pure goodness , and the inanities of greed , in human beings , set in Miyazaki's amazing world	Before Princess Mononoke , which is still for me Hayao Miyazaki's greatest work , he made this film , Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind , which like that other later film addressed issues that are paramount for the filmmaker : the environment , and the Earth , and how human beings can have highs and lows in attention to it . On the one hand Miyazaki gives us who is perhaps one of the purest heroes in any animated film , Japanese or otherwise , with Nausicaa as a woman who doesn't want killing on any side , and knows that there can be some peace with the environment of the world . Her greatest strengths end up coming out in various ways , like when she goes to stop the Ohm , the big beetle-insects that are the largest " threat " ( threat in quotes because it depends on the reaction of the two sides - the Tolmekian and the Pejite - and how either one inflames the reaction of the Ohm ) - and in her general attitude to killing and violence . It's a fragile world , and she's perhaps one of only a few , and the only one willing to ' go the distance ' , to understand how what remains underground , what can't be seen , can make a difference . She's like a big action hero for preservationists and pacifists , but it's such a strongly defined character that the basic qualities come out wonderfully , like when she has to contend with her obvious emotional reaction to her father being slain ( almost a Star Wars ' force ' moment if you ask me ) . So as she represents the good , there is the other side , which is represented by not necessarily the outright evil , even if the Tolmekian find the only way to combat anything is through warrior actions , but by ignorance and greed . It's not always as simple as that , and one could see a little dimension to the princess Kushuna , but even there the essentials get burned down to not just Miyazaki's points , but what works for the structure of classic fantasy . It might be tricky for Miyazaki to balance out his message of peace and understanding with what should be a sensational entertainment of a world 1000 years from now following an apocalypse ; it treads the line , as Mononoke did , of becoming incoherent with the message and the manipulation of the audience . But Miyazaki happens to be intelligent enough to trust the audience on the front of the message , and so he puts up his film in his usual thrust of indelible , one-of-a-kind images and exciting action . I especially liked seeing the Ohm themselves , one by one looking like even more detailed , nuanced versions of the Garthem in the Dark Crystal . Or in the sky-flying scenes , where the clouds are like unique formations that can't really be of the world we're in , but are in this world nonetheless that Miyazaki forges from classic mythology , reinterpretations of forests and insects , and post-apocalyptic technology out of a high-powered junk-yard . And on top of this , as a word of note , this grandiose ( in a good way ) kind of epic work is supplanted with a better than expected voice cast - for the English language dub on the new DVD . They help back up the pieces of Miyazaki's world where there is some science fiction , but not in a fully compiled sense ( if anything it's sort of like a ' used ' science fiction world like Blade Runner , in part I mean ) . There's also some moments in the classical style , of a hero coming into her own that might seem too reminiscent of other movies . But Nausicaa is backed up by several cool supporting characters , like the equally heroic Lord Yuru , and the conflicted Pejite Asbel who has to choose the greater good ( and common sense , in the Miyazaki form ) over his tribe's priorities . By the end , it actually left me like Totoro did with a huge , well-earned smile on my face , due to it being one of those happy endings that is so unlikely , yet is done as if there could be no other way in Miyazaki's universe . It's fresh and sublime anime , and the master of Studio Ghibli at one of his best .
one of the great ( anti ) war movies ever , certainly the pinnacle from Japan	The Human Condition isn't an easy trilogy ; it offers up tons of questions that even today have extreme relevance , particularly about man's duty to himself , to love and family , to country , to affiliation by an Emperor or Dictator , and what it is that's so insane about men in the staggering pit of hell known as war . As one can see in the second installment , The Road to Eternity , even what should be simple in a conventional war movie is turned just a bit to see the ugliness underneath . The first half of the film is Kaji , the trilogy's protagonist , in basic training and witness to more brutality towards the weak Obara ( very well cast Kunie Tanaka ) who commits suicide following a string of humiliations that are like Private Pyle squared Japan WW2 , and how Kaji comes to grips with being a very good , disciplined soldier - the likes of which the army wants to control as they promote him - and , crucially , his last night spent with his wife Machiko ( very tender performance from Aratama ) . The second half is Kaji off on the front lines , leading up to a big , climactic battle between Soviet and Japanese forces , which is a total horror . Although Kobayashi only goes so far to make these battle scenes dynamic ( that is compared to today's battle scenes , which have far more money and just a smidgen more gore to work with ) , it's overall another incredible accomplishment , as story and character matter always more-so than grandiose visuals or pomposity . We see Kaji going through another level of change , as he's stripped of his " exemption " status and is now just another grunt in this rigidly regimented military , and where , as is expected but no less mortifying , the Japanese see no sign of victory despite all signs pointing otherwise . As in the first film , Kobayashi delivers moments of beauty , almost at times without trying . I absolutely was floored when the prairie fire scene turned into a desperate chase between Kaji and an escaping Shinjo , where what could have been a basic chase incorporated the fire and smoke and mud-piles into something else entirely . Or , indeed , little moments that suddenly make one's mouth agape , such as the freak-out from a soldier in the midst of the battle foaming at the mouth . If a few scenes might appear to be of the conventional sort ( at least as much as Kobayashi would ever allow in this iconoclast approach ) , they're off-set by the wonderful performances , not least of which by Nakadai . Again he gives it his all , and matures just a little more , and displays a kind of bridge that Kaji is on between the kind-hearted but firm ways of No Greater Love and the , dare I say it , near bad-ass persona in Soldier's Prayer . It's another great entry in an impeccable trilogy , if maybe not quite as awe-inspiring as the final film .
catching the humanism train . . .	Masaki Kobayashi's dream project was the Human Condition adaptation , and he pulled it off as a brilliantly told and filmed epic that tells of a man trying to cling to his humanity in inhuman circumstances . All three films have wonders in various supporting performances and set-pieces that astound with their moments of poetic realism , and the sum of it all makes Lord of the Rings look like kid's stuff . In the case of the first feature on the trilogy , No Greater Love , we're introduced to and see the young , idealistic and essentially good-hearted Kaji ( Tatsuya Nakadai ) as he gets a job as a labor supervisor at a POW camp in Manchuria following an impressive paper presentation . He wants to do his best , but the ' powers-that-be ' , which include the stalwart boss and particularly the fascistic Kempeitai ( army personnel on site ) , keep things always on edge with tension , and as new Chinese POW's roll in and he finds himself torn : how to keep production up of the ore while also not becoming a monster just like the other " Japanese devils " to the POW's . While the story has an immediate appeal ( or rather connection-to ) the Japanese public as a piece of modern history - the occupation / decimation of Manchuria and its people - none of its dramatic or emotional power is lost on me . Kobayashi is personally tied to the material very much ( he himself fought in the war and immediately bought the rights to the 6-volume series when first released ) , but he doesn't ever get in the way of the story . Matter of fact , he's a truly amazing storyteller first and foremost ; dazzlingly he interweaves the conflicts of the prisoners ( i . e . Chen , the prostitutes , Kao ) with Kaji's first big hurdle of conscience at the labor camp as he sees prisoners treated in horrible conditions , beaten , abused , and eventually brought to senseless deaths thanks to Furyua and his ilk , and finds himself brought to an ultimate question : can he be a human being , as opposed to another mindless monster ? Kobayashi creates scenes and moments that are in the grand and epic tradition of movies , sometimes in beautiful effect and other times showing for the sake of the horrors of wartime ( for example , there will never be as harrowing an exodus from a half-dozen cattle cars as seen when the Chinese POW's exit from there to the food sacks ) , and is able with his wonderful DP to make intimately acted scenes in the midst of wide scapes like the outside ore mines and the cramped living quarters or caves . And damn it all if we don't get one of the great scenes in the history of movies , which is when the six " escapees " are put to execution with the prisoners , and horrified Kaji , watching in stark , gruesome detail . Everything about that one scene is just about perfect . But as the anchor of the piece ( and unlike the other two films , he's not even in every scene of this part ) , Tatsuya Nakadai delivers on his breakthrough performance . Kobayashi needed a bridge between pre and post-war Japan , and Nakadai is that kind of presence . But aside from being an appealing star - the kind you don't want to avert your eyes from - he's mind-blowingly talented be it in subtle bits of business or when he has to go to town in explosive emotional scenes ( or , also , just a twitch under his eye in a super-tense exchange ) . This goes without saying other actors right alongside him - Aratama , Yamamura , Manbara - are perfectly cast as supervisor , prisoner , prostitute , wife alike to Kaji . And yet , for all the praise worth giving to the film , one that gets even better in its second half than its first , this is only the first part !
a classic of the 70s exploitation / drive-in era	The Crazies may not be ' high-art , but it shows what George A . Romero could do on such low-budget terms in making it seem epic in scope and design . The budget , it seems , was that of almost a Roger Corman film , just enough for the film , some dingy sets , to get no-name actors with big personalities , and cheap effects . Never-the-less , classics have come out of low-budgets , and this ( albeit with a couple of flaws ) is one of them from the period . Another thing to note is that Romero is doing triple duty , as he did with many of his films up to Dawn of the Dead - he is also the editor , which is crucial for a film like this . A lot of times , there might be some continuity errors on the set , or there might be a shadow of a boom mike or other sort of goof . Luckily for the audience , Romero happens to be as superb an editor as he is at subversive , genre film-making , and many scenes come together - and become tenser - by his trademark style . Sometimes , to fit the quasi anti-war and notably science fiction elements of the story , Romero has to get creative . Take example for a scene where in the midst of rapid-fire arguments between government officials and officers and doctors , someone offers the suggestion of dropping a bomb or calling the higher-ups for results . There are a couple of split-second montages of pilots manning the planes , flying up , targeting , etc . This is highly effective visually for a film without much of a budget - it's almost reminiscent of what Stanley Kubrick did ( though he did it in a slower , more deliberate-paced fashion ) in Dr . Srangelove . In this whole sequence of officials bickering , half realism half satire , one gets the sense psychologically of what is to come . That's not to say The Crazies is all talk and no action , quite the opposite . In a sense this is almost like an un-official ' living-dead ' picture , only this time Romero shows the whole thing from start to finish , how it starts , how it spreads , how the people start to change , and how a group of survivors try to stay on the run . Only this time , in a way , it's even more terrifying , as a ' Crazy ' is more unpredictable than a crude , instinct-driven zombie . Take the opening as a prime example , where there is just a pure shock as kids watch their father going completely nuts , and seeing two more tragedies quickly unfold . It sets up the rapid-fire set-pieces , some of which fairly disturbing ( if a little cheesy , one of the film's flaws ) . Another scene involving a priest is just as disturbing as the other , more of a sequence of images than a real ' action ' scene . There's a sense of terror in seeing how real everything is ( and it is , it's practically all location-shot ) , even as it does go a little , well , crazy after a while . There is also a dependable cast , as I mentioned , who are either very good or too over-the-top . Three actors in particular are very good among some so-so performances from the heroes : Lynn Lowry ( who had a sort of minor cult-career in her day ) is genuinely creepy , especially during her downfall ; Richard Liberty , who hammed it up in Day of the Dead , fills in a good gap as a worried father ; Richard France , who made a memorable appearance in ' Dawn ' , plays it all for show as a level-headed , frustrated doctor . Most of these are un-professionals , of course , so what you see is what you get - many of them work , some of them don't ( the wife character , played by Lane Carroll , was mis-cast ) . But in the end , Romero puts together what he set out to do : it's another work of apocalyptic experimenting , where the bio-hazard suit-men are likely to be as , if not more , dangerous than the infected , and curiosity for the sci-fi driven subject matter goes along with the suspense and shock-value . It's certainly not for everyone , but for the drive-in fan in us all , it's bound to keep you in your seat - and it gets better on repeat viewings .
An American Epic . . .	. . . Gangs of New York is indeed an American epic , telling not only a tale of revenge , but also a tale of a time capsule , A New York not many know about , with the Civil War always looming over . There will be many a filmgoer that will consider Mr . Scorsese's work in Gangs of New York as rubbish , and true everyone can have their opinion on the landscape of 1963 , but one must remember that the director , like in all of his films , has crafted such to as real and extent as can be shown in a 100 million dollar picture such as this . As much as Scorsese took cues from avant garde and Italian filmmakers for much of his films , he also took cues from epics and Westerns , and to my view has crafted the best motion picture of the year , incorportating a saga of the city he came from and his themes from his previous pictures , most notably his references to Christianity ( and for instance , his theme of destruction such as seen in Raging Bull , can be identified with many scenes , not least of which the climax ) . The seeds for the revenge take place in 1846 , when a battle is fought against the Irish and the " Native " Americans over the five points ( parts of the slums of Manhattan ) , where in which William " Bill the Butcher " Cutting ( Daniel Day-Lewis in one of his very best roles ) slays Priest Vallon , whose son , Amsterdam Vallon ( played as an adult by DiCaprio ) is then taken to an orphanage until he is set out in 1863 , which is when the plot unfolds . Along with the skills of Scorsese he has his actors all in great shape , Day-Lewis especially , Diaz somewhat redeeming herself after The Sweetest Thing from this year , and DiCaprio shows that every now and then he can act . Some may also criticize the way the history is represented , that the facts were skewed to tell a Hollywood story and isn't really credible to the story of the draft riots and the gangs of downtown . I think that they may be missing the point , though I do defend the factuality - facts are always going to be skewed for a big budget picture just as this , the key is to look past that and see it as how they did in the sense of pure dramatization and if it doesn't come off as clownish or inane , and this is not the case for Gangs . For those looking for something insightful , daring , maybe even exhilarating , or just want to be entertained by more action after Two Towers , this is a definite pick for the holiday season . Salud !
One of the best films of 1970	It's a fascinating blend of tense character study , torn love story , and a background loaded with subtext and history that writer / director Bernardo Bertolucci brings with The Conformist . But through the entire length of the film , even if you're not totally vested in interest in the main character ( who , indeed , is meant by design not to be a ' likeable ' protagonist ) , the look of the film , its sweep and style and what most great movies do - sucking you in on the side of composition , mood , and music - is worth recommending . The film stars Jean-Louis Trintignant , an actor with a cool exterior but something very uneasy underneath the surface in almost all of his scenes ( which perfectly suits the character he plays ) . Based on Alberto Moravia's novel of the same name , Marcello Clerici is a fascist , or at least part of the fascist ' clique ' of sorts in late 1930's Italy . He's a secret officer who gets assignments to track people down and either kill , or collaborate as it were . He has some skeletons in his closet , to be sure , and in one of the most striking and powerful scenes of the film , he recalls a particular incident in his youth that stayed with him , if only in the back of his mind ( I won't reveal it , but it comes as something of a shock , not so much in its outcome , but how Bertolucci approaches directing the scene with the Chauffeur and the kid ) . Going along with this sort of ' clique ' that Marcello sticks in , he has a young wife , who loves him but is not really his equal on any sort of intellectual or even emotional basis . The actress playing her , Stefania Sandrelli , conveys this mostly ' ignorance is bliss ' attitude that helps the film allow some lighter-than-air moments ( i . e . the ' Dance of the Blind ' sequence , a masterstroke to be sure ) . For some reason or another , which does become more obvious as the story goes along ( and ties into this non-linear structure Bertolucci works with intelligently ) , Marcello seeks out and visits his old Professor , an anti-fascist , and his beauty of a wife , whom he becomes somehow smitten with ( the two character actors in the parts , Enzo Tarascio and Dominique Sanda respectively , hit all the right notes , even with the subtext of scenes ) . After the sort of climax to all this , we move ahead several years later , when Mussollini is gone from power , and there is one last scene with Marcello that really made me sit up and take notice . I'm sure Bertolucci was fairly faithful to the original text ( having not read it I can't say for certain ) , but he keeps a challenging ending for the audience - a lessor filmmaker might have Marcello come to some kind of clean-cut catharsis in the wake of the end of fascism . Bertolucci doesn't have that , and he and Trintignant keep it true to the character and his personality , which sort of brings to a head not so much a story resolution , but just one of something simpler about society - what does this sort of upper-class conditioning do to a person after a while , especially if there is this certain level of detachment that Marcello has . In the end , he's truer to the film's title than anything of his own real ' beliefs ' . But going aside from the solid philosophical & / or political debate that could go on from the themes raised in the film , going back to the pure film-making aspect of The Conformist , one can sort of sense this as being like a ' test-run ' of sorts for Bertolucci to work solely with the masterful Italian cinematographer Vittorio Storaro ( of Apocalypse Now fame ) for their following masterpiece , Last Tango in Paris . In some small ways , at least for Storaro , The Conformist paints even richer details and strokes of light and dark and shadow than in Last Tango . And the two have a sense of not sticking directly to one set way of filming either , which is very good . There will be a scene like when Marcello and the Professor are talking in the Professor's office , and Marcello pulls the shades down completely on one window and leaving the other open . This creates a stark , almost baroque contrast between the two of them that works well just for mood if nothing else . Then there is also the factor of how Bertolucci gets his camera moving , often in urges that would seem unnecessary or too ' artsy ' for other filmmakers - the dance scene , for example , brings a viewer to move with the dancers , but ever so slightly , and then the frame is filled with these moving bodies and it's a truly virtuoso sequence . Even a scene that might be fairly standard for say an action film director , when the chase through the snow covered forest happens , the use of the hand-held camera isn't going too cheesy - if anything it really heightens all the tension that has been building since the start of the film ( most of the time the camera's on dolly tracks or some other form , then it switches and it adds a different sort of intensity to the proceedings ) . Although Bertolucci and Storaro won awards from the National Society of Film Critics , I see it as a fairly big snub on the Academy's part to not have given Storaro a nomination . On top of that , there's other factors that add to the collaborative effort of Bertolucci's success : there's the emotionally excellent Georges Delerue score , and Ferdinando Scarfiotti's cool production design ( later also a production designer on Last Tango ) . In the end , along with the technical side , it's also the story , and the character ( s ) , that add to the appeal of the Conformist . It's a lot to take in on a first viewing , but it doesn't disappoint for the fan expecting good things from the young Bertolucci .
an excellent look at morality in relationships , or what is perceived as morality	My Night at Maud's is a " talky " film , though like the main character of Jean-Louis in going after the woman to marry this actually is a perception that is on face-value a little demeaning . This is such a rich screenplay because it takes its characters seriously and honestly , and there's nothing cheating in dealing with characters who have problems in confronting how to approach emotional contact , of using religion as a guise , or trying to follow a ' code of conduct ' ( as one French critic called it on the Criterion DVD of the film ) that leads into a complex and troubling end . Even more-so than Love in the Afternoon , this is a work where the male perspective must have the counterpoint of a woman who is much more vibrant and life-affirming by not being connected to a kind of constricting religious ideology that can't really lead to anywhere aside from compromise . Jean-Louis is such a man who sees blonde Francoise ( Stardust Memories ' Barrault ) riding on a motorcycle and decides right then that she will be the one he will marry . His is an idealized love where despite saying that he's been in love and relationships before he has not had to really make a leap into a consequential decision . The philosophical arguments involved with Jean-Louis , Francoise and even with Maud , of whom Jean-Louis has a pensive and indecisive fling over the course of 24 hours , can last for quite a while after film's end , which is a major credit to Rohmer in making these characters real within the specific contexts . They may be bourgeois , or close to it , but the concerns of the characters are universal : How does one make a leap from emotional experience to belief . Or on the flip-side how does one who probably doesn't have any belief either way ( watch Francoise's eyes when she goes with Jean-Louis to church , it's an exceptionally subtly acted scene ) and has to fall into a kind of false love , where because she already knows of the image that Jean-Louis already has of her before she says a word that she has to continue it , marry him , have a child , and live with his own moral insecurities ? The ending may seem clean-cut , but it's a lot more complex as a sort of continuing cycle . Marriages are formed and bonds made between people all the time when there is no love , but what might be a reason ? This isn't Rohmer's central point perhaps , but it's an intelligent posit that is right there in Rohmer's character study . And all the while , through Rohmer's simple direction - the only big stylistic choice , perhaps important in the Bergman sense , is the use of the landscape of winter and the mainstream conformity of Christmas - he gets great performances from his actors , as if in a play all working towards the cores of the character in order that all of the at-times heavy dialog comes off in a fairly approachable light . Rarely will you get Pascal and romance thrown together into a conversation , but it works in this case , and for someone who's only known Pascal from a triangle it's enlightening to see how moral choice , of probability and chance , come out in ways that leap from one place to another but always coherently in the scenes at Maud's apartment . There's a good deal under the surface that comes out little by little , and if one can give in to the rhythm of Rohmer's characters the rewards are just as satisfying as with other more flamboyant works by Rohmer's contemporaries . It may not be Jules and Jim , but in its own disquieting way it's just as powerful in the implications drawn from the characters , particularly long after the film ends .
a black comedy of manners ; stunning performance from Chaplin	It would be hard to imagine anyone else playing Monsieur Verdoux ; Charlie Chaplin was the only one who could pull it off in any form or style or way that wouldn't make the character as just an unlikeable killer of women . As it's written on the page the character , if played by someone with less charisma or charm or comic timing , would just be another character actor playing a villain . But Chaplin taking the part is inspired on his part , and it's a good thing too ( and I never thought I'd say this ) that he didn't let Orson Welles direct . With Welles it obviously would have been a visually awesome picture , but would the comedy be the same ? Or the emphasis on the social message blending in with the ultimate sanctimonious attitude of the character ? It would be interesting to see Welles script , if it exists , but as it stands he's mostly a footnote in his tale , if a thankful one . Under Chaplin's direction and writing Monsieur Verdoux is timed with finesse and glee and with a repetitive transition of the train going by quickly with Chaplin's piano key strokes , and it's often devilish fun to hear how Chaplin's Verdoux gets around and about ( or sometimes not ) killing and robbing his victims . And yet , I'm inclined to say that it's above all else a triumph for Chaplin as an actor , a performer who's iconic appeal , even past the Tramp character , makes us ( or at least me ) almost cheer him on or feel awkward or cringing during a scene leading up to a murder , or , as does happen once or twice , not . He knows how to put on an air that's genuine , even as it's the most blatant con , and he does it with a gentleman's manner hiding his desperate - times - call - for - desperate - measures ex-bank clerk . While I wouldn't go as far as James Agee in calling it the greatest male performance ever , it might just be my favorite Chaplin performance , full of ranging subtleties and over-the-top expressions and just lingering looks of contempt and malaise and sorrow and outright lying and etc that are just a knockout . Monsier Verdoux is a peculiar character , as his crimes are meant to be for the good of his wife and child who , of course , have no idea of what he's really doing ( in an acidic touch , his wife is also crippled ) . Is it wrong what he's doing ? In the legal sense , of course . But Chaplin sets up a moral code for this character that makes things trickier , a little warped in thinking . If the woman has lots of wealth stored away - and maybe , as with the one who keeps getting away via wine glass and fishing trip , almost deserving in the perception of the character - why carp ? But then there's the woman who's just out of prison , her husband's gone , nothing to her name , and . . . he just can't bear to do her in ( especially , as should be noted , as a " test " run for another victim ) . It becomes curious to see her later on , sort of as the not-quite Chaplin heroine of the story , and how saving the right one for Verdoux is what counts , despite forgetting her until she reappears . So there's this twisted logic , but in the set-pieces that Chaplin sets up are some of the finest , most brilliantly timed comic moments of his career , filmed for a dark suspense tinged with a near sweetness that we know and love from him . It's satire on a level that is no more or less sophisticated than Chaplin's major silent works , and yet it's just a little sharper , more pointed at the ills of man in turmoil than a simple psychopath , all in the realm of delightful crimes in the upper class . While the end may seem derivative of the Great Dictator with a speech and message chocked forward like spray-paint on a wall , it's a mixed reaction one might have ; the sanctimonious attitude , of being accepting and pointing the finger back on society , is haunting and obvious and also , importantly , speaks to the nature of the character . Would a man somewhat comfortable in his own mortality face the end any other way ?
Still one of Oliver Stone's directorial triumphs ; Bogosian is captivating	In one of the more under-seen films of the late 1980's , at a time when Oliver Stone was riding high with Platoon and Wall Street ( and before his opus Born on the Fourth of July ) , he co-scripted and directed this look at the world of radio , specifically one radio host in the middle of Texas . This man is Barry Champlain , in a once-in-a-career turn from Eric Bogosian , who wrote the original play and also co-wrote the script . Barry is like a mix of Howard Stern and one of those pundits you hear on the radio stations many of us might turn off . He's got ideas on his mind , opinions , and he's not only un-afraid to speak them , but also to stand up against the phone callers . The callers , indeed , are the driving force in the film , as Barry has to combat against the mindless , the obscene , the racist , and the purely absent-minded . As this goes on , he also has to contend with his boss ( Alec Baldwin ) and a hit or miss deal to go nationwide , outside the confines of the Southern way station he's in . While after seeing the film I felt curious as to see how it would've been done on stage ( I'd imagine it was a one-man show , as Bogosian has had several on the side ) , the direction of the film is phenomenal . Stone has been known , almost typecast , as a director who loves quick cuts , the limitless effects of montage , and effects with the styles of camera-work and other little tricks , that give his films in the 90's a distinctive , almost auteur look . But in the 80's he had this energy and feverish quality to the look of the film , and wasn't as frenzied as the other films . In order to add the proper intensity that is within the studio and head-space of Barry Champlain , he and DP Robert Richardson make the space seem claustrophobic at times , gritty , un-sure , and definitely on edge . The scenes in the middle of the film , when Barry isn't in the studio , are fairly standard , but the style along with the substance in the radio scenes is among the best I've seen from the Stone / Richardson combination . And one cannot miscalculate the performance of Bogosian , who can be obnoxious , offensive , angered , passive , and everything that we love and hate in radio show hosts . There is also a funny , near distracting supporting role for Michael Wincott as Kent / Michael / Joe , who prank calls him one night , and the next gets invited to the studio . These scenes are a little uncomfortable for a viewer , but it does get very much into the subculture head-space of the 80's that Barry is as intrigued as he is critical of . The stoner may not ' get it ' , but as he says to him " it's your show " . Indeed , it's hard to cover everything that goes on within the talk , and there is a lot of it . But it's never boring , and like Champlain himself , it's not easy to ignore . And when Bogosian goes into his climactic tirade on air , with the background panning around in a continuous 360 spin , it becomes intoxicating , and a reason why freedom of speech is so powerful . Stone has been synonymous as a filmmaker of hot-button issues , who takes on subjects that were or still are controversial , and gives them a life-force that isn't always great , but is all his own . Here his skills and ambitions don't get in the way of Bogosian's - it's boosted , if anything , making an extremely skilled vision of what is essentially a near one-man show , which in and of itself is already well-written .
a revenge picture that isn't very pretty , and loves it that way	Oldboy was a film I saw twice in the theater , in New York City ( the second time not totally intentional , just the only thing playing worth seeing ) , and saw again recently . I'm still struck on how balls-to-the-wall director Chanwook Park goes with his story . It's actually not a bad story , but it needs a certain push and originality in drive to make it work . For some this will be overkill , and it's not without an argument . The film is violent , though perhaps not on the level of Fukasaku or Miike's films . It's disturbing , but in a way that hits deep by way of raw emotions that can only come out of East Asian cinema . And it has a level of drama that's staggering , maybe for some a little far-fetched . But it's also a good lot of the time a bitingly funny film , loaded with attitude to match its style , but with a heart as well . The small low-down on the story : Oh Dae-su ( Choi Min-Sik in a towering performance worthy of Charles Bronson or Harvey Keitel or both ) is nabbed un-wittingly and thrown into a prison . We follow him along in his long stint , seeming forever , until he suddenly gets ' released ' into the open . Now it's time for revenge , but is the question of the truth , of the why , even more crucial than actually getting payback ? This becomes the main dramatic pull of Oldboy , but it's not just a kind of ultra-violent fight and action filled epic saga . It's also a love story , so to speak , and a film about the mistakes of youth . The antagonist of the story , Lee Woo-Jin ( Yu Ji-Tae in what is one of the most absorbing and calmly demented performances in recent memory ) , becomes a very threatening , dark presence in the film , omnipresent a lot of the time , like a devil watching over it's subject . And when it comes to the climax , there is a level of Greek tragedy that's so strong , it had a good few in the theater I saw the film clinging tenaciously to their seats . The story , admittedly , is relatively thin when one thinks about it , and if a director wanted to pull a Howard Hawks and cut past all of the modern aesthetic the film would be a third less in length . But the twisted pleasure of watching a film like Oldboy unfold is in the manipulation of the style , how Park and his director of photography Jeong Jeong-hung give the film an indie wham-bang zeal while at the same time following no rules . This is demonstrated in many tense scenes , but the memorable ones include at least a few key moments in Oh Dae-Su's prison cell , and particularly the infamous long-shot as the fight breaks out in the prison hallway . Seeing a scene like this may or may not draw some viewers down the line right away ; how much can you take seeing a scene lasting 3 or 4 or more minutes of just brutal beating , choreographed to a full intensity ? As with the film in general , it's a not-too guilty pleasure for genre fans , and for others they might watch it and think ' eh ' . But it is also in the people , in the characters that creates a heightened pitch in Oldboy . It's like a filmed graphic novel in some ways , but dealing with characters who ( possible exceptions being Lee Woo Jin and some of his ' posse ' ) are not part of a criminal underworld , and our main hero is turned inside out , into what he calls as himself a ' monster ' ( watch for the reference to Frankenstein on TV , by the way ) . So , when it comes time for this harsh , piercing revelation scene in the high tower Lee occupies , it leads to some devastating stuff . Like the darkest bits out of Sophocles , Park's characters are practically doomed by fate , and it's not much of a picnic for them getting there . But for the audience , it's created as a post-modern stew . Oldboy is rough , taut , and in spurts quite visionary .
obscure and underrated ; it's another of Kurosawa's dramas on the lower class , this time bleaker , a little more abstract , still a masterpiece	If there was anything Akira Kurosawa did wrong in making Dodes'ka-den , it was making it with the partnership he formed with the " four knights " ( the other three being Kobayaski , Ichikawa , and Konishita ) . They wanted a big blockbuster hit to kick off their partnership , and instead Kurosawa , arguably the head cheese of the group , delivered an abstract , humanist art film with characters living in a decimated slum that had many of its characters face dark tragedies . Had he made it on a more independent basis or went to another studio who knows , but it was because of this , among some other financial and creative woes , that also contributed to his suicide attempt in 1971 . And yet , at the end of the day , as an artist Kurosawa didn't stop delivering what he's infamous for with his dramas : the strengths of the human spirit in the face of adversity . That its backdrop is a little more unusual than most shouldn't be ignored , but it's not at all a fault of Kurosawa's . The material in Dodes'ka-den is absorbing , but not in ways that one usually finds from the director , and mostly because it is driven by character instead of plot . There's things that happen to these people , and Kurosawa's challenge here is to interweave them into a cohesive whole . The character who starts off in the picture , oddly enough ( though thankfully as there's not much room for him to grow ) , is Rokkuchan , a brain damaged man-child who goes around all day making train sounds ( the ' clickety-clack ' of the title ) , only sometimes stopping to pray for his mother . But then we branch off : there's the father and son , the latter who scrounges restaurants for food and the former who goes on and on with site-specific descriptions of his dream house ; an older man has the look of death to him , and we learn later on he's lost a lot more than he'll tell most people , including a woman who has a past with him ; a shy , quiet woman who works in servitude to her adoptive father ( or uncle , I'm not sure ) , who rapes her ; and a meek guy in a suit who has a constant facial tick and a big mean wife - to those who are social around . There are also little markers of people around these characters , like two drunks who keep stumbling around every night , like clockwork , putting big demands on their spouses , sometimes ( unintentionally ) swapping them ! And there's the kind sake salesman on the bike who has a sweet but strange connection with the shy quiet woman . And of course there's a group of gossiping ladies who squat around a watering hole in the middle of the slum , not having anything too nice to say about anyone unless it's about something erotic with a guy . First to note with all of this is how Kurosawa sets the picture ; it's a little post-apocalyptic , looking not of any particular time or place ( that is until in a couple of shots we see modern cars and streets ) . It's a marginalized society , but the concerns of these people are , however in tragic scope , meant to be deconstructed through dramatic force . Like Bergman , Kurosawa is out to dissect the shattered emotions of people , with one scene in particular when the deathly-looking man who has hollow , sorrowful eyes , sits ripping cloth in silence as a woman goes along with it . Sometimes there's charm , and even some laughs , to be had with these people . I even enjoyed , maybe ironically , the little moments with Rokkuchan ( specifically with Kurosawa's cameo as a painter in the street ) , or the awkward silences with the man with the facial tics . But while Kurosawa allows his actors some room to improvise , his camera movements still remain as they've always been - patient but alert , with wide compositions and claustrophobic shots , painterly visions and faces sometimes with the stylization of a silent drama meant as a weeper . Amid these sometimes bizarre and touching stories , with some of them ( i . e . the father and son in the car ) especially sad , Kurosawa lights his film and designs the color scheme as his first one in Eastmancolor like it's one of his paintings . Lush , sprawling , spilling at times over the seams but always with some control , this place is not necessarily " lighter " ; it's like the abstract has come full-throttle into the scene , where things look vibrant but are much darker underneath . It's a brilliant , tricky double-edged sword that allows for the dream-like intonations with such heavy duty drama . With a sweet ' movie ' score Toru Takemitsu ( also responsible for Ran ) , and some excellent performances from the actors , and a few indelible scenes in a whole fantastic career , Dodes'ka-den is in its own way a minor work from the director , but nonetheless near perfect on its own terms , which as with many Kurosawa dramas like Ikiru and Red Beard holds hard truths on the human condition without too much sentimentality .
One of the Best Independent Pictures Ever !	Kevin Smith's Clerks is a very good piece of cinema and comedy . It was made for no more than $27 , 000 and it is one of the best films of the decade . It introduced us to the Clerks . Their lifes , their loves and tribulations . And of course , who can forget the only two people in every Smith film , the dimatic duo Jay and Silet Bob ( played by Jason Mewes and Smith ) . But whats so creative aboutr this movie is that it's simplistic enough to enjoy and admire . It could almost be a play on broadway and it probably is the way Smith wrote it out . A flat out masterpiece and one of the best films of 1994 .
both absurd and completely terrifying , a film of massive intelligence and enthrallment	What a repeat viewing will bring : The Birds is Alfred Hitchcock's blockbuster entertainment that somehow can appeal to the " art-house " movie-goers as well . Meaning that even more than with Psycho , and certainly on a much grander and ambitious palette than North by Northwest , we have Hitchcock the grand ol ' Master of Suspense for his mainstream fans , and at the same time gives an appeal to those who might consider themselves too high-minded to be considered part of the ' mainstream ' . Meaning if you're in a coffee shop and on one end there's a group of teenagers and on the other end a couple of middle-aged psycho-therapists with numerous degrees , they could both be talking with similar depth & / or enthusiasm over the Birds . It's a work where the story gets set up very well : Tippi Hedren as the daughter of a high-ranking official ( maybe a few brain cells and style-wise above Paris Hilton ) in San Francisco who wants to get to know better a man , Mitch , who's from an island off the coast . She follows him down to the island only to be confronted by Mitch's mother ( Jessica Tandy ) as well as his sister . It's a little uncomfortable a situation in the sort of mother-son dynamic she rattles . . . but that's not all her presence seems to be incurring . What unravels from there is sheer Hitchcock exploitation film-making - exploiting the audience's wildest fears - always with the most assured and inventiveness that one would expect . Several shots stick in one's memory , perhaps the greatest being the from-the-sky view of the fire that breaks out in the city , and then the seagulls that come into the foreground ( point of view is put into question here , and it's a shot that works on both levels as mentioned before ) . As for the average horror fan , The Birds may work even more effectively than Psycho , despite its age shown in the bird attack scenes - which are nevertheless extraordinary in the usage of composite shots - because after the initial shock of the middle chunk of the film Hitchcock gets into something of a near zombie movie in the last third of the picture . Mitch barricades his mother , sister and Melanie in the house , only to have the rancor-loaded birds crashing head on to get at the house . Getting at what , who's to say ? There's explanations that can be given , to be sure , but it may not even be necessary , it just is ( one gets this amusingly from Hitchcock via the scene in the restaurant / bar with the town locals giving their drunken / angered / well-informed viewpoints ) . When it comes down to it , The Birds is not entirely as emotionally disturbing or complex as Vertigo , and one might be reluctant to say that it is art because of its appeal on a commercial level . But art it is , conjured out of a premise that seems ridiculous yet made all the more prescient and startling through Hitchcock's ever-careful style , and specifically the lack of a traditional Herrmann musical score ( albeit with his contribution as a sound-designer with the birds notwithstanding ) . By the last scene , one sees how what might have been a cheesy , trashy work by a lesser filmmaker out for cheap scares , becomes something of a bizarre , discomforting statement on nature versus human beings , or at least what can be capable of those we all take for granted . It's also a hell of a lot of fun for the whole family , more or less ; watch for the school-yard singing as the birds swarm around the playground , later parodied wonderfully in High Anxiety .
a cynical and absorbing look at the relevance of a hard-boiled journalism and humanity	Ace in the Hole's main character , Chuck Tatum ( a classic turn from Kirk Douglas ) , creates all his own problems for a glory that , as for any addict , is practically unattainable . This is because for all of his pontificating about the greatness of ' human interest ' stories , if it'll suit him the story can go on for much longer than it needs to for the people in it . There's a very strong current throughout the picture about what the value of life is , not just for Tatum but for everyone involved , from the practical journalists on both sides ( the honest Albaquerque press-man who hates what Tatum is doing in delaying it , to the other press people who hate that Tatum is trying to take all the credit ) , to the hordes of bystanders who turn the outside of the cave where trapped Leo Minosa ( Richard Benedict ) is on his last breath into an amusement park , to even his own conflicted wife ( Sterling ) , who isn'ty sure if she even loves him anymore . By the end , it becomes a desperate twist of fate for Tatum , and it ends up all boiling down to something that is very ( and frighteningly ) relevant for today . Billy Wilder makes this such an unflinching tale of greed and the now given " media circus " , and he does an excellent job in not making Tatum much at all sympathetic . This is important because it allows Douglas the room to make his interpretation so full-bodied and red-blooded that he almost resembles the doomed lead in an Aesop fable . He's a 2nd-level writer who's been kicked out of one major newspaper after another , landing in a little blip on the map like Albaquerque , driving along with his young co-reporter to a Rattlesnake convention or other . Then he comes upon poor Minosa , stuck in a mine with little air and no supplies . He jumps on the chance to make it not only a big news story , but his news story . Douglas takes Tatum on for all he's worth , in a performance that marks him as something quite different from the character he would play in Paths of Glory - self-interested and with so much pride and confidence - edging - and - over - arrogance , and even makes him true to form as he goes back and forth on trying to do the right thing ( bring the man a priest , why not ) , and to save his own hide . Probably one of Wilder's best chances to take was Douglas in the role - a role that is established in a perfect opening shot of Tatum in the driver side of his car , being towed right up to the newspaper office . But it's not the only bright spot for Wilder . He's got a strong sense of how to capture all of the scenes , particularly the claustrophobic mine scenes with Minosa - sometimes with the trapped man huffing away as the most honest character in the film - and the shots showing the expansiveness of the ' circus ' , with the small rest-stop loaded with people all into the hype and riding the ferris wheel . Wilder isn't necessarily doing a full-on film-noir like Double Indemnity or Sunset Boulevard ( also very dark and bleak in view of humanity at large and small scopes ) , but it has that feeling in many scenes , of an atmosphere of mounting dread , corruptible law ( the Sheriff , played by Ray Teal , is a personification of the truly despicable and dumbest officer ) and without much of a happy ending . It's even been considered to be Wilder's bleakest and least commercial film , and it's not an unfair consideration . But it's also drama of the highest caliber , where a lesson that's made isn't crammed down the viewer's head but is surrounded by characters that could just as easily be around in today's media environment . It's almost prophetic in detailing the tediousness and lack of real human connectivity in such " human interest " stories , particularly those lacking a happy ending . One of the best , and most underrated of all , films of 1951 .
not one of my top five favorite westerns , but it is a damn entertaining classic western	There's almost a kind of bridge between the westerns of old and the sort of last legs of the western in this film - it has the good ol ' sensibilities of the classics ( loyalty , honor , the power of the sheriff , the quirkiness and durability of the ones around him , shoot-outs ) , while also giving some room for some more modern ones ( Dean Martin as ' Dude ' , Angie Dickinson as ' feathers ' , and the overall excitement ) . It has a song at one point ( obviously for one its stars , the late Ricky Nelson , a popular singer at the time ) . It has the crotchety , funny old man ( Walter Brennan as Stumpy , one of his best roles ) . And , of course , the ' Duke ' John Wayne , who has his usual swagger and qualities that make him a prime figure of the ' male ' in films . This time though , he does have some of his tough exterior shed away a little , maybe . Howard Hawks , if nothing else , is most powerful as a storyteller , doing almost nothing with the style of his camera to be creative except to shoot these people , going through the motions . The story , which later was used as a basis for John Carpeneter's Assault on Precinct 13 , has Wayne as the Sheriff and Dean Martin as his on and off again drunken deputy ' Dude ' , who have to look after a criminal in their jail , as he has a brother with a gang who are plotting to break him out . As the Sheriff , or Chance as he's called , has to deal with this , he also has the woman , and the old man , and Dude ( Martin is great in the film , maybe the best male performance of the lot ) , not to mention the hot-to-trot young gunslinger played by Nelson . In all , it's the kind of genre film that should be taken seriously on one hand , but on the other , its meant to be a rollicking good time through the less tense and exciting parts ( and there are quite a few from a director who once said that ' there's no action without danger ) . It lacks a kind of urgency that some of Hawks ' other films have , and occasionally Wayne is a little too much " The Duke " to see if he's really giving a well-rounded performance as the sheriff . But besides that , it makes for some very memorable moments , a slick ending , and some endearing performances . It's also a film that takes its characters to heart as much as its story ; a credit to screenwriters Jules Furthman and Leigh Brackett ( the later one of my favorites of the period ) . Not quite a masterpiece , but its definitely worth watching at least once if you're getting into the genre .
In my top five favorite films ever made	Apocalypse Now is not only my personal favorite work by Francis Ford Coppolla , it's also one of the great visions ever put onto cinema . It makes what was horrific , strange , and ironically exciting and mysterious about the Vietnam War into this mad tale of obsession , death , loss , and the dark side of humanity . While the stories behind the production of the film made it notorious and rather risky back in 1979 , it works on its own terms and represents not just Coppola's genius but others in the Zoetrope team as well . It also paints a sometimes lurid , ultra-violent , bleak and curious view of what war does to people , both in the lower ranks , the big-guns , and those who go too far " up the river " . Many have also been perplexed by Marlon Brando's performance in the film , but it's actually one of his very best turns on screen , albeit improvised and close to running off the rails . His few moments on screen ( even in the somewhat unnecessary scene plopped into the Redux version ) there's enough conviction in what he's saying - and what perhaps isn't said - that makes the trip down the river worthwhile on an intellectual and poetic level . And making up the bulk of the film are delirious turns by Robert Duvall ( a Oscar nominated turn he should've won ) , Martin Sheen as the Captain with almost too much to ponder in an ever increasing state of everything but him being insane ; character actors like Sam Bottoms , Frederic Forrest and 14 year-old Laurence Fishburne have some of the best work they've ever done . And it goes without saying that Dennis Hopper comes close to stealing any scene he's in , for better or worse , with the most to say in rambling , yet coherent words . Every time I watch this film ( and mostly the original version which is what first drew me in completely as opposed to the very good if muddled Redux version ) I am astounded with how operatic everything is , and how the variations on the madness and chaos of Vietnam is put together . Of course one can give adulation to Coppola for this as he completed it without totally going off the deep end or possibly dying , and his talents are pulled to their richest peaks here as a storyteller and director of actors . But it can't be said enough how much I can't get enough of Vittorio Storaro's cinematography , which has in part come close to perfect for this kind of epic film . The music is perfectly eerie and insidious , with the Doors song used for one of my favorite iconic scenes in the movies ( both of them ) . Walter Murch's editing - which apparently was what saved the film from being a four-hour disaster - makes the action move when it needs to and for individual shots to get their due . And even the production design is remarkable and , to the extent it goes to , original in its partial translation of both Conrad's fiction and the unfortunate realities of life on the river . If you haven't seen it yet , in short , get off your ass and get a copy ; it might cause a kind of shell-shock for a viewer after first taking it all in , but it has some of the purest , most rewarding bits of cinema ever to come out of that all-too-brief American new-wave of the 1970's .
still likely the Strangest film I Have Ever Seen	David Lynch's Eraserhead makes Being John Malkovich , Texas Chainsaw Massacre and Lost Highway ( another Lynch flick ) combined look like they are chicken feed . And years later , having immersed myself in all of Lynch's work ( minus Twin Peaks ) , going through numerous other " cult " and nightmarish films , and even recognizing the slower bits in the film , it still holds up for me as one of the filmmaker's masterpieces . Believe me , you will rarely see a stranger and more terrifying film in your lifetime until you see this . The plot ( which if you can find you win a prize in your mind I think ) has a weird zombie-like man ( with a Al Sharpton like hair-do ) who accidentally gets his spastic girlfriend pregnant and what comes out is a creature that is probably the unwanted child of an alien and a gasoline can . For most of the film though are images and scenes of macabre and fright that are authentic in their own way ; abstractions that sometimes are humorous ( the best being the highly uncomfortable and classic scene at dinner with the chickens ) and sometimes purely out-of-this world . Lynch , while artistically might be by this work as mentally balanced as The Monster in Frankenstein , can make a film so weird , evil-feeling , yet compelling as all hell , that it boggles the mind . Very low budget , this is definitely one of the top 10 best debut films ever .
best film of its year ; pure urban horror filmed in unflinching and poetic eyes	Matthieu Kassovitz shot out a wad , so to speak , of the kind of " issue " movie that had brawn and balls and didn't back down from showing the truth on all sides , and how it's all ultimately ugly and screams for change to happen . How much the film might have changed things in the ghettos of Paris I'm not sure , and possibly it didn't do much . But as an act of cinematic awareness to a grim situation with bravura drama and humor and in the guise of a " youth " movie , it's completely captivating . What's strong about it is not just that Kassovitz wont turn away from the cyclical nature of violence between the young citizens brutalized and the cops ' battling ' them back causing the ensuing riots , but that nobody is shown as being really right or wrong . . . Maybe that's not entirely true ; La Haine was made for a purpose , through visionary direction and outstanding performances , which is to shed light on something that without any awareness would go on unabated . It's basically like Mean Streets meets Battle of Algiers , if that makes sense . Maybe the latter of those examples is a little extreme an example since it's a wider framework of history and terrorism , whereas this is a work about the little horrors with those who cross the wrong path with the wrong cops in heightened racial and ethnic tension , and is intense on a slightly different level . But it also is relentless in its pursuit of truth at the matter , or rather the filmmaker's heightened and suspenseful level of truth , and it hits the viewer like a gun across the cheeks . While at the same time this societal statement is made there's a real story going on about three young friends ( Vincent Cassell , Hubert Kounde , Said Taghmaoui , all named with their characters ) , one of which carrying a gun he ' found ' from one cop who lost it during a riot , and their travels and adventures over a day trying to get money , drugs , or just getting by the haze of bewilderment over their friend dying in a hospital from cops beating and Vinz's demand for revenge if he dies . La Haine is an impression of just a part of a city , as much as one can grab in a day's length of time in ' movie-time ' , but as well as comparisons to Mean Streets may lie there's also one perhaps for Do the Right Thing . Kassovitz isn't afraid to take a current event and turn it into the stuff of rousing character-driven drama with some semblance of plot ( in this case the old ' if the gun is used in act then one act five ' logic ) , but like Lee or Scorsese his black and white cinematography that follows these guys around with the verve to keep on a tracking shot or a specific close-up ( in a half-ironic close-up Cassel talks to the mirror ala Travis Bickle , a little inspired through a whole other perspective ) that speaks so much . And sometimes he'll put a strange but perfect detour in the structure , like the old man telling the story in the bathroom , or the sudden break for break dancing , or that one shot flying across the air from the window of the DJ . Sometimes it's docu-realistic , but then Kassovitz will throw that stylistic curve-ball reminding us this is in-your-face and with an attitude that would make the Clash raise an eyebrow or two . And along with Kassovitz hitting it way out of the park intellectually and emotionally as a filmmaker , his actors are all lock-in-step wonderful for their characters : Taghmaoui , who you might remember from Three Kings or Traitor , as the uppity and bad-joke telling Arab who has attitude to spare but is like a rough puppy at best ; Kounde as the one with probably the most common sense as a guy who lost his gym to the riot and gets by smoking hash and trying to get ( or talk ) Cassel out of trouble ; Cassel as the hot-head with something to prove to himself , or so he thinks , carrying the gun and not really knowing its implications . The three of them are not really very bad kids , but they're from the streets and know it well and know what they need to do to act right and behave around amid what is at points squalor ( i . e . the subway bit with one after another homeless folks going by ) and just rough gang stuff . They're even sensitive performances to a degree , which is important since La Haine , for all its toughness and rigor and occasional blasts of harsh violence , is a beautiful work of a Frenchman who knows what he's doing . It's made by the young and for the young , but it's also made for anyone looking for an example of what is both important and entertaining art after the French new-wave has come and gone . And , as with any great post-modern film , seeing it once isn't enough .
The most ambiguous , inviting , surreal , whatever-you-can-think philosophical experiment by Bergman	Writing from a hospital bed ( as he did with Wild Strawberries , two of these being films strung out from anguish ) , Ingmar Bergman put down almost anything that was in his head to start with ( the first five minutes - some of the most startling and thoroughly symbolic minutes he's ever directed ) , then transposed into a story of two women , or one . This was one of the landmark ' art-films ' of the 1960's , with hints of the horrors of war ( in one memorable scene , Elisabeth looks at a television screen at images of death ) , introspection regarding sex and identity , existentialism , and what it means to be an actor . Some of the more famous directors in history have a kind of ' notorious ' film , by which many people who may not know the bulk of their works know them by one particular work ( with Hitchcock it could be Psycho , Lucas it's with Star Wars , Bunuel with The Andalousian Dog , Godard with Breathless ) . This could , arguably , be the one for Bergman , despite a couple of others likely also holding claim to that title . In other words , this could be a good place to start with the director if you're not familiar with his films , or it might not be . But keep this in mind - it's one of his most unique departures as a filmmaker . Two of his leading ladies ( and , ahem , loves ) , Bibi Andersson and 25 year-old Liv Ullmann , star was a nurse and an actress , who for the bulk of the film are at a Doctor's cottage as the nurse tries to help and likely cure Elisabeth of her ailment ( froze on stage , silent but incredibly observant ) . In the meantime , Alma the nurse , in a role that gives Andersson more talking-points than any other film she's been in , goes through some hurtful parts of her past , and just tries to understand her counter-part . At one point , a vein of existentialism is ruptured thoughtfully , when Alma gets Elisabeth to say " No , don't " , when she threatens her . When I first saw this film , I knew this scene would come after reading Roger Ebert's review . But I had no idea it would hit me like it did . There is such a great , compelling tension between these two that Andersson and Ullmann convey that it is what makes the film work . Any lessor actresses might fumble up the whole lot of it . While it isn't my favorite Bergman film ( though it is unfair to pick favorites sometimes when it comes to someone as huge in the cine-consciousness as him ) , there are many things that had me come back to it after being a little awe-struck on my first viewing last year . For one thing , there's Sven Nykvist , with one of the strongest , most varying eyes in all of European cinema . In the first five minutes , of course , there is some fascinating stuff , but even in the scenes of long dialog and monologue ( i . e . the unforgettable speech about being on the beach from Alma ) , where the lighting is so delicate and sharp with the shadows that you really feel like the weight of this situation is closing in on the characters . Or , of course , when the two actresses ' faces are super-imposed , which can be interpreted in more ways than one ( either as a grand statement , or as pretension , or something else ) . I was also very moved by the pace of the film , how it fills each minute ( it's not a long movie ) in ways that some movies just float minutes by . Now , this is the kind of Bergman film that can't be turned on any time ( not to make it sound un-watchable , it certainly isn't ) . But it does ask to be viewed when in a certain frame of mind - if you're looking for a movie to show off to your friends , like it's the Euro / avant-garde version of Fight Club minus the violence , look away . It poses a good many questions for a viewer , especially one who knows of Bergman's themes he's explored before and after this film's release . How do we feel , or know we're feeling ? What keeps us closed in ? Why do we hurt ? And are we only one person at a time ? It's all the more puzzling that Bergman's climax isn't a very easy one ( not as doomed as with Seventh Seal but not as cheerful as Fanny and Alexander ) , as Alma has another monologue with Elisabeth , about her son she hasn't seen in a long while - this famously seen from two different angles , one after the other . Furthermore , it is arguably Bergman's most self-conscious film to date ( the commentary on the DVD carries it well ) , however it may not be as off-putting as with some of Godard's films . To put it another way , there are two sides to the subject matter , the film , the director , and the audience .
The Best Truffaut film to see	I thought this was not only the best Truffaut film , but also one of the best crime films ever . Truffaut depicts a boy who is rejected ( in his mind ) from his parents , so he goes to a life of crime . Great drama , especially in the eyes of Truffaut and in black and white no less . Look for Francois as a man in the funfair .
great even if you've barely ever watched regular Robot Chicken !	This was fantastic , crazy , immature and joyfully stupid / joyously witty parody on all things Star Wars . What's great is that you don't need to be a Robot Chicken fan ( though I'm sure it helps ) or even have watched it very much to decide either way . If you like your parodies quick and skit-like and random and sometimes just dumb as hell , Robot Chicken : Star Wars is something of a minor masterpiece in the form . Seth Green's collage of classic bits from the movie redone , and then lampooned from all corners ( there ' " Dr . Ball " featuring the big black orb that tortured Princess Leia , there's Admiral Ackbar cereal , there's George W . Bush thinking he's a Jedi and pitting his " mind-trick " on a WMD question , there's even a running " gag " involving Jar-Jar becoming a " ghost " torturing Darth Vader ) . There's barely a moment when I didn't laugh out loud , or find something actually really funny and creative in its wit and , as a fan of the saga , obscure bits that only people who've seen the film 10 or 20 times would get ( i . e . that blue guy playing the piano at Jabba's palace pushing an album wit songs like " I'm not an elephant ! " ) , or just obvious gags that only come on late at night ( i . e . Luke and Leia in bed , " This is so . . . wrong . " ) Granted , it may take a certain sense of humor or just familiarity with the Star Wars films to get some of the gags - those who aren't keen on the prequels may not remember what midiclorians ( sic ) are let alone how the jokes lock in step in the show - but for those that get it , it's priceless . Only minor personal geek-type liability : no Yoda !
the soul of the artist / poet with his profound ' swan song ' , an elegy to life and death and the soul	It is perhaps too blunt a notion that Andrei Tarkovsky's the Sacrifice bears some comparison with Ingmar Bergman's films . More than a notion , it's right up there on the screen : Erland Josephsson , one of Bergman's great collaborators , as well as Sven Nykvist ( probably the best ) , as well as certain allusions in some of the shots ( i . e . the kid in the bed in black and white seems right out of Persona ) . But it's also the themes being dealt with , the tone in the monologues from the characters ( albeit from Josephsson and usually dealing with his faith and memories ) , and the sense of grief and bewilderment ala Shame . At the same time , with these allusions as well as others to the likes of Nietzche and Dostoyevsky , it's through and through the work of a filmmaker so in touch with his soul as an artist , with so much to pour into a work that has relatively little plot ( not that it doesn't have a story ) , that it floors one . And , in a sense , it's close to being , despite its darker intonations and its ambiguous , staggering ending of madness and hope , the director's quintessential work . While Stalker will probably stay as the artistic pinnacle of his career , the Sacrifice brings to a head many of the director's chief concerns while not possibly making them too patched together to make sense ( i . e . The Mirror , which is nevertheless also great ) , as well as in a style that is meditative , calm , harsh , surreal , and always with the heart and mind of what leans toward the poetic . Once we get into the premise of the picture , which takes a little while itself to set up - an old man , Alexander , ( Josephsson ) and his family are at his home to celebrate his birthday when elsewhere a catastrophic war is going on , with the family left to their own devices out in the middle of the countryside - Tarkovsky explores the spaces that are there to see in the consciousness of men ( and , to a degree , women ) in a crisis of faith . In reality , there isn't a whole lot that " happens " in the usual plot-driven sense of the Sacrifice , but within the realm of the scenes depicted and acted , there's a lot more than any other filmmaker would meet at . A visit to Maria , a " witch " in a church nearby , takes up a fairly significant chunk out of the picture , but in it is a story told by Alexander about a garden and his mother , and around this and in this scene are the details that Tarkovsky builds with . It goes without saying his genius also lies with whom he works with , and Nykvist creates such a mood for each particular scene ( sometimes the light or look of a scene will fade just a little , and everything will change , however subtly , for an instant ) , and such a delicate , brooding nature with the camera as it tracks along in Tarkovsky's carefully lined long takes , that it ranks up there with his very best pieces with Bergman . But at the same time , as the director mixes in black and white footage , slow-motion of a character running down a hall , a tilt up some mud and nature , a sense of time and place and horror is depicted , honestly , without the problems with usually pretentious visionaries . And as it was that Tarkovsky knew that he was dying - unlike other filmmakers who fade out after their last picture or die unexpectedly - there's a sense of self-reflection , as it comes out with Alexander and in those around him , that is sad but ultimately poignant to the highest order . Questions are raised that can hardly be answered , but one of the chief ones has the ring of naiveté until it's known that it's this particular instance it's raised : is there no hope for the spirit ? What about the boy , however , might also be another sort of question , as we see the final shot starting on the boy and raising up ever so gently up the tree with the music playing on . All these and more can be raised from the Sacrifice ( not to mention , of course , what does it mean to really sacrifice oneself ) , but it's besides all of that just a truly rich cinematic experience , one that's so rich that it's hard to take it all in all at once . It has the sustainability of its artistic force to not have the danger of growing ' dated ' ; to make a more leap with some grandeur perhaps , as with a poem or some renaissance painting ( not far off from the Leonardo featured in the film ) , the Sacrifice asks to be revisited , to have the experience of the thoughts and ideas poised , and for the amazing performances and technical work . It's one of the true masterpieces of the 1980s .
a biting black comedy of a detached character in a particular state of mind	Being There will get you thinking about what it means to be taken in by television , as well as the government , and the better ( or lesser ) intentions of people in power , and works on more than one level . It's a pure slice of oddball life , the story of a man who got more than likely tucked away into some kind of perfunctory manner by the only things in life with any significance being television and gardening . No more or less . How does one end up living out in the world , however , if this is all there is for the span of a long life ? Jerzy Kosinski's idea is to place this fragmented , polite but assuredly clueless fellow where double standards rule the day . He meets a businessman after a limo accident , and by his outward appearance seeming to fit a certain mold he takes him in . The man is connected in his dealings , all the way up to the president , as an adviser . All Chance ( Peter Sellers ) can do is say what he knows - not only does he not know lies or how to lie , he's been sort of conditioned , in a way , to not fully comprehend good and evil either . But his words carry meaning , somehow , and he becomes a celebrity all the while not really connected to what's going on . Rarely before has detachment and the subtleties of the human condition been this engaging . There are three major factors for this , which is the control of wit and truth in the screenplay by Kosinski , who won't go for the cheapest laughs or too mocking in satirical form , but in the moments of dead-pan exchange and the bluntness of Chance's character . Sellers , of course , is at the very top of his game , and that's a first factor , along with the rest of the excellent cast ( MacClaine is maybe at her best , as I've not seen too much that wowed me until now ; Douglass gives a compassionate performance that speaks to the issue of illness and the end of existence ; Warden is surprisingly adept at playing a flabbergasted , weak-willed president ) . He leads it as if going for something that seems like it shouldn't be interesting . It's a guy who doesn't really have much expression , aside from some bits of joy , like meeting the president , or in becoming ( somewhat ) part of MacClaine's character's love-life , or in seeing someone die . But even then it's a muted , half-way expression , and the repression that Sellers makes real here is staggering . The term ' comfortably numb ' popped in my head once or twice regarding Chance the gardener , and Sellers makes this as real as possible , and sometimes as funny as possible , but for the most part it's his most mature work where there isn't any cheating - what you see , with his mind transmogrified by TV forever - is what you get . Ashby , meanwhile , makes this a very successfully directed film by putting a tone to the picture that is not really like the Chance character because you want to see where he goes next . He'll put in a sequence that is hysterically funny , like when Chance is in the limo watching the Cheech and Chong bit Basketball Jones , or in Chance's reaction to pure sexual advances from MacClaine , or in several little things . But he also makes it on a bedrock of a level of plausibility , at least in some part . It's doubtful if a man would have this sort of effect on a mass public , once appearing in public anyway , and have his words 100 % to heart , because there would be over-analysis and eventually a crack in the whole character's intent that gardening tactics are universal . And yet it's even more plausible , however , to see what effect words do have when taken out of context AS the context , and how perceptions in America create more than what one might bargain for , and eventually become a mantra of sorts . That Chance also is quite a dim fellow - not a dimwit exactly , he's not necessarily stupid - brings some extra resonance in the political swamp of today . Ashby times all of this as though he were certain when to just let the everyday come in as something more . He puts in great musical choices , and a few very memorable images ( I loved the shot of Chance walking on the middle-road to the Capital building ) , and crowns it with a screenplay that doesn't , unlike TV for Chance , take things too simple . Not that there isn't almost a silent-film whimsy to this all , but there's so much to Being There that it will stick with you for many days afterwords .
La Bete Humaine is a a mix of beautiful , naturalistic melodrama and the early inklings of film noir	I have yet to read any of the works of Zola , but I am familiar with what he wrote about in his time in a modern drama class I took - he was part of a naturalistic movement in literature and theater that tried to take relationship stories to another area , or at least to one that might have been frowned upon with some of the overt sensuality and questioning of the roles of men and women . But for Jean Renoir , he takes the basic elements that were in Zola's work and gives the film a great spirit , a tale of falling in love , murder , heartbreak , among the working class . Although it is more-so a melodrama at times , the acting isn't over-wrought or ' bad ' in the slightest - Jean Gabin is perfect in his role of Jacques Lantier , an engineer working on the trains who has a problem sometimes from his family's alcoholic history . Simone Simon is a good choice for Simone Simon , a woman with a troubled past , and with love almost improbable at times . And Fernand Ledoux is a fine antagonist Roubaud , husband to Simone and with some problems of his own . The power of the story comes through the use of the image , of the seeming simplicity of Renoir's style . Above anything else , in the three films of his I have seen from his late 30's period ( Grand Illusion , this film , and The Rules of the Game ) , I can tell that Renoir is first and foremost a master at storytelling , and probably improving on a story . Coinciding with Zola , the dialog he uses for the characters is very real , even transcending the time period for today . One could imagine this story in any time period , which also links up to the film-noir element , or more appropriately the sort of ' romantic ' film-noir that one might find in the work of James M . Cain . It's a crime story that involves really no ' criminals ' , but working people who have hit some bad , personal times . But along with Renoir being more than able to tell the story , many of the images are memorable , even indelible at times . The way he opens the film , with a kind of montage of trains , is sensational . And towards the climax , as Lantier faces a dire internal conflict on the train , Renoir rushes past in a straightforward POV shot as the train chugs ahead . And specific shots too make the point very clear , even in a bad print like the one I saw it in - for example , when Lantier and Simone first have their push and pull romantic moment , it leads to the first signs of Lantier's mental instability , and I wouldn't reveal anything else except to say that it's quite emotional ( it arises again at a point I won't say either ) . Certain conventions end up working their way into the film , and the ending may seem to be a little too much . But overall , I was extremely pleased with this film , the directions it took and the emotional reach it had on me . It's a story of people who need love , and can never seem to get a grasp of it in a world of deception and strife .
One of my top five favorite Woody flicks	On a recent documentary I saw on Woody Allen's career , with him being interviewed , he said of this film that it was one of only a small number of times in his career he felt he carried over what he wanted on the page to the screen . Though I've never read the actual shooting script to Husbands and Wives , I can see what he means . I've seen the film several times , if not all the way through then usually when it is on TV , and it always strikes my attention the frankness of it all , how it follows almost no rules . It shares a kinship with another Woody masterpiece , Deconstructing Harry , also about a neurotic writer and the relationship problems around him . Here he focuses not only on himself , but also on another married couple , played by Sydney Pollack and Judy Davis ( the later of which one of Woody's best in his quasi stock company ) , and what he calls the " discombobulated " characters . It is funny here and there , but in reality this is a great film of dramatic sincerity and occasional intensity . Woody himself is in his final collaboration with his ex-wife Mia Farrow , who themselves in the film play a married couple working through some issues . There is also the sensitive , passionate man between the two couples played by Liam Neeson , who acts as a good mediator between the two intertwining story lines . And Juliette Lewis is surprisingly good as a young would-be author who befriends the author / professor Woody plays in the film . What works to make all of these relationships , with warts and all , is that the dialog is always totally , without a doubt , believable . One can see people like this around the New York city upper-middle class landscape , with the neuroses as intriguing as they are frank and even a little disturbing . While the film shares a kinship with some of the dark , brooding themes of Interiors , and quintessentially European ( in a good way ) attitude towards editing and composition to Deconstructing Harry , it also has ( also ' Harry's ' DP ) the eye of Carlo Di Palma . Di Palma , who also worked with Antonioni on Red Desert and Blowup , works with great ease with the aesthetics of the scenes . This time the camera-work is practically all hand-held , lit with nearly ( seemingly ) no artificial lights , and with a kind of intensity that is sometimes lacking in other Woody films . In wrong , amateur hands this style could falter , but with the material given , the constant interest and conviction in the performances , and Allen directing , it works . Having Di Palma as a cinematographer is as good a bet as having ( a mentally-all-together ) Marlon Brando as your star , and because of the documentary realism involved it always remains interesting . I could watch this movie , at least most scenes , just as easily as I could with films like Manhattan or ' Harry ' , because it is one of those special times in the filmmaker's career where everything comes together , however how raw it may be .
another scathing , amazingly laugh-plenty special from Mr . Black	While this time around Lewis Black , coming live from his hometown , takes some time in some of his ' bits ' . There's lots of story that he needs to cover , or at least the great pauses and inflections that come with them , chiefly his account of his staggering experience at the White House correspondent's dinner ( the President has ' handlers ' is priceless ) . But for the most part , Black delivers many of his biggest laughs sometimes by not even delivering the typical punchlines . In Red , White and Screwed , as in Black on Broadway , his approach is to give a punchline - or one that might look like one - and pepper it with a vocal style and slight physical mannerisms that are the most ingenious I see today in stand-up comedy . What might be my favorite section of the special involves this style - or attack - on Dick Cheney going duck hunting , and its metaphor for the middle east . There are other great bits and one liners too , a good deal of which has also been recorded on Black's Carnegie Hall performance CD . If you're coming to this guy fresh not knowing who he is ( which is a little surprising after so many years in stand-up and on the Daily Show ) , it might be hit or miss as he is not for everyone to be sure . But for fans it's quite the new eruption of topical bile with a heap of sardonic wit and perfectly timed pauses , expressions , and anger that isn't thrown at us but is likely the kind we might share ( and laugh at ) ourselves .
one of only several films from Disney that work very well for totally different crowds	Alice in Wonderland is , as well as what the one-line summary suggests , is one of the more abstracted kind of animated films the Disney studio has ever released . And it needs this edge for what the material requires . Here is a film that means different times throughout a life , for some people . As a kid it's a wondrous , madcap adventure with as much sincerity and polite little moments with Alice as it contains vision after vision where varied forms of caricatured anarchy and odd transformations guised as fables . As an older teen , it comes off more as seeming like a ' drug ' movie , and of course Carroll's original story has become not just a phrase for ' through the looking glass ' in society , but as part of metaphors for the drug community ( " White Rabbit " is one of those classic , strange 60's songs that still works today ) . With various allusions to such substances like the big-and-small pills , the caterpillar with the pipe , the hare and hatter with their ' tea ' , and the Cheshire Cat going in through the out door , it's not too hard to picture it as being a precursor to the 60s . But , of course , there is also that very innocent approach that the Disney films had of that early period . Alice is as innocent and day-dreaming as Snow White , though with a little more interest due to her having to be a formidable enough guide through this imaginative world . And there are little , surreal fables that are laced in that , again , capture the absurd poetic tone of Carroll's work . The segment with the Walrus and the Carpenter is a very good example of this , and is one of the funniest segments not only of the film but maybe of any Disney feature of the period . And stretching out after going into taking the ideas and images from the book into animated form , the abstractions become rather incredible for their time . As a kid as well as now I loved seeing the large Alice start to cry to the point of creating a dangerous sea of it right by the snobbish doorknob . The Cheshire Cat is one of those insane concoctions that is delightful in its unhinged abandon . The Queen of Hearts sequences towards the end are , for me , the only ones that are more closer to the ' traditional ' Disney films where the looser , crazier nature that went on before with the March Hare and Mad Hatter took place ( one of my all-time favorite Disney scenes by the way - that little mouse deserved some sort of prize ) . Overall , this is quite a treat to revisit years later - yes , even in a non-induced kind of state - with cheerful songs , and a neat balance of delirious humor and silly imagination . In short , a film like this probably couldn't be made today , at least by Disney .
Classic B film revitalized ; was worth seeing again after so many years	I hadn't seen Steven Spielberg / George Lucas's first collaboration , Raiders of the Lost ark , since I was quite young . When I saw it again today , I got a bit of a different perspective , in that I've now come to watch it again after seeing film after film after film that has been either inspired by it , or just plain ripped it off . Though it's not to say that this film doesn't borrow from every cliffhanger , matinée serial ever created . It's got Harrison Ford in the role that's made him an icon - perhaps even further than Han Solo for some - as the hard-as-nails archaeologist with only one or two minor ( so to speak ) fears . The story is there , but it's really the clothes hanger for Spielberg to race along Jones on his quest for the Lost Ark of the title , where Nazi's get in the way , as well as every ' trick in the book ' of the action / adventure genre . One could argue , and it has been , that it's almost too much , and that the sequels are improvements . But this still retains the power of Spielberg's best work , not to mention Lucas at his most amusing and terrifying . At the least , it was worth it to watch again to get a big laugh out of the dancing-then-one-shot scene ( you know which one I mean ) .
One of the Funnest movies ever	" Human Sacrifice , Dogs and Cats living together , MASS HYSTERIA " said one Peter Venkman . And that could pretty much describe this goofy comedy from the great minds of Dan Akroyd and Harold Ramis . But the plot is pretty interesting also . It shows a trio of scientists ( funny ones at that including Bill Murray in one of his best roles ) turn from college rejects to the biggest hit in New York by being ' profesional paranormal investigators and eliminators ' ( AKGhostbusters ) . There are plenty of funny parts , but they are overshadowed by parts of ridiculous ( yet remarkable ) effects which showcase ghosts of plenty . But thanks to great writing , great directing ( Ivan reitman ) , and great acting , this film gets to be a great example of comedy in it's finest form and It's one of the best films of the 80's as well .
You need to call it . I can't call it for you . It wouldn't be fair .	No Country for Old Men is as exceptional a mix of two creative talents - the Coen brothers , Joel and Ethan Coen , and author Cormac McCarthy ( recent winner of the Pulitzer for The Road , his own masterpiece ) as one could imagine , as they converge on a story that in lessor hands would be just a B movie . The story concerns an average Joe out hunting one day in Texas who comes across a bunch of dead bodies , heroin , and a satchel with 2 million in cash . He takes it , but without knowing that a true embodiment of a psychopath ( Javier Bardem ) is on his trail , and as he evades him it becomes more and more clear the fatalism that lies in store , as a weathered sheriff ( Tommy Lee Jones ) is also on the trail with perpetulally sad eyes looking on from his stolid demeanor . More than this , it's also about as good a morality play as one could ask for , because it plays and tools and makes very serious questions about what is moral , or what isn't , or what is so ambiguous that it's all up to the toss of a coin or a chance ride out of town . There are a few interpretations to Bardem's character Anton that could be taken , but one thing is certain - he's less a symbol than a real presence , a " ghost " as Jones's sheriff calls him that can come around at the drop of a pin , usually in the dark , and strike the utmost fear ( or confusion if you're a clerk ) in the hearts of men and women . You'll never look at a coin toss the same way again . Or an air-gun . Or fixing a bullet wound in a leg . Or a hunt at a motel . Or even the aftermath of a car crash . But at the same time it's the purest time of cinema , recalling Hitchcock and Leone and Welles's Touch of Evil and the best of noir and westerns . There are so many exceptional shots and lighting , so much depth to the perception of the characters through the mis-en-scene , so much tension , that through this it's all up to the actors to make or break the near-perfection that is the McCarthy source . Bardem embodies Anton like no other could - you can't look at his eyes , often steel-cold and horrifically professional ( to what professional who can say ) , which occasional tear - and it's obviously worthy of an Oscar . And Josh Brolin and Tommy Lee Jones are also fantastic ; we see Brolin often in the midst of an action scene , a moment of ' save-your-life ' going on , and one can finally see an actor of his caliber completely breaking out in a role that doesn't require him to ever totally " emote " . Jones , on the other hand , gives a compassionate turn in a film that's about the struggles of desperate men in a land without law and order . He's gone through so much that it comes out completely in his voice and eyes , sorrowful but holding back , and he reaches a level of connection with the character that makes the Fugitive look like simpleton TV . Kelly McDonald , who plays Lleland's wife , is also excellent when called upon , especially in a crucial scene later in the film . It's gut-wrenching , bleak , violent , super-tense ( I clenched many a knuckle during some scenes ) , surprisingly funny in a darkly comic manner not seen by the Coens in many years , and artistically fashioned to a beat that is meditative ( watch the opening moments with Jones's voice-over ) , simple , and doomed . It's beautiful and terribly tragic , for McCarthy fans it finally strikes at what is truest to his material - even if you haven't read the book itself the Road will give an indication of the mood and atmosphere at hand - and at the moment I can't think of any other film that would be the best pick of the year - maybe one of the best films I've ever seen .
the feminine control factory of 18th century and beyond	The Nun might be just another very good , possibly excellent and heartbreaking piece of " religion is rotten and the people in it control people in terrible and soul-crushing ways " movie-making akin to Carl Dreyer if not for its last third or maybe second half ( it's something of that length ) . For a good while Jacques Rivette's film from the book by Denis Diderot is about Suzanne ( Anna Karina ) , a young woman who is passed along from her parents , one the mother wanting to go to the afterlife " clean " without the burden of her sin which was connected to Suzanne's father not really being her father , to a convent and forced to say she will be celibate and devout and all that jazz . Jazz as in life as a nun , forced to say that she believes wholly in God and will deny herself everything in order to serve him - when he calls or feels like it of course . In this first half or so the film is about as close as one can get outside of Carl Dreyer to it being about the pain inflicted upon an innocent in a world dominated by a ) a natural prejudice towards women , in this case to go completely rigidly by the rules - or , b ) for that matter , a hell placed upon those who dont want to be nuns and just want to experience something else in the world . We see Suzanne subjected to this convent at first run by a helpful and loving Mother Superior Mme de Moni only to die and her replacement be so hard-pressed as to eventually see Suzanne as being possessed by a devil , keeping her away from the other nuns , locked up without food or water , or any legal counsel . This part seems straightforward as does the eventual Priests - find - out - Mme - is - unrelenting - and - transfer - her story progression . . . but something very fascinating happens , something that makes The Nun from what is already a heart-rending and tasteful story of repression and super 18th century Christian fervor into a great film . The second convent , on first appearance , is total bliss compared to the former one . Suzanne is treated to happy nuns , a happy Mother Superior Simonin , and even some lighthearted revelry like playing games outside , something that would have never happened at the previous convent . But there's also an underlying uneasiness that is confirmed by the Mother Superior being , how should I say , " clingy " to at first Suzanne's story and then Suzanne herself . It's not just enough for Rivette , by way of the book , to show religion being domineering and cruel and at best complacent in the expected sense , but for another look at what should be religious organization run by caring and spiritual people to be also total kooks . It's like Rivette puts down this section of some fun like the slightest of reprieves and then to bring it back under the rug , and it's something really special to see . It's a bleak story not simply because a woman who has no rightful place in a convent of nuns is forced into it and made into another cog in the religious machine , but for the lack of hope conveyed in what good there is , the goodness of people devoted to a life of faith , that is revealed . It's an incredibly precise indictment on organized religion and society that allows how it runs as much as captivating morality drama . The Nun can also be read as a searing feminist statement , but going into this part might make this too long a review . Suffice to say The Nun , a controversial film ( at the time ) made from a controversial book of its time , conveys what it wants to say in stark locations and even starker performances from the supporting cast . The two actresses playing the significant Mother Superiors in the story deserve credit , yet the main reason to see the picture is for Anna Karina . She makes a sense of purpose in every scene , a performance that is startling for it being so removed from ex-husband Godard's usual self-conscious comedy / dramas and into something that requires her to plunge the depths of whatever she can handle emotionally for the character . It turns out to be the best serious performance of her's I've seen to date outside of maybe Vivre sa vie . Suzanne , thanks to Karina , is so sad a character , so right in her common sense and driven almost mad by this rigid and monstrous Christian dogma that you cant take your eyes off her for a second . It's rare to see a performance this tender and selfless to the dark and light in human being .
" what's the third dimension ?	To hear Don Hertzfeldt's little whatever-the-hell fluffy creations answering that question is one of the highlights of this deliriously campy and unhinged act of brilliant stupidity . For a while all I had seen was Intermission in the 3rd Dimension , where lots of wonderful non-sense ensues when a pair of 3-D glasses become involved . And always , in all three parts when finally seen , it becomes one nice bit shot of collective absurdity , where the little furry things go on and on in talk sometimes , the dialog never matches the lips , and its never unmerited . Hertzfeldt jumps on any goofy idea that seems fit for his little demented world of crude drawings , including rainbows , horses , Satan , lollipops , giant killer robots , giant eyeballs , and direct from Hertzfeldt's Rejected flying ticks . There's nothing that isn't worth laughing hysterically from seeing all of this . . . unless you have no soul . I kid , but really , this is like a litmus test of crazy ' underground ' animation that doesn't go avant garde but really just doesn't take anything , at all , seriously ever . It's charming and shockingly funny , and Hertzfeldt - following this and his ( oddly enough ) Oscar nominated act of advertising bravado Rejected - will be etched in your mind soon afterwards .
an incredible story of a man's gifts ; not your usual sports documentary	Werner Herzog's The Great Ecstacy of Woodcarver Steiner is a glimpse of a man who is quite amazing at his gift of ski-jumping - he's the world record holder at the time of filming ( and a record he actually tops over himself more than once ) - and how he's all the more impressive because of his humble attitude towards the activity . He's a woodcarver as his other profession , but has it as his primary obsession to fly , to get whisked away someplace that is of his design but not entirely of his control . And he's affected by the pressure of his own skills , skills he acknowledges but doesn't flaunt ; like some comic-book hero , he has to deal with the responsibilities he has at his disposal , of not going down for his audience ( who might want to see that happen ) , or for himself , and at the same time staying true to his gifts . He's often by his own , seen through Herzog's long lens contemplating or trying to stay on his own two feet well enough when not ski-jumping . But he knows that he can't be brought down , as his touching story about his pet raven as a kid , who got pecked away by other birds , and in order to stop it , as an act of compassion , he shot it down . At the end of the day , however , the thrill of flight is all that counts , high scores be damned . Herzog takes this man's obsession , albeit with modest feelings about his own worth as a mega-star in Switzerland , and transforms it into a beautiful spectacle of simple facts - of the moment by moment updates of Steiner's conditions or what has to be done to the slope or what rules have to be changed to accommodate Steiner alongside the other contenders - with some of the most beautiful shots in any Herzog film . It's not anything alien to see someone in a typical sports documentary to see the athlete in slow-motion speed , but somehow Herzog transforms the familiar into something akin to the theme , of Steiner's own thrill and ' ecstacy ' as what the audience feels as well . It's very interesting as well to see Steiner in slow-motion when he skids , when he or another ski-jumper gets injured ( and almost everyone seen ski-jumping in the film , and there aren't many shown other than Steiner , get injured in tumbles in rough ways ) , as it's something one usually wouldn't see in the glorious montages of sports figures . I also really enjoyed seeing Herzog combine voice-over taken after the event , with Steiner slightly rambling on , over the footage of his jumps . Just seeing a ski-jumper in and of itself is a fascinating sight , as one curls up and has to anticipate what's to come in mere mili-seconds . And Herzog adds his visual poetry of motion with some usual-yet-compelling behind the scenes footage to make it an exceptional work . Steiner isn't a simple hero , but one who's got complexities even Herzog can only see so much into , as he's an otherwise everyman who goes to fantastic lengths for greatness , yet is very aware of the fragility of such power in a sport so reliant on deadly competition and spectator unrest . Very well done .
possibly the most effective and scary horror movie of the year	Neil Marshall is not a name I was familiar with before seeing his latest film , The Descent ; he's made movies released in the UK , which got limited to no release in the US , to which it would be rightful to say that this is the best kind of calling card he could have made . It's a horror movie that's made with the eye of a professional , one who realizes that the best way to get an audience involved in what comes in the second to third acts of the picture is to make an equally compelling set-up act with the characters . The cast is also all but unknown to me , but they all too perform very strongly as the tough , hot women who decide to risk it down in a spelunking ( if that's the word ) expedition . Particularly the roles of Sarah ( Shauna MacDonald ) and Juno ( Natalie Jackson Mendoza ) are very compelling once the action really starts to roll . But going back to the professional part of the style - this is the kind of horror movie where you do and you don't notice what the filmmakers are doing . Unlike a recent horror movie like Saw which induces lots of fancy shmancy photography and editing to try to draw a viewer in , the director knows the best way is to not show what's going on . With this case being a cave , where the claustrophobia , consistently dark corners , and the lack of direction and light , marks enough doom that it just needs to be shot in a straightforward telling-the-story manner . At the same time , even with all of this atmosphere induced once the creatures appear and the pace picks up tenfold , you almost might forget really that a ' style ' is going on , which is quite pleasing at a time when horror directors feel the need to make things gritty just for the sake of it . This is not to say the film isn't one of the most gory of the year , with enough blood to probably go through two of these newer remakes . The set-up to the film with the girls is quite good ( including a beginning involving a certain child that is one of the great modern horror movie beginnings by being realistically horrific ) , leading one to want to see these girls make it through to the end . The ending that has been apparently changed by Lions Gate for the US release is indeed unsatisfying , though it's lead-up is a plot element that's the only convention that doesn't really work . This is that a particular character near death gives information that's only there so that later in the film something else can come of this , breaking part of the belief within the disbelief ( if that makes sense ) . But , overall , this is likely to become a nifty cult hit from overseas , the best of its kind to come from the UK since 28 Days Later . It doesn't really lie to you about what it is , and within certain conventions everything is put to top notch use with locations , tension , special effects and make-up , and even a couple of amusing points . It's a piece that I would probably in good conscience recommend to any serious fan of the genre .
" I'm 71 , I got a right to be loud lady , I'm going to die soon ! "	I was so glad I finally got to see this online ( again , via you-tube ) , because it's an incredible shot of comedy from the sharp-as-a-Jewish-tack mind of Mel Brooks . It's like Brooks stumbled into an avant-garde theater showing an underground short , like a slightly more sophisticated Brakhage short . Which makes it all the more uproarious , because these sorts of films DO take themselves way too seriously as art sometimes ( sometimes the symbolism is deep and meaningful , but other times , as Brooks's old man comments that it's meaning is junk ) . We also get the insight that it's , of course , a " dirty picture " as he sees two amorphous shapes come together and " bond " in the ways that only abstract images from avant-garde filmmakers can do . But of course the director Pintkoff is in on the joke too , and shapes his movie in order to suit Brooks's lashings , despite the ' others ' in the theater that just want silence . I think maybe a part of me just found it funny , in the first few minutes I mean , because it was Brooks doing such an over-the-top Russian caricature . But there's many , many great zingers in there , the kind that provided me the same belly laughs I had from the classics the Producers and Blazing Saddles . Though for some , since it's onlt 3 minutes long , there won't be much in the way of " story " to get in the way . It's just a cranky old man fobbing off on 60s experimental film-making - and an old man that could criticize anything any day of the week and make hilarious !
Not only one of the greatest rock doc's ever captured , but one of the most important of all documentary films	Gimme Shelter details the Rolling Stones tour in 1969 , as they promoted their albums Beggar's Banquet ( already released ) , Let it Bleed ( it would be released at the end of the year ) , and slowly worked through material for their album for the next year called Sticky Fingers . The film is now infamous for rock fans for it's depiction of the doomed Altamont speedway concert , where amidst a higher-than-usual pitch of angry vibes in the audience a Hell's Angel killed a man after seeing him pull out a gun . The rest of the film leading up to that is just as watchable ( or , I don't know if that moment , free-framed near the end , is what could be called as ' watchable ' ) for fans of the Stones , showcasing some of their best songs live including Jumping Jack Flash , Satisfaction , Love in Lain , and Sympathy for the Devil . There is even a scene where the Stones listen to one of the tracks that they recorded for ' Fingers ' ( the ballad Wild Horses ) that's rather serene . But then , of course , comes the Altamont concert , which gets an appropriate build up as the promoters and lawyers figure out the concert , which was to be the west-coast throwback to the legendary Woodstock concert that occurred earlier that year - in fact , many have called Gimme Shelter the ' anti-Woodstock ' for its aspect of rock and roll tragedy , however they each have their own senses of the beauty and disillusionment that went with the era . The directors , Albert & David Maysles and Charlotte Zwerin , give us the most appropriate thing to let us know what happened at the concert , much like with the hippie era in San Francisco that by 69 had deteriorated . They view the audience a little more intently than the band , and when the band plays we hear all of the toxicity in the noise that comes from the tired audience as well as the group frustrated with the state of affairs at that moment . It's almost like a crescendo in an opera that builds to finale that's known before it was started , and we are left with the memory of how harsh reality comes over a once-promising scene . And , like Woodstock and other non-rock documentaries , it holds unforgettable moments for people to see in future generations .
like one big collection of classic Hitchcock sequences , strung together by one red-herring after another , plus Cary Grant	Although I wouldn't rank North by Northwest in the highest pantheon of Hitchcock's masterpieces - it won't ever get as deep or revelatory or demanding of repeat viewings as Psycho or Vertigo or Rope - it's got enough crackling , dry-sharp wit and incorrigible suspense sequences for an excellent time . One can tell that Hitchcock might be reaching at times to get commercial appeal , even more than usual with his films of the 50s ( and after Vertigo and before Psycho , he's trying to make up for what he thought of as lost ground ) . But it's a commercial entertainment that still hails high above the ranks of today's proficient but soulless demonstrations of panache with archetypal heroes and villains in double-cross moves . Thornhill ( Cary Grant ) is an advertising man who gets the typical-Hitchcock ' wrong-man ' scenario , and as typical too involving a ) spies , b ) government espionage with the all popular ' MacGuffin ' , and c ) a blonde leading lady with her own issues to deal with in the middle of the men . The villains in this case are the very calm and collected James Mason and his leering henchman Martin Landau , as a quasi-chase develops across the country all over George Kaplan - who , by the way , doesn't really exist . The plot , to be sure , is cobbled together under Ernest Lehman's attempts to put together something that Hitchcock would respond to and , more crucially , afford him his two favorite pastimes - one is the witty , very knowing dialog meant exclusively to lighten potentially clichéd territory and give grins to others ; the scenes with Grant and Saint in the train car , trading off innuendo , is one scene that over-steps the problematic territory , in general their chemistry is elevated thanks to Lehamn's snappy , amusing words . There's even a great bit provided by Thornhill's mother , played by Jessie Royce Landis , as one of Hitchcock's older who smirk things like " You gentlemen aren't REALLY trying to kill my son , are you ? " The other pastime are absurd but completely wonderful sequences where a character or characters get pitted against larger-than-life odds . The hallmark crop-duster scene was the one I had seen even before the whole film , in a class where the sequence was broken down ; this , along with Psycho's shower scene , make up some of the most accomplished executions of storyboarding , and how timing and details of the figures in a shot , and the intensity or lack thereof , that Hitchcock's ever done . The Mount Rushmore climax - save for what happens to Grant and Saint following the cliffhanger moment , which is my least favorite part of the movie - is also stellar , including what precedes it in the hideout . North by Northwest is essential viewing , but is it really a completely devastating triumph like Hitchcock at the peak of his powers ? Not exactly , as there's some moments where it feels like Hitchcock on auto-pilot with some of the twists and preposterous turns , and he's really more into his suspense scenes and getting Grant perfect in these scenes more than anything else . There's also not much depth to the whole process , yet that's part of its appeal as a yarn of an adventure story . But as a suspense-comedy , it's a work of big-studio success , as Grant comes off on note in every scene he's in , and helps make even the smaller , supporting actors seem important in the grand scheme of the story . In a way it's a great Hitchcock film in the sense that you can just curb the usual logic at the door and just hop along for the ride , and it's in this that North by Northwest should always be remembered ( alongside the Bernard Herrmann score , one of his best ) .
Kubrick takes a whack at comedy - and the cold war	Stanley Kubrick always likes to try something new with each movie he does , and this proves it . This is truly one of the grittiest , and best dark comedies I've ever seen with some crude moments and some odd ones ( who'd think to have Slim Pickens riding a bomb on it's way down ) . It turns into a flat out masterpiece though with the spectacular acting by Peter Sellers ( in three separate roles ) , George C . Scott ( his facial expressions are a crack up every time ) , and a supporting cast of crazies in a government of loons , the most impressive of these being the incomparable Sterling Hayden in his best dramatic / funny role . It contains a resonance as well that sticks till today , as corruption and pig-headedness rules in all sorts of governments , but most of all in those with the most power . It's almost worth it just for the opening credits and end sequence with " we'll meet again " .
" what's with the rabbit ? "	I wasn't expecting this little made-for-DVD special short cartoon , Mr . Incredible and Pals , to be THIS funny , but it is . It's sort of in a really cheesy , stupid way funny too , and I couldn't get enough of it not only as a fan of the Incredibles but in what it was spoofing too . The moving ' human ' mouths over the bad animated faces reminded me of the cartoons from the 60s - definitely the inspiration - the kind that were featured very briefly and oddly on a TV screen in Pulp Fiction . Story ? There is none , really , Mr . Incredible and Frozone go to stop some Lady-bug lady or other from making traffic a means to conquer the world . The big joke in all of this is there is basically next to no REAL animation here , and coming in the same package as a film so complex in its CGI stylizations and wonderment like the Incredibles , it's a really hilarious , spot-on work that mocks it greatly . I wonder really if kids younger than I will really understand the big joke about it , but for the parents or other adults and teens and others who bought the DVD , the joke might not be lost on them . It's all one big goof , basically , but it's made even funnier when listening to the audio commentary track , where Craig T . Nelson and Sam Jackson - as the characters - comment on this TV pilot that never actually aired in the US , and how embarrassed Frozone gets seeing all of this , particularly with a very random rabbit that keeps getting a close-up to bounce up and down ( eventually even the at-first defensive Mr . Incredible has to stop and says it stinks more or less ) . In fact , I'd say I laughed even harder during the commentary than I did during the actual short itself , as Jackson in the Frozone character really got to some points that I didn't expect , like saying that the creators of the TV show made his Frozone white , or rather ' tan ' . It's great stuff , is what I'm saying here .
Miyazaki turns fantasy on its wonderful , conventional head once again	Castle in the Sky ( full title Laputa : Castle in the Sky ) is another in the extraordinary works in the cannon of Hayao Miyazaki , who is arguably the master of fantasy in animation , worldwide . It's plot should be able to read through easily , at least for anyone who's seen the main conventional point of either the Dark Crystal or Lord of the Rings ( probably the former is a little more accurate ) . A princess has to get to a location with a sacred object - in this case an rock-amulet - and take it to the main power source on Laputa , a secret castle that can barely be said to exist except in rumor . She goes on an adventure with another curious party , a boy , and the two of them have to contend with pirates and a nefarious man in a suit along the way . The twists are turned on a familiar premise at every step , however , because Miyazaki lets his imagination and influences spring out all over the place . We get vines and clouds and Superman-inspired robots ! What Castle in the Sky promises is what it delivers full-throttle ; it's action and excitement for a family audience ( and it's not to sound patronizing ; dudes in their 20s and gals in their 30s will love this as much as the little ones who sought out Spirited Away and Totoro so ) , and humor in bits and pieces as well ( maybe not as much as Totoro , or skewed in a surreal way like Mononoke , but it's still there in a light tone with the pirates ) . And the design overall should capture everyone's fancy ; from the Goliath ship to the little details of the robots to the expanse and crevices of Laputa , to what looks like it MUST have been special visual FX animation , it's all mind-boggling and mind-blowing at the same measure . It might not be Miyazaki's ultimate triumph , but it's still great film-making , a triumph of imagination to deliver on a tale of good vs . evil .
adorable and haunting , delightful , joyous , and ultimately funny	I never thought I'd say this but . . . WALLE is better than Toy Story . This might not seem like such a high claim given how many other wonderful movies from PIXAR have come out over the past 13 years , particularly the ones by Brad Bird ( Incredibles and Ratatouille ) . But since Toy Story blew open the front door for CGI animation , and stood as the pinnacle of awesome , great entertainment and film-making , I wasn't sure if anything could top it . WALLE does by far , and then some ; I'd even say that this is probably the best Disney movie that , technically , they never made . For years Disney , the studio joined at the hip ( and now , practically , submissive to whatever PIXAR wants in animation ) , didn't want to do WALLE , as it was a somewhat bleak science fiction movie with of the movie not featuring any distinct human dialog at all . And , no cute animals talking either ; the closest we get here is a cockroach , and , thankfully , we only get cute chirps and squees of joy . It was a risk , but after waiting for so long to make it , Andrew Stanton has what critics have been dubbing the " M " word : masterpiece . It works on the levels that satisfy simply for the levels of a comedy . WALLE the character is one of those classic character straight out of Disney movies that you don't see ever done this well , or at least this purely : he's wholesome , innocent , curious , lovable and loving to the robot that comes to earth , Eva , looking for any signs of life , and we want to cheer for him every step of the way . It's a quasi-Chaplin character , if Chaplin were obsessed with a video of an old 1950s musical ( somehow , in the post-apocalyptic world of 2700 , still intact ) , and only wants to hold Eva's darling hand , despite getting into mishap after mishap and eventually leading to his trip out into space . No quirk of behavior , no amazingly adorable physical bit of comedy is unturned , and every one works , even ones that you don't see coming . At the same time , it also works as a science fiction parable , one that works splendidly for our times without pushing it down our throats . Its message is one that is general , which is why when poised around satirical overtones on the AXIOM ship - where WALLE finds Eva bringing a plant to the ship's captain and then stopped by a HAL-9000 type of computer - it's enriched by a context we all know very well . Taking care of the planet and taking care of ourselves physically are points that are put forth without being preachy , and there's lots of good humor to go with that too ( the moment when the pudgy captain finally walks , put to Thus Spoke Zarathustra , is one of the funniest damn things I've ever seen ) . AND , it's also an incredibly touching love story to boot ; two robots who can't quite seem to get together until one sees how much the other cares for the other . The simplicity here , too , is awe-inspiring , and like a silent film brings on the tear-ducts in the final moments of suspense . So , it's a superb comedy , a fully-realized and somewhat original science fiction story ( then again what is original entirely ) , and the best date movie of the summer . On top of this , director Andrew Stanton and the vast PIXAR team have gone once again another leap forward with their technological skills for all use in telling the story . I don't care who you are , adult , child , old dude in a wheelchair , this is top-notch film-making , some of the finest one will see in this new decade of the 21st century . While points ahead to the future of animated movies , it doesn't stop or go corrupt in basic film-making . For those who would be wary of a movie with very little dialog , don't fret : there's enough " pure " cinema here to suffice . It left me speechless , in-between laughing and crying and whatnot . +
more than 70 years old and , with a couple of big exceptions , hasn't aged a day	Michael Curtiz's Angels with Dirty Faces can be considered a full-blooded , no-holds-barred genre classic for a few reasons . One of it is how well he depicts the " hero " worship of street-tough kids who look up to the next generation of super street-tough and street-wise hoodlums . The Dead End Kids - an actual gang of sorts who acted in this and another movie - look to James Cagney's Rocky Sullivan since , first and foremost , he came out of the neighborhood and the very building that they hang out of ( the initials , along with those of Sullivan's boyhood friend turned Priest Jerry , are carved on the wall ) . But also there's the persona of Rocky Sullivan , a guy who wont take no s off of cops OR the criminals , and will do things his way or a highway burned to a crisp . And , perhaps underneath this , for all of the ruthless things that Rocky Sullivan does , he's honest . There's a genuine quality to him while he occasionally lies , cheats , steals , whatever as a 1930s era gangster is want to do . This is what makes it extra powerful then when , right before he's sent to the electric chair , the Priest asks him to lie outright and act like he turned yellow for the Dead End Kids and others to see how he turned out . Apparently there's another version of this ending where this didn't happen , and oddly enough I prefer the version I saw with the turning yellow . This is not just because of Cagney's performance , which already up until now is just about legendary in proportion . There's an underlying message with it being the priest that asks this of him . Now , part of this has to do with them being friends and that there's this trust between them . But there's also the fact that it's a priest , a man of the cloth , using God and his will and life-after-death as a means to get some scaring back into the kids as opposed to the usual hero worship . It doesn't matter that the kids aren't told the truth , but that Jerry will know that it wasn't true , but puts up the front anyway . This is a classic ending that works on multiple levels . Speaking of Cagney , there's no way one can say they are a fan of the star without checking this out . Here is one of the quintessential performances of all time in ANY gangster or crime picture . This lends itself , of course , to the fact that Rocky Sullivan is such an interesting character as the dark half of the face that was Rocky and Jerry as kids ( one could see a similar split take shape in an underlying or existential sense in Scorsese's movies of this ilk ) . But it's Cagney that imbues it with real guts and tenacity ; he knows this guy so well that he doesn't have to break a sweat at doing a big dramatic scene , such as the big shoot-out at the end , or even in the smaller scenes where he doesn't take lip from Bogart ( also in very fine form , seeing two giants face off is an added bonus ) where little facial markers and moments make it so memorable . He's a natural at this because simply he sets the pacing just right for the scene and rolls with it to the logical end . One can see process being worked out right on the screen but with the seemingly effortless grace of a class act . It's also , I should also add , a very cool story , one that even as it's set in the late 1930s loses little of its resonance for today ; a story like this could just as easily be shot in the same environment as say the City of God underworld in Rio , where one rises up through the ranks with some ferocity and also a little help from crooked cops or politicians , and then the next generation already lining up , and one or two good apples in the bunch . Oh , and it's got very fast and cutting action scenes , which never hurts when done right .
deep in rich characterizations , unpretentious in style , perfect performances , one of the year's best !	David Cronenberg's Eastern Promises takes on , in the broadest stroke , the Russian mafia . But it's not that broad , per-say , so much as it takes on the atmosphere of an organized crime family , of the terror that is just completely seething under the surface , and comes up like pus out of a boil when heated . The Russian underworld of London isn't too pretty , and rivalries are settled often with the slice of a throat by a shaving knife ( as happens towards the beginning of the film , and later on in a graveyard , put to a splendid jump-cut to an accordion player ) , with the members initiated through specific tattoos on the torso and knees . And when the most unexpected happens , like a terrible rape / pregnancy / birth via a 14 year old girl , the repercussions could be even more severe than a murder rap . I loved getting immersed into the nature of the people , of the violence , the threat of it , the joys submerged with lots and lots of vodka ( it could be a stereotype , but then what would a stereotype be if it weren't true in the ugliest form ) , and at the same time always outsiders to British society . It's an insulated world , where double-edged personalities are common , especially if a crime boss / father like Armin Mueller-Stahl's character Semyon and at one time he has to be kind and compassionate to those outside of the circle . Like Naomi Watts's midwife character , who first comes to him about this mystery baby and a girl's diary written in Russian . But there's always the sensation , even early on , that he's a lot more sinister , a lot more cruel and vicious than he would let on to any " ordinary " person , and this is all the more apparent in his quick outbursts against his son Kirill ( Vincent Cassell ) . Kirill , of course , is like a lone black sheep of the family , who gets into trouble with other families , usually through killing somebody in all late hours of the night . Nikolai ( Mortensen ) is the driver / bodyguard / foot-soldier to Kirill and the rest of the family , and has a bond that goes beyond what Kirill has - he's really like a ' good ' son , if anything at all , to Seymon . Some of the best scenes in any Cronenberg film are those that are filled with an unspoken tension , and understanding of the dynamics , when Nikolai settles a situation between Seymon and Kirill , or those subdued homo-erotic moments from Kirill to Nikolai . Many of those scenes , the whole story arc of Nikolai , is a truly compelling tale that soon reveals itself - and not to reveal too much here as to make it spoiling - as part of Cronenberg's aesthetic of the double-sided nature of a man , or the duality inherent in certain types . But suffice to say , it's one of the coolest examples , even if it might seem almost conventional at first , because of what Nikolai's future will come to following the fight he has in the steam-house . While we see the more emotional story of Anna who , like Nikolai , is an outsider who is put into a somewhat torn situation ( albeit Nikolai , unlike Anna , is far more cunning , and as he says to her at one point he is a ' bad ' guy ) , her side of the story is more of something to keep things moving along - the fate of the diary , the baby , the whole ball of wax of secrets surrounding the mother's death and so on . This is all still compelling , in sad voice-overs , but somehow Anna's side is more of a base-line to the saga of the Russian family , which is appropriate . Her ending , which seems tidied up on the surface , has an open-ending that feels almost TOO tidy - however if you're thinking that ambiguity is lacking , it actually nears up to what History of Violence offered in a ' what next ' kind of query to the audience . As modern thrillers should be , as Cronenberg and his screenwriter knows , Eastern Promises is efficient , startling , and often as entertaining as the goofiest moments of any film by the director . Only here its in little moments of dialog ( was Anna's uncle in the KGB . . . maybe not , but as an auxiliary ? ) , not so much in outrageousness or super-gore . And yet it's also probably even more violent , if only in the suddenness , than History of Violence ; the much hyped steam-room right with Mortensen fending off the two gangsters lives up to it , as it's as visceral as Oldboy's classic sequence , and with an energy and shock value that made everyone in the audience I saw it with yelp and cringe . But Cronenberg isn't simply going by shock value here - Eastern Promises is very strong as classic storytelling , and even better in the acting department . Mortensen is one of Cronenberg's very best male collaborator / stars , and here his work is , if anything , more subtle and textured than the last one ( which is saying a lot of both director and actor ) ; Mueller-Stahl gives maybe his best performance since the 80s , a sure Oscar contender if I've ever seen one ; Watts is sublime in a role that requires her mostly to be uneasy around Russian mobsters and frightened by the fear all around the situation ; Cassell is about as taut as can be imaginable , and at the same time projecting the pathetic subtext to Kirill's boasting masculinity and stupidity . If you're planning on seeing any crime movie this year - that isn't directed by the Coen brothers - and one that is atmospheric without hyper-stylization , and grips the intellect just as much as the emotions , Eastern Promises is it . In a career of some of the most challenging probes of men on the edge of sanity and / or reason , Cronenberg continues to strike where the iron is hot , or just not seen to even be considered grounds for striking at all .
possibly the single funniest thing I've seen from Whedon . . .	. . . I say this though as a quasi-Whedon ignorant ; I've only seen about two seasons worth of Buffy , no Angel , and all of Firefly and Serenity . Joss Whedon's sense of humor is playful , crude , warped , and everything one might love from a skewering of superheroes . Hancock , take note , this is how it's done with consistency ! The premise of Dr . Horrible can be summed up in one sentence : Boy ( Dr . Horrible ) with nerdy powers finds and wants girl , boy loses girl to arch nemesis boy Captain Hammer , boy plots revenge , boy finds things end on a pretty bitter and sad note . Or , to put it another way , it's about the nerdy guy wanting the girl and the beefy upstart with an ego the size of a blimp is hogging her for himself . That's the gist of it , anyway , but to say this is all Dr . Horrible's Sing-Along Blog is about is to do a total disservice to Whedon and his large fan-base . This is a musical not quite unlike the Buffy classic " Once More , with Feeling " only without that pesky ' you have to know a and b and c are going on in the series and season ' logic . One is thrust into that sharp , laconic , and joyously obvious sense of humor that reveals Whedon as someone who is a kind of curious master of musical comedy with those appropriate doses of barbed satire . At the same time , as one who may have watched their share of Buffy and even Firefly knows , Whedon is also a hopeless romantic ( hopeless in that he can't seem to put people together without something going wrong , which is the point of all drama one supposes ) , and his tale of Dr . Horrible , done through songs that reveal the characters ' souls , heartfelt and adorable and totally meat-headed ( the Captain's final song at the podium with his award is next to Godliness ) , and at the same time a cheap joke ( random cowboys singing along from the sides of the frame ) or a catchy number ( the " Man's gotta do " song is far more wondrous than about 99 . 9 % of stuff on the radio now ) isn't sacrificed for the sake of what little plot there is . And lest not forget the acting , or at least the awesome musical prowess . Neal Patrick Harris and Nathan Filion are just about perfect in their roles , as is the woman who plays Penny ( the red-headed girl Dr . Horrible meets at the Coin Mart ) , with Filion especially juicy in a somewhat campy turn where he takes all those heroic qualities of his Firefly character and reveals the dark side ( " And yes , we had sex " ) . Dr . Horrible's Sing-along Blog is about as close to romantic - comedy - musical - satire amazement as one could hope for , or maybe not expect , from Whedon , particularly as a free web-series running just about the length of a full short film ( or an extremely short feature ) .
One of De Palma's very best ; perhaps his most gleefully deranged	In this very late 60's irreverent , almost anarchic low-budget film , Brian De Palma defines more of his strange , given Hitchcock-like fascination of voyeurism , and attacks the issues of the day . The most prominent of which , both cringe-inducing and just plain funny , is when he focuses on the black-power movement ( a black woman handing out fliers asking white people ' do you know what it's like to be black ' ) , which is something that could only work for that time and place , not before or now . But one of the key things to the interest in the film is 27 year old Robert De Niro ( not his first or last film with the director ) , who plays this character who sits in a room looking out through his telescope at women in their rooms , setting up phony deals , and in the end basically throwing bombs . Those who have said that De Niro can't act and just is himself in every movie should see this movie , if only out of some minor curiosity . A couple of times in the film it's actually not funny , as when there's a disturbance in a black-power meeting ( filmed in a grainer , rougher style than the rest of the film ) . In the end it's capped off with a rambling monologue in an interview that tops De Niro's in King of Comedy . It's pretty obvious where De Palma's career would go after this , into slightly more mainstream Hollywood territory , but all of his trademarks are here ; the dark , almost nail-biting comedy , the perfectly timed style of voyeurism , and interesting usage of locals . Think if De Palma and De Niro did a Monty Python film , only even more low-budget and in its New York way just as off-the-hinges , and you got Hi , Mom ! It also contains an eccentric and funny soundtrack .
a serious channeling of Dostoyevsky via infidelity drama by Woody Allen	Match Point is my favorite American-directed film of 2005 . Woody Allen , coming off of hitting his stride again with Melinda and Melinda , goes back to his darker , dramatic side , and makes a story that may seem a little familiar , though not to his discredit . Woody borrows ( some may say steal ) elements from Fyodor Dostoyevsky's Crime and Punishment , one of the great novels of the 19th century ( some may say ever written , I have read his work though not this yet ) , and transfuses it with subject matter that he's more than well acquainted with - the relationship drama . But un-like Love and Death , which was Allen's way of parodying the work of the author , this time he takes the work seriously , plunging the audience into the mind , conflicts , and outcome of the protagonist . That the performances by the actors involved , particularly the three main leads are top notch ( Jonathan Rhys-Myers , Emily Mortimer , and Scarlett Johnasson in one of her best ) brings full blood and flesh to Woody's strong skeleton of a film . The story starts slow . Chris Wilton ( Rhys-Myers ) is an Irishman in London , a tennis instructor who could've gone pro . He meets Chloe ( Mortimer ) through her brother Tom ( Matthew Goode ) and they soon become close , close enough for marriage . Basically , he marries into an upper-class family where he's coaxed into becoming a businessman for the family . But during this he also meets Nola Rice ( Scarlett Johansson ) , a struggling American actress , who's engaged to Tom . One thing leads to another , yada-yada , and Chris winds up in a big pickle as he's in a love-triangle between Chloe and Nola . Allen handles this dilemma with a powerful precision , by building up the relationships Chris has with each girl , and how there is not unbelievability in the set-ups . Nola is sensible and intelligent , if not altogether , while Chloe is caring and decent , if maybe too picture perfect for Chris . The dynamics are set-up so well , it leaves room for ample drama and suspense . Allen , who has also been a playwright for decades , knows the way people interact like so , and how not to rush the situations and use tact with delicate scenes . There is also the element of Opera , which Chris sees with Chloe's family often , and the element of tennis . The analogies that both produce could possibly be very trite or cliché . It's not to say a couple of scenes are even cliché ( ladies , you know you've seen quite a few movies with passionate kissing in the rain ) , but I even bought into those scenes . There is perhaps a certain manipulation that goes into these kinds of love stories , how much the audience can go with the inner conflict of our main character . But as the protagonist goes into a frame of mind that most may not be able to identify with , we're still with him all the way . And , perhaps , it's also because I love a good , solid infidelity story . Allen has here not only his best film in several years , but also likely his most suspenseful one . Those who may not go with the sympathies & / or empathy for the characters may not like the film as much . Some have even criticized minor gripes with the film , like Rhys-Myers's unconvincing accent , or the over-usage of London's most famous landmarks . As an American , perhaps , I didn't mind certain things like these . When a filmmaker has this much trust in his script ( and Woody , pushing 70 in making this , is not amateur ) , and has the right cast , it just takes off from there . To say I was on the edge of my seat through a good chunk of the third act is an under-statement and , at the core , was even cathartic in a way . It's the kind of film I would love to tell more people about , even if they think Woody is washed up after years of arguably less-than-great pictures . For some it might not even ' feel ' like a Woody Allen movie , that at times it's a little ' slick ' . It still is , however the work of an artist reaching further into his grab-bag with younger , exciting actors , and an interesting use of a ( finally ) new city .
extremely entertaining , even by today's standards suspenseful , and probably Hitchcock's first great ( sound ) movie	The 39 Steps , which is based on a novel and now has become the basis of a hit Broadway show , is full of the kinds of things we love about Alfred Hitchcock's films , and in a rough , awesome form . It's got a MacGuffin , sort of ( or rather the title itself is something that doesn't even matter ultimately in what it really means ) , it's got a " wrong man " scenario where the lead character is chased as a suspect with spies and daring-do escapes , and the interaction between a classy leading man ( here Robert Donat ) and a leading lady ( here , though for a shorter time , Madeline Carroll ) up to par with him as a screen presence . True , it's also a little less ' polished ' , if you will , compared to Hitchcock's 50s and 60s work , but considering how so few years it came out after the advent of sound , many sequences are rather incredible , if only for what little is used . I loved seeing the chases , one on a train , another through a mountain-side , and another that is more like a " hide-don't-find " moment after Richard and ( very reluctant ) Pamela escape from the spies and hide under a bridge covered with sheep . Even the climax of the picture speaks to Hitchcock's unequivocal gifts at painting suspense but also throwing in a sliver of pathos ; watch " Mr . Memory " in the final shot explaining about a formula or other and see how Hitchcock regards such silly things as " plot details " , unless it's at the expense of something of a joke ( i . e . on the train with the Hard Day's Night ' old man ' and the other guy joking about the paper ) . What matters is that the story keeps moving and , under the circumstances , makes some sense . And here we get somewhat a pre-North-by-Northwest tale where average Joe , Richard , brings to his home Miss Annabella Smith , who's a spy and is running after shooting someone at the Memory show they both just left from . Morning after , he finds she's dead with a knife in her back , he's the blame , and has to run to find people she's mentioned to him ( which Hitchcock shoots eerily in a faded close-up over a map of her face repeating things she said earlier in a different tone of voice ) . Throughout this short but invigorating film , we get lots of comedic bits , like Richard's stumble into a town hall meeting and giving a speech to buy some time . Or even a lovely romantic piece that's like a slice of a silent film as Pamela almost escapes but decides to curl up on the couch instead . It's overall a beautiful , tense but very funny movie by a filmmaker who knows his stuff inside and out , and isn't worried about showing a good time in the midst of some unconventional technical choices .
a waltz with death and memory	Sometimes the only way to deal , or at least come to terms with , something inhuman and inescapable like experiences in combat can be through abstraction . When faced with the memories of such things , I can only personally imagine as someone who's never been shot at repeatedly or shot repeatedly at others as a soldier , memory remains , but sometimes not always intact or with things blocked . Waltz with Bashir is the best war film I've seen in however long I can recall to face up to the fact that people in war have to live with themselves decades after any conflict ends - such as Israel and Lebanon in Beirut in the early 80s - and that a person's own demons are tantamount to the devastation they might see or possibly connect to with the " other " . In this case Israel and Palestine , once again a topic that will make some see the film even without really knowing what it's about . Many will be surprised ; it's an original hybrid , maybe the most original to use rotoscoping since Waking Life and with the same power of those Gerald Scarfe animated war-scenes in Pink Floyd's the Wall , and at the same time a documentary . The director himself is the subject , at least in part , as Ari Folman goes around to people who he fought with or may have known or knew fought in the Lebanon war , and he tries to figure out what else he may have seen of a massacre which only a piece of a hallucination-cum-memory , where he rises out of a beach and puts on clothes with two other soldiers , remains elusive . What do the other ex-soldiers have to say or reminisce about ? Usually about some painful or just some strange experiences that can only be told from the horses ' collective mouths . A vision of a naked woman ascending onto a boat to comfort a nauseated soldier who later swims across a sea back to his fellow soldier ; another who is in a trench against unseen snipers in tall buildings who forces his way to use another gun so that he can do a " waltz " of the title while firing ; another soldier describes seeing a field of destruction and bodies as if in " an LSD trip " . And all the while Folman drifts in and out trying to piece things together , sometimes telling of before and after the war ( trying to get a girl he lost back with no luck ) or just seeing apocalyptic visions like bombed planes at an airport with no one in sight . Every story mounts to something more and more devastating , and as we learn more about Folman and his background - parents survived Auschwitz - we can start to realize his completely unconscious guilt about a massacre that occurred that technically the Israelis had no ' direct ' involvement in ( it was ultimately Christian soldiers who killed the masses of people in Beirut , but it was given the ' whatever ' pass by the Israeli troops ) . But it would be just one thing if this were just a documentary charting memory of wartime , or another if one were to learn more about a conflict that isn't quite as well known to the casual observer of Israeli-Palestinian-Lebanon military conflicts ( and there's no lack of them sad to say ) . Either of these could make splendid and harrowing pieces of non-fiction , but the animation elevates it so something else . Folman knows some of this is so painful and haunting and shocking , if only for himself if not also for the audience ( and it is ) , that the only way to sift through it and come to grips with it is to see it played out , dramatically , in another medium . The animation is not always " trippy " like a Linklater picture , but some of it is truly astounding " trippy " animation , with visions and dreams and memories put together , with the occasional funny scene ( i . e . " fast-forward " through the porno tape ) that work far greater in animation than it would in live action . It provides a freedom of expression , possibilities , but it serves an emotional and even moral context . As animation that is not for the kiddies ( i . e . Persepolis , Linklater's films ) can show time and time again , when given the chance or slips through the kiddie-tested waters , another level of expression can hit an audience with colors and vibrancy and mixtures that come closer to how a mind sometimes sees things , if in this case tragically in retrospect . And yet , by the end of Folman's great film , there's a shot that zooms through the crying masses of Palestinian women to the face of Folmans , and then to some actual footage from 1982 at the camp following the devastation . Sometimes you need cold , hard facts , sometimes just a memory , and sometimes it's so unreal as to believe even happened . Waltz with Bashir deals with all of these things with a scope that is nothing less than moving and appropriately jarring .
the best neo-surrealistic animation I've seen since The Wall - a unique movie-going experience	Within the first five minutes of The Triplets of Belleville I knew I was about to see either one of the worst films of the year , or one of the best - writer / director Sylvain Chomet and art director / designer Evgnei Tomov have created a ( animated ) world in which they seem to be in love with every frame , every image , every musical note , and at first there is that sense that this is an off-putting style . But soon I realized that what Chomet and Tomov were doing was much like what Luis Bunuel and Salvador Dali did with their classic Un Chien Andalou . The story is not incomprehensible because it's simple enough so that a child could follow along , and the strategy thus is to tell it with an artistic , intense , mad-cap , whatever you can think to call it , personalized view on the characters and the environments they get themselves into . That the film is from France adds a charm once the elements get skewed ( the animators tackle the Tour de France , big cities , ocean-liners , singers , frogs , and the gangster underworld ) , and that it doesn't have - and doesn't need - subtitles to tell the story is another remarkable feat . As the film reached into the last act , I then realized two things - 1 ) this is one of those films , like Un Chien Andalou and The Wall ( the great Gerald Scarfe's influence was one that I guessed , though there's probably more I didn't catch on ) , that won't appeal to everyone . Those expecting a cute French animated film can expect that , however a movie-goer needs to have an open mind to the material , and that the term " cute " would be taken for granted while being immersed in this film . 2 ) since the film is made like an original , without much compromise to where the story has to be headed or which characters do and say what , at the least The Triplets of Belleville works superbly to create an overwhelming state of mind for the viewer . Personally , I get exhilarated watching a movie where I don't even WANT to expect where the story is headed . Throughout most of the 80 minutes I felt an un-canny faith in the filmmakers that their oddball , free-wheeling visions wouldn't go up in smoke . And by the end I left wanting more for some reason or another . Like I said , some might be turned sour by the execution of the material , yet for others the fantasy-like nature of The Triplets of Belleville should make for an interesting night-out . For one thing , you won't get those frogs out of your mind very easily .
Still the most superb and funny drug film ever	You notice how Ebert has his great movies section in his site , well if I was to have a section like that , this would be the first film to put in it ( among a couple of dozen though , so don't be nervous ) . While of course there are other great drug films : Traffic ( which deserved best picture ) , Boogie Nights , GoodFellas ( which even though is my # 1 is in many other genres ) , Half Baked , Blow , and any other Cheech and Chong movie other than The Corsican Brothers . But this one gets on the top of my list by just telling it straight . While of course some is exaggerated for comedy , C & C represent the average Joe who wants some dope and has trouble usually getting it around town ( unlike say Half Baked , which was a little unrealistic in that they were hallucinating and always getting pot . Richard " Cheech " Marin and Thomas " Tommy " Chong in the 70's made many funny albums , and this was they're first movie . And within the first 15 minutes of the movie is classic comedy cinema , truly a contender with such moments as the Woody Allen Gub or the Springtime for Hitler scene in The Producers . In these minutes , the two ( Cheech playing his character Pedro and Chong playing his character Man Stoner from the famous albums ) meet by a hitch-hiking feat and when Chong pulls out a monster joint and the two smoke it ( followed by Cheech eating so much acid he would be out for a month ) , the two become best friends . The following then in the movie contains various segments of how they try and get grass from a crazed Vietnam Vet , in Mexico , and other places . Along the way they are hunted by a police sergeant ( Stacy Keach , who would give one of the 80's best comedic performances in Nice Dreams ) , and get mixed up in a punk band . And don't forget the Ajax lady who makes Martini in Cukoo's nest look normal . Overall , the film is a triumph of the American comedy , but it also has some deep meaning ( some you might only be able to find when you start to light up , but hey ) . The 70's were a time when people were snorting coke , going to discos , getting the Aids , etc . But what a change of pace to see 2 goofy yet very optimistic guys going about as they probably would in real life in that time getting grass and playing music . One of the most outstanding 70's films and comedies .
the bad-ass extravaganza of the year ; B-movie heaven if there ever was	Ah , Grindhouse movies , loaded for bear with the sickest garbage and clichéd to hell ; hell , by the way , not to be taken for granted . The films and trailers presented are half-vomitoriums and half-absurd white-knuckle thrill-rides , where genre is taken apart like scissors on a stretch-Armstrong doll with all of the gooey effluence gushing away on the screen . And unlike some who've already seen the film , I'm not totally certain yet ( least on a first-viewing ) of which feature I liked / responded to more . They're both imperfect movies , but naturally so , and there's stuff in both that can be criticized for ( i . e . Planet Terror goes too far and has dialog written as if by a guy in prison , and Death Proof is maybe too much like a Tarantino movie to really squeeze into the grindhouse mold ) . Yet on the terms that the filmmakers go for , they totally accomplish ten-fold . It's also just an extreme load of fun and excitement , with the kind of disturbing material that is unequivocally , hysterically funny . Planet Terror is , in some ways , an even more fed up horror-show circus of violence and explosions and massive-gun-fire / death-counts and catch phrases than From Dusk Till Dawn was . It certainly marks another high-point for Rodriguez as someone who takes precedence for shocks and wild tricks of the visual medium than " interesting " dialog . In this case , Planet Terror revels in the cut-outs from past low-grade genre drek , and it works terrifically in the realm of the premise : noxious gas unleashed on a small town that sparks up " infected " people by the dozens-to-later-hundreds of zombie-esquire folk after a stripper , a rogue , law-enforcement folk , doctors , and a couple of babysitter sisters . It's almost a case for how some things - like WRETCHED violence and gore and multiple casualties and excess to a T - won't get an NC-17 . Rodriguez also wisely uses two courses of action . First is to make all of these vicious special fx all the more gleeful in the debauchery in its humor - not just the popping sores on the faces , or various limbs affected , but the " did they actually do that " moments , ( Tarantino's genital area , the wrists of McGraw's doctor daughter ) , and to wonderfully set-up the look of the Grindhouse picture , where scratches are common as hell , a reel will go missing once in a while ( ironically right during or before a hot sex scene ) , and almost tearing at the seams . This and Machete , his much-anticipated vehicle for the great character actor Danny Trejo , demonstrate Rodriguez's real gifts , and the actors he puts on display ( from Cheech to Michael Biehn to surprisingly Rosa McGowan ) are completely , hilariously unconscious of the recklessness of schlock like this . In very short , a gas from start to finish , with a nice touch of Carpenter-music ( John I mean ) . In the middle of the two films , by the way , are at least three whacked-out trailers as sort of special guests of Rodriguez and Tarantino's . Far more funnier and audaciously outrageous than the " normal " trailers , where Zombie's Werewolves of the SS giving Nicolas Cage his finest moment in film in many years , Wright's DON'T ! a fantastic play on a cliché-by-title , and Thanksgiving being maybe the best , most shameless work Eli Roth has done yet ( where else am I going to see a turkey get . . . well , maybe I've already said too much , aside from the greatest line ever : " White meat or dark meat , they'll both be carved ! " ) . There's the movie-geek in all of us that would wish that all of these movie will someday be made into features , though part of the charm , if one could describe , is that they won't . Tarantino , meanwhile , has something of a totally different route to go on here , which is all relative : Rodriguez , after all , is the first part of a double-billing , and as such makes his with much greater abandon for standards of good taste or common sense , yet is also not completely as strong because of its sort of badness ( albeit goodness too ) . Tarantino is , more appropriately , the second half and not-quite main attraction , even if his might seem like more of a tame and conventional effort when compared to Planet Terror and the incredible trailers . It's an homage to the wild road-chase movies of the early 70s , where Vanishing Point gets a huge nod and Kurt Russell gets the brightest note to a career now overloaded with kids movies . His character , Stuntman Mike , is a wickedly fun masochist who's got attitude by leaps and bounds , and quite the bad-ass car . He doesn't contend with some ladies from the stunt-department of a movie-set , however , where a cat-and-mouse game ensues . And a damn fine game indeed ; the car chases in Death Proof should maybe even appeal to those who usually don't take to car chases too highly , namely because Tarantino's got a satirist's eye always at work somehow in the material . The danger comes when it leans towards being talky , as QT tends to do , and one shot in a diner brings Reservoir Dogs very much into mind . But it's also of interest that Tarantino has actually made a very solid action thriller , one that goes one or two steps further than the common road-movie of the old times went , with the craziness there and sort of complimenting Tarantino's clever direction , tough women , and good old rock & roll . So gear up in your dirty seat , if you can find one , with a bunch of friends in a crowded theater , and make sure not to miss the little animated intros to the " parental advisory " warning before each movie . It's the movie ' event ' of the year , particularly for fans of unrepentant action and gruesome carnage .
one of the sleepers of the late sixties , with ( good ) experimental ideals for a drama	In some scenes in the Rain People , Francis Ford Coppola's precursor to his hey-day of the seventies , there is the mark of a similar situation to 1969's Easy Rider , but not exactly in the same reference frame . Here we have a drama about disconnected people from society , in some ways alienated by the choices or by limits imposed by one mean or another . It's one of those rare original dramas where some scenes stand alone as total knockouts . Even with such a low-string budget and a very freewheeling , so to speak , attitude about filming the movie , Coppola is able to capture everything that needs to be said through these clearly defined characters and the curved , unexpected degrees of one character versus the helplessness of another , or vice versa , or both . And , as one might be inclined seeing as how it is very much about the cutaways of suburban life of the 1960s , it has that escapism of the film mentioned before , but of a more concrete , near timeless quality with the drama and the underlying issues . In a way , if Bergman were on route as a quasi-guerrilla 20-something filmmaker out to get the strange truths of everyday outsiders , this might be it . But along with all of the very direct and sometimes self-conscious photography ( though also with a more documentary approach at times , akin with its indeterminable characters ) , the actors all fit into place . Shirley Knight , an actress I'm not too familiar with , has a complex , diverging role as a pregnant wife running off in a sort of existentialist conundrum of what life is there to have . There are moments of some awe-inspiring acting by her , and one of my favorites ( if not my favorite ) is when she is on the telephone calling her husband the first time . Such a tense scene on both ends , and in every small gesture and inflection of a word so much about her is spoken with so little . It's extraordinary in ways that mirror others in Coppola's films . Then comes in the character of ' killer ' played by James Caan . This , too , is a dangerous character to take on , as it is a mix of childish bewilderment and amusement with scarred memories . Think Forrest Gump if he didn't make it past the football and wit . It's one of his best , actually , by being the most minimalist - for a guy who's usually playing tough guys in movies , here's one that also is part of the crux of the story and of Knight's character . Also very good in a supporting role is Robert Duvall as a cop with a rough side and rather checkered past ; kind of an early sample of other defected characters he would play later on in his career . So the characters , and what Coppola risks in having an uneasiness running in them , are really what make up the film , as whatever story there is it is definitely not resolved in the usual way you might think or expect . The last ten or so minutes are like others in Coppola's work , where the specific tragedies on all sides are undercut by the emotional - and psychological - implications this will leave on the principles are amplified to the sublime and sad . This is , for its time , brave on the part of what is trying to be represented ( in both the freedom as well as the flaws and ambiguities ) in the subject matter . And the style of the picture adds a fragmented kind of view onto it all with quick flashbacks that are graphic and self-contained in a contrast with the longer shots in some crucial scenes . It's a road movie of its period , but its also got a lot more working than it would under another filmmaker with less chances to take on the nature of these outcast characters . One of the best films of 1969 .
rarely has there ever been such a deft mix of wonderful absurdity and ( dark ) sentiment as here	It's easy to call Charlie Chaplin a genius , but I'll say it once again : the man was a genius , if only at doing a certain particular kind of film . You wouldn't ever see Charlie Chaplin doing a silent horror film , or at least one like out of Germany , or even a big epic that ran Griffith lengths . His artistry was concerned with those who could just about afford the price of a ticket back in the 20s and 30s to see his films and he combined pathos that was incredible and unique in and of its spectrum of humor and compassion . Some may call films like the Kid and even City Lights sentimental , but they may miss the greater picture at work which is that any sentiment is orchestrated and ( the usual kicked-around word ) manipulated amid the comedic set-ups . Earned sentiment is different than faux sentimentality chucked on to the viewer , and if any case could show this distinction better it would be hard to find a better example then the Kid . As it stands even at 50 minutes , which was trimmed by Chaplin himself 50 years after its original release and including a new musical score , it's just about a perfectly told tale . It is short in either cut form but its so simple a story to tell that anything else would just likely be padding ; even that ' Dreamland ' sequence towards the end of the film is crucial and allows for Chaplin to let loose on a wonderful light-and-dark examination of all the major characters in the picture - now with angel wings and devil horns ! What it's about , in complete basics , is that a woman leaves her baby in the backseat of a car thinking she won't be able to take care of him , and the baby winds up by chance in an alleyway the Tramp is at , and the Tramp decides to take care of him ( he even names him , in one amusing aside , John ) . Then it cuts to 5 years later , and the two are an intrepid duo as they break and fix windows , eat lots of pancake , and the Tramp nearly gets pummeled by an " Older Brother " of a kid John gets in a fight with . Meanwhile , the mother is now a success , not knowing her child is somewhere - right in front of her nose . This may sound like a bit of story , but it's told briskly and without a missed beat in editing , and Chaplin's re-edit tightens it to a point where we're mostly with the Kid and the Tramp . Their scenes are everything that Chaplin wants them to be : playful , absurd , cute , and bittersweet to a degree . We know this can't exactly last , but the moment the poor maybe-sick Kid is taken away to the orphanage becomes one of the most tragic ( and yet partially triumphant ) sequences in the movies . It's in a case like this , where we as the audience tear up , more or less , as the Kid is being carted away crying his eyes out , and then inter-cut with Chaplin's daring dash across the roof-tops to save him , that we see the genius of comedy and tragedy combined and working off each other . This is assisted greatly throughout by child actor Jackie Coogan who may be one of the very best child actors in any film , silent or otherwise ; that it's silent adds to the challenge and success of pure pantomime that without fault feels true : even a beat with the Kid playing with toys , an obviously " cute " bit , is great , and up for the task of playing off a quintessential clown like Chaplin . Featuring some excellent set-pieces just unto themselves ( aside from Dreamland there is the fight between Chaplin and the Brother with that belly-laugh part with the repetitive brick-hit to the head , or when Tramp and the Kid stop to sleep for the night at the home and have to sneak around to try and not pay an extra coin ) , an absolutely beautiful musical track from Chaplin , and excellent performances from all supporting cast ( including frequent Chaplin star Edna Purvivance ) , it's altogether an awe-inspiring feat . To see this or City Lights or Modern Times to an extent is to see ideas and character outlasting far beyond their time and place as something far more valuable to the public consciousness .
If ever there was a way to spend 72 minutes with Bergman , it's here	Fanny and Alexander , to Ingmar Bergman , IS his last released film , written and directed by him . But this film , which was originally meant only for Swedish television , found its way to the USA and abroad , and ( excluding Saraband , which was a film that just had to be made by its maker ) is a welcome piece of theater , about the theater . After the Rehearsal is a short , but extremely satisfying take on what it means to be a director , and what it means to act , or to just be in the profession of the imitation of life . Bergman gives us only three actors ( two kids , who pop up only for a few moments , one of which the child who wonderfully played Alexander in the above title , is one of them ) , and all that happens is talk , and talk . To one who may not be familiar well with Bergman , it may not be wise to go immediately to this film . That is , unless one is very much in love with the theater . The filmmaker , who was also a major producer and director of countless theatrical production , is able to suffuse his personal views , good and bad , on the process , or the lack thereof . Interesting too is how his lead male , Henrik ( Erland Josephsson , one of Bergman's most recognizable and accessible talents ) , has a conversation not just with an aspiring actress ( Lena Olin ) , but also his ex-wife ( Ingrid Thulin , also one of the magnificent women from Bergman's repertory company ) , to explore his past and present difficulties . There is so much that Bergman brings to the table to discuss about the theater in this film , and in such a short running time , that it might be moot to delve very far into his what certain things may or may not ' mean ' . Like many of the director's films , it's dramatic structure that tries to get behind the surfaces of what lies in seemingly one or two-sided characters . Henrik , at times , is given voice-over narration where he questions what he's saying , sometimes in anger or despair , to this young actress . Or , when his love ( Thulin ) is shown to be somewhat compassionate even as she seems a little crazed or , in fact , lonely . As Henrik and his pupil talk ( not rehearse , of course ) about why they are there , it becomes strikingly existential even when it's not meant to be . Olin is brilliant in the opposing side of Josephsson's often calm but boiling persona , as she tries to figure out what it is this director wants out of her . When it comes down to it , Bergman is not only asking questions about the theater and the people in it , but also about human nature in its role of the theater . While this could sound like subject matter to scare or ( worse ) bore away some viewers , if you give the film enough patience for the 72 minutes ( that seem to fill each minute with enough substance for an average work twice its length ) , it serves its purpose well enough to not be disregarded as an important later work in Bergman's career . And , by the way , if you're young ( i . e . under 17 ) and have some reason to want to check this out , don't let the R rating deter you ; it's one of the most un-necessarily R-rated films ever ( for a brief flash of nudity , which could very well even be given a PG rating ) .
grows on you very quickly	The luscious saga of Michael , Dwight , Jim , Pam , Janice , the whole ball of wax , is one of the great comedy successes of the past decade . It might not quite be Seinfeld , but it's close , and in its own way this revamp of the British TV show ( with Ricky Gervais here as executive producer and occasional writer ) is similarly groundbreaking . Almost all of the dialog is improvised - I think Steve Carell said once that he has an earpiece to feed him lines here and there - and the writers they do have for the show are some of the finest around ( some crosspolination , if that's the word , from the likes of the Daily Show like with Larry Willmore ) . Plot - there are a bunch , as I am beginning to learn bit by bit going through the past seasons . Unlike many a sitcom , the storyline and continuity does matter , but if you were going into a random episode in season 2 or 3 you might be able to follow along . It's all about the characters , really , and how the personalities one grows accustomed to stay true even when things shift a bit . It's also a great time with the documentary form - not so much mockumentary , even though there are some days where the camera crew get some looks thrown their way , be they ' turn it off ' or ' get a load of this ! ' And , of course , all the players are brilliant . Steve Carrel has become a full-blown star thanks to the show , and it reveals a lot of his depth as an actor ( yes , they give Michael a soul from time to time , aside from being the incredibly awkward-inducing-feeling boss at Dunder Mifflin ) . A lot of times you get the feeling you're seeing Michael say something to the camera-person he's said before , but no matter what it's still hilarious , because Michael is a sincere fellow . What that means for his co-workers is something else ( ever watch " Diversity Day " ? or Sexual Harassment day ? or all the days ? ) . At times you squirm in your seat like in a grand-guignol horror movie , as everybody else , relatively more normal than Michael ( or not , as case might be ) are stupefied by the extremes Michael will go to . And yet Carrel can also pull it off fantastically when actually being somewhat human , adding that side that doesn't make him just a complete jerk . It's tricky , and it's why he's always never going to be dull on the show . Ditto for Rainn Wilson , who can keep the same deadpan expression all the time and knock it out of the park . A lot of times just seeing him get a prank pulled on him is like watching a sun rise - the most beautiful thing imaginable ( shall I compare Schrute Farm Beets to a summer's day ? ) . And Jim and Pam , aside from the facet of a relationship on TV that isn't contrived or put through the wringer , seems to be just another piece to the ensemble , not a dominating factor like it might be on another show ( and contrary to how the buzz was beforehand , the two of them hooking up ends up not being the most fascinating crux of the show - Mike and Janice , on the other hand , whew ! ) So , The Office . . . one of the great comedy shows . . . not much else to say . . . get back to work !
not too sure why Polanski doesn't like this one , unless for purely obsessive reasons	The Lamp , apart of the short films collection on the Criterion DVD of Knife in the Water , distills a lot of the great visual madness and absurdism in his films into one silent short film . It's a really quick punch of ' why not ' movie-making , where there is a sense of total control over the movement of the camera , and where it rests on its life-less ( yet somehow lifelike ) subjects . Maybe Polanski didn't end up liking it for a reason that , as a fellow filmmaker myself , I can understand . The subject matter here is very thin - a guy who makes dolls makes one , leaves , and the place gets set on fire when a fuse burns out . How to film it must have seem like the challenge to the director , and I could maybe see where he must have obsessed over the pans and direct close-ups of the angles . There was a lot of work put into it , so at the least it's hard to call it a half-assed attempt at making something out of little . But taking aside the director's own take on the material , I have to say that it really struck me how instinctual all of the movements and angles felt , and also how the design of what was there was dead-on . The dolls are just there , but there's a spooky tone to it too , a kind of underbelly that is reached in the darker parts of the room , mainly when the owner leaves and things are left in a noir-like tone . I loved seeing the close-up of the fuse itself too , which looked almost robotic in its stature , and also in hearing the crazy sound effects , as if out of a horror movie or something . It's basically like that , a horror movie only with dolls and a cuckoo clock in place of teenagers and such . It's a superb little shot of 8 minutes on film - and truly a kind of ' film-film ' , one that should be shown in most film classes to get an idea of what can be done with the camera if given the chance to use it over digital .
A truly smashing , psychologically bound blockbuster	Martin Scorsese strikes again with a powerful cast and expert crew , but the subject matter is what really got me into the grip of The Aviator . Scorsese and writer John Logan focus , of course , on the prime of the life of Howard Hughes , a kind of c . f . Kane with airplanes and movies substituting for the newspapers . While Scorsese dives right into his technical mastery , Logan dives into the private life of Hughes as well as the public . As a kind of ' golden-age of Hollywood ' production the film hearkens back to the greatness from the old days , but also taking on a subject that is a tough one to take on - Hughes ' obsessive compulsive nature . On the outside to the public he does go like this to a degree - spending millions on his air epic Hell's Angels , going past the limit of what to spend on planes for the second world war ( and " the Hercules " which the press dubbed the " Spruce Goose " ) , and with women . But on the inside , he gradually became a full-blown germaphobe , repeating words , and locking himself in a room at one point and not coming out ( this would later be what many remembered him for , the notoriously reclusive Billionair hermit of the 20th century ) . With Scorsese's outstanding cinematographer Robert Richardson , experimenting with different touches of light and composition , and with his veteran editor Thelma Schoonmaker ( partly responsible for the immediately recognizable pace and style in Scorsese's films ) , they get into the mind of someone like Hughes better than any other film I may have ever seen . It's often kinetic , focusing on the smallest things , and going ( appropriately ) sometimes like an Olver Stone film . Although Gangs of New York , Scorsese's previous epic , contained a good pace , I may have not seen one as intense and effective since Casino . Adding to this is Dante Ferreti , one of the greatest of all production designers , giving life to all of the locations in the film . Most surprising , and satisfying , is that the acting is better than expected , or at least topping expectations . Di Caprio , who was the originator of bringing Hughes ' life to the screen ( he also has an executive producer credit ) , dashes off any minor doubts I had that he could pull it off . He can be a superb actor , engaging fully a character ( What's Eating Gilbert Grape , Gangs , and Basketball Diaries being good examples ) , and sometimes not ( Titanic , Catch Me if You Can ) . This time , he hits it right on the head , giving ( though it's never a big deal for me who wins or loses ) an Oscar caliber performance . By the time the story and Hughes swing deeper into his disease , before and following a tragic , heart-racing plane accident , he finds all of the touches to make Hughes believable , flaws and all . It certainly is , along with it being the convincing take on o . c . d . technically , the finest portrayal of someone with it . But even greater is that he finds the notes when with his co-stars . There is Cate Blanchett ( as if not more terrific than Di Caprio ) as Katherine Hepburn , Hughes ' love interest for about ten years . Something of an eccentric character herself , but also very down to earth , Blanchett doesn't skip a beat in finding her own voice within the star . There are also parts like John C . Reilly , Hughes ' financial adviser ( and part father-figure ) , Alan Alda , a senator who brings Hughes forward to be questioned in a public committee , Alec Baldwin as Hughes ' ' foe ' Juan Trippe , and so on . Even for an actress like Kate Beckinsale , who I feared would be hardly worthy to fill a role like Ava Gardner , the environment Scorsese gives to them is very natural considering the Hollywood backdrop . It's always tricky calling one film the best of the year . Many other films that came out this year were big contenders for such a somewhat pretentious title . It could be appropriate for one to say that The Aviator , while not one of Scorsese's best , is one of the best Hollywood productions of the year . At the least , if only from my perspective , it delivers a Scorsese film where he takes a risk at a subject he doesn't know too much about ( aviation , though he didn't know much about boxing either for Raging Bull ) and runs with the people in the film , reaching for a height some might feel he can't really take .
one strange kind of pulp , Cassavetes style . it's not for all tastes , but it is a brave , effective work of originality	Killing of a Chinese Bookie is , from time to time , not easy to sit through . John Cassavetes had one of the harshest styles of any independent director in film history ; his close-ups can be out of focus , wavering , mostly hand-held , and his DP probably had only enough lights depending on when Cassavetes could get the dough for them . But limitations that were put on Cassavetes , either by choice ( which is arguable ) or by cost , don't make the film feel compromised . If anything it adds to the idiosyncrasies and ' noir ' quality of the script ; it's a surprisingly well-directed film that Cassavetes has , but it's not simply this that leaves a lasting impression . ' Chinese Bookie ' makes its impact because of mood , character , Ben Gazarra's performance , and an attention scene to scene where people are in the lowest common denominator ( a strip club , a gangster's office or car , on the run ) . While Cassavetes has the themes that ran through the pulpiest stories and the most thrilling thrillers of the 40s and 50s , its still Casavetes through and through . Like many of the director's best work , too , the premise is there plain and simple , and it's always the context of the dialog , the connections the actors have , the time taken for a cut-away , that makes the big differences . Gazarra is Cosmo , a club owner who has his strippers doing their dances to a weird , sort of pathetic lounge singer , and he has just wiped his debts clean . Then he goes again and makes his debt rise by gambling once more , and taking out a loan from some mobsters . When they offer an option to wipe out the debt - kill a bookie in Chinatown causing problems for the competition - he's totally reluctant , but agrees on a bad threat . The consequences are not the simple ' scene - of - the - crime - cops - get - involved - good - triumphs ' kind of deal , however . Surrounding this premise are scenes that verge on the meditative ; a lot of times we see Cosmo looking on at his eccentric club , or with his ' girls ' , and Gazarra makes him a curious sort , a man who leads a crude , mismanaged life but is never vulgar , never even mean , and beneath his calm exterior following the murder ( one of the most startling killing scenes I've ever seen , not just for the obvious other casualties ) is a loneliness , almost a longing for something else . He should be just another shady character among the lot of them , but as he gets in deeper with the gangsters , and subverts his conscience ( probably another strong theme here , as well as demeaning oneself because of people putting one down ) , the audience can suddenly have some sympathy for a man who should have none . Even when a moment could be dull or uninvolving , Gazarra makes us involved , without calling attention to his emotions in obvious ways . It's a career highlight if ever there was one . And Cassavetes continually films without a net and without a desire to do it " mainstream " . I admired how Cosmo watched the girl audition for the club , but he never pans up - only showing legs walking back and forth - until she steps down . Or the nighttime scene with Cosmo or the gangsters in the car , about as dark and ominous as possible . And the way that Cassavetes opens and closes his film is most intriguing of all ( if one is still watching by the end , as mentioned it might turn off some viewers expecting a more conventional narrative ) - we see the singer , who has no self-confidence following night after night being booed while trying to have his own unique style in singing for the girls to dance to , and finally he just walks off after not being able to take any more ( this is the last shot , following an ambiguous end for Cosmo , as his fate is left open to chance or damnation ) . There's almost a parallel that can be made not just to the singer and Cosmo ( Comso being booed off or not successful , in a sense , from life in general ) , but to Cassavetes himself . It's strange and provocative , like a story taken for granted - of the gambler having to pay debts in an unforgiving underworld setting - given some fresh life and a sense of possibilities for what can be done in the genre . I can't wait to watch it again , perhaps even the 1976 version . Only note of warning : if it's your first time with Cassavetes start with something else like Faces or Woman Under the Influence . But if you want to take a risk , here's the riskiest picture of any genre from 1976 .
Fritz Lang's ( sound ) masterpiece - a taut and quintessentially suspenseful story , and Lorre	The first time I saw M , by Fritz Lang , I almost didn't know what to make of it . I was overwhelmed by the power of the performances , the staging of the scenes , the locations , and the power that the simple story had with such complex circumstances . Then I saw it again , and a third time , and I know that this is one of the best films ever to come out of Germany - it's a powerful statement about protecting our children ( if you're looking at it as a " message " movie ) , but in reality it is just a piece of cinema heaven . Thrillers today only wish they could draw a viewer into the mystery elements , and have such unconventionality of the times . Boiling down to this , M is about a child Killer - the legendary character actor Peter Lorre in his first major role - who snatches children when their parents don't watch , and continues on until an investigation goes underway . But as the police investigate overly thoroughly into the real criminal underworld , they know something is up , that this is someone far more gone than they could ever be , so they join in the hunt . This all leads to one of the supreme dramatic climaxes in any thriller . On the first viewing I just went straight for the story , which is able to suck one in enough to make you feel dizzy . But on the multiple viewings it becomes even more interesting as one can study the intricacy , and indeed full-on artistry , of Lang's camera . He puts it in unusual places at times , and adds for good measure shades of dark and gray in many of the night scene ( this is , by the way , a precursor to ' film-noir ' , which Lang later became an important director in the 40's and 50's ) . On top of this , there is a very modern sense of style in the editing - I remember a couple of scenes that surprised me editing wise . One is where the cops ( I think it was the cops ) have an argument about the investigation - two of them get into a shouting match , and we get medium close-ups of them going back and forth . This is done quickly , with a kind of intensity that isn't even captured in today's thrillers . There is also the hunt for Lorre in the digging of the house , where Lang cuts around constantly , heightening the tension between the predators ( the criminals ) and the prey ( Lorre ) , until it's almost too much to take . The disturbing aspects of the story , of child abduction and murder , have become benchmarks of a number of today's thrillers , where the cop is usually the subject and the killer left more in the shadows , in cat & mouse style . This doesn't happen here , and because of it by the time we get to the final scene , with Lorre being interrogated and giving his " I can't help it " speech , it becomes something poetic , tragic , frightening . Lang doesn't leave his " message " so simplistically , he makes sure we know Lorre's side too , however twisted it has become , and the antagonist is shown as human as opposed to these present-day thriller where the killers are barely given one dimension let alone two . There were reports that during filming Lang put Lorre through torture , ultimately causing the two to never work together again . But nevertheless , out of this comes a towering performance of a small , wild-eyed criminal in the midst of an extremely well-told and unpredictable mystery story . In short , if you don't know what you're in for when you hear that whistle , those several infamous notes , you may not at all .
Meditative view of life , love , and death by Terrence Malick	Badlands , based on the relationship between Charles Starkweather and Caril Fugate ( and later an inspiration for Tarantino's True Romance and NBK ) , never has a moment where something un-realistic curries . Writer / producer / director Terence Malick leads his film along with a true emphasis on both the psychological nature of Kit ( Martin Sheen ) and Holly ( Sissy Spacek ) , and with the un-canny knack for a relaxing style in his camera . At best , Badlands is one of the successful homages to European cinema of the 1970's , something that will last a long time due to its pairing of absorbing art-house and ( perhaps ) mainstream sensibilities . At worst , a viewer could feel bored with Malick's intent on running with his poetic ideas as a director . If there was any pretentiousness at all , it went over my head ; this is a film that draws you into its tragic nature . Sheen and Spacek are totally believable as a couple on the run , as Kit continually has a trigger-happy attitude to people after he shoots Holly's father . While Spacek holds the heart of the picture steady , I'd have to say that Sheen's Kit is one of his best performances . He comes off in the perfect sense - you wouldn't think for a second that Kit could be a killer , that is until he pulls out his pistol . It works just as well that Holly is the narrator , so that the viewer can understand where Kit's coming from , and where he's going . If there is any distance between his character and the audience , there's still a strong , emotional connection through Spacek , and their bond as a loving , if dangerous , couple . Overall , Badlands is extraordinary in a way that doesn't cram its atmospheric from start to finish on the audience , and it looks at young people in love , however in such twisted circumstances , in an honest way in how escalatory events create a disillusioned feeling in youth . That it's made on such a low budget gives it more merit . Kudos should go to the musical score by James Taylor , Gunild Keetman and George Tipton , too ; it's one of the best debuts of the 70's .
just about a masterpiece of animation ; Rosen is a brilliant British filmmaker	Watership Down is that animated film you'll hear about from a friend - not usually when you're a kid unless you're the kind that hangs around those reading dark British animal novels written by Richard Adams - when you're an older teen or an adult , and that it's not you're garden-variety Disney movie with violent rabbit encounters and an animation approach that is not at all " fluffy " in description . When finally seen , it goes past the hype of being one of those sleeper hits of the 1970s . It's mostly a pure masterpiece of animation , British or otherwise , though for Britain it's an even more significant achievement if only because only a handful of movies made there have made it to the States ( not counting Rankin / Bass stuff like the Hobbit , more like the 1950s Animal Farm adaptation ) . The approach from writer / director / producer Martin Rosen recognizes the source material as something very special ; it's very much like one of those memorable books translated to screen without compromise that speaks to either very sophisticated older kids or to open-minded adults . It's not a fun romp , but rather a drama about society broken down to pieces and the contention between those that want to break from the old ways and destruction from human hands and those that still c ling to the ways of the ' General ' character . It's also not for those not ready for a sad story ; while it doesn't quite end on a sad note ( maybe more bittersweet with a touch of the spiritual in a sense ) , there's lots of struggle and adversity to face , and it even faces questions that probably mean more coming out of an English mind-set regarding the breaking out of the old guard in times of survival . Basically , it's about two rabbits , Hazel and Fiver , who lead a group of rabbits from their old homestead to a place that will be safe from destruction . And it's a good idea as all the old burrows and tunnels are plugged up . But there's contention in the ranks from the ' General ' , who demands that everything stay the same . Thanks to rabbits like Bigwig though things move ahead , but there's a lot of obstacles along the way . This is the clothesline of the plot , and there are a lot of details that should feel like they're apart of a more conventional animated movie even out of Disney . And yet , with Rosen's direction and the work of the animators , it's by a different impulse and mood , the film has the look of a real artistic drive - colors are usually ( with a couple of exceptions like with that odd sun ) very naturalistic , as most of the rabbits are , and because of this there's something going on one doesn't usually see in animated talking animal movies : a sense of the world presented as realistically ( or at least honestly ) as possible , and then pulsating with humanistic qualities through the characters and their journey . As I mentioned , it's not really for little kids . If only because some of them will just be confused at times or not understand why the rabbits aren't like the really cute ones of other storybooks and fantasies ( or , actually , just parts of the storyline and really well written dialog ) , but also because of the violence - the kind of which that could've inspired the PG-13 rating system back in the day . This goes without saying occasionally Rosen tries to put in some things that could make it more family friendly , and these end up being the only liabilities of the movie , notably , for me , the Art Garfunkel song put into a scene midway through ( not to say too much but it involves a ghost ) that feels sappy as bad syrup . When Rosen sticks to his guns and makes it a solid , unflinching story of rabbits out for survival in not-so-merry old England , it's exceptional , and surely one of the best films of the late 70s .
an early Soviet classic of visuals that should be seen by anyone serious about editing	I think that Sergei Eisenstein , who has ( rightfully ) been credited as one of the grandfathers of modern cinema , is sometimes forgotten as someone who can really direct great epic scenes along with making them expertly edited . The filmmaker here knows he's pushing along an ideology , one that is not only encouraged but all but required of him to give to the public . But he also knows that to put out the message there needs to be some conviction , surprise , something to catch eyes as the information's already known . Perhaps even to a greater extent than Battleship Potemkin , October : Ten Days That Shook the World puts on display a director with total confidence not only in his flourishing , insistent style , but in that of his mostly non-professional actors , crowds , real-locations , sets , and his crew . It's one of the most assured pieces of silent film-making I've ever seen , and it's taken a few viewings to take in everything in one sitting ( I ended up watching half an hour , and then sitting back trying to remember everything I just saw , or thought I saw ) . Some uses of montage in the film - make that most if not all - rival those of even the better editors working in commercials and music videos today . Like those editors , they're working with images meant to be dynamic and to the point . Here it's the story of the 1917 Bolshevik revolution in Russia , where Lenin took control of the reigns of the provisional government with left the country at a stand-still in poverty . Or , at least , that's how the film would definitely lead things onto . Watching a film like this and seeing 100 % accuracy is irrelevant . But watching it to get a sense of what cinema is supposed to - and can do - with tricky subject matter , is completely worthwhile . Some of these scenes are just pure masterpieces of crowd control ; when the people mass together in the town square , for example , one might immediately think of the Odessa stairs from Potemkin . Here , however , there's more than one chance for such operatic takes on harsh realities . The beginning - where they tear down the statue - is striking enough . But just watch when the crowd has to disperse and runs around early on in the film , or especially the storming of the Winter Palace . Could you do the same material with computers today ? More than likely , but not with the same conviction and ' this-was-really-happening ' feel that a camera ( recreating ) on the scene could get . And , sometimes , as when the monument / statue gets ' put back together ' , it's almost amusing but still convincing of what the medium can do . And soon enough Eisenstein reaches his climax , the immense lot of 10 days that brought the country to a peak of change and possible prosperity for its people . It's like October for the Russian people of the time is like a thousand or so snapshots of that time and place in the world . The one point that Eisenstein poses for his viewers - not just for his of-the-period silent film crowd but for those watching today - is that he is not making it boring for those who can give themselves to the images , the moments taken with some shots more than others . Anyone getting into editing , I think , should see at least some of Eisenstein's films to get an idea of where the smoke of post-modern film-making generated . October is probably one of his prime examples ; if you want to watch it for purely historical or political contexts it may be hit or miss depending on point of view , but it is hard to see as a misfire in telling a story using spectacular and imaginative compositions with the frame , lighting , and with specific , profound musical accompaniment by Edmund Meisel .
a powerhouse crime saga , with a fierce , daunting fusion of style	City of God played for months on end at an the Angelika theater in New York City back in 2003 , and I was hesitant whether or not I should go there to spend ten dollars and to sit in a little theater with a packed audience , or to wait in video . I gave in to my temptations to see the film , from what I heard from various reviewers , and by the end , I knew it was truly worth the admission , and then some . Director Fernando Meirelles , along with co-director Katia Lund , crafts a film that steams so much with a passion to tell this story , to reveal all these characters ( most of which who wear their flaws right on their sleeves like badges of honor ) , and to be honest with how their tales unfold , that even the most die-hard of action film or gangster connoisseur will feel the visceral , hardcore nature of the City of God long after the lights come up , subtitles and all . This true story ( from a novel by Paulo Lins , former resident in the slums ) is told , much like Scorsese's master-work Goodfellas , in a kind of flashback format where the narrator takes us back to the City of God when the lower class were shuffled into the slums of Rio De Janeiro without much hope . Our narrator , who only calls himself Rocket until the end , lives amongst the Tender Trio , friends of his whom start out robbing oil trucks and whatever they can get their hands on to stay alive . An impromptu heist at a motel gets the cops swarming , and the trio becomes scattered , though not dissolved . As it proceeds into the seventies , we find out that some members of the group died , a few went to jail , and Rocket stays on the sidelines , hoping to become a professional photographer with little or no assets to become one in and outside of the City of God . Then there's Li'l Dice ( played through most of the film by the equally terrifying and gleeful Firmino Da Hora ) , who in the first act of the film is a kid who's the smallest among the bunch of older teens who make more or less successful robberies , though as Rocket says " You need more than guts to be a good gangster , you need ideas . " In flashback ( not to spoil ) we discover what went down at the motel that night , and from there in a brilliant stroke of editing we see how Li'l Dice became Li'l Ze , who rises up little by little in the drug dealing schematics of the slum and soon takes over a supplier to sell cocaine . Rocket ( Alexandre Rodrigues ) may be the protagonist viewers can identify with , but Li'l Ze is as fascinating an antagonist as any I have seen in a long time , who masks his insecurities with boyish joy in all of the mayhem he creates . Otherwise without hope , Li'l Ze becomes the dominant supplier in the slums , something of a tyrannical businessman , and as his story unfolds as does Knockout Ned ( Seu Jorge ) , who becomes Ze's rival in the eighties . The only way a movie like this could work is if we feel for the characters plights and heights and such , even if they're evil in nature like Li'l Ze , Carrot , and Knockout Ned . That's why the filmmakers plunge us right into the City of God , and the nature of the city , and while the narrator may pass judgment on people he's known his whole life , he like us know why they're up to no good . The thieves and dealers and killers became such by looking up to their role models , the older hoods of the region , and with each younger group of kids who want to smoke dope and vandalize is another and another . As long as you don't get caught with your pants down by the cops , or get raided by chance , the odds for anarchy are in your favor in such a place . We understand equally why Rocket wants to get out of the city his own way as much as we understand the wars between the gangs , and this crucial facet makes the film work extraordinarily well to its advantage . Indeed , we understand the tragedies of such minor roles as the Runts - the orphans of the streets - much as we would understand the importance of such roles as in a Dickens novel . Along with this technique of storytelling , is the way it's filmed that's eye grabbing . The first scene shows in fast action a chicken chase , and then our hero between the gang and the cops viewed in a tailspin fashion as we are sent back to the beginning . Then , we get all the energy of even the simplest of scenes , and the hidden passion ( Rocket on the beach with Angelica , for example ) all by the mostly hand-held photography by Cesar Charlone , and the break-neck editing ( i . e . the montage of how Li'l Ze makes a name for himself , or the disco dance sequence ) by Daniel Rezende .
a bang of a debut	Robert Rodriguez has his first little / big film here that is by no means big money wise . The book written by Rodriguez , Rebel Without a Crew , illustrates this point very well , but to see the film in its present form you might wonder if it really cost more than he says . But it's this same grit that adds to its rough charm , like a slightly more cartoonish , crazy and action-packed film in the vein of Night of the Living Dead ( shoe-string done with a level of truth for what the genre material needs ) . The budget for this film was 7000 . That is the cheapest price for a film given wide release I've still heard of , and probably is . And watching this film I noticed that a lot the big hundreds of millions of dollars spent on other films , while usually bankrolled with high-powered Hollywood casts and immense crews working on special effects , they lost an intensity that this film has even in its brief quiet scenes . Plus , as in the rest of the Mariachi films , it's often got a slick , quick sense of humor where Rodriguez's compositions say almost all there needs to be said . The story shows a singing musician ( El Mariachi ) who is not looking for trouble , but everyone is wanting to kill a man carrying a guitar case , which he has . It's a nifty little classic of exploitation / action that was meant for video markets but doesn't compromise . It's even got OK acting .
" I want you rockin ' back inside my heart "	Surely one of the best episodes of the entire series - and with one of the most terrifying scenes ever shown on television - episode 7 of season 2 is one that really packs its astounding punch in the last part of the show , as we see what becomes of Laura's cousin , Madeline , as she is about ready to leave Twin Peaks after spending perhaps too much time in the town . The revelation that finally comes , who Laura Palmer's killer is ( and , in effect , Madeline's killer ) , is displayed in a scene of pure white-knuckled tension and suspension of disbelief ( however , total belief in what the scene entails psychologically ) . What makes it such a triumph for Lynch as a director is how he maneuvers the mood . Before we see this grisly murder take place , we're taken to the Roadhouse to see a girl - who , by the way , sang the same song in Industrial Symphony , Lynch's little seen concert film - singing a song that is meant to be serene , about love , and wanting someone close to care about the other , hence the bit with Donna miming the words to the song being sung to James . . . . But then comes that zinger , and Lynch lays on his skills like it's nobody's business . We see slow-motion , extremely bright light , then the shock goes into a perverse detail of how " Bob " operates in his most violent mode . It ends up being extra shocking , too , because it's not entirely expected like this , not so much as to who the killer is , but in the progression of the episode . For TP fans , this definitely holds a big place of merit ( one friend of mine said that it gave him nightmares - this is a guy in his 20s mind you ) , and even just for Lynch fans it should have a special mention as one of his best directed efforts , albeit 45 minutes .
superior craftsmanship , Washington's performance , and a sobering mixture of history and drama	Malcolm X is many things to many people , but one can never say he didn't make a significant mark on his time and for ' his ' people , as he and the Nation of Islam defined it . But ' his ' was contingent on his religion , his experience growing up and being an ' Afro-American ' in the United States , and as it turned out it was not set in stone . What Spike Lee's film does so compellingly is shine light on the history of the man and his place in a country with one of the most disturbing , racist histories in the world , and not make it too dogmatic or beyond reproach . On the contrary , this is one of Lee's most commercial works , made in epic form and imbued with his style at the top of his game . Only Do the Right Thing , in terms of his non-documentary features , tops this for sheer directorial virtuosity and intelligence with the subject matter . How much it sticks true to the autobiography of Malcolm X ( as told to Alex Haley ) I can't say yet , having not read the book . But for what it's worth , on its own terms , Lee crafts his story with the grandiosity appropriate to the character and the circumstances . Malcolm ( Washington ) is born to a religious man , but one who's killed by white people . He's denied his dream of being a lawyer and forced into labor . He becomes a criminal and is sentenced to 10 years for multiple counts of theft . And then in prison is changed around by Baines ( Albert Hall ) , who converts him to the Nation of Islam and its teachings . It's mind-opening because , for the first time for him , his perception comes clearer than ever regarding the black experience - and what are really their rights , which have been few since the abolishment of slavery - and he becomes the big cultural figure he's remembered as . Even if one doesn't agree with all of the philosophy and speeches from Malcolm - and it's not hard to see why Malcolm had so many enemies , even from his own fold - it absorbs one not terribly familiar with what he was about in thought and practice and deed , and it gets the audience thinking one way or another about the nature of racism and race and separation in America . And past all that , it's directed with nerve and pizazz , while not going too far off into avant-garde . For all of Lee's success here as a storyteller , it wouldn't be quite the same without the star ; oddly enough once he's off the screen - for the final ten minutes which becomes a long eulogy that drags on longer than necessary in nearing pomposity - it doesn't work as well . Every moment he's on camera , whether in the early years in Boston and Harlem as a thug or as X himself in full public figure mode on stage and behind closed doors , it's a reminder why he's the star he is . It's simply one of his very best performances , full of subtlety and wit and bigger-than-life bravura moments that usually ( though not this time get Oscars . It's a period piece , it's a history lesson , it's a biography , and a testament to the possibility for a person to change . But above all else , Malcolm X works as a movie , and it's watchable in that big-movie-event kind of way without the usual drawbacks .
an above-average rom-com script crossbred with juicy pulp fiction , great stuff	Why can't more romantic comedies be like this ? This question came to me while watching Something Wild , a little sleeper from the mid 80s from Jonathan Demme about a seemingly typical 80s NY businessman , Charlie ( Jeff Daniels ) who gets whisked away by a ' free-spirit ' " Lulu " ( Melanie Griffith ) . Well , probably because most people who watch the very typical romantic comedies probably don't watch it for the same reasons that those who love Something Wild do . There's maybe something to keep going through the dirge of crap that are among the films of decades and decades of romantic comedies , but it's finding one of the nuggets that counts ( Love Actually , from 2003 , is another one for example ) . And , perhaps , there might be a darker sensibility , or more thought put into it , in enjoying Something Wild . It's a lot like Id-gone-Wild , in a sense . In the world of Something Wild , we're brought along with characters on a situation that would seem surreal on a Bunuel level ( i . e . bourgeois brought along into the realm of sin and desire by some free-will temptress of the ' lower depths ' ) , but there's a reality to it , a kind of down-to-earth level about the characters - and , more importantly for this , the actors playing them - and it elevates it past being either too strange or just too quirky . It's just about right , which is tough to dol you feel like cringing as Lulu calls up Charlie's boss while teasing him incredibly in the midst of kinky sex , but it's also so funny in how it all comes together that you just don't care , at least , enough , that it's anarchic . So while it's enjoyable , at least on first sight , as a sort of freewheeling existentialist romp , like a French sex comedy clipped over on the 80s ' greed-is-good ' motto , it has dark undertones that soon get darker and darker , thanks to Ray Liotta's Ray , who is Lulu / Audrey's real husband . At this point we feel like we're suddenly plopped into a pulp fiction piece , with the ex-con bad-ass going to town against the would-be rebel and his girl gone awry . But at the same time , for what Demme and his wonderful screenwriter have , it all works . What helps exponentially ( if that's the word ) is that Demme doesn't stray either into anything not honest within the boundaries of this situation . It might seem like a risk people wouldn't take in real life , or that the violence is pumped up to , again , pulp fiction territory , but in the logic of the piece - of the tricky deceit and the push-and-pull of the triangle of Charlie / Audrey / Ray - it's just awesomely achieved . Again , the performances are a big asset to the film's suceess . Daniels matches very well that line between playing it innocent and the straight-shooter , the guy we're supposed to identify with as stuck middle-class citizens with families and green lawns , and as a rebel who just has to let some free will into his system now and again . Griffith is in one of her very best , not acting too precocious or annoying , and conveying in the little bits of ' regular ' Audrey ( i . e . the scene at her mother's ) that there's more than meets the eye . And Liotta is so great that it's probably no wonder that he ( maybe unfortunately ) got typecast as a psycho . There's actually complexity that Liotta gets to , and in a way doesn't make Ray totally unlikeable ; he is the villain , of course , but there's a charm that is like the ID unraveled completely as a guy who shoots guns , robs stores , and hits on girls whenever he can . All three make up such a terrific combo here . It's crazy , it's awkward , it's a rip-roaring time , and it's even got heart too . For those who are tired of spoon-fed tripe by the studios , it's an excellent escape into one of the most unconventional ( but most pleasantly genre-tastic ) of the past 25 years
one of the few truly inspired series finales in TV history	What a way to go out on a bang ! The series finale to Twin Peaks is not only superb as an episode in tying together loose ends in an entertaining way , it transcends what are usually the limitations of the TV medium . David Lynch directed the episode , which is obvious from every single minute that was shot . It's a lot more like the most surreal art-film shot by a European cameraman than your typical prime-time network finale . We see finally , as has been hyped for the previous episodes , the Black Lodge , what could almost be considered the truest form of a haven for the dark side of the universe . Cooper finds that the map will show him how to follow Windam-Earl , who's kidnapped Annie , Cooper's new love , to bring the worst evil imaginable . Passing sycamore trees , we finally enter what is the ultimate labyrinth as dictated by Lynch and company , where we see old " friends " ( the Man from Another Room , the room service man at the Great Northern , Laura , Mr . Palmer , the Giant , et all ) , and see the most frightening outcome imaginable . In one of Lynch's most staggering displays of bravura directing , the Twin Peaks finale is alternately hysterically funny ( the wrap-up of what happens at the bank ) , dramatically exquisite ( the mess over at Donna's ) , plain goofy in its obviousness ( Nadine's come around reminds me of the climax of Muppets Take Manhattan ) , and absolutely thrilling in how only Lynch and Frost can pull it off . Everything from the lighting - going so over-the-top with the flashing lights and the slow-to-fast pacing - to the sound design , to the completely out-of-this-world turn of performances by everyone in the Black Lodge , it all just clicks so well that it gives one who's already very used to Lynch's wild theatrics the chills . Indeed , the very end left me feeling the same way I did the first times I saw Lynch's best work in Eraserhead and Mulholland Drive : it makes total sense , even if it makes no sense all the same . And yet , the emotional impact is concise , direct , and with a punch that's undeniable . Meanwhile , it's all on TV , not in a cinema , where one would expect to see such artful craft and simple touches of visual wizardry . Wow , Bob , Wow . That's all I could say once this ended .
One of the Best films of the 90's	This film has almost everything - Sex , violence , drugs , language and Iggy Pop . The novel of this film is completely a waste of time , but when it is put on the screen like this ( especially by Danny Boyle ) it gets good . The actors are electrifyingly good , especially Ewan McGregor's breakthrough performance as a Scottish youth who's trying to get off heroin . His journey to get off drugs is funny , sad , and thought provoking . And only in this film can you have a man swimming in a toilet .
A remake of the Big Sleep as only the " Girl and a Gun " man can do it	It's probably a given to note one of Jean-Luc Godard's notorious Godard-isms , likely the one that everyone knows even if they haven't seen a Godard picture : All you need to make a movie is a girl and a gun . While this is a pointed reference to the simplicity possible and / or inherent in the gangster picture or noir , and about how inexpensiveness should be taken usually into consideration . But at the same time , I think a picture like Made in USA or even something like Band of Outsiders or Vivre sa vie emphasizes that Godard was really the one to go for this in the only way that he could : all Godard needed to make a movie was a girl ( his girl , pre Masculin Feminin which was immediately after Made in USA , Anna Karina ) , a gun ( or sometimes more than one ) , and Jean-Luc Godard . Because , really , a girl and a gun is fine , but in the 1960s , with this man at the helm , it was just a little bit more . Called by the director himself as a " remake " of the Big Sleep , which perhaps makes the best sense of all , this is the hardest to find of the French New Wave wild-man-poet-anarchist's films not just with Anna Karina but in the 60s in general . Interesting , since this is , to my somewhat biased estimation ( biased in that this was , to me , his absolute prime period before his very hit or miss period in the decades to follow ) , one of his most entertaining " B-movie " movies about movies . And not just about movies , but also about living with oneself , the politics of France , Walt Disney , and things pop culture flavored all around . This is another in a line of pictures Godard made that was very anti-capitalist while at the same time embracing to an extent ( if only ironically ) the images and names and attitudes of American pictures and pulp fiction and comic books and other things . There's such an array of references that at the theater I saw this film at , the Film Forum in NYC , they had to put up a glossary-key to fill people in . And as much as it's a love letter to wild quips , eccentric characters , guys in trench-coats and hats , Nick Ray and Sam Fuller ( especially them as providing Godard's " love of sound and image " as noted at the start ) , bright colors filmed in wonderful Technicolor , stretches of time filled on a tape recorder about French politics , and to the dark and warmth of American B-movies , it's also a fine goodbye to Anna Karina . Here , as pretty and tough and contemplative as ever , going through some classic Godard scenes like when she and the detective who may have killer her character's lover explain to the camera what they are saying in a scene instead of playing it out , or just lying on the ground in a moment of existential upheaval , Karina shows how good she could actually be . While not her very best - I'd save that for Pierrot le fou and Vivre sa vie - it's a very memorable performance , and one that , like everyone else in Godard's films , knows so well about the performance as she's performing , that the " fiction " itself becomes wrapped around in the very documentary-like act of filming the movie . And that last part , I think , is the handle for this time period for Godard . What was essential to his craft , when it clicked just right , was that he could master together his love of quotations and pop-culture and movie references on top of a daring and sometimes wacky exploration of reality and fiction . Made in USA us based on a Donald Westlake crime book about a woman looking to find out who killer her man , but in Godard's hands the very act of this plot , joyously convoluted as the best possible homage / remake of Hawks ' Big Sleep as could be outside of Coen brothers , is subjugated to scenes where actors talk to the camera about what they would normally just say to each other in a scene , or when they make point of , of course , that it's just a movie . It may be a " B-side " in the Godard 60s cannon as a NY Times review pointed out , but damn it all if it isn't one of the most enjoyable B-sides in all cinema .
one of the great light-hearted romance comedies	Frank Capra's It Happened One Night was a film I saw a few years ago , first and only time ( though there will be other viewings to come ) , and it's never left me . Not exactly on a big profound dramatic level like a lot of other films of the 30s - including Capra's It's a Wonderful Life - but it's got such an air of confidence to its light-hearted comedy , and the winning combo of Gable and Colbert . The story is pretty simple , which is good so as to allow for this odd couple to bond and grow in behavioral terms ; Colbert is spoiled heiress Ellie Andrews and she's just tied the knot , and Gable plays reporter Peter Warne . She jumps ship and Peter follows . It becomes a road movie soon after that ( including the famous " leg " bit that's been a staple of male fantasy even up to today to a certain degree ) , and Capra gets his fun in showing these two characters as being so right for each other for all the wrong reasons . In that sense it's the prototypical romantic comedy , one that we've seen perhaps far too much today and parrotted without a lick of the whimsy Capra gives it . But it's also a big credit to the stars that they keep this tale uplifting ( it was the depression after all ) , and they're simply magnetic personalities to fill up such identifiable personas . It's terrific .
even in its lulls , this was one of the best shows on prime-time TV	The X-Files was , regrettably , not a show I was die-hard about when it was airing week after week in my youth / teen years . I would catch an episode here and there , be entertained , but also think ' this episode isn't TOO much different from the other ones ' . The film that came out as the spin-off of the series did spark my interest more , however , as having a full arc even for someone as just a casual fan . Then as the series went in its latter days , I did tune out ( thinking , ' why's Robert Patrick on the show , all this Scully baby-drama , etc ' ) . However , as the show now goes on in syndication on the various cable channels , and I have refreshed my awareness of the first season as quasi-background , I've become rather addicted ( minus the Patrick episodes , the lulls mentioned earlier ) . Sometimes what draws me in is the occasional , unexpected morbid humor . But mostly its in how the stories on the show , while of course sticking close to being ' TV ' , are the more engrossing the more you know about the characters . And there are some very inventive episodes regarding the unexplained , the bizarre human characters , and of course the UFO's and other assorted visitor folk . While I'm not as immersed in the show yet as with shows I've been watching since a youth ( Seinfeld , Simpsons , South Park , Daily Show ) , part of the fun of getting further and further into the episodes is seeing the comparisons , of what's gotten better or worse , more intriguing or less . Much like the inspiration of the show - All the President's Men - the more you see of what can't be explained , the more you can't stop finding the truth . Hokey at times , sure , but also a cult-delight .
can't say much about the original talk soup , but this ' new ' version is great brain candy	The Soup has become one of those nifty little pleasures of cable TV for me recently . To say that it's a guilty pleasure might be a little hard to say , as it is basically just a summary of all of the weird , crazy , delirious , whatever-you-call-it , and plain bad and near offensive TV of the past week . So to say it's a guilty pleasure would mean that it's sort of wrong on a level to watch the show , hard to admit . But the whole program is like a full-on pop culture version with a little more goofiness of what the Daily Show does in its first eight or nine minutes of reviewing clips . It's satire , though of a fairly low denomination where very cheap graphics , sometimes lame jokes , and lots of tongue placed in as many firm cheeks as possible end up squeezing out jokes . It's hosted by Joel McHale in a very smarmy , sarcastic manner , but he makes it work for what it's worth , and one becomes sort of adjusted to what his shtick is after a while . Ironically , McHale has his work cut out for him , because the clips are sometimes very funny on their own , without really a word or gesture or gag to add to it . Reality Show clip-time , Chat Stew ( " so meaty " ) , What the Kids Are Watching , and Clip of the Week are among the regulars , and in this dire swamp of pop culture and other TV - sometimes stretching to international lengths with Spanish soap operas and inexplicable Japanese shows - is never-ending . If anything as time goes on , there's almost too much to choose from . There are new categories created each week by McHale and his writers , two of them being funny by themselves in just having no other choice but to make fun of where the Soup itself broadcasts from - the E network ( Lets Take Some E ! is one new segment , as well as a whole list of those un-Godly tabloid TV shows like E . T . and Access Hollywood ) . It's basically a fun way to spend half an hour on a Friday night or Saturday morning , and as someone who doesn't really watch much TV and tries , sometimes without success , to avoid bad TV even when it's ironically good or horrific celebrities and people on reality shows I shouldn't give a damn about , it's a great little treat .
what fascinates and interests almost works to annoy the viewer , but Linklater does come closest to Bergman here	Before Sunset provides us not so much a sequel as a continuing development in the lives of these characters , who are starting to embody the neuroses and deeply-held desires that neither want to admit to until it's at the most crucial and tragic of times . Jessie ( Ethan Hawke ) and Celine ( Julie Delpy ) , who first met on a train in Vienna in 1994 , meet again nine years later as Jessie has published a book which is based on that night they had together . He's in Paris , they meet again , and before he has his plane back to the states they talk , and talk , and talk , and unlike in the first film there are no asides . It's just two people who at first talk about concerns that came up for them the first time , if a bit more pragmatic : what it is to have concern over the environment , to live in the USA , to be involved enough in a relationship . There's even a moment of deja-vu where they talk about reincarnation and a respect for faith if not an embracing of it . But then we also get to see something much deeper in each side that Jessie's book and mere re-appearance for Celine brings out a memory that has become hyper-realized , and vice-versa . Like Bergman's films , in particular Scenes From a Marriage ( if not as wholly successful because of its short running time here ) , Linklater provides us with characters who have no problem saying what's on their mind , in the immediate sense anyway . Jessie is even more digging-in with his cynicism and wit , and Celine with her opinions on the world at large , family and on past relationships . But when it comes to getting at their connection , it's very fragile and even unattainable because of each side's own flaws . If the two of them were happy , to be certain , there would be no movie , but it's the characters ' connection to that one night in Vienna , and the second meeting that was supposed to take place six months later and never happened , and how it cripples their own romantic lives that becomes very interesting yet shallow at the same time . Perhaps this is the best way to show how smart , functional people become dysfunctional in their respective social stratospheres - Jessie is married and with a kid , but not very happy in it , and Celine is in bad relationship after bad relationship - but the singular , glossy night of years past has become a bitter shrine of sorts amid their respective neuroses . Linklater shares that incredible Bergman quality of cutting past the already sharp intellect to the emotional matter of the parties , even if it doesn't feel totally complete ; I want to see how their story might end , however obvious it should and probably would be . One knows this could never work in real life , aside from the practical-side of it all , yet it's this that makes it all the more watchable . This , plus the incredibly natural repore of the actors , as Hawke and Delpy , as to be expected , seem like they aren't even on a script but are being filmed by Linklater on the fly as his camera captures the given-luscious scapes of Paris in afternoon , and the dialog is still as fresh and inviting as ever . If it lacks anything from the first it's an greater sense of the possibility for romance , since this time the sense of romance is entangled in loss and questions that Celine and Jessie want answered , however conscious they want them answered or not . But as with the first one , I still loved being around these two , who can expound a mouthful on a subject that we all might talk about , almost shockingly similar ( one bit I liked a lot was Celine's story of going to Poland ) , and then in a slight cloud of romanticism . It ends ambiguous , maybe too ambiguous , as I found myself saying ' huh , what ' , but it ties into what Jessie tells the reporters at the press conference early in the film : one may take away something from this tale , or someone else another , but there it is , clear as day . Before Sunset is a straightforward romance , and proud of it , being both straightforward in romantic connection and as sharp as anything you'd never find in your local cineplex . One of Linklater's best .
Maybe Leone's second best behind GB & U - sophisticated weaving of techniques from past westerns into an near-mythic treatment . . .	Sergio Leone's the master of the spaghetti western - hard to refute that - and with Once Upon a Time in the West he goes for taking the skills he formed in the ' Dollars ' trilogy ( inspired by the likes of John Ford ) into a stylistically complex work . The story as well ( by Leone , horror director Dario Argento , and Bernardo Bertolucci ) slips the lines together without a flaw . The four main characters - the suave , quiet Harmonica ( Charles Bronson ) , the determined and sexy Jill ( Claudia Cardinale ) , veteran outlaw Cheyenne ( Jason Robards ) , and the worn , chilling hired-killer Frank ( Henry Fonda ) - each get enough screen time by themselves or with each other to get the story going along , with the interweaving perfectly in sync . And Leone's in luck - his actors all turn in top shelve work , with Bronson proving himself to be cool on par with Eastwood , Cardinale highly formidable as the first female lead in a Leone film , and Fonda creating one of his most memorable works . Fonda's Frank draws you like no other actor could have in the first scene he appears . A viewer can hardly believe he would set the story into motion like he does ( looking into those blue eyes in the trademark close-ups ) , that is until the gun gets pulled . With all the performance in check , Leone creates a technical masterpiece . In a sense , Leone here created a film in the sense that Quentin Tarantino created Kill Bill - the later made a film about the conventions in grindhouse / martial-arts films , and Leone made a film about the conventions in the John Ford westerns ( the commentary on the DVD goes into detail on this ) . But , like Tarantino , Leone isn't just creating a compare / contrast show with guns and landscapes . You don't have to have seen all those archaic westerns to get what Leone's doing here , since it's original in craftsmanship and how some turns are taken . The craftsmanship , by the way , is anchored by the likes of cinematographer Tonillo Delli Colli , with similar and not so similar angles and pans and shots to GB & U - it's almost arguable that he should've deserved his lifetime achievement award simply for his three collaborations with Leone . Also , Nino Baragli and Carlo Simi deserve massive credit here . Along with a great vision comes other great people to work with , like Ennio Morricone , who has another score that's so evocative and in tune with Leone's mind-set it was created before filming even began . This is the kind of work that could turn on a non-western fan onto the genre - though I would recommend GB & U as the introduction to this man's view of the 19th century in America . One thing for certain - you'll have to see it twice before you can truly pass judgment .
a tale of two girls , with a certain passion for life , and each other	Heavenly Creatures may be the best film I've seen so far from Peter Jackson , even after having gone through the Lord of the Rings , King Kong , even Dead-Alive . His film is loaded with so much that it's hard to classify it as one specific thing , and its psychological complexities make it something special . One way to describe the picture is that it's about the stirring friendship-cum-relationship of Pauline ( Melanie Lynskey ) and Juliet ( Kate Winslet ) in 1950s New Zealand . Another way to describe it is showing the other side , the much darker side , of a coming of age story , where youth have to come to terms with realities , with horrific results . And even another way is that it's another in a big line of independent films that work on the relationship between fantasy and reality , or rather the practical need for abstractions to try and not get too close to the mundane , and then the all too hard to accept realities around the characters . But there's another way to describe it too that I like best , and that also marks it as something even more special than some might realize - it's one of those rare , sensational takes on what it's like to be in that dreadful cocoon of an age at 14 and 15 , when hormones go completely insane , parents are more of an enemy and force to be reckoned with than a helpful , compassionate side like when younger , and at times the world seems like it could end at any moment if something changed for the worse . This is where I think Jackson strikes it hardest and most fulfilling , even as the other descriptions are not un-true at all . In this case , Juliet and Pauline are at that age , and when they first meet they first connect very strongly , being outsiders in their class , though completely in tune with their fantasy life of romanticized worlds , knights , an opera singer , and ( some ) male movie stars . But this becomes complicated more once they first get briefly separated due to Juliet's illness , and when they meet again there are suspicions from both sides of the family ( ' homosexuality ' is shown in a close-up shot of the mouth of one of the father's saying it , as if it's like the plague ) , and the dysfunctions of Juliet's side end up drawing things to its very tragic end . Along with the substance being at a very high quality , of a script that deftly combines the elements of lush fantasy mixing and matching - sometimes without discerning - through a powerful subjective viewpoint , mostly through Pauline , there's unexpected scenes that are touching . For example , there's a scene where she reluctantly loses her virginity to a boarder , and through this she keeps cutting back and forth in her dulled state to clay knights . This is a motif , I suppose , that is expounded upon alongside the narration from Pauline , which adds her subjectivity to a fault . And all the while the objectivity becomes pushed aside , or at least is questioned . What is it to be so different from how everyone in this 1950s time views their uncommon bond ? Whether they are or aren't lesbian is up for debate , it's left ambiguous even when its put up-front in the last twenty minutes . And all the while , Jackson directs it stylistically with the same verve he had with his early films , though balancing the wild fantasy with the grounded reality ; he's even playful with it , however dark , which includes a great tip-of-the-hat to Orson Welles and the Third Man . All the while , too , the performances by the two leads are stellar . It's actually shocking to see Lynskey not get better roles since , as her Pauline is totally defined and made real and , at least in some sort of emotional way at times , relatable or sympathetic . Winslet , meanwhile , has one of her best here , as the more outward one personality-wise of the two , who is even more immersed in the fantasy than Pauline , but has a vulnerability that is crushing . Everything combines together then - the direction , the writing , the performances and the actual mixed psychology behind it , and it becomes quite memorable . It's not a very easy picture to watch at times , and its implications are disturbing , but it has more guts and determination to tell its story full-on than many others I can think of .
hard-edged , take-no-prisoners satire at its finest ; Carlin's best in almost 10 years	It might be a stretch saying this as a die-hard Carlin fan , but the material , both written and as performed , in It's Bad for Ya is some of the best late-era material yet . At 70 Carlin bounces back from the level of despair ( and some of the stumbles in the act itself ) from Life is Worth Losing to a special that is firmly structured but loose and playful - or as much as the " old f " can get - and is continuously , ceaselessly , funny . And funny as in reminiscent of what some of us had going on when watching Back in Town or ' Diseased ' the first time . The material , even if sounding at times a tinge of the previously done ( i . e . the whole bit on children in school and camp like the Children segment in Diseased ) , is always fresh and with such a sting of truth to everything that it scalds the mind while ( here goes ) tickling the funny bone . Going from the topic of death ( how long to wait to scratch off a name from the book ? six weeks , unless if on the computer scheduler ) , the facets of communication , looking down from Heaven , spots of God ( naturally ) , kids , and just troublesome gestures involving hats in religion and if people really have " Rights " make up the bulk of the special , centered around the premise that what's bad for you , plain and simple , is BS . Total , complete BS , which as we also learn ( or if you've really learned it you're like the kid waiting at the street corner for a week following dropped off not-quite randomly by the parent ) holds the country together . Carlin isn't necessarily angry though , even if disdain seems to spout out at most turns , even just to observe how horrifying children's teeth coming in look . It's skepticism tinged with the feeling that everything is NOT going to be " fine " . What it comes down to is this : Carlin is to dirty , witty , cautionary stand-up comedy what Yoda is to Jedis everywhere , which is a small spark of hope via crystal clear wisdom in a world where it's pretty damn hard to get any . At the least , we get classic GC - outrageous lines and bits from the man's 13th ( or is it 14th ) comedy special , including as far as an eyebrow-raising observation on people who play Mozart music during a birth !
not entirely Hitchcockian thriller / melodrama , but somehow in a class of its own	When Claude Chabrol , the French director of many thrillers and dramas and other genres , is at his best when subtly but forcefully pulling the rug out from the viewer . This isn't your usual case of a romance story criss-crossed with a serial killer thriller . In fact , we're not made very much aware that there is a serial killer - save for a few mentions here and there - until halfway through the movie , and by the time we are it's full-throttle in a kind of expertly manipulated suspense , not in the usual sense but through an ominous musical score by Pierre Jansen and a movement of fluidity with the camera that tells the story sort of conventionally but not at the same time . It's a small , master's class in subverting the genre by making us care so much about the characters even as we know they're doomed from the happy opening . That's not to say that Chabrol has made anything that can't be enjoyed by one looking for a good entertaining thriller first and foremost . If anything the opening of the movie is what lures one in perfectly , as it's a very jovial in this wedding sequence one sees guests school-teacher Helene ( Stephane Audran , Chabrol regular ) and butcher Paul ( Jean Yanne , perfect as the butcher ) , enjoying themselves and making good conversation . This stretches out into the first half of the film ; a friendship develops around food that Paul brings over , and it's only when Paul thinks its time to go the ' next step ' that he's told it can't be because of a past horrible relationship that Helen faced - horrible in the sense of disappointment . There's a disconnect emotionally that is left open , thus , going into the second half of the film , where finally we see what some of us would be waiting for : the serial killer plot . There's a string of murders involving women , and one of them - the bride from the opening - is a shocker not exactly for the revelation itself , per-say , but how Chabrol builds up to it . At first it's seen as the most suspenseful thing in the film so far as Helen leads her class along a mountainside and stops to have lunch . The music is playing right here , and it's really chilling for how simple it lays out the tension , like a weirdo standing across the street in a black cloak acting suspicious but , at the same time , too subtle to pin down . This adds to the sudden shock , then , after the music stops and finally the reveal happens via blood dripping on the kid's sandwich . This , however , is just one example of Chabrol's calm mastery as a director of the material . It would be one thing to go on and on about the eerie absorption of the camera-work , which goes between conventional stylization ( for a French film of the period ) and poetic editing and framing . Or to go on and on about the stunning work turned by Audran ( going between an entire emotional palette , as it were , from happy to sobbing to frightened to pale and shot to hell ) and Yanne ( also great at what he's meant to be , our male protagonist and , sadly , eventual antagonist by default ) . But it's the emotional struggle that makes this compelling above all other good reasons to recommend . The Butcher posits a relationship that is platonic , naturalistic , and genuinely interesting ; these aren't cookie-cutter characters but well-drawn and with things that make them identifiable even as they , early on , seem to go on about trivial things not related to the plot ( a little like a Woody Allen movie ) . Then , when it switches gears bit by bit and the paranoia increases , by the time the climax comes it becomes very , ultimately , tragic . Chabrol goes to lengths to reveal , simply , the soul of a man one should not feel any sympathy for . That one close-up in the car ride to the hospital is one of the finest climaxes I might ever see in a movie from Europe , even anywhere . And damned if isn't representative of what Chabrol can do as a craftier but no less true-to-his-art member of the Cashier du cinema filmmaker club .
As Absorbing and magnificent as any other Scorsese film	Martin Scorsese is definatley one of the greatest directors of the past century and with this work , he proves ( along with Kundun ) that his verizons span beyond his classics like Mean Streets , Raging Bull and GoodFellas , though those works are some of the best in the American history of film . Here in the Age of Innocence , Scorsese depicts ( with the help of Edith Wharton's novel ) of a time in New York when things when things were elegant , though also brutal in the deep . Daniel Day Lewis plays a man who is torn between marrying a woman he likes ( Winona Ryder ) and making her family happy as well , or choosing a tempting woman with a free mind ( Michelle Pfieffer ) . This could sound like Arthur in the 19th century , but the director handles the material so carefully it works very well along with fine performances and excellent photography by long time collaborator Michael Ballhaus ( who also provided my favorite scene in movies in the Cobana long shot in GoodFellas ) . One of the best films of 1993 .
One of the best westerns / war films made in the 70's : brutal , violent , funny , poetically tragic , etc . . .	With Fistful of Dyanmite ( a . k . a . ' Duck , You Sucker ' , a . k . a . ' Once Upon a Time in the Revolution ' , the second part of a ' trilogy ' ) , legendary Sergio Leone puts together something experimental , even more so than the other films in his catalog . Here he now deals with war , but he still has the crime elements of his ' dollars ' films ; it somehow makes a very clear cut balance between bits of comedy within the tragedy worked in the story ; it isn't very brutal , but it is graphic in the genre sense of the time . It's also one of his best films , if you happen to see it within its full running time ( like most of Leone's films , this suffered drastic cuts in American versions , reducing critical character points and other Leone surprises ) . A Leone film , however , can only be as strong as the leads pushing it up , as in the dozens and dozens of westerns and other films that inspired Leone . Here he uses two character actors ( for the most part of their careers ) , but indeed very good and astute ones at playing their parts . Rod Steiger , who has been in classic films like On the Waterfront and The Pawnbroker , here is slightly like a maturer version of Tuco from The Good , the Bad , and the Ugly : he's still a bandit , with pillaging and beating and raping his way across the countryside , but he's also got a family to look after , who within his anti-hero heart are the most important things to him . Steiger's Juan is usually either surprised , quietly delighted , or agitated off to certain degrees . He plays this for all it's worth , but he also finds the best notes in the moments when he brings out laughs , and in the more sorrowful moments later on in the film . There's also James Coburn , veteran of many , many films , given one of the great themes of any character in a Leone film by composer Ennio Morricone ( there's some sort of instrument or distortion of one in his theme that calls for complete , unusual attention on the viewer ) . Coburn's Sean ( err , John , depending ) is a character with some ghosts , perhaps , in his past , and who unlike Juan is more interested in ' other ' interests . Although Juan tries not to notice it until the sequence at Mesa Verde ( which I won't reveal ) , Sean has been through a revolution in Ireland , and understand more or less what happens with it . He brings in Juan , after a rather strange yet hilarious encounter , into his web of revolutionary fighters , which doesn't go over to well with him at first . As their story unravels , Coburn still plays it like a pro , being the straight character to Steiger's very theatrical-like performance . He doesn't quite have the mystery an Eastwood or Bronson had in the other Leone films , but he does carry a certain quality about him that puts him in a needed place in the Leone cannon . Speaking of which , one must not over-look how complex a film like this is in some ways . Leone was not originally the director ( it went through the hands of Peter Bogdanovich and Sam Peckinpah before coming to him , coincidentally the opening scene with Juan is a cool homage to the Wild Bunch opening ) . Yet somehow he puts his stamp , and wonderful mark , on Fistful of Dynamite . This time more history is worked into the film - unlike the civil war acting like a harsh backdrop to the more ' fun ' elements of the adventure in The Good , the Bad , and the Ugly , the war in this film affects the main character , and adds a serious tone to an otherwise standard genre picture . The Steiger character , along with the audience , gets a look at a massive amount of death , or rather the images of the dead : a tower filled with soldiers blown at night , the powerful pans and camera moves across the bodies , real combat , and the suggestions of what goes into the revolution . But its not just the violence of battles that get into the film , its also the personal attitudes during the revolution - the bourgeois vs the peasants ( one of Leone's masterstrokes at close-ups in montage is displayed when Juan is on the train with the near monstrous American wealthy early in the film ) . Leone manages to work in various and cinematic explosions , in-depth or testing close-ups , and sweeping long shots of soldiers , landscapes , and struggle . Coming back to Ennio Morricone's score - this time , Morricone experiments with some styles of his talents . As when Leone uses a funny , almost cartoon-like , image above Sean from Juans ' eyes of a ' Banco ' sign ( akin the a ' dollar ' sign above cartoon characters ) , Morricone adds a church organ and choir to go along with it . There are also the uses of themes throughout the film , as in Leone's other films , that act like striking , beautiful calling cards . The opening theme is pounding ; Sean's flashbacks are given the sumptuous qualities that go with the best ( and worst ) nostalgia ; the scenes with action and suspense , though almost a little standard , still work far better than many standard score of today . Fistful of Dynamite is entertainment on an epic scale , with a broader and somewhat deeper sub-text , and it comes out with flying colors . Some may not take to it ; it could be argued that Steiger , much like Eli Wallach , isn't very convincing as a Mexican bandit , or that the shifting in tones is a little much , even conventional in a weird sense . But it's hard to argue the sense of control that Leone has over his environment in the film , the assuredness of style , and that at the least the parts are greater than the whole . For me , it's a film I've seen twice in one week ( once to soak in and get more of the enjoyment , the second time to get even more out of it , and to notice the visual details ) , and I hope it gets better the next time around .
De Palma's lurid and outrageous thriller hits all the right marks as more of a satire or parody than a full-on thriller , and magnificently so	With Body Double , Brian De Palma has another of his " Hitchcock rip-offs " , but in quotes as it's the easy critical thing that's already been said by others . The film is really a lot more cunning than that , and has a level of cunning wit that one could more associate with De Palma's early comedies that felt very much about skewering the style being homaged as opposed to incurious methods . If one looks at it as much as a big wink and a nod to films like Rear Window and especially Vertigo , with a lot of direct jabs at Hollywood and the whole method of acting and pretending , there's a lot on the table . It's also tasteless in its outrageous depictions of sensuality and seduction , not just sex which gets a lot of wicked moments that veer almost totally into what's being made fun of , and has a huge " gotcha " ending that works specifically for its shock value . It's own self-consciousness is a huge asset , as when De Palma is at his best or at least most assertive , in this case pushing the taboo of mixing regular dramatic fiction with soft-core porno to a limit that's gleefully pushed against . It's not even that one can't take it sort of seriously as a work of kind of pop-art , as in taking in the outlandish brilliance of a much better-than-average paperback book , because De Palma is on his toes the whole time in crafting a melodramatic thriller . There's even an experiment in tension which starts as an long homage to the ' following ' sequences in Vertigo , but then building to a high crescendo and then to another . In fact , Body Double is silent for a lot of the time , but as something that is worked into the main character . Craig Wasson is a perfect foil for the events that unfold around him as the " witness " to all that comes before his watchful eye in a befriended man's apartment . In what is , to be sure , fairly typical material for the director with the basics of the substance , the story calling back to Hi , Mom and Sisters especially ( hence as well the connection to the knowing dips into comedy , of which both of those could be considered as ) , though this time the ' hero ' is a of weakling with panic attacks at the moment to act , albeit already an actor . A murder is witnessed following a pivotal plot point and high-flying moment of romance ( again , calling attention to its over-length ) , then the dive into porno comes around . It's trashy , sure , but why shouldn't that make it more enjoyable if one's to get the kidding and sharp sensibility after a while ? Wasson himself , looking a bit like a double of Bill Maher sometimes , has the expression of terror in his eyes himself , and a kind of strange guts needed to pull off a hilariously flawed pawn . De Palma also intentionally casts to type with both women and the villains , one for each being more deceptive ( i . e . Henry's Brouchard and Shelton's Gloria , who are very much like " movie " caricatures from the craftiest and most seductive of film-noir ) , and with one ' villain ' called the Indian , donning a face that's a riot just to look at , who at one point engages in a murder including the most blatant phallic imagery in any murder scene from the filmmaker . But , again , it all works exceptionally for rhythm and a sort of momentum build into even the smaller moments . As cheesily 80's as it is , I loved the whole music video Relax , where occasionally as De Palma almost makes us forget that a movie is being shot within this scene , the camera shooting Wasson and Griffith comes into view in a mirror . But that's just a sly joke , as opposed to the scenes where suspense and humor get the back and forth treatment , where you aren't sure whether to laugh or cringe or look at the screen through closed fingers peeking out . I can actually understand some of the negative criticisms of Body Double . I probably wouldn't be so forgiving of it being so proudly ' B-movie ' while appearing to be a big Hollywood crime-drama , if I wasn't at least intrigued on the outset from the sensibility behind it all . ' Guilty Pleasure ' comes to mind as a defense , but I should digress into what it really comes down to - either you'll go along for a De Palma atmosphere that is wild and cynical and full of rough-edges , or you won't . In other instances with the director I've gone for the latter , but this isn't one of them . One of the best of 1984 .
the humility of execution , or how Fred Leuchter got in over his head	Fred A . Leuchter is a man whom you want to despite , to hate with all your being . It's easy to do . How could a man be so foolish and ego-maniacal ? He was already fortified with a solid career as an engineer who helped manufacturer and supervise the more ' humane ' developments of the electric chair , lethal injection , hanging , and gas chamber methods of capital punishment . On that point , whether or not you agree with the death penalty , he worked as a professional ( or at least in his mind he did , to where he was contracted all over the country ) . But then came the neo-Nazi / holocaust denier from Canada who drafted Leuchter - a man who never faced defending such a man ( albeit he still to this day believes any person has a fair right to a defense , and still albeit in Canada ) - to go to Poland and Germany , dig up some samples off the fronts of the walls in the dilapidated concentration camps , and see if gas was to be detected . He brought back samples ( undercover ) , gave it to a scientist , who found there were no traces of gas . Imbued by this , he wrote the ' Leuchter Report ' , and then everything went to hell . . . In Errol Morris's film of Mr . Death , Leuchter is portrayed in a very complex manner . You're not sure what to make of him going from scene to scene ; he knew what he was doing was for science - he professes also to this day to not be anti-Semitic , this despite his appearances as a guest speaker with " Revisionist History " groups - but he wasn't the right person for the job , if the job should've even been considered in the first place . As the scientist at the Massachusets facility Leuchter ( not saying what really for ) brought the samples said , there wasn't enough real data to prove or disprove anything about what was in the walls . Also , Leuchter didn't do his homework on matters surrounding the camps . Any filmmaker might've just focused on this portion of Leuchter , as his most notorious moment which was his own undoing ( no more career , no more wife , reduced to trying to sell half a lethal injection machine ) . But Morris has the first half hour of the film as an utterly fascinating dissection of the mechanics and physics of cooking a man with electricity , or the gears of making sure that injecting a man's death is by all means ' comfortable ' . He's a guy who drinks , astonishingly , 40 cups of coffee , smoking 6 packs a day , and seems perfectly normal . With this prelude , we're given what seems to be another of the honorable defectives in a line of Morris films ( i . e . Gates of Heaven , Vernon Florida , Fast Cheap and Out of Control ) . So by the time the Leuchter report story unfolds , he comes off as , in a way , more pathetic than really evil . As one of the other interviewees observes , he's not naive ( hence the money he was paid and the notoriety he soaked up before the big fall in reputation ) , and he also believes in free speech and the right to a defense , so on and so on . He's certainly not a man one would usually want to have a cup of Joe with . But pure evil ? Mr . Death is one of Morris's most peering and uncompromising documentaries , and this time his profile of this not-quite tragic figure allows for him plenty of room for contemplation - not about if the holocaust didn't happen , lord knows Morris isn't out for that , and I'm sure he would believe the jury is in , but about the dangers of pride in one's work ( i . e . " Leuchter wasn't Sherlock Holmes " ) , and as well about the nature of execution itself . We're given the plethora of chilling visuals from Morris's great abstract sensibility : extreme close-ups of flesh being prepared to get killed , of Leuchter preparing in one of the execution rooms , of him just walking down the side of a highway out of focus ( lit wonderfully , most of the time , by Robert Richardson ) . And , of course , the head-on close-ups where we're getting the full scoop right between the eyes . It adds to a sense of mild-mannered terror , at least in the Leuchter bits , even when he's talking like a rational being ( which is off and on ) . What strikes the most about Mr . Death , however , is how Leuchter justified himself by either providing some human decency , or in providing facts . Both have the tinge of delusion , more or less , and at the same time an earnestness in how he views himself in relation - clinically - with his subjects . How human , exactly , is Leuchter himself ? His marriage happened almost on a lark to get away from his mother . He rarely cracks a joke . He's almost reminiscent of some side character no one thinks about in some science fiction film . And you never want to look away from him . Eerie
Sergio Leone's penultimate Italian-western ; a film that gets better with each passing year . . .	. . . and though those last several words could also be attributed to Leone's " Once Upon a Time " films ( West and America ) as well as the other pieces in his trilogy of films with Clint Eastwood - Fistful of Dollars and For a Few More Dollars - arguably this is the most ambitious and spellbinding one of the bunch , and one that has inspired ( i . e . Quentin Tarantino , Sam Raimi , Robert Rodriguez ) and will most likely continue to inspire filmmakers and fans into the 21st century . There's something in The Good , the Bad , and the Ugly that's nearly ( or perhaps is ) mythical in it's craft , certain scenes come off as being more than relevant and exquisite for that scene / sequence - it transcends into aspects of humanity . For example , in the first part of the film ( this is after the extraordinary introductions to Tuco , played by Eli Wallach , Sentenza or ' Angel Eyes ' , played by Lee Van Cleef , and as Blondie by a year old Clint ) , Joe gets Tuco out of a hanging , which is something of a regular practice for them , but Joe decides to leave his ' buddy ' out in the desert to walk the rest of the way back into town . A little later , the situation gets reversed , as Tuco has a horse and water and Joe doesn't , and they both go to cross the desert . Leone decides to not follow Tuco coming back to town as much as he follows in earnest Tuco and Joe going across that desert , as Joe starts to burn and dry up , going towards a story that will soon unfold . There is something to these scenes that I can barely describe , that they're executed in the mind-set of a Western , but in the abstract Leone lets the audience know this is a story that is bold and bigger than life . What makes much of the Good , the Bad , and the Ugly such a huge success is the trust Leone had in his own style he spun into his own after the first two westerns , his trust in his collaborators , and in his leading players as well . I , for one , had to mistakenly figure out that it is near depressing to watch this film on a regular VCR tape due to the pan & scan process . There is such a clear , distinct visual scope that Leone and camera director Tonino Delli Colli achieve that it's practically a must to get the DVD ( preferably the extended version , which was Leone's original cut more or less ) . The editing , too , is unique in many sequences ( the climax is the most noted and memorable ) . The score , with usual collaborator Ennio Morricone , is one of the landmark movie scores , and themes , of not just in the western genre but in all movie history . And the three main players who take on the screen have their own chops to show off : Eastwood , technically , was playing a Joe that took place before Fistful of Dollars , yet by this film had it down to a T ( it's still my favorite performance from him , despite having few words and reactions ) ; Cleef's cold , cunning Angel Eyes steals the scenes he's in ; ditto for Wallach , who gets under the skin of his co-patriots as much as he sometimes does under the viewer's . Overall , The Good , the Bad and Ugly , is an entirely satisfying western , at least one of my five favorites ever made , and it's an endearing bravo to all who were involved .
what Friedkin set out to do , he accomplished tremendously ; Hackman's at a peak	Although not the very best film of 1971 , The French Connection packs enough of a wallop to continue significance as a serious , but un-shamefully entertaining , thriller . William Friedkin , the director , has said about the film that he wanted to " infuse the documentary style . " And in this rare time in Hollywood when the flood-gates opened , no one stopped him . This works for fascination on the technical side at the start , that all the edits in certain sequences ( chases and such , not the notorious one ) , and particularly how they're filmed by the two significant cameramen , Owen Roizman and Enrique Bravo ( the later the lighting cameramen . There were other films , mostly in Europe , that were making movies like this , but there is also this implicit urgency that Friedkin is conveying here as well ; it's gritty , sometimes in the action there's so many chances of spontaneity that it can practically do no harm . But without going into detail about the specifics of the good in the style , one only has to look at the strengths in the story . For its time it broke ground in dealing frankly with the street / drug scene and its networking , even as by now there are thousands of TV programs and movies that show similar stuff every week . Yet there is a purity in it all too , where the story is so focused upon there isn't too much time for deep character delving and such . This doesn't make a problem for the actors though , as the actors fit the type like pegs . Gene Hackman , in his first Oscar winning turn , is Popeye Doyle , a cop with recklessness and total professionalism as one of the two key cop roles ( the other , of course , Dirty Harry ) . It may not be Hackman's best , or some might say it is ( whatever ' best ' means ) , but it is one that compliments the film , essentially down the line and not un-willing to take prisoners . Roy Scheider is also well cast as Hackman's partner , with enough to do during Hackman's ' big ' scenes . The surprise success in casting is Fernando Rey of Bunuel's films , who is one of the convincing old-European elegant big-time drug dealing business man in all of the films that followed it . It's almost as if the same character from those Bunuel films wasn't in a surreal-mode . This is just one of those ' cat & mouse ' movies that clicks . For some the parts may even be greater than the whole ( and they're practically on all highlights reels of clips from 70's films nowadays ) , and for others it may even prove more satisfying than it was for me .
the Dwarfs steal the show , but there's much to see in this ground-breaker of cinema	To call Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs a classic goes without saying that practically everyone has called it such . It is a great film , but there are certain factors that make it so , and without them the film could've gone the other way and become important more for its technical breakthrough ( s ) than for the content . The fact is a story with the utmost simplicity like Snow White , the chief characters - Prince Charming , the wicked Queen / witch , and of course Snow White - are all very basic , simple , if not one dimensional than basely two-dimensional characters . It's appropriate , to be sure , as it is based off a Grimm fairy tale . Despite the beauty and charm of the early scenes , its really on par entertainment-wise with the Silly Symphonies Walt Disney produced in the 30's . This also goes without saying that Snow White's run through the woods is one of the highlights of the film , still bringing a sense of terror and the surreal for the adults in the audience ( if you're a little kid it could be one of the scariest things you've ever seen ) . But then - just as Snow White settles into her little ' hide-out ' in a house she thinks occupied by messy , orphaned children - we're introduced to the seven dwarfs , and this is where the film picks up most of its energy , laughs , and complete and total balance . In a way , not to analyze too deep for a filmed fairy tale , they each represent the different sides of men , and so it gives the film the appropriate human dimensions it needs ( in this , also setting up practically all the hand-drawn Disney films of the next seventy years or so ) . It's tempting to say which are my favorite , or whom I got the most enjoyment out of . There would be three , two for more obvious reasons , one for subtle ones . Dopey , who is almost a perfect re-incarnation ( in Disney Dwarf form of course ) of Harpo Marx - he's a lovable idiot , with barely two sounds in the course of the film , who ( and I hate to sound sappy ) brings out the laughing kid in anyone . Grumpy , who I found to be maybe the most complete character in the film , has attitude to spare , and gets comic bit after comic bit happen to him from the animators - and yet , there is heart behind him , and when its revealed in key parts of the film , they act as the most emotional points . There is also Sleepy , who also barely says a word , but who's physical movements are really divine little moments among the big , inspired musical numbers . Indeed , there are little moments throughout the film that help make up the greatness : the mood and atmosphere in the Queen's dungeon of witchcraft ; the scene where the dwarfs go to sleep ( a fly that rests on Sleepy's nose ) ; the traits given to the animals in the forest ( that little turtle is hilarious ) . All these parts help to add to the basic structure of the story - Queen wants the good looks , goes after her once the hunter fails , gives her the poison apple , then it goes even more predictable from their ( though in a good way ) . The detail of the animated scenes , the backgrounds , the visual effects , are often mesmerizing . And the songs , which were some of the most standard I heard from the Disney oeuvre as a kid ( they were always on those Disney ' Sing-along ' videos ) are still whimsical most of the time . Then there is also the icing on the cake - the voice of Snow White , Adriana Caselotti ( who got contracted into this being her only film role , based of producer / uncredited director Disney's insistence ) , brings something to the film that's hard to describe , except to say that it's , well , serene . Even if she's not the strongest character , her main goal of making people around her feel good and inspiring happiness makes her watchable , and in a way lovable . It's a very curious , though important , factor that she ( and Prince Charming and the Queen pre-witch ) are animated very traditionally , apart from the cartoon-like dwarfs and animals . Its a reminder of the film's , and Disney's , strongest success - that as an imagined and visualized fairy tale , the representation is strong , and touching . In the new century studios move away from hand-drawn animated films , but it's a good idea to look back to the early Disney films , if not for just nostalgia ( or to watch with your kids ) to get a sense of the experimentation , the purity of it . It remains one of only several animated films , from any country or style , to have the crucial elements come together - music , voice-talent , usage of colors , and cinematography .
At sixty five , Nicholson turns in his fourth best performance in his career :	( possible spoilers ) Jack Nicholson is truly one of America's best actors from the 20th century , and in the new milennium he was in the quite under-rated The Pledge last year , and now in About Schmidt , and proves that he is still one of the greatest treats to look for in the film system . His work in Alexander Payne's third film and second adaptation is deserved enough for a fourth Oscar , which could make him ( rightfully so ) the first male to win three best actor Oscar . While I know the Academy Awards in the long run might not account for that much ( ie giving best picture in 98 to Shakespeare in Love over Saving Private Ryan ) , it would solidify him as an icon . Nicholson is Schmidt here , and every scene has him included , which is the most crucial part of this first person tale , as we get it all from his perspective ; this is an unconventional approach by Payne , as that he could've told the story from the daughter's perspective as a woman forced to cope with the loss of her mother and the pressures of marriage , but instead he goes the best route and tells it completely from Warren Schmidt's perspective . Warren is 66 , an Omaha , Nebraska Insurance Salesman retiring at the start of the picture , who can't forsee much of a life ahead , and after the death of his wife , he sees even less - this prompts him to drive his newly purchased winnebago along a few stops to try and figure out what his life has meant before his daughter's marriage . Nicholson is one of those actors who can reveal subtle and not so subtle details about the character right in the eyes , the legendary eyebrows , and face in general , and that alone makes Warren a lonely , sad and searching character , but we also get a greater sense of his inner self as he writes personal letter to a child he is sponsoring in Africa . These scenes when we hear is written narration are the most crucial as they show funnny and sorrowful details that we might not entirely get from Nicholson's complection . This is a strong move from the actor and director / co-writer . Another smart move is making the supporting cast as convincing as the lead , which is comprised mostly of Jeannie ( Hope Davis ) , Warren's daughter , her soon-to-be ( Dermot Mulrooney , in full mullet ) , and his family , which inparticular showcases Kathy Bates as the mother , a true eccentric from the mid-west . We can see , in full humor of course , Warren's added distaste and resentment , and this adds another level to Nicholson's performance . About Schmidt brings Mr . Shark-grin his 4th best performance behind Cuckoo's Nest , Easy Rider , and The Shining , and is a fantastic reminder of the Jack from the early 70's in general , in spirit and self . And when the last scene with the retiree is revealed , it is well earned , because there is never a moment when Nicholson hasn't acted totally honest to the character of Warren , and the goal is achieved . One of the very best films of the year .
was well worth it to seek out ; one of the most powerful Italian dramas of it's time , possibly any	It could be something of a challenge to be fair to L'Amore as a whole if one of its two shorts , one titled ' The Human Voice ' ( script by Jean Cocteau ) and the other titled ' The Miracle ' ( original script by Federico Fellini ) , sold short of the other . But in the end , one only slightly edges out over the other , and not by much , which is really saying something in this case . Italian neo-realist icon Roberto Rossellini changed gears , to a point , after bringing forth his ' post-war ' trilogy of films ( Roma Citta Aperta , Paisa , Germany Year Zero ) that would catapult him into worldwide recognition . This is essentially a small film , in a way smaller and even more ( considering his previous trio , amazingly ) simplistic in storytelling terms and scope . Instead of war's anguish coming on as the main dread of the existences of the characters , here there are only two key characters for the two stories respectively , and played by the same actress no less . This could be a gamble for Rossellini , putting so much faith in an actress to pull off two quite different roles ( well , maybe not TOO different , there are some underlying qualities to both ) . Anna Magnani , however , was worth the gamble for him . This is proved right off the bat with ' Voice ' , where Magnani , for 75 percent of the film's running time , is in either medium-close up or close-up by Rossellini's elegant , probing ( without seemingly to try ) lens , as Magnani's character has a long , painful , and ultimately confessional conversation with her love who has left her . This is off the bat something that most can identify with ; we know what it's like sometimes to be in a room and over-hear an outpouring of emotions through the walls ( or sometimes ourselves talking in these conversations ) , practically wanting not to listen at all . But Cocteau understands that a conversation like this can be made into a kind of extraordinary poetry of sorts , by stripping away at the seams of the human soul ( err , voice in this case ) , and aided by the right person to pull it off . Magnani , therefore , works because she conveys so much in her expressions , her eyes and of course voice , all without having to go into soap opera hysterics . Even towards the end of the film , where some of the momentum is lost , Magnani is like some force that you can't look away from . This notion that Anna Magnani is in this overall project almost like her own vehicle , as Scorsese has said in his film My Voyage to Italy ( which inspired me to seek this out to start with ) , it's un-thinkable to see anyone else play either of the two roles . This is especially so in ' The Miracle ' , different from anything else Rossellini had done up till that time ( I could be wrong , I haven't seen anything he made pre Roma Citta Aperta ) in that it takes place in a time unknown . It could be present day , or hundreds of years ago . It's a fable , with its story origins in a budding cartoonist , Fellini , who also appears here in his one and only acting role as a kind of Vagabond ( and quite a suave looking one , ho-ho ) . Magnani plays the peasant woman , perhaps not altogether in her head , and believes as he passes by she has seen St . Joseph . She stops him , she praises and rambles , he offers her wine , and she passes out . Cut to another time in the future , and she discovers she's pregnant . Never had sex ? Hmm . . . The Miracle , a film that got in a heap of controversy , and in the process changed a vital point of how films were allowed to be shown in American cinemas from the 50's onward ( a little historical fact few know of today ) , is to me perhaps one of the most powerful ' fables ' I've ever seen , at least from people like Rossellini and Fellini ( the later made a great career out of fashioning them out of almost nothing ) . It is also a very telling story about religion and faith , and to my way of thinking still holds a relevance just as meaningful today as back in the later 40's and early 50's . The peasant woman turned homeless that Magnani plays so beautifully ( for such a simple character there is enough nuance for two performances ) holds onto faith because , frankly , it's all that she has . She gets berated by all the townsfolk - particularly the religious folk for having a child out of wedlock and under such strange circumstances - yet nothing gets in the way of her own determination of what she thinks is true . Even if you don't have a belief in Catholicism or even just religion , the film has an impact because of elemental questions Rossellini is trying to raise . I can't say what they are here , as they will bring different answers for the individual viewer . But the fact that Fellini and Rossellini are stirring up such thoughts among such touching and near-perfect acting and stylizing ( there's even a slight touch of humor in the early scenes with Fellini ) and not forcing them on the viewer , not to sound catchy about it , is a miracle in and of itself , and one of the director's best films taking into account the two as L'Amore . . . Be advised though - as of now this film is EXTREMELY hard to find , and only after many months and more money than I'd care to say I discovered a copy on video , so only if you feel a strong urge to see the film ( likely , as with myself , from having seen the clips from My Voyage to Italy ) would I recommend it . But if you do , it could serve a very rewarding experience .
the ultimate screwball / Frank Capra comedy , done over like no other by the Coen brothers	For a while I didn't really feel a need to check out the Hudsucker Proxy , probably for a childish reason ( the name sounded like a pharmaceutical company ) , especially strange since many of the films by Joel and Ethan Coen are some of the greatest made in the past 25 years of American cinema . But somehow , like the hoola-hoop , as shown in this film , it came around to me and I have to profess how amazing it all works so completely as a hysterical and hyperactive stylized comedy and as an example of homage going through a blender to come out with a fresh vigor . Its interesting this was in competition at the 1994 Cannes festival against Pulp Fiction , as the two of them carry a similarity ( albeit the film that did win did deserve it ) in the total lack of abandon for adhering to normal conventional storytelling , but at the same time staying rigidly controlled in how to USE conventions to a delirious advantage of making it more outrageous and infused with the best brio possible from the actors . For the Coen brothers , it's taking a big leap from the 44th floor - or is that 45th , with or without balcony - and it one's ready to go for the ride it's a lot of fun while having a small but effective point made about people at work . The premise is pure Hollywood farce : an average dim-witted schmo named Norville ( Tim Robbins ) becomes the president of Hudsucker industries after unwittingly saving the life of Sidney J Mussburger ( Paul Newman ) , and even has a good idea for a big product " for , you know , the kids " , which is a hoola-hoop . But it sounds fishy to news reporter Amy Archer ( Jennifer Jason Leigh ) , who goes undercover in a not-too-hard way into his office ( You're a Muncie girl ? ! ) . In the typical Capra fashion - matter of fact very much a mix and match of It's a Wonderful Life and Meet John Doe ( right down to the attempted suicide by jumping off a building ledge ) - we're given the naive innocence of American optimism , and then the layers shown clear as day of the cynicism , and more crucially the ugliest side of capitalism , undermining the more optimistic aspects possible . But there's always the goofy wink and the very fast and wacky nod of little things going on in a scene adding up to a lot ( don't drink that so fast while getting your ear chewed off by Archer , Norville ! ) . And then there's the direction and cinematography and production design and music and so on and so forth , given the jolt of eight cups of coffee and a rigorous reworking of how to go through montage ( through photos as well as in progressing the narrative , like Norville's transformation into an uncomfortable egotistical president from humble schmuck ) . If it weren't so spot-on in its efforts to make pure absurdity at about a five-second rate , then the style would probably become way ahead of the substance quick . There's just so much going on with the ' vision ' - ironic considering their hero's simple genius in creating practical things - that the filmmakers are about as ambitious , if not more so , than they were later on with O'Brother , Where Art Thou , and going a step further than Raising Arizona in how every character , to a minor degree or keyed to 11 , is zany or self-conscious in some respect or another . But they pull it off not simply because all of the departments are rich in pulling all of this together , it's also the cast too . It surprises all the time to see Tim Robbins when he's given a wonderful character to tackle , but it's even more amazing to see how not only is it such a 180 turn from his other well-known role from 94 ( the Shawshank Redemption ) , but that ( very ) arguably it might even be better and at least matching the range that the Coens go for in their work . He's perfectly clueless and " imbecilic " in the early scenes as a foil , and then as he goes through his transformation he embodies a Capra hero and , as dumb as he continues to be ( can one feel bad for an obnoxious elevator operator ? ) , one can't help but root for the fool to win and stay alive . Meanwhile , Paul Newman plays such a dastardly one-to-two note heel that it's just dazzling to see him play it with just a touch of irony to the old villains of old movies and to still make it his own . And Leigh , adopting the Russell speed from His Girl Friday , is also amusing when she gets the chance ( watch her reactions to the reincarnation dialog with Norville during the party ) , and holds her own against Robbins . And per usual , the Coens flood their film with recognizable faces : Charles Durning ( his re-appearance in the climax is a laugh riot , fake halo and all ) , Steve Buscemi ( beatnik ) , Bruce Campbell ( newspaper stooge , oddly enough not the funniest side character even with the doodle he draws ) , John Mahoney ( typical newspaper publisher , matching Leigh's vocal speed ) , and even Peter Gallagher as a pop singer ! Filled with enough little visual gags for two movies , the various jokes ranging from nuanced to just plain bad puns , and many of the most obvious in-jokes to old movies told with ( semi ) straight faces I've ever seen , it's a wondrous work of parody ; even if the film won't really strike the viewer too hard , it's hard to deny the love for the films the Coens are lightly yet swiftly skewering . The Hudsucker Proxy was not worth waiting so long , quite the opposite , it pains me to think how long I wanted to see this for such an unreasonable reason . Then again , there's always second chances .
one of the few true must-sees for fans of B-movies , Kung-fu and Grindhouse flicks	It's almost inane for me to give a film such as Riki-Oh : The Story of Ricky a rating of , but why carp ? This kind of film reminded me , in a sense , of what Mel Brooks once said regarding his films " I rise below vulgarity " . Mark my words , folks , you'll rank this as one of the five most ( pointlessly ) violent films ever made . That it is also one of the funniest kinds of flicks to see with a bunch of friends either laughing out loud or grinning at how over the top it gets adds to the appeal . In a way you have to look at this as being an homage of those anime series like Fist of the North Star ( indeed , this is one of many , many films made from Magma comics ) . Because as its protagonist IS like one of the kinds of characters of that film I mentioned , where there were completely unexplained though somehow permissible scenes of graphic decapitations , holes punched randomly through people's heads and body parts , shredding ( i . e . LOTS of gore ) , you got to let things slide IF interested . And wouldn't you know it , it's also a political statement as well ! Boy have those Capitalists done a lot in the ten years time between the film's release ( 1991 ) and when and where the story takes place in the movie ( 2001 , under complete prison rule ) . It's brutal and sadistic , and only the ultra-powerful and practically immortal Riki-Oh can save the prisoners from the Warden and his torturous , barbaric ways . Basically , you watch a film like this - as with Brooks - to see how far it might just go . It's really go-for-broke as far as the action goes , or maybe ( from their point of view ) the sky's the limit as far as cheap , amazingly outrageous sequences go . There is also one of the funniest mid-sections of a film you may ever see , if you're a fan of the genre ; as Riki-Oh has to face his first real challenge in the prison , saving a man chained to a cross , and almost entangled in his enemy's intestines ! In short , this is really nothing more - and it certainly doesn't pretend to be anything more - than a true cult-classic where everything is taken so seriously , and the effects are so unbelievable while still being completely obvious , so that it's sure for a good time . Just know what you're getting into it ( they used to play a clip of one of the goons heads getting smashed years ago on the Daily Show ) .
quickie that acts as a sweet prelude to Lunacy's interludes	This is merely one minute long and it's climax is just what it sounds like : two pieces of bloody-as-hell slices of red-meat getting it on and humping with strings attached . It's dirty and lightly crazy , but it all works because you actually forget most of the time Svankmajer is working with the strings . There's even a bit of tragedy at the end ; by the time we've spent this , er , one minute with these charming and delectable pieces of part-cow their ultimate demise on the frying pan is kind of sad . What is also great about the film is that one can see it as the prelude to what would be one of the director's crowning achievements - the dancing meat preludes in his film Lunacy . Check it out if you can get the Jan Svankmajer DVD collection of shorts ! It's one minute that is so meaty it's , well , juicy , and stringy .
still the most experimental film Herzog ever made ; pretentious nonsense or close to slowly riveting poetry , you be the judge	It would be something to try and tell someone what Fata Morgana is very simply about . Or , maybe it isn't : Herzog goes to the Sahara desert and nearby villages to film assorted landscapes and the locals . But this is just the broadest stroke . It's a feat that you either surrender yourself to , or you don't . He gets into the form of the world around him entirely , without a story , bound only to certain aspects of written poetry , as his camera ( shooting on supposedly discarded film stock ) wanders like in a pure travelogue . One might even jump to that easy conclusion , as he puts up these immense landscapes , then moving to more rough civilized culture ( though not the actual ' normal ' culture itself ) , and to a point levels too abstract to be able to convey properly here . Sometimes it takes a while to get along , close to a purity through the " creation " section , but a purity in how parts are manipulated either by nature or by broken-down machines . Soon the narration , readings from the Popol Vuh ( who , by the way , does the music for most of his films ) , with the gradual procession of actually highly stylized shots adds a whole different level to it . It's a hybrid film , and it's not easy , but the rewards are what best comes closest to Herzog's idea of " ecstatic truth " , images he's been out for his whole career . One wonders if the images end up , by the time the second section , Paradise , leading along the words spoken , or if it's the other way around . You're eyes are moving along with the stills and pans , and the wording is close to being religious writing , but there's also the music choices , how the bizarrely spare singing and low-key classical music goes together with Leonard Cohen and Blind Faith . I think each side ends up complimenting the other , and it's something that still seems like it shouldn't work . Perhaps that's the draw to it , the chances taken in going through desolate wastelands and the smallest run sections of any kind of civilized life ( in this case the shacks of the desert ) , that make it so fascinating . If only for the cinematographic sense it's a marvel , too indescribable for the casual photography fan because of molds of technique , and some of the strangest images of any Herzog film . There's pans , there's long-shots , there's hand-held while driving by the towns , there's a bus dozens of miles away that via mirage seems only a couple , there's full-on close-ups of fire and a man holding a reptile and talking about its radar ( truly classic gonzo comedy ) , there's people holding still in fake poses , and a man and woman playing inane music . But , most importantly , it ends up feeling , at least for me , natural for the personal nature of the approach . I'm sure only Herzog would know for certain why he made this film , as opposed to the simple ' how ' ; he was already filming Even Dwarfs Started Small , and he ended up going through many perils to finish it . Yet this is what makes Fata Morgana such an amazing feat - it will appeal to one depending on what someone brings to it in actually watching it . It's definitely unsettling , but there's the temptation to want to see it again very soon after , just to experience all of the ideas and realities turned abstracted strange vibes ( yes , the word ' vibes ' applies here ) . It's one of the truly spectacular " art-films " ever made .
aside from his later crime films , this is Melville at his best , and usual challenging self	Jean Pierre Melville , writer / director of Army of Shadows , has said in interviews that the book of which he based his movie from is considered THE book on the French resistance in the second world war . While I can only speculate as to this film being THE film of its category , as I've yet to see other films on the resistance , it sets quite a high standard for painting a very calculated , perfectly cool ( or cold on your POV ) piece of film-making on the subject . It's basically as if Melville , having lived through the period - this being perhaps an even more personal film than his other crime films - still takes on some of the true knacks of what he does in the rest of his oeuvre . Taking characters who go by codes of loyalty , professional as can be , and in a true underground in society . However this time their opponent being the Germans instead of the police the stakes are raised . Even as a couple of parts in the middle seem to shake with the deliberate pace Melville sets a couple of times , the main core of the story and the characters is remarkable , and honest in a dark , bleak way . Lino Ventura is at his best as Gerbier , a main man in the French resistance movement , who gets more involved in the proceedings following a brief prison-camp stint ( the escape from which is one of the most daring in any film ) . The film is fairly episodic , however encompassing a group of the resistance people , including Mathilde ( Simon Signet , very good as always ) , Le Masque ( Claude Mann ) , and Jean-Francois ( Jean-Pierre Cassel , at a peak as well in his own way ) . Some of their operations are simple , like retrieving weapons or finding more support through certain channels . Though here and there some payback is in due to the traitors . This becomes a higher issue as the film rolls into its final act , as alliances come into question , and the real ties of humanity together are tested in the midst of the German occupation . As usual with Melville all of this is told , in its own way , fairly simply - almost clinically - by Melville's camera . There are some zooms here and there , some very intense camera positions ( though not awkwardly ) , and exciting when need be . At the same time , there are some scenes like a short scene on a beach ( all blue ) or a few others at night or in different lighting modes that are the best Melville's done in the midst of a color scheme used perfectly to correspond with the mood ; it works just as well if not better than how he uses it for his crime films . But one of the pleasures of seeing a film like this by a real kind of maverick of European cinema is seeing how much room he gives for his actors . These are not performances that become over-sensational in the slightest . On the contrary , what adds sometimes to the tension in some of the scenes , or the outright tragedy , is how the actors just play as they do professional-wise , sometimes with what's not said meaning more ( and how the Melville gets these quiet moments is fantastic ) . Featuring a superlative musical accompaniment by Eric De Marsan , this is one of the best directed anti-war films ever made .
Bunuel walks a razor line between comedy and tragedy , coming out with few marks as always	Luis Bunuel's final film from an original screenplay ( by him and collaborator Jean-Claude Carriere ) , The Phantom of Liberty , befuddled me so much more than the other Bunuel films I've seen that I had to turn it off after twenty minutes , thinking I'd get back to it at some point . I finally did , and it turns out to be maybe not one of Bunuel's absolute best , but it has many memorable moments in his twilight years as a surrealist master . The strange thing is about this film , and I've come to realize it more after seeing Discreet Charm of the Bourgeoisie again recently ( my favorite feature length film of his ) , is that there is such a line that is walked , like a tightrope walker holding an elephant in one hand and a thumbnail in the other , that one wonders whether this should be taken totally seriously or just with the general hysteria and ( crucially ) absurdism that laces much of Bunuel's work in his post Mexico period . Sometimes , much like with The Exterminating Angel , it's a little frustrating , even once one understands that having no structure to the film is the point . For example , in one of the segments that make up the film's loose structure , a woman is visiting a group of Priests out in a house on the outskirts . Much of this sequence is rather serious , dealing with a young man's lusting for an older woman , the rousings and thoughts of the old priests . . . and then it suddenly , finally , breaks up the tension with an S & M gag ! This is very tricky ground that Bunuel covers in the film , and for the most part he ends up pulling it off . At times I wondered if a film like this would work in other hands . It wouldn't ; there's a sense of pacing that makes the film seem rather serious , but ( as it says on the back of the original video box ) it owes as much to Monty Python as it does to the old-school 20's surrealism that got Bunuel up off his feet and into the cinema scene . Sometimes I laughed cause I felt terribly uncomfortable , other times because there was a real pay-off . But in reality , the Phantom of Liberty is the kind of film where many times you just stare and go ' huh , what ' ? And I mean that as a compliment . By the way , the film also has two other interesting factors to note , one about an " infamous " scene that did leave me laughing hard , and another more of historical note . The scene where the rich people sit around the table , toilets as their seats , pants down , doing their business , is true absurdism at a peak of intelligence . The other note is that if you wonder if this structure has ever been repeated or expounded upon , Richard Linklater's first film Slacker comes closest , though with a much different tone and style of comedy . Here , we get the upper class , religion , old-time armed forces ( gotta love that statue slap the guard in the 19th century segment ) , and the struggle between keeping with dreams or reality , or both . This is the kind of film that almost puts me off with its irreverence , but I'd be lying if I said I wasn't stunned and amazed by the audaciousness as well .
Field proves himself to be a veritable force of importance in the drama genre	Maybe I'm a sucker for this kind of arena of drama , dealing with adulteries and infidelities , or at least when then they're done with a level of believability that doesn't cross into soap operas . But going into Little Children , that's really all I expected to see . I got that , but I also got more than I would've hoped for : Little Children is one of the best examples in American movies of the dysfunctional suburban complacency and need for escapism since American Beauty ( if not , perhaps , the most accomplished in dealing with fractured characters ) . The ' little children ' of the title include a married man , Brad , and a married woman , Sara ( not married to each other of course , played by Patrick Wilson and Kate Winslet ) , an ex-cop turned ' community-action ' watchman ( Noah Emmerich ) , and a sex offender / flasher ( Jackie Earle Haley ) . Their lives become undone by nothing except from themselves , or each other , and never do the characters seem unrealistic or detached via melodrama . Field has a real knack here - and continues it from his breakthrough In the Bedroom - of cutting to the core of suburban discontent in the characters , though this time it's showing through ( major ) flaws and all , these are fully realized human beings who can't be turned away as mere clichés . The ' little children ' of the story aren't the actual offspring of Winslet with her husband ( a sometimes obsessor over wacky internet porno ) , and Wilson with his wife ( Jennifer Connely , whom Brad describes after some prodding by Sara as a " knockout " , even though he says beauty is " overrated " ) . They're the adults - supposedly - who meet at the local playground in the park , where the other women always gather with their kids , a part of life that leaves Sara always in a funk . Only when the " prom king " , as he's dubbed , arrives is there some interest that perks up from the usual doldrums of suburban malaise . On a bet Sara goes over to talk to him , the only one of the women to do so , and when she tells him quietly that they call him the ' prom king ' , she shares a kiss and hug ( the latter unintentionally ) . Soon neither one can stop thinking about the other , they become closer as they meet everyday at the local swimming pool with their kids , and when they escape from a storm into her home one day and he finds a poetry book with his photo in there , the passion erupts completely . Meanwhile as their affair becomes all that really fulfills them everyday , there's a sub-plot involving a ' flasher ' , Ronnie , who in one of the very best scenes of the film in a mix of comedy and chilling tension , comes to the pool ( after already being warned by the community for flashing himself in front of the kids at the playground ) , and when he's recognized as the face on all of those fliers all around town the pool empties out like the beach in Jaws . It would be one thing if this was all that was covered with the character , but his story is developed as well : his attachment to his mother ( Phyllis Sommerville ) , and an ill-fated date with someone nearly socially awkward as him . His fate , as well as his mother , becomes in the target of Larry ( Emmerich ) , who finds it to be his duty to stop this pervert of society , even though he himself has a dark past . As the stories of Sara , Brad , and Ronnie come to a head , one sees the formations of Brad as becoming the " bad boy " and Ronnie wanting to be the " good boy " , one can see what might happen , or rather what should happen , and all the while conventions are perfectly cast aside . So much is risky in dealing with the material in Little Children , and Field takes on the risks with the tact of the smartest dramatists . Even with the difficult choice of a narrator - a third person narrator - seems to not work , at first , and then once the stories unfold it actually works more and more to divulge the smallest details that are actually needed ( lifted right from the novel , certainly , but without them holes would be left open ) . Also fascinating is Field's bravery in two things , not making the characters too sympathetic , but also not making them into simplistic figures caught in the wheels of the script . Ronnie especially is a tricky character to pull off , but Field trusts the audience , and also trusts Haley ( in an outstanding performance ) to convey the complex nature of his sides of meaning well and just being a sexual deviant without compromise ( same with Larry , however on a somewhat different level ) . And the story of infidelity is full of nuance and psychological danger : Brad and Sara practically consider their liaison as a ' game ' , no matter if the signs come up to Connelly's Kathy ( the dinner scene with the two couples , a tremendously acted bit from all involved ) , yet it's all escapism in the guise of fear of the dead-end that are the parts of their lives that are dreary and crushing to their spirits . All the while Wilson and especially Winslet never break from their characters's souls , and for the latter I would imagine that in a perfect Oscar world she could get the award . By the end , even in little bits as a writer myself I might have passed by or lessened , I knew I had seen a real gem of a truly American drama . American , I mean , by it displaying figures that could only come out of that part of American life where mothers / wives and fathers / husbands without direction fold into dissatisfaction of that " something " missing , be it Brad watching the skateboarders or Sara with her unused English degree ( err , Madame Bovary connection ) , and the bittersweet possibilities of escape and something better becomes overwhelming ( and , if you're Ronnie , there almost is no escape , which makes his plight all the more heart-wrenching ) .
A Museum movie , sped at just the right speed for the time , resonating brilliance today	Michelangelo Antonioni's utlimate movie , Blow Up , looks at the life of a swinging photographer , captured in a non-funny un-like Austin Powers manner , as he gets involved in a number of events , including a woman played by Vanessa Redgrave , who adds dimension in the intenseness in slow progression . An essence is captured here as well , generated from these people's lifestyles , that is what Antonioni does more than anything ; this was also seen in his 1960 work L'Avventura except that showed characters in emtpy detail and this shows them in fascinating observation . Masterwork throughout , but not for the impatient at heart , film-buffs should find this a delicacy . Kudos to the director and to photographer Carlo DiPalma .
Altman on the campaign trail - seamlessly scathing humor , peerless observations , a must-see	Robert Altman and Gary Tredeau were a good match , and according to the DVD interview it makes a lot more sense than the simple notion of ' well , Doonsbury is a funny comic , Altman makes some funny movies . ' As the two say and agree upon , it has to do with scenes , the behavior allotted not in a very rigid story structure but in what can be done just in one scene . Although the structure has to fit into half hour time slots , it's as epic in its own area as Altman's own Short Cuts , or even Band of Brothers in creating a world unto itself , as stark and true as possible to being there in person . As it ends up happening with Altman there are scenes that get cut into other scenes , perfectly , without a beat missed . Oh , sometimes a door closes and a door opens sort of cut might happen , which is fine , but as far as editing goes - which Altman says is when he starts to get much more in control as opposed to the loose approach to letting actors improvise ( and with this , aside from the back-room scenes and really specific ones , there's a lot of it even for a production like Altman's ) - it's much stronger than for a regular television show . Which is interesting since it sometimes has that long feeling of an Altman shot here and there , or one that is held for longer than one might expect in a TV show ; one crucial shot being when Jack Tanner ( Michael Murphy ) is shot unawares by a camera looking through a glass coffee table as he gives a passionate monologue to his campaign team after a bad day . Shots like these , or when two characters have a conversation for a stretch of time ( i . e . Tanner and the governor Bruce Babbit talking along the Potomac ) should be self-conscious , but they aren't . And other times the trademark Altmanesque approach to shooting is actually spot-on for a kind of soap opera quality to the proceedings that ends up lending itself to comedy more than the melodramatic moment of revelation . It's a great moment of comedy , for example , not merely in the look between Stringer ( Daniel Kincaid ) and Joanna Buckley ( Wendy Crewson ) as he knows it's Dukakis's campaign manager who's been sleeping around with Tanner , and likewise she knows he knows , but how the shot goes , a quick zoom in on each other's eyes , as if the audience didn't know - which of course we do - and the light touch of theme music in the background . Tanner ' 88 is also great entertainment as far as being able to expect " For Real " reality , to quote an episode , as Tanner encounters real politicians , for the most part not knowing that it's a fictional show ( Pat Robertson , for example ) . We know how this will all end , but the question of the how and when is what strikes up drama and madness in equal measure , as if even in the most predictable means it adds to the appeal ( new campaign supervisors on how to speak more forcefully and with strict attention , then the scandal ( s ) , awkward campaign stops , a not-quite assassination attempt as one of the funniest asides , dissension from reporters ) . And touches of irony help along the way , like how Veronica Cartwright's reporter , who at first is not getting much of the scoop , and how she soon acquires the fired former camerman on Tanner's inner circle ( let go for an uproariously stupid montage video on drug legalization , taken mostly from Tanner's notebook ) who shoots like many a pretentious reality-TV cameraman - and then also reports first on the affair scandal to boot ! I also liked how Kitty Dukakis got figured into the actual storyline , as opposed to just another throwaway political figure . And all the while Murphy is a total pro - robbed of an Emmy severely in fact - and there ends up being more for him to do as an actor , in playing a sympathetic but flawed character who as TJ describes about his running for president is like a " lifestyle choice . " Pamela Reed , Cynthia Nixon and Ilana Levine make up the principle female characters , all with their own pragmatic , optimistic , and just frustrated views on the campaign trail , and they're great to have in the midst of an otherwise predominantly male cast . It's important that they too are right on the ball with Murphy at just saying the right things when diverting from Trudau's script . Suddenly it doesn't feel like we're simply seeing a fictional account of a debate between Tanner , Jesse and Dukakis , but it's more immediate than that . Even more-so than Primary Colors we're given a first-hand look at the process , the ugliness and dirty side , the idiots and mistakes made consistently , the cynicism and irony , and how the media and politics are inseparable and insufferable depending on the beat . And it has the immediacy of news while keeping a hold on the multi-dimensional framework that Altman mastered in his career . Taken as a whole work it is very long , but worth every moment of extra characterization , and ever extra song performance of the theme ( my favorite was the hair metal version at the fundraiser in Los Angeles ) , and it's one of the most insightful , amusing , and superlative works from a quintessential American director .
not your typical serial killer movie ; it's mystery about mystery , and with plot not as paramount as character and mood	David Fincher is back in action after a five year wait that is , at least for me , well worth the gap . Zodiac tests the boundaries of what can really be done in a genre that by now - and ironically by Fincher's own doing with Se7ven being such a huge success - has almost run its course . He reinvigorates it in a very deliberate , powerful manner by making this true story , like JFK , about what it is to investigate , and how investigating something like a murder ( or in this case murders ) has to be unraveled in a way to get one not even enveloped as to the end result but the process . It's epic length , or at least at 156 minutes really feels epic in scope , and it was the right decision not cut too much more out than Fincher did . But with this time given he is able to pay in many a suspenseful scene , and - to make another famous cinematic comparison - like Lang's M really becomes more fascinated by the process of how to make a criminal investigation a purely cinematic endeavor . It's also one of the year's best films . One of the things , for example , that had me impressed was the structure , of how plot itself was meant to be intricate and with all of the points of a case made to be important - hence all of the ' two days later ' or ' twelve hours later ' or ' a year and a half later ' . We're getting the bulletin points , sure , but its a specific choice in how to follow the two sides , those at the San Francisco Chronicle ( with the primary leads being Jake Gyllenhall's Robert Graysmith and Robert Downey Jr's Paul Avery ) and with the police department ( Mark Ruffalo's Detective Toschi ) , and how they interconnect and lead off into making this one big puzzle . It becomes a puzzle to which Graysmith , who ended up writing a book about the murders that never really got a person convicted for the crimes , becomes absorbed to the point of blocking everything else out of his life . This happens actually four years after the last main batch of letters were sent by the zodiac killer to the press , but this too adds to the intrigue and possible futility of Graysmith's personal investigation . He's not a reporter , but it's not about getting the main even exactly caught , but to , as he says , ' look him the guy in the eye ' . It goes without saying that everything evidence-wise in the case , of course , is circumstantial . Aside from being top-notch in the realm of intelligent police procedurals , as well as a story of investigative journalism gone awry , Fincher puts on his a-game visually as well . It might not have the overload of visual tricks and inventive gags that Fight Club had , but within what Fincher needs he makes the picture as strong a directorial feat as he's ever done , maybe even his second best . The control of mis-en-scene is one aspect , and it's appropriate to note the usage of the opening studio logos like the 60s / 70s logos , as it sometimes feels like watching one of those movies , while , of course , commenting on them as well ( i . e . Dirty Harry movie scene ) . And also the little shots that stick in your mind , like the aerial view on top of the Golden Gate bridge , or those shots with the zodiac's handwriting super-imposed montage style over the scenes . His control is ever present , but not making it unbearable either ; it's all about the story here , and character , and he keeps the darkness in close , precise check , and makes it maybe even more effectively " moody " as a noirish thriller than Se7en . Now , as for Graysmith , he's the one that ends up bringing out what is for Zodiac that center of making it about the " journey instead of the destination " as the saying goes . That cliché shouldn't be something to snort at , however , as it's a journey where since we already know what will come at the very end suspense has to come out of situations , and out of the finding , losing , and possibly attainable commodity of information . It's almost one big comment on those results-oriented police pictures , and I often felt more gripped and interested in individual scenes , moments . Two of my favorite are when Ruffalo's detective and Koetas's officer interrogate Leigh , where you think you know conventionally ' this is the killer , this is him ' , but it is not . . . or is it ? Fincher keeps one guessing , as well as in another scene where Graysmith visits the former organ player at the silent theater Rick Marshall , who may or may not be the killer , was the projectionist ( when they go into the basement especially is a classically charged scene ) . And there are other factors that make it sensational as well . It's another turn by Downey Jr where there's subtleties that only he can bring to a character like the flawed Avary . Gyllenhall's also a perfect choice for Graysmith , where naive ambition and interest get conveyed well early on , and then equally believable as the one-track-minded private investigator who pushes buttons but gets results . And the soundtrack is especially a keeper , with " Hurdy Gurdy Man " used to awesome effect for the opening July 4th scene and in the last scene ( it might even send chills down some people's spines ) . It's never too slick but always an inviting trip , and it questions what it is that a serial killer mystery should be while giving it flair and a personal mark of distinction as a work in and of itself . Who is zodiac ? A form of evil , perhaps , and a form of evil that one might just want a glimpse of , if only , as opposed to the whole found and captured result .
excellent , uproarious throwback to 40's Disney shorts , with a touch of Looney Tunes	This is a wonderful homage / recreation of the kinds of shorts kids used to go ape over back in the 1940s . It starts off with the opening titles , which are a direct reference to those shorts of old ( not like the usual PIXAR shorts ) . Then it thrusts into the situation with total glee : a magician is having trouble with his rabbit for a very simple reason - the rabbit wants its carrot NOW , and won't get it . Then a series of totally over the top gags occur , making the usual rabbit-out-of-the-hat trick seem like kid's stuff in comparison . While it's ingenious and clever and all that and a bag of carrots , it's also a good mini-homage to the spirit of Looney Tunes shorts . There isn't too much missing except to replace Bugs in place of the cute white rabbit . Its sweetness is quintessential Disney stuff though , and its a great little addition at the start of WALLE . Don't miss it !
One of the most literate and satisfying of all romantic comedies	Ingmar Bergman's dramatic forays capture what is very essential to great dramas - the key emotions should be expressed like poetry , flowing to a rhythm even if it's somber and tragic . He uses this emotional logic with his actors for this comedy of manners and the heart ( pre-Seventh Seal ) , where he has his screenplay wonderfully unfold the character's amusing feelings on love , sex , and dealing with the opposite gender , all the while making sure his players know the words and the music . Here he has Gunnar Bjornstrand , a regular later on , as a lawyer who has a son and mistress , but also pines for an actress who may not fancy him as much as she used to . Harriet Andersson , also a regular in other Bergman films ( a key one being Cries and Whispers where she played the dying woman ) , appears as a young , joyful woman , who even gives the lawyer's son , a priest , a bit of lust here and there . In fact , Smiles of a Summer Night is Bergman's most joyous film , though that's not to say there can't be grand moments of joy in his dramas and reflections on god . But in this film , he shows how he is a filmmaker quite competent to skillfully accomplish a story of real people in real romantic whimsies , and at times ( such as a quick scene on a bed with two giggling , laughing girls ) reveals his views on humanity are truly not as bleak as some might think . Assuredly a must watch for fans of the director , yet one may want to watch a couple of his dramas if they're just starting out on his films ( depending on the mood - personally , this would serve as a great pick-me-up as opposed to the stark Cries and Whispers ) .
One of the best films of the 90's	Winston Groom's Forrest Gump was a novel that was complicated , but ( Oscar winning ) director Robert Zemeckis brings events together with visual effects that boggle even George Lucas . And leading the film in this odyssey of American life is Tom Hanks playing Gump ( he won his second Oscar for his portrayal ) in a film that shows one man who goes through many events in history to find the one he loves . Well done , well acted , and well directed to pythagorean procision .
Shoot the Dead ! Shooting , and shooting , and shooting away	George Romero's Diary of the Dead should be looked at as much as your typical ' kill - the - brain - to - kill - the - dead ' zombie movie as it is a multi-faceted comment on media itself . In a sense this is Romero's 21st century remake of Night of the Living Dead , only replacing the original EC comic style with a form of a movie within a movie , with a sort of twist . We've seen many a documentary , as of late , chronicling the " big issues " , only this time Romero is mocking those overtly preachy theatrics of MESSAGE written all over montage sequences ( albeit Romero does want to make a comparison between a the destruction of a post-apocalypse with the disaster of Katrina , which isn't too out of place ) . Like Godard , Romero is being self-conscious with his technique and the medium itself , and then reverberating back with what he's got going on . He's making a horror movie as are the film student characters , but not one without pointing the finger at the medium itself and how it makes those around it complicit in capturing devastation . ' Diary ' is as in-your-face as ' Night ' was , with the same lot of desperate characters in the midst of their ultimate test of rationalization ( staying alive when all dead come back to life to kill ) , yet there's just enough more bile , enough scathing barbs at the audience obsessed with digital technology and web videos and so on and so on , to keep things very interesting . But of course if one were just given messages one would get bored . So Romero makes his Diary unreasonably entertaining as well - probably with crazy moments of wit and over-the-top bits of blood and guts and body parts and killings as Dawn - to counter his experimental style . The cast of characters are filming a horror movie of their own , with an undead mummy about to attack a hot young college girl , and then " CUT ! " and , of course , there are actual zombies . But through Romero's technique of making this a trade-off of horror and documentary , he's still able to make a Romero movie as opposed to something like a Redacted ( even if that has more in common with ' Diary ' than the much compared-to Cloverfield ) . As if in a giddy act of a man in his golden years , Romero lets loose on new ways to kill people and reveal guts , and at the same time revisit some of his most potent themes from previous films . There are the typical tough black characters ( this time a kind of small militia of National Guard who've turned quasi-black panther ) , the rough rednecks going torturous with their " target practice " , the token drunk guy in the group of student filmmakers as an echo to ' Day ' , and the juicy bizarre beats that we all love in Romero's work ( i . e . the deaf Amish guy with a chalkboard , a nice lot of dynamite and a scythe ) . To be fair , I was probably more pleased with the end result , as I am one of those " fan-boys " for Romero's work ; and to be also fair , Romero has always been experimenting in his career , from the artsy vampire flick Martin to the spin-off apocalypse flick The Crazies , even an obscure documentary he's done before Diary about OJ Simpson ! To this fan's thinking , what he does in Diary isn't any less than what one would expect from a true auteur in the genre , but the technique may also push some fans away who just want a regular narrative without the gimmicks or the self-conscious attitude ( i . e . the narration , the whole " The Death of Death " documentary conceit ) . But Romero does something even more daring : he points his finger harsh , and at times hilariously , at the form of zombie movies themselves , from the ' mummy ' horror movie made within the movie ( " If your dead you walk slow " , a character says after the " CUT " as the mummy actor gets mad ) . And this tactic helps Romero with his fans on one front - it is , indeed , a " step-up " from ' Land ' , on all fronts of intelligence , execution , and balls-to-the-wall thrills and spills .
One of the most entertaining films about film-making ever made	Steve Buscemi may or may not have been the first choice by writer / director Tom DiCillo for the lead role of Nick , the director behind the three ( err , one ) film ( s ) being made within the film Living in Oblivion , but it works so well it's impossible to see anyone else in the role . Buscemi , who is one of the prime character actors of the past fifteen years , has that range of being grounded , of being out of control , of being funny , and of being sincere even in the strangest circumstances . His character , as the quintessential indie film director of the film , tries to keep some control on what goes on , but as is seen , things don't go quite as planned . Living in Oblivion is one of those little delights for a film buff to see , or perhaps of a particular film buff . On a personal level I connect with some of this as I was a production assistant on indie films that were not far off from this . DiCillo , whether or not you've been in situations like this ( which most of us haven't ) brilliantly captures the coldness on a set , the uncomfortableness , the technical difficulties , and just the plain old emotional toll that goes on with the film-making process ( notably , when it's under a million dollars being made ) . That it's a comedy of errors helps a lot , and that you never really know which way the story will turn at times . The film is split up in three acts , the first ( for me ) being the strongest and most affecting , as Nick tries to direct Catherine Keener's Nicole Springer in a heartfelt talk with her mother . Multiple takes bring on more woes , until Nick finally snaps ( one of the funniest scenes perhaps in any film from the 90's ) . The other two segments come closer to being as great , one being a slick scene involving a buff man and Nicole , and the other being a very strange dream that has some kinks to work out . I've seen this film now several times , and the first time my enjoyment was more in the surface comedy of it all , and of course the performances . But with each passing view I get more and more what film-making , and what makes ' indie films ' or just films in general , so appealing - there's drama , but there has to be some humor to get in the seams ; there's romance , but not always in the ways you'd expect ; when it's realer , more power to it . The ending also , while maybe the weaker part of the film , is still charming , and gives an idea as to what pleasures can come from such chaos on the set . I love it .
one of the most personal pieces of Holocaust documentary film-making	What can I say that hasn't been said by others who have come across this essential document of the survivors of the holocaust ? It goes beyond any kind of rating ; watching the people on screen tell their stories , and re-connect with their haunted roots , is about as captivating as it can get , genuinely so , enough to not want to look away . The stories from the five survivors is just enough to make it a crucial piece of history , of something that will survive past their years as their own talked-of memories of what they saw , the people they saw murdered including their families , of being stripped of humanity and more deeply for their souls . The actual footage of almost ten years ago of inside camps of Auschwitz and Bergen-Belsen is equally powerful to see . But it's another that other interviews are included with the likes of an ex-Auschwitz Nazi doctor who didn't go along with his other sadistic colleagues ; the American soldiers who were appalled to discover what they thought contained German prisoners of war to be thousands of Jews ; the one US Congressman ( at the time ) to survive the holocaust . The history of this period of the early to mid 40's has become abstracted in the view of society , something so enormous it's even more staggering that similar practices go on in other countries today . The notes of what Hitler did is given notice in the film , but the facts are more as a back-drop for what the Last Days focus is . By director James Moll going in for these women's stories , of what they lost and tried to regain , is just as important to see in its own light as Schindler's List as a dramatization of the facts . It's not too much a wonder it got the best documentary prize at the Oscars . Executive produced by Steven Spielberg ( speaking of ' Schindler ' ) and the Shoa foundation .
a big , classy , glossy and enormously entertaining " A-List " Hitchcock movie	To Catch a Thief is , as some others have noted , a kind of antithesis to Alfred Hitchcock's own Psycho . It's not that Hithccock put any more or less work into them ( although I'm sure ' Thief ' had a higher budget ) , but they reveal to sensibilities that aren't remotely similar . I mean this though as a compliment ; Hithcock's film is lavish and lush with colors of those beautiful locations and settings on the French Riviera , and made as a fantastic vehicle for its two stars , Cary Grant and Grace Kelly . It's almost an ode to glamor of the period , and to a outlook on this particular story that's necessary . Another director could have made a decent thriller , maybe a very good one . But Hithccock is after a kind of art here that has " POP " in big capital letters ( not the Andy Warhol type , something more to his liking ) . It's a lot of fun , too , which is the most important thing , as it allows for the two stars to play off on one another in the style that I'd compare to Bogart and Bacall in The Big Sleep , only here they aren't trumping the convoluted story . Matter of fact , this might be one of the least-probing or psychologically complex of Hitchcock's prime thriller ; it's about Robie , a reformed cat burglar ( also called the Cat ) , who is accused of a string of new jewel heists by a copy-cat ( no pun intended ) in France and goes on the run to clear his name - by spotting over Frances and her mother's plot of jewels . When will the burglar strike again ? To say that it's not very psychologically probing is maybe half correct ; we do get a few rich scenes where Jessie or the French girl Danielle try and figure on what kind of guy Robie really is ( Frances quips coyly , " The Cat has a new kitten " ) . But like in North by Northwest , it's not really about getting too deep into the thick of things , save for the aspect that Robie is reformed after doing his tour of duty in the world war . Hitchcock is more interested in behavior and the finesse and class and , of course , sly humor that his actors play with the material . And mentioning North by Northwest , it's important to note that Grant is tailor made for this kind of part , where he's charming and suave and knows just how to dig in that extra line in the right moment , and of course we ( us males ) want to be him . And Kelly never looked more gorgeous , a fine counterpoint for that great vista that she takes Robie to midway through the picture . This isn't to say that with all this slick , studio film-making that Hitchcock loses his way with suspense . On the contrary there's some great work here on that front , too , from the chase going up the hill , to that one big gasp with a certain murder at night , all the way up to the climactic scenes , it's really some of the Master's best work . Just don't go expecting it to be a SHOCK fest .
One of the best sequels ever made	The Godfather part 2 gets very close to the title for best sequel ever made , but not quite . Even so , I would rank this among the superior films to follow up on another and still be as strong and appealing and dramatically satisfying as the former . The structure of the film is also very important as it jumps back and forth between two stories of Corleone's without any disconnected feelings for the audience . Both could work as perfect single films on their own ; together it's like a double album of the dark side of crime and the perilous nature of rising up in America as an immigrant . It's spectacular in many ways , masterpiece in fact , and has become as important as the first one ( it is the only sequel to win an Oscar for best picture in those terms ) and the acting all around is well-knit ( even the pioneer himself Lee Strasberg is on hand as Roth ) , the score is possibly better in some ways to the first film , and most of the scene work is fantastic . One thing that attracted me to this film is also what I believe is one of the all-time great breakthrough performances in any film , as Robert De Niro as Vito Corleone has all of that confidence as an actor without channeling too much Brando . If there would be one reason to see the film and recommend it it would be because of him , as he gives one of his tour de force career turns in that streak of one after another in the 70s . Pacino is practically as good with enough lines that are realistically grounded but also highly quotable at times ( the " in my home " bit is priceless ) . John Cazale , by the way , is also an element to make the film work as one of two performances that he'll be remembered for twenty years down the line ( the other being Dog Day Afternoon ) . In short , it's just a very well done picture .
one of the great ' cult ' TV shows of the past twenty years	It's a shame this show doesn't get much airplay anymore , but when it was on I tried to watch as regularly as I could . To this day the show affects the way I watch certain movies . And , really , they make it so that it's the ONLY way I can watch some of these movies . I could maybe see myself seeing a bad monster movie or an undercooked message sci-fi tome or something that was made with ( stolen from a grade-schooler's ) lunch money and put shoddily to celluloid , but not too often unless in the company of a lot of friends and a mood to heckle . Instead , this show basically does it for you , and though it seems all improvised bashing and goofing , it is definitely all written out , from scene to scene the observations are by a team of professionals - more or less - and the wit is at best scabrous and at least worth a few chuckles . The method is so ingenious that they've made it actually really enjoyable to see some of the worst drek ever contemplated . Some of these for me in the past have included , but not been limited to , Manos : The Hands of Fate , The Hellcats , The Sinister Urge , a Godzilla movie , a Cuban missile crisis movie ( I forget the name ) , Mixed-up Zombies , and many others I can't remember . The only drag comes in the in-between filler segments , with the sort of dialog that really can only be classified under ' banter ' . But when Joel / Mike , Crow and Tom Servo get their critique on , it's very , very funny more often than not . And now that more and more of them are popping up on DVD , the bad-movie night choices are endless , if ironically daunting at the promise such bad movies made fun of well can bring .
Not just the sharp-as-a-tack dialog , but the key performances and the look of the film are enduring	This is one of those works that is emblematic of what can be done with a director who knows his craft and chooses a style that is both controlled and not controlling , a writer who can let out some wild scenes and incredible exposition and make it practically believable ( maybe more so today ) , and a cast that understand their creative forces at work . After seeing the film I was actually struck just as much , for example , by William Holden's performance as I was by Peter Finch , though the latter usually gets most of the credit ( and rightfully so , in an Oscar-winning turn beating out De Niro in Taxi Driver if one can believe that ) . But then one has to take into account their different levels of skill in their performances , and how they both deliver even more than what is required . Holden , for me , is just as good here as he is in his best work ( Sunset Blvd , The Wild Bunch ) , but in the role of the worn-out , dedicated professional who in his own way has had about as enough bs that can be taken as the main character . Yet Holden also knows his performance needs to be more reserved , and as his story gets more complicated he has to make some subtle choices as perhaps the only really sane person in the film . His work here is accomplished in the style of one sense , while Finch , who plays a character going back and forth between being totally nuts and knowing more than anyone else out there in TV land , takes his role with a heedless abandon . In short , this is one of the more fearless looks at the media ever presented on film , and it's even more relevant today perhaps than when it was first released . It's sad that not only did Lumet and Paddy Chayevsky think that what they were doing ( aside from the ending ) was all true , but that as the decades have passed since Regan's to-do with changing the rules of journalism , it's gotten worse . It was actually kind of shocking to see one or two of the revelations from Finch in some scenes , and the connection made in the 3rd act with Saudi Arabia is one of my favorite parts of the film ( particularly the speech by Ned Beatty in one of the all-time great one-scene roles ) . News , basically , now is like everything else on TV , where you get what you pay for via the advertising , but not as it should really be with the news as it is . Howard Beale , basically , is like one of those ultra-symbollic ( but relatable ) characters in movies , in a demented way like Stewart in Mr . Smith Goes to Washington , where the truth has to be spoken by someone , but who in America will listen ( or , ironically , who won't if it's shelled out right in front of the cameras ) . In other words , this is one of those films that does ask a viewer to think about what is being shown - an ' informed ' public ( which is growing less and less as the media becomes smaller and more controlled via government and regulations ) - while still providing acting that sticks and lines of dialog that are among the best in 70's films . Faye Dunaway is the female counterpart to her older male stars and is just as good , being like a very cold , typical businesswoman who only makes things feel like she does , as if something was lost in youth . Duvall is also good here , if maybe not at his very best , in a role as a TV exec . But there are bit parts that are really good too , like the black female militant member who complains at a meeting about the grosses of showing footage on TV . And in a small way , like the films of Brooks and Monty Python , Lumet understands how to film things very realistically ( though the style appropriately changed from start to finish ) so that the satire within can spring out . Even an over-the-top scene like Beale's first Mad-as-Hell speech works on this level . Overall , this is a really amazing film , with enoughs scathing , dark material mixed with the truth that should and isn't presented to those who rely solely on programming . " Because you're on television , dummy " are the last words Beatty says to Beale in their scene after Beale asks " why me ? " By the end , as the film reaches its ultimate climax , one might wonder if his question is relatable to all TV , not just the news . Why is it what you say to people through this abstract medium important , or not ? The answers , looking at how the news is run now , should be obvious . Maybe Lumet's best outside of his more ' urban ' films ( i . e . Serpico , The Pawnbroker , Dog Day Afternoon ) .
It's good to be the king	That's what Mel Brooks must be saying all the time , especially after this film . This is one of his funniest films that looks at history instead of parodying other films . Great fun , as we look at The Stone Age , The Ten Commandments ( thats probably the funniest part ) , The Roman Empire , The Spanish Inquisition ( that song is hilarious ) and the French Revolution ( not to mention the look at History of the World part 2 featuring Hitler on Ice , A Viking Funeral and Jews in Space ) . Hilarious all around , but only if you like this type of humor .
This is to the Vietnam War as Bowling for Columbine is to Violence in America	Peter Davis ' Hearts and Minds does it's best to try and get both sides of the issue on America's military involvement in Vietnam , and like Bowling for Columbine the film can be accessible to an audience on each side of the coin ( though with this film Davis isn't in front of the camera at all ) . This is perfectly filmed in the end credits sequence in which a march is being held for Vietnam veterans while the protesters line the adjacent streets . What makes the film all the powerful is that there isn't a bias going on to either side - while one scene will show a Vietnamese civilian being interviewed about how the devastation from the bombs have ruined his family and home , another will show prisoner of war George Coker explaining things to American children . In the end what gets Hearts and Minds to the level of great documentary film-making is that all of the footage of old speeches and old military movies , and all the interviews with various political figures and Vietnamese personnel , all add up to delivering an objective stance for the viewer . The facts of which are presented as such : America went into Vietnam , left their mark , and while America had two sides to the issue so did the Vietnamese , and that's what made the whole deal one of the most controversial topics of the 20th century . Overall , this is an intelligent and compassionate look at the effects of War in general .
Cool Comedy	Kevin Smith's Mallrats is quite an amusing picture . Some might go as far to say as it is not as high to standards as his last pictures ( and sadly I slightly agree ) , but that still doesn't matter with Smith at the helm . In fact , he can be better at writer / director / Silent Bob than any other one in America when he tries hard enough . The film circles on 2 slackers at a mall where they hang out ( Jay and Silent Bob also preside with Jedi powers ) who want to get their girlfriends back after they dumped them . Their escapades in one day is similar to Clerks without the black and white , but by no means is it better than Clerks . I wish it was , but it doesn't grab you as much as Clerks did . Still , Mallrats is a cool , hilarious comedy that is great for parties , or sick days .
Carpenter gives us his take on Roe v Wade . . . well , not exactly , but it's a nicely gruesome thriller	John Carpenter doesn't quite reach the comeback high he got last year with Cigarette Burns , the first in his entries in the Masters of Horror series . But it's definitely a showcase for him to display his storytelling panache on a typically grisly and hell-bound tale . He gets to also mix a few elements from past pictures with something that almost borders on being formula for some horror directors following Rosemary's Baby . The story starts out with the kind of weird , religious ambiguity of They Live , as we're thrust into a story that has implications that really are , at least at the start , beyond our thinking . But then we enter in Assault on Precinct 13 mode , as the ' good guys ' ( err , the doctors who just want to keep Angelique , played by Cailtin Wachs ) away from her crazed , God-abiding father Dwayne ( Ron Perelman , always a pleasure to see in a role as un-relenting grim and hard-edged as this ) , which then turns into a gun-blazing blood-bath . And finally , we get the element of the Thing , which , of course , is a ' thing ' that baffles everyone , except for the audience . I'm sure that even if I didn't know the basic premise of Pro-Life , I would've figured it out anyway after the first five , ten minutes . Part of the opening ambiguity is a little random - that Angelique happens to be picked up after running through the woods by doctors working at a women's medical clinic - but from there on it is pretty thrilling work done , and pretty graphic . The make-up and special effects from Gregoy Nicotero's team , per usual , are top-notch , and being on the ' anything-goes-type ' of cable channel doesn't hurt either . If anything it also provides Carpenter - via his writers - to have one of the most cringe-worthy scenes Carpenter's ever done , which is Perelman's own ' abortion ' on a certain doctor as penance for something that happened to one of his kids . Some of this , too , is quite funny , mostly with the demon baby and the circumstances around it ( i . e . when Angelique's water breaks , it ain't exactly water ) , plus the baby itself . Whether it's meant to be funny or not I can't say , but there's no mistaking that underneath some of this terrifying and harsh subject matter , is Carpenter making his own satirical jab at the abortion issue ( and what side he really takes could be anyone's call , though the reverse of the title is what I'm leaning towards ) . Unlike Cigarette Burns though , Pro-Life is not without its liabilities - some major ones in fact . One of those is Cody Carpenter's musical score , which in spots isn't bad but in its repetitive mode ( over half an hour of a rhythmic beat that only stops at a certain point ) , and it detracts at time from the total potential of the true excitement ; his father has proved to be much better at maintaining this kind of score for the material . And the ending , while not a total disaster , is very strange to me , and had me with a look on my face like ' uh , OK ' . I suppose it ends up fitting into a kind of twisted catharsis for Angelique's situation , but even for the amount of disbelief needed it's a big leap to take . But all this aside , I was very glad I got to see one of the masters of modern horror having his fun with the material , and giving some good screen time for such Perelman , who it could be argued gets to steal his scenes however in such a style that works for the demented , voice-guided character .
One of Bergman's best works : tragic / poetic / remarkable	The first part of a ' religious ' trilogy of films released from 1961-1963 , Through the Glass Darkly may be the most accomplished of the three , and has the literary qualities of some of the best authors while still sticking to a character-driven story about mental drought and bewilderment . All four members bring out the heart of Bergman's message , with Andersson playing Karin in true sincerity and passion for the plague of her mind that has brought a cloud over her and her father , husband and younger brother ( a woman with three generations of men ) . Some might digest the speculation on the inter-relationship of god and love with insanity , yet it is undeniably a masterwork by a artist filmmaker .
Are you experienced ? Jodorowsky's ambitious Rorschach motion picture tests human's connection to spirituality , and cinema	How does one start describing writer / director / star / master-of-ceremonies Alejandro Jodorowsky's The Holy Mountain ? Sensational , outrageous , in-your-face , ( the much overused phrase ) one-of-a-kind , hilarious , self-indulgent , dangerous , and enlightening could be some words , and there could be more . But these are just symbolic of what one goes into seeing the movie . And what is it to see a movie , to experience it , Jodorowsky , I think anyway , is essentially asking ? What about faith , or belief that there can be a way to surpass mortality and live forever ? Is there truly any basis to become more than just flesh and bones and organs and love and hate and desire and greed ? Perhaps , in the end , it might just be art itself . The Holy Mountain is one ( bleeping ) crazy art-house picture experience , where the filmmaker asks it's audience to either go on the journey and be open to whatever he's liable to let out of the floodgates of his consciousness , or if to be closed off then to might as well leave . So as it goes , really , with organized religion , which his own character Jodorowsky plays - the Alchemist - could be identifiable as . As I left the theater I kept on thinking about what it is to put total trust and confidence in a " master " , someone who seems to have all the knowledge and experience to take people to higher planes . At the core , is what the Alchemist can do for the nine " planet " representatives any different than what a priest or a rabbi or a monk can promise ? There is a level of intellectual stimulation , aside from the obvious emotional connection to the immense level of surrealism , that keeps one from thinking that this becomes all weird for its own sake . Unlike El Topo , however , Jodorowsky this time is much more in control of his own delirious dreamscapes and , in a sense , the genuine consciousness he creates in his Holy Mountain . He gives us , at the start , something a little much akin to El Topo with piling on Christian symbolism and imagery like its got to get into our heads right away . This part , actually , might be somewhat weaker in comparison with the rest of the film , if only because one wonders where the hell this is all going ; a Jesus-figure , who comes into a village loaded with circus ' freaks ' and gawkers at such ' freaks ' , and is put into plaster-casting to make more Jesus figures , which he demolishes except for one which he carries with him for a little while . There's more than just this , but for the first twenty minutes , which is practically silent and without dialog , we get immensely rich but sort of free-form symbolism , some that is great ( the scene with the frogs in the representation of the Spanish conquistadors is absolutely uproarious ) , and some that isn't , like a strange scene in a church . But soon Jodorowsky moves it along to ' Jesus ' entering the realm of the Alchemist , and going under his tutelage ( and learning how , mayhap , gold can be the end result of literal excrement ) , learns about who the other members to go on the journey to the holy mountain will be . It's here that Jodorowsky digs deep into the nature of the period he was filming in and how fascinating and perverse human beings can be . These other members are all shown in vignettes to be " manufacturers " , for the most part , of weapons , clothing , architecture , political espionage , and as a police force of a sort . More than ever Jodorowsky throws out the outrageousness to eat up , and really it actually never shows ( and maybe it's just me as a jaded 21st century guy ) to be as shocking as one might expect . Yes , it's extremely violent ( watch out for your genitals , by the way , when around these folks ) , extraordinarily sexually charged ( sex machines anyone ? ) , and meant to be in poor taste and so over the top you don't know what is up or down . At first , I thought it couldn't get much better , as far as sheer surrealist entertainment value goes . Yet as the last section develops , as the Alchemist takes his pupils to the mountain to meet their promised fates , there's more depth than I would have expected , even from all that preceded it as already containing cast quantities of rich socio-political-sexual commentary and prodding knife stabs at correctness . Religion itself , as Bunuel did in the past , is questioned very strongly and seriously , however still in the context of Jodorowsky having his own subjective approach . Of course , the director - who happens to be at the top of his game here stylistically , second only to Santa Sangre as perhaps his most accomplished effort - did become a shaman himself to make this movie , so there is a level of legitimate connection to what religion says to provide us . At the same time , Jodorowsky is , all the same , questioning what it means to submit yourself to indoctrination , to " nothingness " as the Alchemist says to his pupils in their trances . It's not just Christianity that needs to be taken with a grain of salt , although that is very significant in the final section ( the ' monster ' over the boat , for example , has a lot that can be read into it , ala sin ) , but that it has to be in the person to understand what immortality REALLY means . The final revelation at the table on the mountain nails it on the head , and suddenly ( or not so suddenly ) things become clearer ; the final lines by the Alchemist ( or rather , Jodorowsky himself ) , make it a very poignant end to what has been a delirious , hilarious trip into consciousness expansion . . . In a word , or a few , what it means to ' experience ' a film itself , and once it ends , you step back into some kind of reality . The Holy Mountain is a true love it or hate it movie . I loved it , even as I still wonder what the hell it is I just saw / felt / heard / experienced , and of course if it should be believed .
where no TV shows have gone before ! ( always wanted a log-line like that )	Star Trek is one of the true zeitgeists of TV history , a show that is about as unlikely to be popular as imaginable , but it caught on to the audience eventually , and today , half a dozen more series ( not counting the animated Star Trek TOS ) , ten or so movies , and a mind-boggling number of Trekkie conventions , have come out of its wake . To be honest , I'm not a usual " Trekkie " - I'd probably turn down an offer to go check out a convention , or pose questions about episode 2 . 5 and what cre # 5 wore on the planet next to blah-blah . But even when the show gets corny - and it gets corny and cheesy and reveling-low-budget often - it attempts to surpasses things that make it melodrama into the realm of smart science fiction . It's rousing action and daring-dos , and it also probes in questioning form here and there the nature of the universe , of man in conquest , dominance , subversion , submission , mind-melds , monsters , Platonians , ships-that-are-she's , evil goatees , and so on and so forth . I know , I sound like I'm not taking the show seriously . But as a piece of pop entertainment it can be as absorbing as anything that was produced in the period or since . Through the cheap sets and the very " plastic " special effects , and even through William Shatner , who can ham-bone at times like it's some kind of manic art-form ( just watch the last episode of the series - before it was canceled - as Kirk's soul is taken over by a jealous ex-lover in hysterics , or the " ship-called-she " episode ) , it has good storytelling , and strong ideas expressed from time to time . One can't admire the episode when McCoy goes nuts and gets transported back to depression era America , and the hand of fate falls down hard on Kirk and Spock . Or the much heralded classic first featuring Ricardo Montebaum , who has just as much sneaky charisma as in the movie ( minus the fake chest ) . Or when Sulu suddenly went all Errol Flynn in a manic state . Or even . . . well , this could go on a while . Suffice to say Roddenberry had it right : get some good writers , make things always punchy with dialog and situations of peril and the most asinine moments become enthralling TV . And , in a strange way , the original series carries a pathos with it , a charming quality with the stories and the characters , as well as some creative uses of mind control and the misuses of power , by the enemy or those on the Enterprise , that might be a little absent in the other series . While the acting quota might have been higher with Picard and the others , Kirk , Spock , and McCoy and all the others allow their stars to fill their shoes proudly , with many scenes that end up surprising those that expect the same shtick every episode ( Nimoy crying , or singing , is enough to give belly laughs for about a week ) . In retrospect , it might be difficult to differentiate how much of the show works as legitimate science fiction theater and how much of it is fun cause of the ' so-bad-it's-good ' quality that has it just a notch above most MST3K movies . But Roddenberry and the Star Trek crew straddle that line wonderfully , allowing moments of guilty pleasure and real delight in a series that worked , in its - ish episode run , consistently . It's the kind of show that you may start watching on TV a few minutes after it starts , and it sucks you in , as if in some Vulcan mind-meld .
what can they really want with the head of Alfredo Garcia ?	At one point Warren Oates's character Bennie asks this , and it may or may not be a rhetorical question at this point in the film . By this time several people are dead , though more on the way , and he's lost the love of his life and any sense of self-worth . Then again , maybe he never had much of it anyway . But the question still stands - what was Alfredo Garcia ( " Al " as his head is called by Bennie as he has him in the passenger seat of his car ) really in the grand scheme of things ? He's bounty for El Jefe , a wealthy Mexican rancher who sees a scandal in his daughter becoming " involved " with the notorious Garcia , and asks not too bluntly to bring his head , period . This leads to Bennie becoming involved , who is basically a drifter barfly who plays piano and has it in him to want a lot of money really bad . Bad enough , as it turns out , to bring along Elita ( Isela Vega ) along for the ride to find the grave he's been buried in after a car accident . But , as it's not too surprising to see in a Sam Peckinpah film , a form of hell breaks loose . . . actually , when it comes down to it , a form of purgatory . The question , as one might gather watching the film , is more directed to the soul than anything ; how much is life worth ? It's incalculable , is Peckinpah's thesis , I think , and it's this aspect of how life can lose its value in an instant that gives his film allegorical lift . It's not just a question of the loss of life that brings some of the most extraordinary parts of ' Alfredo Garcia ' . This was one of Peckinpah's most personal projects - the only one he had final cut on - and here and there I got the sense that it's as much a nihilistic plunge into the blackest despair in murderous revenge as it is a pulp fiction kind of take on film-making itself . Peckinpah , therefore , is appropriately mimicked through Oates ( it's easier to see after watching a documentary on the director , though even without that it's pretty clear this has to be based on someone ) , as a desperado who at first is fine with selling himself out , as it were , but then as his trip goes darker and more violent and without a slice of hope - with the money turning to moot as the casualties pile up - the worth of a job well done , or what a job entails , comes into question . Peckinpah dealt with a lot of s in the movie business , and one could perhaps make parallels to the gun-toting Mexicans on his trail , or even the men who he's supposed to report to with said head , as producers or studio execs . But without all of this in mind , even as it adds a bit of fascination to how Benny's fate unfolds , Bring Me the Head of Alfredo Garcia works on the levels that Peckinpah's work at its best does : it reveals violence and murder as the most unglamorous , frighteningly quick and graphically empty thing known to man . And while Peckinpah isn't quite as successful as in the Wild Bunch of corralling a perfect array of the devastating effects of shoot-em-ups in his brand of subversion , he comes close to that same level of ironic exhilaration with Bennie's path . He even does his best to fit in a depressing love story between Benny and Elita , as they can't leave one another but all the same Elita just can't understand why he needs to get that head . It doesn't help matters that she almost gets raped - in a one-of-a-kind scene involving Kris Kristofferson in a role unlike any other I've seen him in - and is ready to call off their engagement . . . until there's the incident at Garcia's grave . From there on in , love is no longer the issue but - getting back to the ' soul ' theme Peckipah's after , about loss . Lots and lots of loss . And all the while Oates makes this a quintessential turn in his career . An actor in more TV shows than I could even attempt to watch , he took on this role , which doesn't allow much for easy sympathy or sentiment , and makes it completely compelling . Some may take issue with him , as well as with Vega in the role of Elita ( and , in truth , she's not the greatest actress out there ) , not to mention Peckinpah's own warped view of humanity as taken in the film . But it's a fearless turn all the same , and by the end I couldn't see anyone else in the role , for that moment in time anyway , where Oates had a parallel wavelength with Peckinpah as to the vision of the picture . All in all , Bring Me the Head of Alfredo Garcia is about as grim and almost ludicrously hopeless , but it has some of the grittiest moments in American 70s film-making , where being uncompromising just goes with the territory . That it also gets the mind going on what it means to be self-destructive or to lose one's soul , or to just be a filmmaker , is a very good plus .
Back , and to the left . . . . Stone's second best picture behind Born on the Fourth	JFK ( the director's cut version ) is like a history lesson taught by an unconventional , usually thought provoking , and ultimately inspiring professor , transferred brilliantly onto celluloid . In fact this film , which has been put down by various critics ( not film critics mind you ) for it's lack of truth and tendency to go off on conspiracy theories . These critics , and there are plenty of them , entirely miss the point of the picture . This is the ONLY kind of film that a film maker like Stone could make , one that is a challenge to the system , one that questions , and with questions that , after such a hefty lesson , makes a whole lot of sense . JFK is in reality a film ABOUT America , about the feelings that go with a national tragedy , the assumptions , the cover-ups , the fears , control , and head question - why ? Stone makes Jim Garrison , played by Kevin Costner in one of his few superb performances , as a man who starts off believing the Warren Commission following the assassination on the day / 63 . Years later , he begins to get gradually drawn into the idea that a conspiracy could be , and after various interviews and queries , he finds that there may be more , his mind opened to the possibility of truth . He takes Clayton Laverne Shaw , alias Clay Bertrand ( played to a deserved Oscar nominated stance by Tommy Lee Jones ) , to court , that he was in cahoots with not only Lee Harvey Oswald ( Gary Oldman ) , but much , much more . Personally , amongst other small items , I agreed with two main points on JFK - 1 ) there had to have been more than one shooter for the notion of the magic bullet theory , which states that a bullet went back and to the left , not to mention that the footage that shows this , within the film by Abraham Zabruder , is kept out of public view to this day . 2 ) in the exceptional cameo by Donald Sutherland as Mr . X , when he refers to the military industrial complex , and to the fact that in other parts of the world people already were hearing the entire history of Oswald was the killer before people in the United States even knew about the man , also to the black operations , which I definitely don't doubt exist . However , by the end of the 205 minute investigative epic into the " coup de-ta " of our 35th president , even those who may question Garrison's ( as well as Stone's ) views can still see the film as a masterwork of feelings , an atmosphere of a specific time and mood of a country . The photography and editing , both Oscar winning , make the film all the more compelling , spell-binding , and very much unforgettable . Along with Sutherland's near show-stopping bit , other actors make very noteworthy appearances - Kevin Bacon , John Candy , Walter Matthau ( in the plot thickening moment ) , Jack Lemmon , Ed Asner , and especially Joe Pesci , who's eyebrows steal his scenes . Based on books by Garrison and Jim Morrs .
The only good Musical	West Side Story is an exception in few exceptions . I am not a musical fan , but this is a big exception . This film has more than just songs and dances ( which are really well directed by Oscar winners Robert Wise and Jerome Robbins ) , there is a lot of drama and romance , much taken from Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet . It shows 2 communities in New York's West Side that always never get along and rumble , except for 2 people , Tony and Maria who fall in love in a time of hate . This , along with a great musical score and songs by Leonard Bernstein make this a landmark with It's memorable songs and actors . Winner of 10 Academy Awards including Best Picture , Director ( s ) , Supporting Actor and Actress and a special one for Robbins choreography . Well done ( for once )
about the juiciest , bloodiest good / sad musical time you'll have this year	With Sweeney Todd , one of the most notorious ( and acclaimed ) stories to come out of 19th century London England , and later as a much more acclaimed musical from Stephen Soundheim , Tim Burton crafts a masterpiece of the macabre , a work full of harsh , visceral drama , a sinister look to the picture which only once or twice takes an escape to brighter ( more elusive ) pastures , and even pitch-black humor , the kind that isn't fit for the gallows but a slice of a razor to a horrible demise at the meat-grinder . It's also a sad film , a deep sorrow that pulses in nearly every frame that Johnny Depp occupies as Benjamin Barker-turned-Sweeney Todd which pervades the wretched vengeance that he seeks following his inexcusable detachment from his wife and daughter via Judge Turpin ( Alan Rickman ) . Burton here , more than ever I might wager , deals with punishment and evil , as well as what it means to be an anti-hero ( if one could call a " Demon Barber " as such ) , and as well what a real cold-blooded villain is . The latter might be considered , more-so than Mr . T , in the form of Mrs . Lovett , who runs the place below where Mr . Barker used to run his barbershop , featuring the " Worst Meat-Pies in London . " Following a savage , quick death of a character , she comes up with the idea to hide the body , and thus also continue a lucrative profit - take the bodies that Todd slices open whilst getting their shave , and grinding them into meat pies for a whole new cult of a crowd , who end up flocking to for such bloody-good ( some pun intended ) culinary delights . Meantime there's a subplot involving the Judge , Todd's long lost daughter Joanna , and a young man who has fallen in love with her - and her with him - from behind the prison of her betrothed . And there's also a child , Toby ( talented young Ed Sanders ) , who becomes quasi-orphaned and starts to work at the meat-pie establishment . Innocence , of course , is something so fragile it can break in an instant . Almost 80 % of the film , I should mention , is sung by the actors . And while not in a kind of complete and utter show-stopping manner that is more common for Broadway , they take the completely superb songs , devilish , pondering , contemplating , scheming , and full of longing ( there's much more in the lyrics than one would expect ) and make them their own . It's a given the young Joanna and Anthony get the conventional song of young , forbidden love , but aside from that Soundheim breaks open the vein , so to speak , of the melodrama inherent in a horror story like the one here . There's even a bleak streak of humor to the proceedings , be it an extended song that distracts Pirelli ( perfect comic timing by Sascha Baron Cohen as an Italian with a secret ) , or the juxtaposition of Todd's various killings and a touching tune , or just Mrs . Lovett's descriptions of which people to take for the kill . With music and word Soundheim's tale of tragic mayhem is not without a whole lot of entertainment value , more than one not familiar with the stage version would expect . I tapped my fingers whilst blood flowed and dark looks gleamed through the dark color palette . Now , taking into account Burton's knack at surprise ( and precise ) casting choices - Depp exceeds greatly in his first musical role , giving moments of subtly in just the deadened expression on his eyes while his two-dimensional frame consumes him ; Carter has the best role to fill in the main lot of characters , as someone seemingly pleasant in her dirty Dickens way but also far more evil than she'll let on ; Rickman , for ever little word he utters , is savage in having whatever he can by hook or by crook - it should be noted how superlative Burton matches technique with the source material . It's such good directing where , as with Nightmare Before Christmas ( only here arguably more operatic ) , we get wrapped up in what should be an escapist experience of a musical with vast sets and beautifully grungy 19th century costumes and ( typically ) Gothic makeup . It's a twisted time and place of the slums of London , and Burton and his DP supplant that look of despair , where we'll see for an instant ( satirically of course ) a look at paradise on a beach in the future , or a glimpse into the past . But there's also a fully rounded human experience going on too , where it all fits in the context where it's set : realistic it isn't entirely , but everything emotionally feels on-target . One more note of the obvious , if you've already heard from critics : it contains the most graphic bloodshed of any musical I've ever seen , or even in Burton's oeuvre ( and this is from countless beheaded folk in Sleepy Hollow talking ) . It flows as if Alexander de Large from Clockwork Orange were in charge of special neck F / X . And it's certainly not for the kiddies who flocked to Charlie and the Cholocate Factory or Pee Wee . Sweeney Todd is gruesome , but with a purpose : Burton and Soundheim have made a testament to the inescapable wrath of vengeance unyielded , where figures from the past , no matter how close , will get in the path of destruction , and terror is always up behind you , cleaning your face , giving one quick swipe as if by catharsis . I loved it .
if there are films that are " under-rated " , this one wold be near the top of the list	After sitting through The Wrong Man , it puzzles me greatly why this film isn't seen by more , or rated as highly as some of Alfred Hitchcock's masterpieces . True , he does seem to be subverting his style slightly for the story , which is at the core a tragedy of a man falsely accused ( and maybe not with the same tension we'd expect like in Strangers on a Train or Psycho ) . But to me it shows him really with an experimental edge that just seemed to really strike me . This is Hitchcock going for something Kafkaesque ala the Trial , and on that level the film is downright scary at times . Though Henry Fonda's Manny Balestero is told of his charge after being arrested , the whole ' procedural ' nature of the film's story , of how the system can be the damnedest thing , makes it downright gripping . Like with the Master's other films , one can see the suspense at times almost sweating through the frame , and the kind of Cold-War era paranoia that works magnificently ( like when Manny is at the insurance office , where the plot thickens ) , along with the sort of Joseph K . quality to the lead of being presumed guilty more than being presumed innocent . But there is also something very powerful , and challenging , about the casting of the lead . In a sense Hitchcock was one step ahead of Sergio Leone , who would do something similar with Once Upon a Time in the West ( though Leone was going for a lot more twisting the genre screws ) . It's a filmmaker saying , ' look , I'm giving you Henry Fonda , maybe the most , if not one of the most , good-hearted movie stars from the 40's - Grapes of Wrath , My Darling Clementine , The Lady Eve , etc - but I'm putting him in a situation where he's in this strange scenario of not playing himself , or rather being in a society that is brutal and unflinching ' . Fonda was the perfect choice considering the material , and while it is based on a true story and Fonda is terrific at his role , that Hitchcock leaves out certain details of his innocence ( says the trivia on IMDb ) adds a certain level to the subject matter . Maybe he is guilty and we just are too gullible to think it ? How long can all this doomed atmosphere continue ? On an existential level almost Hitchcock delivers a kind of very recognizable world with the terror on a different but just as engaging level as his ' popular ' films . If Fonda is our fatefully unlucky protagonist , Vera Miles is equally compelling as his wife , who can't seem to take what has been going on with her husband . If there is some sense of pitch black satire amid the " true-story " drama of the story , she is the representation of paranoia affecting a seemingly good person . Why this happens exactly to Rose Ballestero , her descent into a kind of closed-off madness , isn't made entirely clear ( again , Kafka ) , and the conclusion to the film brings something that I was hoping would happen , and did , and makes for something far more challenging than if a standard Hollywood director would've tackled the material . Using real locations in NYC , the great many character actors that make up the police and everyday people ( there is some very good casting in the insurance office scene ) , and a musical score that is decidedly vintage Herrmann , Hitchcock uses this sort of documentary realism to heighten his own subjective approach ( all the images of prison bars , the film-noir type lighting and staging , the use of space in the rooms ) . It all works to help the story , which goes against the grain of the 50's era thriller , and it works extremely well . In fact , for my money , I would rank this among my top five or so favorites in Hitchcock's whole oeuvre . It's a bold statement to be sure , but for the particular cinema fan , this brings on entertainment on a truly dramatic scale and , until a certain point I won't mention , is unrelenting .
Hallelujah !	Viridiana may be one of the least surreal films in Luis Bunuel's career , more than likely , but it has perhaps the most acidic satire in any of his 1960s work . It's a film that , actually , might be a good portal into the director's work for those who haven't seen much or any of his work ( though one could always vouch for Discreet Charm or Un Chien Andalou first ) . It's actually got a very straightforward narrative without too many punches pulled in delving into the characters ' psyches . We're given the compassionate , caring , but also very mixed-up Viridiana , played by Silvia Pinal , beautiful and kind , but in her ultra-Catholic character is someone who cannot be tempted in the least . She is , one would suppose , the most conventional character , and we're just supposed to take for granted , in Bunuelian style , that she's just like this way . No bother - this is a masterpiece of ensemble anyway , and an ensemble practically all non-professionals ( it almost seems like Bunuel picked some of them from the same village that provided Las Hurdes ) . It's bitter and depressing in its view of humanity , but it's expertly crafted all the way , and it builds towards a tremendous climax . For a while it seems like something very peculiar is going on with Viridiana and her uncle ( Fernando Rey , in only a supporting role but one of his very best performances ) , when he invites her to stay at his home but won't let here leave due to his infatuation with her . Indeed , we see - in one of the funniest bits early on - that he even tries her shoes on , and attempts to have his way with her when drugged . But Bunuel's film , for the most part , isn't necessarily as hilarious in its satire as in his other classics . Actually , it's really more of a dramatic effort here , which is all the more fascinating to me : Bunuel can pull off making what seems , at least for of the film , to be a sincere look at how a woman makes an attempt to overcome a tragedy in her family ( Rey's character's end ) by taking in vagrants and homeless folk and cripples , while her ' cousin ' takes over the bourgeois duties . On this level , Bunuel , and his screenwriters , have a fantastic control over the mood of scenes , and then spiking with little visual details things that just strike his fancy ( i . e . in the attic with the cat and the rat , or the teats on the cow , or the crown of thorns ) . . . . BUT , then there's a day when Viridiana has to go into town , and those she took in take over the joint , so to speak , and it makes the nighttime party scene in One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest look tame by comparison . This is where finally , as if in a rush of clarity , Bunuel unleashes the fury of his satire , as one sees what the kindness and support that Viridiana tried to do - if not out of the genuine goodness of her heart then as just a way to clear her religiously guilty mind-set over Rey's Uncle - completely , reprehensibly backfires . At this point one sees Bunuel at his naughtiest , most crude , and still as is a given with him , playful ( one of the greatest moments in the filmmaker's career comes when he deliberately sets up the Last Supper for the bums ) . Then , finally , one sees a very cruel and almost dehumanizing catharsis , but maybe it's not really at the same time . There is a powerful message working through much of the picture , where religion , class , attitudes are all tested in the sense of restrictions : how far is too far with temptation and free will ? For Bunuel , it can be anything , which is why the outcome of Viridiana taking in the homeless and destitute becomes her psychological downfall ( see her hair let down towards the end , and her blank , drained face at the card table ) . And yet , all through the symbolism that seems ambiguous ( girl jumping rope ) and very direct ( burning of crown of thorns ) , and with the scathing mix of sordid drama and black-as-a-bull comedy , Bunuel never loses sight of his vision , and Viridiana is a constantly watchable effort with his gracious , intuitive camera , and his sharp ear for the truth in every character's dialog . Frustrating at times , you bet , and its sensibilities on human nature , and the decisions made , make one re-think what it is to be either rich , poor , or in the middle . But it's also one of the director's best films , and a very deserved Golden Palm winner .
Clint's best since Mystic River , and a harrowing performance from its star .	I saw Clint Eastwood recently on the Daily Show , and Jon Stewart brought up a point I have not read in the handful of reviews I had read before going into his latest film , Changeling . Often one sees movies about civil rights , racial or ethnic , but rarely in a well-produced Hollywood picture will the topic of the history of " hysterical " women being " dealt with " come up , of the hardships of those who could be pushed around by the ( given ) crooked types at the LAPD . This isn't just what Changeling is all about , either , which makes it all the more impressive how much Eastwood , via a good writer , can accomplish . This is the kind of tremendous drama that could become daunting for any other director - any one little step one way and it could be straight-to-Lifetime glop - but the director at hand here is such a pro that he's able to put in incredible artistry at nearly every step , even when it looks as though it should be cut and dry film-making . And then there's also the cast . But first , the story , which incredibly is just " a true story " at the start , is about Christine Collins ( Jolie ) who is just a regular single working mother raising her boy in LA who one day comes home and finds her son is not around : missing . The cops barely do a thing until a few months later when another child who happens to be lost is picked up , instructed by the police to say that he's the Collins boy , and that this will all make sense as a happy-ending story . This is , except for Miss Collins , who keeps asking repeatedly a very simple but quickly angered question : where is my son ? This leads into two tangents as a film : the roller-coaster tumble and rise and tumble of a mother fearing life and death for her son - sometimes in a mental hospital where she's been committed by police - and of a child killer who may or may not have killed Walter Collins , along with other missing / abducted children . Each of the tangents are interwoven with tense and particularly dark and harrowing detail , and once put together form an inexorable link that becomes all the more fascinating in the kind of way that most horror movies don't reach . Truth can be stranger than fiction , but in this case it's just uglier , and with only the faintest of hope . Which , in a sense , works to Eastwood's advantage . It'd be hard for me to imagine many other directors grappling with the facts in the case . How much Changeling sticks to the details of corruption and murder in the LAPD ranks back then ( not surprising , of course , given the history of the force in reality and in cinema ) or the Collins saga I can't say , but so much of the picture feels vital and without compromise to suggest that it is more than likely close to real , stark tragedy . Eastwood had that perfectly with Mystic River and somewhat in Million Dollar Baby . He gets it this time again , and applies a style that is one of his most ambitious ( just on the technical side the way he and his DP desaturated the color of present-day 1928 era and of the flashbacks , which come out in some realm between color and b & w , not to mention the lighting , is completely extraordinary for a drama of this magnitude ) . And , once again , Eastwood shows his master's chops as an actor's director . Jolie , who is probably more well-renown as a star than as an actress at this point in her career , reminds the audience what she's got going for her , and in fact almost appears to underrated in any estimation ( Oscar win notwithstanding ) . She's devastating at all the right moments , but tender and vulnerable and subtle without overdoing it , and at the same time conveying the star power that the role does need . It's a near triumph , and in a sense she does better on the Oscar-bait chart than her director might this time . Also noteworthy are Malkovich as the pastor ( one of the few good-guys of the tale ) , and especially Jason Butler Harner in the crucial , role of Gordon Northcott who skims that line just slightly of hamming it up and turns in one of the creepiest killers in recent memory . It may be easy to label a Clint Eastwood picture , at least as of late , is a buzz word of masterpiece or great or classic or whatever . But with Changeling , he's made what is at once a crowd-pleasing tear-jerker and one of those stories of mothers and children and women and dirty cops that stick excellently both ways , and possibly earns rightfully a status like masterpiece because he doesn't ever go soft on the subject , never turning an eye to what lies behind certain conventions or pit-falls in a script of this sort , and will only allow the smallest , most ambiguous note of hope at the end . It's intelligent , brave work .
another good reason to pick up the new F for Fake DVD . . .	Orson Welles fans , this may be the best you'll get in terms of ' lock-box ' finished films from the prolific , perpetually fed over father of maverick-style cinema ( i . e . few films made in Hollywood , with Europe his only safe place for his very independent ways as an actor / writer / director / producer / editor ) . Like an author who's smaller , in-the-vault kinds of works put together by an editor into one compilation , One Man Band , like the documentary It's All True , is a sort of collector's item in and of itself . Along with giving the fullest possible glimpses ( as far as we Welles fans know ) of the films as part of Welles's un-official scrapbook , there are some revelatory insights from his longtime companion Oja Kodar , and clips from a public interview in an auditorium ( a very funny one ) that shines some light on a couple of issues . The director here is the editor , assembling the pieces at times in the essay style of F for Fake ( and this film is now included with it on the brilliantly packaged Criterion DVD ) , though not as frantic in style and purpose . Here we get something very special , in spurts , and even when the interest is a little more low-key than expected ( though fun , the novelty isn't exceptional of Welles reading excerpts from Moby Dick and The Merchant of Venice ) , one can't look away . The best parts include the intact scenes from the Deep , London , the filmed excerpts of Merchant of Venice , the little moments of Welles's odd , hilarious imitations , and the one that still could be completed , the Other Side of the Wind . That last film is maybe the most fascinating film of the lot , as it goes even further with montage and experimental style than F for Fake . It's wild , it's rambling , and I could only get an idea of what was going on , but that's all I could've asked for anyway . The veneer of Welles's personality , as well , is stripped a bit away through Kodar's insights , how he was more of a modest man than the overwhelming , megalomaniac personality people made him out to be . At the end of the day he was , as the film makes clear without a shadow of doubt , one of the true poets of 20th century cinema , and like other controversial artists his major works were practically all censored , while the minor works barely left his traveling-alongside film cans . To see a filmmaker at work , at least in retrospective , can be many things , from dull , to over-indulgent , to really passing all of that and showing a man at work . While there isn't footage of Welles at work on a set like with Ingmar Bergman Makes a Movie or A . K . , the footage here compensates for that . One can see through the little bits of film done , the ones that showed his determination to keep rolling along instead of getting stuck in the past , that it isn't too much of a surprise that he got a little sick of people tipping the hat to Citizen Kane and nothing else he did in his career . His story is one of the tragedies of the artist's world , though it's good to know that he never got too depressed to not quit at the magic and voices . It's a real treat .
one of the great Italian films of the 1970s , a tragic-comic take on living by Wertmuller	Seven Beauties goes for about the first hour seeming to be , for the most part , a wild lot of absurd and / or fully rounded moments of wit from the physical ( moving a large dead body around a room , a broom and pail of things thrown after getting beat to the grown , and most notably stealing food while rambling on in Italian to a German in stunned silence ) , to things based just on the wild mood of Italian characterizations . After all , how can it not be when a man has about seven sisters , give or take a couple , and a house full of kids and estrogen ? But surrounding this absurdity , and the sort of smooth-operating would-be ladies man but stern-family-man Pasqualino ( Giancarlo Giannini ) , is real danger in the country , and after becoming a soldier following a series of very bad circumstances ( murder , a stint in a mental hospital ) , he also gets thrown into a prison-cum-concentration camp , where he thinks that somehow he can pull out something of emotion from the bloated brick-wall of a bh-witch German Commandant ( Shirley Stoler ) . This , however , brings on a downfall that acts as something of a purely existential crux : he'll have to live with it for the rest of his life - or some form of life he's chosen over the firing line . Seven Beauties is loaded with creativity and an original perspective right from the beginning . I loved the opening montage , where Wertmuller puts together images of Nazis and world war 2 bombings put to 70s progressive rock music and Giannini in voice-over doing some strange quasi-singing . Then the story , unfolding in appropriate non-linear form , has Pasqualino trying to avoid a firing line he and his socialist friend escape from ( he doesn't want to escape from it , but Pasqualino does , leading to the ultimate irony in the prison camp ) . Then something tricky : treading the line between making scenes really emotionally compelling in terms of the dramatic conflict - which in true Italian fashion ala Pasqualino's striptease sister , whom he fervently disapproves of - while also adding hysterical comedy on the same level . There's sincerity all the time , but also something of a wink from Pasqualino , at least at first , if only subliminally through his oddly traditional character . Then , as the prison camp scenes go forward , things become ( very ) dark with the set design being extremely stark and decayed with the buildings and blank look to the walls , and the Commandant , who as played by the scarily one-tone Stoller , a Nazi version of Nurse Ratched , minus the veneer of " we're here to help you " and replaced with the cruelest form of human connection - pure indifference and contempt that gives fascism its bad name . It's fascism , by the way , that is laced in the cracks in the story , as we see in a scene between the Socialist and Pasqualino , where he can't get his head around the idea that fascism and Il Duce aren't good providers . Behind the real human choices and lack of compassion in this world of Wertmuller's , there's the social framework that puts all these characters into this wretched existence . Giannini , all the while , is absolutely perfect in the role . First there's just the look on his face , his eyes , where early on he's the ' man ' of the family , in charge and taking names , though mostly in threats . When there's panic to be had , like in an accidental murder , then we start to see cracks in his veneer of more slick attitude . These become more pronounced in the mental hospital , including a great scene of reaction shots as he tries to have his way with a woman tied down to a bed . By the time prison comes , he's been broken down , and his pleading with the Commandant - who shows next to no emotion , whatsoever - seems all the more genuine , not so much as a con , and it's significant by making comedy in a German prison environment so uncomfortable and bleak . The last shot is key , and one where Giannini's performance comes full fold ; this is one where he goes through many emotions , through a very expressive face , ending on a blank . Wertmuller as director is fearless in her attempts to intermingle just little slices of comedy , like Pasqualino's " seven beauties " explanation . Or as he hums and whistles quietly early on at the Commandant , quietly getting her attention . Even over the top bits with the prostitute sister , or with the little flashbacks to his childhood , it's an honest comedy , that can only come out of a confident director in tone and manner with the actors . And when it comes to style , she has one of the key cinematographers of the mid 20th century on her side ( Tonino Delli-Colli ) , but it's sometimes more subtle than a Fellini , with a documentary approach to many scenes , and an editing style that's a little leaning to the conventional side when not intermingling various images and montages , or cutting to trees to transition . But there are many scenes for movie buffs to remember just in visual terms ; the prison is presented in long shots displaying the many souls lost in the deadened atmosphere of total dominance , and specifically the scenes with Pasqualino and the Commandant in her office are lit in a stark green , and later blue , add not so much the characters ' psychological mood but just a sensibility of dread and the coldness of it all . In all , Seven Beauties is a disturbing work of of minor genius , and it's unfortunate that Wertmuller is over-looked nowadays as she's one of those rare filmmakers who can tackle the sad truths of people that are faced when there's real consequences to not really being apart of anything except for oneself and so-called " family pride " . At the same time Wertmuller gets the viewer to laugh at it during the process , be it through choices in music or simply in Giannini , who's got more range than many a Hollywood actor today .
a truly exciting , funny , and inspiring ' sports ' movie about the players of the toughest game in the world	If it weren't for the sincerity of it all - or maybe because of it - King of Kong could be conceived of as a mockumentary . But there's no joking with these guys , which sometimes makes it a lot of fun to watch the competition between Billy Mitchell and Steve Weebie ( right way to say the name ? ) , where sycophants and idiosyncrasies fly on the former's self-spun empire / network and on the latter just your average suburban housewife and kids going somewhat begrudgingly along the ride . It's a saga though not just about them , but about the world of gaming , of the mind-set that pervades everyone from lawyers to ' Roy Awesome ' to little old ladies competing at Qubert , and the nature of competition itself . Not since Rocky - and maybe even better in its exuberance and humility - has one seen a tale of the underdog and the king played out in odds that should seem somewhat silly . But what's so amazing is how first-time director Seth Gordon plunges the viewer into this world , and it's immediately recognizable to anyone over 18 and under , well , 55 to 100 - anyone who's ever gone to play one of the " old-school " arcade games like Donkey Kong or Pacman / Mrs . Pacman or even Pong . We see how the players have to not just go into the games haphazardly by luck ; like football , there's game-plans and strategies , and like that sport there are also some obstacles that are apart of the nature of the design of the sport . There's a whole incredible facet one takes for granted , for example , about the technology of the machines , which despite being eclipsed many times over by new systems can still be tampered with , as is the case with Steve's first machine that reaches the top score , and then discredited because of a chip possibly ( or not ) being replaced or implanted in to give leverage at a non-gamer store . Yet the more slippery side-stepping for players is what's even more intriguing . Characterization can be a tricky thing for the documentary director to deal with , but in King of Kong it becomes something of a controversy left by the wayside as Billy surpasses Steve's score with a game he played recorded on videotape - while Steve set his score by an official Twin Galaxies referee ( Walter Day , to be exact , who's a character in and of himself ) - with more than a few skips right were the score should register . Saying it skims the line of reality and mockumentary comes with the territory - after a while watching Mitchell is like watching someone who's improvising as he goes along , hiding behind his perfectionist guise as a world-class champ and purveyor of fine hot sauces with his fake-buxom wife and lackeys watching every move Steve makes . Aside from it being compelling storytelling as one sees the transformation of Steve from failed baseball pitcher and drummer to a Donkey Kong ( and Donkey Kong Junior ) champ , making all-time high scores while his kids cry about their poor behinds , it's one of the best kinds of sport-genre features in years . Many times one sees this played out , and it's been parodied in the likes of Dodgeball ( " Nobody makes me bleed my own blood " came to mind once or twice looking at Mitchell , and his smart but biased cronies are like classic supporting characters ) , and the clichés and conventions get the better of the narrative . This time there's no pressure to push it into what's expected : we genuinely care what happens in this battle of the joystick , as Steve sheds genuine tears playing his ass off at all accounts of live events whilst Billy sulks away in his living room hearing the updates on his phone . As far as triumph-of-the-human-spirit stories go , King of Kong is hilarious entertainment , sometimes for all the strangest ( Day's would-be musical career ) and silliest reasons ( what's so special about the Guiness book of records , Steve's daughter asks ) , but engrossing as documentaries should get - one of the best of the year in fact .
A very well told coming of age / father and son / gangster picture , the best of its kind since Bronx Tale . . .	. . . although it is very difficult to compare it to the likes of the Godfather , which many critics have talked of following the release of Sam Mendes ' ( Best Picture of 99 American Beauty Mendes ' 2nd effort ) Road to Perdition . However in truth , this film takes place in a universe all its own , giving connection to Al Capone here and there and scenes of mid-west life in depression era America , yet the story with its plot and characters are what matter and Mendes and screenwriter Self know this from first frame to last . Tom Hanks gets another challenge this time ( after a retard , an AIDS patient , an island survivor and a conflicted World War 2 soldier ) , in getting a role of the likes of Michael Sullivan Sr , a expertly trained hit-man for boss John Rooney ( Paul Newman in one of the years best supporting roles ) , since his is a life that is cold and ruthless and sometimes compassionate given the circumstances , and Hanks pulls it off in his compelling fashion and it can be seen even in the more subtle scenes , like with his son Michael Jr . They go on the run when Rooney's son Conner shoots Hanks ' other son and wife , and the story unfolds from there , which includes a juicy , sinister persona sent on Hanks ' tale named Maguire ( Jude Law ) . With photography by Conrad L . Hall that ranks with some of the best so far this decade and performances made to match the edge , this is THE dramatic thriller of the season ; one of the best pictures of the year .
certainly not a sunny story , but it's as darkly exhilarating and ominous as any Shakespeare adaptation can get	To get the obvious out of the way - Roman Polanski directed Macbeth as the first film following the death of his wife , Sharon Tate , and unborn child at the hands of Charles Manson's gang . That factor in the film - not least of which in small details , like the first shot after the opening credits where a man finishing slaying someone looks just like Manson , beard and all - is undeniable , but it shouldn't be counted as the sole influence . Aside from the purging , as far as I can figure , Polanski was doing for himself by going all out in showing the frank and bloody depictions of violence and almost cleansing ( as Lady Macbeth would do in madness ) of blood on hands that could never come off , of the sort of psychological impact of violence and its aftermath , it was a bloody time in the world and in films . As Vietnam continued to go on , the best films of 1971 - and Macbeth could be counted as one of them - were some of the most stylish and explicit in how they attacked systems of government , corruption , and bad-ass anti-heroes or outright villains ( A Clockwork Orange and Dirty Harry come immediately to mind ) . It would practically be dishonest , in a sense , for Polanski not to show how grotesque the acts of murder that , for example , Macbeth's men do on MacDuff's family and servants , or the simple , sadistic carnage of Macbeth's final curtain call in the climax , considering the mood and controversies of the period . Compared to some of the really radical films of the year , however , Macbeth's story is as old and cherished as children's fables . Yes , children , you all remember the story of ambitious young Macbeth , prodded on by the alleged prophecies of three weird witches , who murders the king by his own ( and his wife's ) accord , and soon goes mad as power grips him into overreaching his domain and believing himself to be invincible to all but a fleet of woods . Not really too much happiness in Shakespeare's work , and all the better , as it might be his masterpiece : a saga of the frailties of the human conscience and abstractions of consciousness , where the supernatural substitutes just as well for faith in some religious calling - and a questioning and doubt throughout - and what it does to those around the Mr & Mrs who still can't cope deep down with killing a man in the dead of night . Yet even more incredible is that Polanski , as well as Kurosawa with Throne of Blood , enrich the material with the film adaptations , changing around some scenes , omitting some altogether , and offering brands of surrealism based on preferred styles . While Kurosawa stuck to the Noh method for much of his film , Polanski's Macbeth is an atmospheric milestone as far as concrete production design can go ( never once does it feel like they used a fake castle , or much of a fake set even ) , and all the grays and dark Earth colors , especially when Macbeth goes to the witches a second time , blend into something that matches the psychological conundrum of the king of Scotland and his desperate wife . But seeing Polanski take things further , with touches of the bizarre ( the floating and illusionary dagger , the drops of blood in Lady's hands , and the spectacular scene of Macbeth seeing through the windows , shot in a hazy and pirouetting camera ) , and showing what was only alluded to in strange and exciting ways - the killing scene in the bedroom feels almost like the Psycho shower scene , missed stabs and the messy quality of it all , only from the guilty party's point of view . This , plus the attention to detail in storytelling , the nuanced and gleefully over-the-top dialog provided very close to the original text , and even hand-held camera-work right out of something in Repulsion , makes this a work of daring for Polanski , not simply in the realm of elaborate fights ( though there is that ) or blood-shed ( a lot of that ) or decapitations ( one or two gushing ones ) . Though not to forget as part of the success too , aside from the director's total control of mis-en-scene , are the actors . Jon Finch , who also appeared in Frenzy , is a tightly wound loose cannon , if that makes sense , whose voice-over narration sometimes blends in with talking to himself , and the look in his eyes sometimes tells all , or perhaps not , as case might be . Although Welles and Mifune have their fair share of great Macbeth points in other films , Finch proves himself as on their same level , if only for this one moment in his career . Also very noteworthy ( albeit such a meaty part for any actress ) is Francessa Annis as Lady Macbeth , and Terence Baylor as MacDuff , and Stephan Chase as Malcolm is a very good choice . And as usual Polanski populates his picture with effective faces , strange looks that seem very conventional and at the same time all apart of the visual and mood . I loved seeing the whole room of witches , most naked ( thanks to Hugh Hefner mayhap ) , and it almost seeming as if a bare minimum of make-up was used . Bottom line , if you're looking for a hallmark of the dark literary drama , or a disturbing tale of the madness of power , or just a classic Polanski film , it's all here .
One of the best comedies of the year , quirky and definitely inventive	Wes Anderson's third film The Royal Tenenbaums is the best film from him I've seen ( though I haven't seen Bottle Rocket , it's an improvement over Rushmore for me ) . He and his co-writer / actor Owen Wilson have created a fictional group of characters that are and aren't like people you would usually know , in other words , it's realistic with both comedy and tragedy . Gene Hackman plays Royal Tenenbaum dead-pan as a sneaky , mostly low-down nasty yet also with a bit on conscience side he decides after not seeing his family for a number of years to come back to them with a scheme of having stomach cancer . His family includes his not exactly ex-wife ( Angelica Houston ) who is considering marrying her accountant ( Danny Glover ) , his two sons played by Ben Stiller with accurate bitterness and the other played by Luke Wilson with accurate sorrow and inner-pain , and also his adopted daughter played by Gwyneth Paltrow who is secretly the apple of Wilson's eye . Other stars include Owen Wilson as a western writer who is into a lot of drugs and Bill Murray as Paltrow's empty husband . All of these characters come together ( more or less ) to create an engaging and really amusing dramedy , full of ( possibly too full of ) creative ideas for each character , in particular for Royal which gives Hackman a chance to give one of his best recent performances . This added with some interesting cinematography and writing ( sometimes it's like watching a book on tape ) plus the best soundtrack of the year make this a good watch any time . Soundtrack by the way includes The Ramones , The Clash , Paul Simon , The Rolling Stones , Elliot Smith and a cover of the Beatles .
Tina Fey and Alec Baldwin ( and sometimes Tracy Morgan and Jack McBrayer ) , enough said	This show becomes addictive . Like the Office , the other current flagship comedy show on NBC ( and , very thankfully , playing back to back on Thursday nights ) , it has a curious effect on a first-time viewer : you may not entirely laugh out loud ( although it may depend on what episode ) , but it gets the curiosity going enough to want to watch more . By two or three episodes , it's a hooker , so to speak - 30 Rock is a show that even if you just start watching it at the start of the third season you'll want to see everything else that has been going on before in the previous two ( and , unlike the Office , Tina Fey's creation isn't very plot-continuity heavy save for a couple of details and Will Arnett or Rip Torns ' characters ) . A big part of this are the stars ; it's a good thing Tina Fey stars on top of writing / producing duties , because she is an underrated female comic talent - even as a straight character to comic relief like Kenneth or Tracy Jordan / Morgan she's incredibly sharp and with some nuance . And , of course , Alec Baldwin as her boss Jack : he is probably the biggest draw , and is so consistently hilarious you may need to stop and rewind if you got a DVD or Tivo to check out again some of the things he does with the character - it should be so obvious after a while , but it works , totally , without a beat lost . Add on to this supporting work from ( breakout ) character actor McBrayer as nerdy and soft-spoken Kenneth , Jane Krakowski's joyously egotistical starlet Jenna , and Tracy Morgan who finally pulls out some funny stuff after years of being off-and-on good o SNL , and you got a great show . Not to mention the guest spots from Oprah to Jerry Seinfeld .
Laugh your yambag off	This comedy special shows that even though Dice is not as popular , he is still over here , now . He brings comedy to the stage that hasn't been seen this good in years . He rants his usual stick about women , yambags , dry bananas and dry banana juice . Funny as hell , showing that Dice can still be unbelievable , over here now .
RIP Fernando Ramos da Silva , and anyone else in the film gone	Pixote is directed with barely a shred of sentimentality . And yet I more than imagine Hector Babenco owes some of his film-making chops with this film to Vittorio De Sica's neo-realist style , in particular Shoeshine ( that film , as with Pixote , takes place mostly inside a children's prison ) . And yet while I might still prefer De Sica's film if it came down to deciding between the two it's so close because it is , no pun intended , like choosing between two children . They're both marvelous works of raw drama , and with Pixote Babenco has an extra edge and harrowing quality to deal with in that this isn't filmed in conditions brought on after a world war . This is how it was in Brazil - one would see it with slightly more flair and awe in City of God , perhaps in some of the same locations - and these children were on the streets before and after the film was made . Some aren't alive some 20 + years later , for all anyone knows . The " star " , pre-teen street kid Fernando Ramos da Silva , plays the title character , a youth without a father or really any family who will look out for him , and placed among dozens of other street kids and delinquents in a reformatory for boys . The conditions couldn't be much worse , and are made even more unbearable as two children are killed one after the other by some cause of the guard duty . There's a riot , and an escape , and halfway through the film we find Pixote with a few other youths , including Lilica a practical transvestite not even 18 , and they become pickpockets , drug dealers , whatever to get by . None of this , I should repeat , is shown with a kind of ham-fisted earnestness - certainly you would never in a million years see Ron Howard or Paul Haggis direct this kind of picture - and yet there's an emotional honesty to everything exactly because nothing is trivialized . Nearly every scene is significant to showing how fragile life is for Pixote , and how he could be killed or die some way at any turn , and so without even reaching puberty yet he has to be on the level of those around him who are a little older ( though not by much at all ) and become things that will haunt this person forever . Despite Babenco's usage of a tender and mournful musical score and one or two scenes with people crying a lot , nothing feels forced . As with De Sica , maybe more-so given the consistent conditions of San Paolo and Rio street kids , he's a natural director of children , and coax's out of Ramos da Silva and Jorge Julião and others some really fine work that provides just the right touches of " cinematic " drama ( that is not so real that it becomes documentary , which isn't a bad thing per-say ) and even subtlety in some scenes . Pixote may not be as well known as it's later 21st century Brazilian films that look back on the horrors of Rio , or even neo-realist films , but it should be . Anyone wanting to get a good , hard glimpse at what it was like should seek it out at a library or other and soak in what is the best foreign film of 1981 .
Who has the milkshake ?	Curious that both of the two best films of the year ( the other No Country for Old Men ) - likely two of the most daring and great of American films I've ever encountered - both are measured , classically told stories of the pit of greed that encapsulates in the soulless . In the case of Paul Thomas Anderson's film , he uses a source which , as one might expect if one's read Upton Sinclair , there are as many metaphors to be had as blood . But not poorly laid metaphors at all , or ones that hit you on the head without reason or proper impact . These are the kinds that enrich a work of art , where they can be thought of later as with the themes , while in the midst of things you're just wrapped up in the solar-plexus of the story , and more crucially the storytelling . Daniel Plainview is a prospector at the start of the picture who has an image of himself , one that must never be broken . He digs for silver , then digs for oil , and strikes it rich . But he wants more . He buys up land from an Able Holiday , who's closest related Eli is welcoming , but at a price that the Lord has set ( assumingly ) . Soon there is much oil , lots of it , and a pipeline as well . Eventually , like CF Kane , he's by himself in his big , dark mansion , without a Rosebud to boot . Daniel Plainview is such a great character because he is , as played to complete astonishment and embodiment by Daniel Day Lewis ( reincarnating , ever so slightly , his volcanic performance in Gangs of New York ) , a servant to a God that leaves nothing in its wake . He and Eli , in a more-than-subtle sense , are kindred spirits : they worship their idols , one being money and one being God , but they also have a commonality , which is that what they want is never really enough , and what they want relies on those around them at their blind will . When the two , after years of " ups and downs " as Plainview says , have their final meeting in the bowling alley , it becomes less a revelation than a staggering scene of hell . It's one of the most absurdly dramatic endings in all movies . But there's also a greater metaphor , which is the oil itself ( by the way , Sinclair's novel is titled " Oil ! " with exclamation point ) . Anderson's picture is carefully constructed around a man who for capitalism is his lifeblood , for lack of a better term . The oil keeps flowing , and flowing , as does the money . But it's never really enough . There's an inherent fascination with watching a man , like Kane for example , who can never have enough because of a crucial defect in his humanity . No real friends , no real family ( a re-emerging " brother " is a big sub-plot ) , and a son who , when a tragedy befalls him , can never be apart of his own self-created image . Rarely has a character been portrayed , by the actor as well as the director , in such a way that makes him so hateful , so unsympathetic , but never one we can look away from . It's capitalism unforgiven , if that makes sense . And meanwhile , with his characters of Daniel and Eli locked in to the web of money and religion in the center , Anderson crafts a film loaded with visual beauty . He's a director known for elaborate long-takes and tracking shots , but here it's even more measured , more in tune with a classic epic , as though the Grapes of Wrath were turned on its head . The dialog cuts like a knife , the cinematography has a visionary quality that brings out the spectacle and the personal feeling ( less mood , though there's that there too ) of the compositions . And the music by Greenwood is unlike any ever produced , with strings and wailing chords that pierce right along with the narrative . Altogether , it creates in There Will Be Blood a truly horrific and yet ever so recognizable truth in the American dream . And like No Country for Old Men , none of the characters have a " happy " ending . Not that a bleak ending a great films makes . But if it fits , it should be rode out till its logical conclusion . There Will Be Blood can be called all the big words - masterpiece , classic , essential , must-see , and that it's maker is worthy of comparison now ( more than ever ) to the great filmmakers of old . But it's above anything else a precise drama of conscience , or lack thereof . It's a fine , fine milkshake indeed .
Best film of 1969 ; one of the best movies depicting the Hippie generation	Peter Fonda and Dennis Hopper star as one of best on-screen duos of all time - 2 bikers from L . A . ( Los Angeles ) make a good score and hide the money and pretty much everything they've ever dreamed of inside one of they're gas tanks on their way to Mardi Gras . Along the way they pick up a hippie , 2 girls , a boozed and depressed lawyer ( Jack Nicholson in his real breakthrough role which he really deserved ) who finds things clearer after a little marijuana , 2 more girls ( prostitutes in Mardi Gras ) , etc . Easy Rider is a cool , immensly entertaining and flowing motion picture that often has cruel and unusual power and also often contains very potent scenes of sweeping camera movements and trippy mountain views . Hopper and company have created a real must see picture . Great performances ( Hopper and Nicholson are standouts and Fonda is almost as memorable ) matched with awesome Laszlo Kovacs photography and a ending which will challenge the audience , make this a true American classic ( ironic considering the tagline ) . Note : if it may seem as if the characters are convincing in they're doped up ways in some potent campfire scenes , it was rumored the actors were actually smoking real dope for the scenes . It worked .
" Excuse me while I whip this out . " Dead-pan funny	Blazing Saddles is one of the funniest movies to not only to come from Mel Brooks , but from cinema itself . Film stars Cleavon Little as a regular black laborer , but then a villain ( Heldey Lamarr is perfectly played by Harvey Korman ) wants to move a community out of the town Rockridge . So , he brings Cleavon in to make the people leave ( the people in town are racist including the line : " The sherrif is a nig ! " What'd he say ? " " He said the sherrif's a near ) . Funny story , funny jokes ( the farting sequence is ahead of it's time for 1974 ) and 2 breakthroughs - Madedline Kahn in a Oscar nominated performance as Von Shtupp and shines through . The other is Richard Pryor , who co-writes the script with Brooks and Andrew Bergman . Hilarious , forever .
still a favorite that sticks in my mind	As a kid , in general , the Three Stooges ( four if you count Shemp , who had his great moments in spurts ) were like the wise-old sages of everything that went with good comedy . Sometimes they went for satire ( like their anti-Nazi shorts ' You Nazty Spy ' and ' I'll Never Heil Again ' ) , but for the most part just went for the best , repetitive things about going after one another . But what's also forgotten though is that , when done on repeat viewings ( and this short in particular has been seen by me over 20 times in my lifetime ) , the dialog also rings of a certain wit that seems to go at something even smarter to compliment the physical stuff . It's stupid , of course , but it isn't dumb-stupid ; my parents would often crack up just as much if not more . The Stooges had good writers , and a short like ' I Can Hardly Wait ' is a bit of proof of that . Moe , Larry and Curly basically break into a kitchen to get a late night snack for themselves ( just cooking is hilarious , like with the bit of business with a certain missing ham ) , and during an attempt to eat a ham-bone , Curly gets a collision with his tooth . It then leads to his fellow Stooges having to devise ways to get the tooth out , which leads to a climax the following day at the dentist's office . It's one of the funniest of any Three Stooges climax , as the slapstick is sort of saved for more of the inspired , even intricate lunacy parts leading up to it ( like Curly's reaction to Moe in the dentist's chair ) . I don't know if it's really the ' best ' Stooges short , as it would be difficult to classify one as such . But it is one of the funniest , if only from a point of view of a certain sentimental attachment . It's goofy , but it doesn't pander to either adults or kids . In a way a short like this , among others , can be even better family entertainment than the tripe animated or new-slapstick films released in theaters . On top of this , it isn't even much dated - the idea behind a toothache is omnipresent , even if technology may have by now crept up to the dentist's office . My favorite part , by the way , is the little song Curly sings as he cuts the bread - priceless .
" You don't mind if I kill all of you ? " " What ? Kill me if you can ! " " It'll hurt . "	Akira Kurosawa's Yojimbo is a not too long , not too short action film that uses its action with just the right touches of voracity and excitement , and in the backdrop is also a sense of humor to the process . If I had to recommend a Kurosawa film to someone who's never seen one before ( and might be impatient to sit through the three and a half hour Seven Samurai , or might not get the non-linear structure of Rashomon ) , I'd put this one in their hands to try out . Kurosawa regular Toshiro Mifune is terrific as Sanjuro Kuwabatake , a drifter of a samurai who stumbles upon a town with an assorted cast of characters , with a split between two gangs . One of the gangsters , Unosuke ( Nakadai ) , is the only one in town ; it seems , with a gun . At first Sanjuro plays each side , but when he gets beaten roughly by whom he was " protecting " , he realizes the fun's over , and it's time to fight back . Much has been made about how Sergio Leone took Kurosawa's story and characters ( most in particular being a rogue from out of town ) and made them into his breakthrough Fistful of Dollars - Kurosawa even sued Leone over the story rights . But to those who wonder whether Yojimbo is ' better ' than Fistful or vice versa need to remember one of two things - Kurosawa took the story from Dashiell Hammett's gangster novel Red Harvest , so neither filmmaker is making something really original ; and that since each film is made in a different continent , and with the slightest different sensibilities about its characters . For one thing in Yojimbo guns are scarcer than in Fistful , and there's a treatment Kurosawa has with his actors that sets it apart from the small town western scope of Leone's weapons and actors . So each film ( noticeably ) carries its own kind of visual style while working in a similar plot structure . In other words , it's kind of like comparing apples and oranges picked in the same farm ( if that makes at all sense ) . Overall , Yojimbo on its own is a lean , cool Japanese crime / action film , helmed by a master , and featuring a number of highlights to look forward to on multiple viewings . Some of those include : the scene inside Seibei's brothel ( with the women dancing and singing ) , Masaru Sato's wonderful musical orchestrations , Mifune's curiously low-key and rough performance ( which did and didn't serve as inspiration to Clint ) , and a climax that is up there with one of Kurosawa's finest battles .
an entertaining , funny / sad classic	It's almost hard for me to picture what I will tell about The Blue Angel to those I recommend it to . It's a very special movie , and not necessarily for the only reason that some remember the film mostly for . Of course , Marlene Dietrich , in her debut , is stunningly sexy , in clothing in some scenes ( and the legs of course ) that must've caused some turned eyebrows on its first release . But despite her great charisma , and a certain feminine attitude that was unique for the time , there is really another big factor that makes the Blue Angel work a lot more for me than I thought . Hearing about the film , I got the impression it might be more of a vehicle for Dietrich , the inspiration for what would come in Madeline Kahn's equally memorable turn in Blazing Saddles . What I didn't expect was such a well-rounded , bittersweet kind of story going along , not to mention a sublime , powerful lead performance . It's really the story of Professor Rath , played without a cue missed ( and with some of his own ingenuity ) by Emil Jannings . Here is a teacher with high morals , and little tolerance for his College student's impudence . He finds out from a classmate interrogation that some of the kids are sneaking off to ' the Blue Angel ' , a club with dancers , music , and singing in half-naked costumes . He meets Lola ( Dietrich ) and against all his better judgment , he falls in head over heels , loses his job , and then . . . well , it might be best to leave it there . What then ensues is a sort of collision of an enriching structure from director Josef von Sternberg ( in that the unexpected occurs at times , if only in the little behaviors and bits of business with the characters ) , and Janning's acting . I loved how it sort of went past the barriers that might have stifled other filmmakers at the turn of the start of silent to sound - the musical numbers makes the Blue Angel club seem hypnotic , sensual , and a little crazy . Then the use of the camera , its stillness most times , focusing on the subtleties of the acting , bring forward the remnants of the finely-tuned theatrical acting from the silent era . What Jannings does here is make a character with a total arc , in this sort of downward spiral that soon occurs once he's made his decision in terms of how he feels vs his career . The last twenty minutes or so , when it finally comes back around for the teacher a 180 - from respected teacher to , well , you'll see - is rather shocking , and not as light and amusing as during the first forty minutes or so . But it also shows that Jannings , more often than not , is fearless in his timing and expressions . It's not a completely realistic performance here and there , but it sometimes doesn't need to be . Sternberg sets up such a mood that persists , with little touches ( i . e . shots of the statues moving as the clock chimes , expressionistic angles ) , that give Janning's enough room to do what he does . He helps make the character , who at first seems very expectable and usual ( a cranky teacher ) into someone we care about . Of course , one doesn't discount Dietrich's presence in the film as enough to seek out the film . She doesn't necessarily give a great acting turn , but in terms of just a great screen presence at times , of providing enough airs to make it clear why Janning's character is falling for her like this . That there are good supporting actors all around them is a plus as well . It's one of those rare films you might smile one minute and then get a little sad at the next . It's quite a lovely little movie .
a must for any Priest fan , or maybe just Metal fan in general	This DVD is fantastic as a package of vintage Judas Priest material . Included is a concert that , until recently , was only available in scratchy VHS tapes or bootlegs . The concert , from the 1986 Fuel for Life tour , is a snapshot of the band in their prime ( including a fully-head-of-hair Rob Halford ) , with such classics as Hellion / Electric Eye , Living After Midnight , Hell Bent for Leather , Heading Out to the Highway , among others ( my favorite is a number off of Defenders of Faith , the Sentinel , which is done very well in the concert ) . This might be enough for a DVD , but it's packed with enough extras to make the DVD something of a collector's item in the future . It includes all of the ' vintage ' Priest videos from the 80s , including some I haven't seen in many years ( Johnny B Goode and Hot Rockin ' two of them , the latter being quite funny ) . But this too is also included with rare BBC TV performances of rarer songs , some going back into the mid 70s when Priest were just starting out . For a band that was best seen live and loud , and whose videos were some of the metal staples of the 80s scene , this is a must-have .
not just for sega - one of the classic NES games from my childhood	Though if you try to find it now it will only be as a collectible or as a used item on ebay , Bart vs the Space Mutants was one of those great , if fairly simple , RPG games from those early days of video games - make that before things went past 16 megabytes or whatever it was . The simple task of the game was for Bart to kill as many space mutants as possible , without getting killed off or losing some by way of the X-ray glasses Bart used . It was before the show became as sophisticated as it would some two or three years after the game first appeared , so the humor is a little on the crude side ( maybe more than a little ) . But for kids it's a really cool trip in going through the motions of the game - if sometimes a bit difficult - and as a die-hard fan it's quite a alien-ridden treat .
a cinematic experience that's a near-nexus of existentialism - life , living , dying , death , and can be done while alive - remarkable	Akira Kurosawa knew how to get in touch with human nature through his art . With his visual expressiveness and storytelling , he could pierce through his subjects , even in his big and occasionally comical samurai films , and find the elemental things do work . What he probably learned off of Rashomon probably helped out with Ikiru ( To Live ) , a story of an old man who finds out he will die within a year , as both stories deal with perceptions of the significance of a life spent and a life wasted . Though that was to a different degree in Rashomon , with Ikiru Kurosawa expands into full-on existentialism . The old man Kanji Watanabe ( in a wholly believable and often heart-breaking performance by Takashi Shimura ) knows his life hasn't amounted to much as a ( chief ) clerk for the city . He knows he hasn't had a great kinship with his son . He's accepting his fate with a heavy soul . One of the tenets of existentialism is that there's free-will , and the responsibility to accept what is done with one's life . Kurosawa might've ( as I speculate , I don't entirely know ) caught onto this for his lead , and it works , especially with the little details . Such little details , unforgettable ones , have been expounded upon by other reviewers and critics , such as the drunken , sullen singing of " Life is short , fall in love my maiden " in the bar . A scene like that almost speaks for itself and yet it's also subtle . But one scene that had me was one not too many talk about . It's when Watanabe is in the Deputy Mayor's office , asking for permission so that a park can be built . At first the Mayor ignores him , but then Watanabe begs , but not in a way that manipulates the audience for sympathy with the old man . The mayor must be sensing something in his eyes , desperate and weak , however determined , and it's something that probably most of the audience can identify with as well , even if they don't entirely identify with the character . But aside from the emotional impact Ikiru can have on a viewer , composition-wise ( with the help of Asakazu Nakai , wonderful cinematographer on less than a dozen Kurosawa films ) and editing-wise the film is ahead of its time and another example of Kurosawa's intuitive eye . There are some to-tomy shots sometimes ( which could be called typical via master Ozu or other ) , but everything appears so precise on a first viewing , so descriptive . I think I almost can't go into all of them without a repeat viewing , but there were two that are still fresh in me . The first was right as Watanabe was about to sing in the bar , and there were these bead-strings looming in front of the camera . Perhaps mysterious , but definitely evocative . The other was when Watanabe and one of the other clerks are on a bridge during a dark part of the day . Both characters are in silhouette , and Watanabe gives an indication to the character that he will die soon . But for me , I wasn't even paying a terrible amount of attention to the words . The way the two are lit as they are , with the light in the background and darkness in the foreground , it could maybe give an indication of what Kurosawa's trying to say : we're all not in the light of life , but it doesn't have to be an entire down-ward spiral if the will is good . Whether you're into philosophy ( ies ) or not , Ikiru won't disappoint newcomers to Kurosawa via his action pictures .
HOLY INSERT-JOKE-HERE ! this is one of the corniest , awesome / camp movies ever made !	Try not to put it too much , at all , in line with the other Batman movies , first of all . The difference between Christopher Nolan's Batman films and the 1960's TV show and subsequent spin-off movie is the difference between a hat and a boot - they both fit , but never in the same sections ( unless one likes walking on a hat or wearing a boot ) . Weird comparison ? Try some of the one-liners in this movie , man ! This is filled with so much comedy , both intentional and not so , one has to keep a tally on when things are meant to be crazy and when they just are by design of whatever's going on in the low-budget but high concept stratosphere . This is NOT your darker , Frank Miller / Grant Morrison / Alan Moore Batman work , but rather the by-product of a period where superheroes were just frigging goofy . And , hey , why not camp it up for all it's worth ? My high rating for this movie is and isn't ironic . It's got some of the cheesiest , lamest , most " what - in - Jebuz - were - they - thinking " sets and props ( the shark is something Ed Wood would've cut out ) , dialog exchanges and super-obvious stereotypes ( not the least of which on commies but also the UN room ! ) , and it looks like half of its 30-day shooting schedule was used to play ping-pong when things got boring on the set . It is at its core for Bob Kane's creation what the 1978 Holiday Special was the George Lucas's Star Wars : it's so bad it's truly and utterly awesome for every moment it can squeeze out a frame . Watch it with friends , make wisecracks right alongside the characters , make your own Joker makeup and put it over your mustache , and try and put out of your mind " HOLY ALMOST ! " BUT , at the same time , some of the writing by Lorenzo Semple Jr is , genuinely , clever and well-worded . Amid the stupidity and pandering and things that only kids would think are somewhat OK in the comic-book setting ( and even I when I saw this as a kid knew it was WAY outside of the usual Batman ground ) , one marvels at some of the puns and gags and things that work , tremendously . And to be certain the bomb gag , with Batman running around trying to bypass nuns and ducks and babies is something that is about as close to Monty Python as one could ever hope for the dark knight , and it's pure genius . The film also boasts its all-star cast ( save for Catwoman who was replaced momentarily ) , whom all chew up scenery like it's fillet mignon at the Old Homestead . The camera-person , too , is often in on the weird excitement , and has the kinds of tilted angles and perspectives one would normally see in a Terry Gilliam freak-out . Did I mention the weirdly awkward ending that seems resolved but has the air of uncertainty for no reason ? Batman is a delightful bad-movie masterpiece , a not-totally guilty pleasure that you can't turn away from for a moment but realize is everything you wouldn't want Batman to be if taken at all seriously . For its time and place it came , it saw , and it conquered a good portion of the audience for three seasons and a cheap flick . And I love every second of it .
an exploitation film on the surface , but really about exploitation , and done in a crazy , free-for-all satirical form	Coonskin might be my favorite Ralph Bakshi film . Like the best of his work , it's in-your-face and not ashamed of it for a second , but unlike some of his other work ( even when he's at his finest , which was before and after Coonskin with Heavy Traffic and Wizards ) , it's not much uneven , despite appearances to the contrary . Bakshi's taking on stereotypes and perceptions of race , of course , but moreover he's making what appears to be a freewheeling exploitation film ; blaxploitation almost , though Bakshi doesn't stop just there . If it were just a blaxploitation flick with inventive animation it could be enough for a substantial feature . But Bakshi's aims are higher : throwing up these grotesque and exaggerated images of not just black people but Italians / mafioso , homosexuals , Jews , overall New York-types in the urban quarters of Manhattan in the 70s , he isn't out to make anything realistic . The most normal looking creation in looking drawn " real " is , in fact , a naked woman painted red , white and blue . In mocking these stereotypes and conventions and horrible forms of racism ( i . e . the " tar-rabbit , baby " joke , yes joke , plus black-face ) , we're looking at abstraction to a grand degree . And best of all , Bakshi doesn't take himself too seriously , unlike Spike Lee with a film like Bamboozled , in delivering his message . This is why , for the most part , Coonskin is a hilarious piece of work , where some of the images and things done and sudden twists and , of course , scenes of awkward behavior ( I loved the scene where the three animated characters are being talked at by the real-life white couple in tux and dress as looking " colorful " and the like ) , are just too much not to laugh at . It's not just the imagery , which is in and of itself incredibly " over " - stylized , but that the screenplay is sharp and , this is key for Bakshi this time considering , it's got a fairly cohesive narrative to string along the improvisations and madness . Using at first live-action , then animation , and then an extremely clever matching of the two ( ironically , what Bakshi later went for in commercial form with Cool World is done here to a T with less money and a rougher edge ) , Pappy and Randy are waiting outside a prison wall for a buddy to escape , and Pappy tells of the story of Brother Rabbit , who with Brother Bear and Preacher Fox go to Harlem and become big-time hoodlums , with Rabbit in direct opposition to a Jabba-the-Hut-esquire Godfather character . This is obviously a take off on Song of the South with its intentionally happy-go-lucky plot and animation , here taken apart and shown for how rotten and offensive it really is . Yet Bakshi goes for broke in combining forms ; animated characters stand behind and move along with live-action backgrounds ; when violence and gunshots and fights occurs it's as bloody as it can get for 1975 ; when a dirty cop is at a bar and is drugged and put in black-face and a dress , he trips in a manner of which not even Disney could reach with Dumbo ; a boxing match with Brother Bear and an opponent as the climax is filmed in wild slow-motion ; archive footage comes on from time to time of old movies , some and some from the 20s that are just tasteless . Like Mel Brooks or Kubrick or , more recently , South Park , Bakshi's Coonskin functions as entertainment first and then thought-provocation second . It's also audacious film-making on an independent scale ; everything from the long takes to the montage and the endlessly warped designs for the characters ( however all based on the theme of the piece ) all serve the thought in the script , where its B-movie plot opens up much more for interpretation . To call it racist misses the point ; it's like calling Dr . Strangelove pro-atomic desolation or Confederate States of America pro slavery . And , for me , it's one of the best satires ever made .
Coppola's ' other ' nineteen-seventies classic ; one of Hackman's most complex performances	Francis Form Coppola's The Conversation was his only film from the seventies written and directed by him ( and made through his Zoetrope studios ) , and it is no less than a major credit to his status as a creative , successfully experimental filmmaker of the new-wave of American directors of the 70's . The Conversation is a first-person story of a surveillance man named Harry Caul , played by Gene Hackman , who's well respected by his fellow snoop-peers , but isn't always that good at it . After getting audio on a conversation between a man and woman talking about a murder , or one that could happen , and trying to decipher some muddled words in it , he leaves his door open for the tapes to be stolen , and this sets him into a paranoid state fearing a deja-vu will occur for him ( his work caused some deaths years before ) . What's so fascinating and telling about The Conversation is that its basic storyline and development is that of a thriller , yet the way Coppola uses Hackman's Harry brings to the story themes of guilt , privacy , fear , loneliness , and so forth that go to reel the viewer into the psychology of this character . The ones Harry is listening in on are important to the story , but not so much as Harry's placement on the outskirts of what else is going on in the story . A more conventional film would've gone with The Director character ( in a cameo by Robert Duvall ) , or even with the people Harry Caul listens in on . Instead we get a viewpoint strictly from the sideline , which is often harrowing , especially from his perspective . Two aspects to The Conversation really struck me on my first viewing , outside of Bill Butler's keenly observatory camera-work and the acting from the main and supporting players : the sound in most scenes is rather extraordinary for the times . Whether we're hearing the conversation in its repetitious form ( s ) , listening in on a silence about to break , or even in just a seemingly normal scene , when sounds , either diegetic or non-diegetic , come into play it's like Coppola , and his Academy Award nominated ( should've won ) sound men Walter Murch and Art Rochester , are stretching the boundaries for it , and were arguably expanding its usage before movie-goers ears . The other thing that struck me was how Coppola gets the viewer deeper into Harry's mood with surrealistic images that are all the more frightening since they seem totally real to Harry . The prime example of this would be the hotel room scene - because Harry is a sort of anti-hero , and we can still identify with him slightly on a moral level , the dream-like moments become potent , visionary . And then there's Hackman as Harry Caul - he plays him to the best of the great actor's ability , revealing levels of sorrow , bitterness , humility , and regret all with total conviction that another actor might've not grasped . By the end of the film , the viewer's been brought along on this journey via Harry , and though Coppola was the mastermind behind how it was crafted , it was Hackman to me who brought the whole experience to a sense of realism to a thriller that has illusions to spare . Whether or not the conversation hurt others or brought upon shame on The Director isn't the point , and that's how Coppola must've wanted it - he was inspired by Antonioni's Blowup , which used photographs as a man's obsession instead of sound - the point is Harry's journey through this assignment , and how it begins to whittle him down to a nub . . . One of the best films of 1974 , The Conversation also won the prestigious Palme D'Or at Cannes that year .
most fearless , vulgar , and successful satire of the year	Even before I saw Borat : Cultural Learning of . . . I knew what I was in for . Sacha Baron Cohen's characters on Da Ali G Show is possibly the most consistently funniest character of the lot of his creations . Just the theme music and the opening images of him running after a truck and swimming in a pool are funny . It's not hard for me to figure out why - Cohen gets what it is to lampoon current times - bring out the worst in people without even really trying . This is a tactic that is , of course , Mel Brooks inspired , as he was once quoted as saying of his film the Producers " my film rises below vulgarity . " Once you see Borat you'll see what I mean , and if you've never watched the show don't fret , you may still find it to be a truly funny comedy on its own . What's even more genius is how Cohen even figures in a storyline , however thin , to his movie . It would be one thing if it was just random vignettes spliced together , which could still make a great time . But there's a road-movie quality to the picture , as Borat and his friend Azamat Bagatov , go off to make a documentary about the US-of-A for his homeland of Kazakhstan . He suddenly comes across Baywatch - particularly Pamela Anderson - and finds his ultimate goal , to make her his wife by any means necessary ( which includes , of course , bagging her , literally ) . So this becomes the template for the picture , and which leads to not only great comic scenes , including little ones that strike up a lot of good lines and gags ( i . e . antique shop ; the " gypsey " yard sale ) , but the kind of outrageous sequences that make my sides hurt thinking about them . The rodeo , the bed & breakfast ( that might be my absolute favorite ) , and of course the " running of the Jews " . Of course , complications come along , and sad times , but there could still be hope just yet - perhaps by Jesus ? All of this outrageousness would work a lot less if not for two main factors - 1 ) Cohen has a mind that never stops , and so his Borat is always on the move with a line or a small gag that ends up becoming part of the fold of the rest of the film ( the retard line , heh ) , so the improvisation is at the highest caliber . 2 ) the people that he sets up are not even necessarily set-up all that well ; what you see really is what you get , and not without too much by way of him ' tricking ' these people . There was recently a small blurb in a Newsweek magazine where one of the people complained , after getting fired , that Cohen made him look bad . How can this be though if the person , among many others , don't get that it's a joke for a SECOND ? It's almost a shame that ( possibly ) there will never be another round of Borat material after this . Like Andy Kaufman , soon Cohen's personalities will be known all too well , and will lose their flavor . But in the meantime , we do have this film , which is a kind of near-priceless work of satire by someone who has no shame , or rather has no shame in how far he goes with the material . In other words , even if you don't think you might be much of a fan , give it a chance and see what might spark up . Borat , for all of his little quirks and un-knowable ways around him ( e . g . the result of him going to the bathroom in a mannered Southern home ) , is never really a mean person , and with one exception of a violent outburst ( you'll know it when you see it ) is a kind of bumbling fool of a character too . Still , this doesn't stop Cohen , through Borat , showing what ugly things racism and stereotyping are in America , and in a sense this is kind of like a near-masterpiece compendium of the state of America right now . That we can at least laugh at it is a good sign , and all apart of the kind of Brooksfilm vein Cohen is descending from wonderfully . JINGJAMESH !
" F flies "	According to the description on the DVD I received of Satan's Brew from netflix this was the first actual full-on comedy that Rainer Werner Fassbinder directed . I imagine watching the film that it was something that was building up in him and basically , in a near literal expression in his art , exploded . This film is about as kinetic and sharp-tongued as Marx Brothers , as insane as the best Mel Brooks , and even has some of that completely fing gonzo sensibility that one only finds with other tales-of-writers like Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas which has little to do with actual writing and mostly to do with how far its creative genius will go in excess and other " shenanigans . " I can probably make more comparisons , but it might be unfair to the success Fassbinder pulls off here : it's as inspired as all of those , but it's all him , his natural excesses and big personality coming out in the cracks ( big cracks ) of the story and the character Walter ( Kurt Raab ) . Simply put , this movie is not just funny , it's hysterical . It's so hysterical that you'll laugh at yourself while laughing at what's going on on screen . Fassbinder's tale of a writer who hasn't written in years , spends all of his advance money on whores , has a lunatic brother obsessed with flies and having his way with them , has a wife whom acts more like a mother than anything ( albeit she reminds him it's been 17 days . . . no , 18 days since sex last happened ) , and then at the end of his rope financially and mentally and with a really ( more than relatively ) crazy sycophantic woman following him everywhere he goes turns to pretending he's a homosexual 19th century poet , is like a loaded baked potato . Really loaded ; you'll wonder where something might suddenly pop , until something else interesting happens - Fassbinder will write his characters and direct his actors in moments of seriousness , taking us into moments that do feel real and not just super absurd pieces of German theater . Suffice to say it helps that Fassbinder has the exact right person to play this unlikely ( very unlikely ) anti-hero with Walter : Kurt Raab has a look that is devilish , diabolical , slightly seductive and with the possibility of violence or the unexpected at the drop of a hat . He's also as funny as the material can get him to be , which includes saying random lines like to a leering restaurant patron , " Quiet , you person ! " Sometimes just his demeanor is amusing , and also frightening and highly charged ; he is in a way like the Cartman ala South Park for Fassbinder , as a figure who is pretty twisted , verging on if not just evil ( dont assume anything with that opening murder ! ) , and surrounded by a league of people who he can manipulate or feel crossed by or just not know what to do with ( his " biggest fan " whom he make walk out in the cold in a thin raincoat or stay under a friend's rug ) . Just watching him react to the brilliant actor playing so over the top the fly-fixated brother is classic stuff . Towards the end it becomes grim , and possibly stranger than ever . It's also overall not something you'll want to show your mother ( unless , you know , your mother is a Fassbinder fan or into crazy German cinema ) . But for a certain niche audience it's about as uproarious as any anarchic comedy , and in fact as beautifully directed as anything of the great slapstick or surrealist days . In this case , they go hand in hand ; it's one of the director's very best .
remind me never to go to Pittsburgh !	A possible candidate for the quintessential David Cronenberg movie , this was one of the ones that put him on the map ( one of them , I say , as he had a few 80s movies before the big studio hit the Fly ) , but still speaks like few sci-fi surreal satires can do . It's chilling for some of it , and outright disturbing for most , once or twice you might feel the inclination to laugh at the absurdity of what Cronenberg and his make-up team put together , but it's really a situation where reality becomes crossed with perceptions of reality ( and , cough , hallucinations , cough ) and the real thing . Warhol called it the Clockwork Orange of the 80s , but one could make other comparisons , maybe more prevalent , like Altered States or Philip K Dick or Jodorowsky or Burroughs ( a bit of a connection , in terms of the process of a sort of machine programmed in or through disgusting elements , to Naked Lunch ) or even to today's own torture-porn situation in horror movies . They're all there for the taking to group with . But Cronenberg stands alone with this one : it's an extremely personal film for the director , while also never losing sight of what makes the strongest science-fiction crawl under our collective skins . James Woods , in a role that requires him to go from his typical smarmy self to a man in the grip of a perpetual mind-f , plays Mas Rent , who owns Civic TV - not anything very respectable , just a weirder , dirty cousin of Weird Al's UHwho comes across a transmission on one of his pirated wavelengths for a program called Videodrome . He thinks that all the torture and mayhem in the program is faked , and that it's brilliant in its low-budget form . He wants it , the real Videodrome tape . But what he doesn't know is that it's all for real , and that the makers of the " show " in Pittsburgh are dangerous folk . Soon he gets embroiled into the fold , starts seeing himself hitting women , reaching into his stomach to scratch with a gun , ' plays ' videos with his innards , and becomes a killing machine . At first this seems too much , but Cronenberg is a master at making this a multi layered examination : there's the media element , as Cronenberg was a student of Marshall MacLoughan ; there's the fetishism , and how that can become manifested through contact with the skin and , of course , the flesh ( it starts with just a cigarette burn on a breast ) ; and of course the surrealism , where like somewhere between Kafka and Lynch there is no discernible line after a while between what is not really seen and experienced and what is actually going on . All bets are off . If it's daring by itself in examining the nature of all of these things ( and I don't even imagine , I know , that this will be just as exhilarating on a repeat viewing ) , then the special effects are equally so . The first time you see Woods sitting on the couch , with the hallucinating turning slowly into just a little itch or burn on his stomach into a full gaping would , it never looks fake . Which makes the whole hallucinatory angle so rich and palpable - you feel yourself cringe right along with Max as he plunges his consciousness to the whims of men and women telling him what to do through TV and other forms . Ironically , the movies of the present in the horror world - one wonders if this is more than the usual movie fodder for the likes of the ' torture porn ' kings like Eli Roth and the Saw filmmakers - don't have anywhere the finesse and power in how the special effects convey the psychology and mood of the situations . Meanwhile , Cronenberg also makes Videodrome perhaps his best film technically , with his camera becoming part of the surreal and fetisihistic , subtly so , like when Woods and Harry have their sex scene , slow and carnal , and it backs up from them to reveal that they're in the chamber-room of the Videodrome . Or how it comments on the mania that's building in Max's head as he sits and waits for the speaker to come out in the climax . Videodrome remains some twenty-five years later a visceral movie-viewing experience , a film that many will pass off as just your typical Cronenberg fare . It's a lot more : it's like a weird , definitive statement on the things that are most of concern to Cronenberg , at least in the bulk of his originally written work . How does one make the distinction between what's imagined or thought and what is right there whipped on the flesh ? It's thought at one point in Videodrome that Max has a brain tumor . Sounds like an explanation , but after a few minutes it changes from being a plot gimmick to a sad fate . Long live the new flesh ? What about the dying flesh ? It's an extraordinary film , and I can't wait to watch it through fingers covering over my eyes ( and peeking through ) during the more disgusting parts .
as surreal as Eraserhead or personal as Mean Streets or daring as anything out of the 20s , all Guy Maddin	It's easy to make a film that is extremely personal to a filmmaker , or has some real level of autobiography going on . And , as a result , there's a crop of personal films out there that just are not very good , because a filmmaker will confuse their factual lives and interesting cinema as one and the same when he former may not be or is too conventional or improperly melodramatic for its own good . A strong personal story or tale of a troubled or just odd childhood is good but not enough ; there needs to be ideas , some imagination even , to keep things worthwhile as compelling cinema . Brand Upon the Brain , under these conditions , is one of the most compelling things this decade as far as personal film-making goes . And , if for nothing else , it's for the virtuosity of the person ( s ) behind the lens . I'm sure it's mostly Candadian Guy Maddin's doing how the film looks and how it moves in such a splintered way as to come about as close to how memory works ( I'm sure the excruciatingly talented editor and DP helped immensely , as no other film I've ever seen has this particular grainy but subtle and coarse and light look with the subliminal cuts all the way ) , which makes it all the more a directorial 100 meter dash with full-speed . Even if the story or the characters flat out sucked , which thankfully they don't at all , I would still be enthralled by the quality and experimentation in everything technical about the picture : how it's meant to be silent , and probably is in layman's terms , but also features narration ( the track I had was from Isabella Rossellini , who does a fabulous job as part narrator and part character absorber ) , sound effects , the occasional scream or song sung , and how it's meant to be in black and white but every so often one may see color slip in a few frames or few seconds . That it was meant to be screened as a silent film , with full orchestra and actual Foley artists and chorus and possible narrator , makes it all the more wild - it wavers between real primitive film-making and pure fantasy . Which is just as well : all of the emotions here are laid for bare , and so much so for Maddin that the protagonist - a 30-something house painter who returns to his island home - is named Guy Maddin , it includes people like his actual mother and father and sister ( not the actual people , the actors playing them ) , and many anecdotes are taken from his real life or from those closest to him ( I started listening to Maddin talk about how the burial of Father in the movie is based on his actual grandfather's burial , but decided to stop to not let too many spoilers come through : it's actually a lot more fun and fascinating to figure out what's totally real or just slightly twisted ) . This works completely because of two reasons : 1 ) the autobiographical bits are interesting and captivating enough for cinema , this torn and weird relationship between siblings and parents , and 2 ) because it's wrapped up in a made-up plot by co-writer George Toles about an orphanage and crazy experiments done for rewinding aging on top of the already amazing surrealism on display with the film-making . In short , it's not only allowable , it's required for Maddin's passion to spark through . If for nothing else , even if you hate the movie ( which I can understand , it's a like it or not enterprise , like with a piece baroque period music in several consistent parts ) , it's passionate film-making and storytelling , and it brings forth a number of unknown actors into a quantity like this . And Maddin picks well , since the actors save for Rossellini or whomever on narration have to have striking faces and be able to act completely and honestly in physical form . They also submit incredibly to any of Maddin's whims ( even the gaggle of would-be Lords of the Flies orphans ) , which include dazed / feverish sleepwalking , insatiable lusting for the same / opposite sex , brain manipulation for the " nectar " , and other mad things . It's also a great structure Maddin uses ( taken from Godard's Vivre sa vie mayhap ) as we go along like in some book that grows weirder and darker as it goes along . . . but also sadder and more touching and with moments that come as delightful almost in spite of the gloom and eerie sets and lighting and smoke and so on . Brand Upon the Brain won't be for everyone , but then how could it in the 21st century ? Maddin has crafted something out dreams and recollections and visions and nightmare and hallucinations and ruminations and ( of course ) his libido and whatever else he could out of a love for movies and a love of his family ( love enough to imbue them on screen as eccentric figures out of a dark fairy tale or science fiction opera ) , and it's something for the film fans out there who crave something out of the past to be represented with life and urgency and twists on what's expected - and at the same time , for all self-indulgent purposes , keeping true to what is solid about the emotional filmgoing experience .
a tribute to the endurance of man and nature , featuring a masterpiece of a performance	For a variety of reasons ( that are well known in the darker period of the director's history at this time ) , Akira Kurosawa left Japan to make a film in Russia ( Siberia to be exact ) . Instead of an epic action picture , he went to one of his other passions as a storyteller - the drama of pure humanity ( like Ikiru and Red Beard , this film follows in that vein ) . The film runs two hours and twenty minutes , but it is a kind of epic story , that does have that pulse of adventure from his other films . But this time he combines that method of a big , spacious environment in the wild with a deep character study . His craftsmanship as a ' painter ' of the frame is top-notch as always ( all pretensions aside , he is one of the masters at finding the textures and moods in a scene's look as in its character and action ) , and the use of locations brings a quality that directors today would brush aside with via special and visual effects . Simply put , it is one of , if not the , ultimate testaments to man vs / with nature , with a character that remains one of the most memorable that Kurosawa's envisioned . To give an idea of who Dersu Uzala is to someone who hasn't seen the film , picture Yoda without the ability to lift objects with his mind and to kick ass with a light-saber , but still contains all of the direct wisdom and strength that make him one with his surroundings ( and , as well , uses his own kind of ' force ' for knowledge and defense , and for attack as an ultimately final resort ) . As a lonesome hunter and drifter with a family tragically lost , Dersu comes upon a team of explorers led by Captain Aseniev ( Yuri Solomon , not the best performance but sturdy enough to sustain the physical scenes ) . He goes along with them as a guide of the sights and smells and feelings that the others just can't sense ( out of lack of experience ) . Aseniev and Dersu end up becoming friends as they brace a torrid windstorm over a bare , wintry landscape , as Kurosawa brings out one of his towering sequences ( topping anything David Lean could've drummed up for sure ) . It's always of interest to me to see characters doing things on screen , having to go against the elements that almost dwarf them in the face of nature ( i . e . Cast Away's hour and a half second act ) . Dersu Uzala seems to be of few words and mostly actions , and soon gains respect and admiration after an odd introduction to the team - he shoots with a keener than keen eye , he spots tracks , he sets up protection in the harshest of conditions , and is always a step ahead of the pack . And bringing all this out is actor Maksim Munzuk , who appears here ( like Falconetti in Passion of Joan of Arc ) in the performance of a lifetime out of an otherwise obscure and small career . Munzuk never brings anything to Dersu that isn't in his character , and he makes at least a quarter of the film's success a reality ( the other three-quarters could be attributed to Kurosawa alone ) . He can be tough , smart , funny ( in an off-beat way ) , and if nothing else , humble . But more than anything , Munzuk makes Dersu seem alive in a way no other actor could've accomplished , and also brings out the better in Solomon's performance . The story itself has a superb appeal most of the way , but it is in it's last act that ' Derzu Uzala ' reaches an intensely tragic plane . Dersu does something ( which I won't reveal here and has been discussed elsewhere on the message board ) that brings great shame to his own self-worth . In this part of the film , Kurosawa brings out what can be said to be some of the saddest moments in any of his work , however not without logic . While it was likely a major dramatic function in the novel , Kurosawa doesn't just throw these last twenty minutes or so to let steam flow out of the picture . I sensed something almost cathartic about these scenes , that rose the qualities of the rest of the story to a higher level , to one of almost spiritual in nature . It's hard to really pin-point to one who has not seen the film ( and , indeed , I have seen the film all of one time ) . But once its over , you may feel you have seen a work far more rewarding than imaginable - even in awe .
naturalistic to a T , cool to the bone , atmosphere and suspense pay-off	I've only seen a couple of other of Louis Malle's films , but I'm sure I'll want to see more after getting to see this in its revival in theaters . It's an ironic , tense , a little aloof and engrossing thriller that plays on a couple of expectations if not all . At times I almost felt like I was watching a darker , dramatic French-noir version of Curb Your Enthusiasm ; you're cringing in your seat at times because everything , at least for the first hour , seems realistic , and the inter-cutting between the three plot-lines ( Julien in the elevator , Florence on the streets , the lovers-on-the-run at the Motel ) . You know something bad will happen , as par for the style Malle is working in ( it's his first film , one can / can't tell if they didn't know beforehand ) . But it interested me , and kept me in my seat , how I knew things may unravel as they should in these films , and I found myself having to root for someone in a sea of anti-heroes . I mention Curb Your Enthusiasm as there is a sort of everyday occurrence that basically kicks off the plot ( in tune with the genius title of the film ) , as Julien Tavaneur gets stuck in an elevator after getting rid of Florence Carala's rich husband ( Moreau's character ) . Two kids , one more dangerous ( if a little inexplicable , Louis ) than the other , steal his car and stay at a Motel , where they meet a genial German tourist . Out of bad luck ( as it is a running theme of the play ) , he kills the German , and things get more out of hand for everybody . In fact , the plot is rather thin , leaving room for a ) suspense tenseness in the elevator scenes ( and later in the interrogation scene , superbly lit ) , b ) narrative musings by the calm Moreau , or c ) troubles of the kids . These narratives are handled well , along with the typical police procedural , and it leads up to an ending that may not necessarily have a message to it . It can't be as pat as ' crime doesn't pay ' . Moreau , in a classy close-up , says things that struck a chord with me , as did many parts of the film . It may be fate , as par for the naturalism , but is there something behind the cool veneer ? The only downside for me was with the performance of the actor who played Louis . I didn't think he gave enough to what is indeed a rather small-minded character . The actress who plays his girlfriend fares fine , but he is one of the keys to the film , and I felt a little uneasy watching some of his scenes later on in the film . But still , any fault ( s ) I had with the film were minuscule when looking at how it is overall . This is one of those films that for pretty much the whole way through had me in its grip ; I've rarely felt that watching a ' film-noir ' before , but I did feel a very small kinship to another love / lust / cold-murder film , Blood Simple , which leaped off of some of the conventions we all know and admire in these films . And the contribution from Miles Davis , who is to ' cool ' as the Beatles are to love & peace , can't be over-estimated . If Moreau gives the film a kind of downtrodden , wandering and wondering soul , and Malle gives the right look of the film with the great Henri ( Le Samourai ) Decae as DP , Davis backs up everything else . Sometimes his fast , overwhelming notes come through ( mostly as on-the-set background music ) , and his slower music is landmark stuff , but what's surprising is that he can also add suspense , like to the elevator and interrogation scenes , and the mood is inescapable . I wouldn't be surprised if more than a few filmmakers who saw this film were inspired by Malle's use of free-flow jazz to add to the ' cool-ness ' of the picture ( not that he was the first of course , but it can be spotted in many films , in particular Herrmann's score for Taxi Driver ) . I have a feeling this may be the kind of film that will play better on multiple viewings , and for now I'm content to say it was a very well-spent trip .
truly threatening anarchic villains and action that doesn't feel like it'll stop	Mad Max 2 : The Road Warrior ( called just the second title on the copy I saw it , just as well as I've yet to see the first Mad Max film yet ) is more often than not tremendous movie-making in a kind of exploitation style of post - apocalyptic - punk - science - fiction - action , et all , that strikes where the iron is usually hot . At the core of the film is a message , sort of , at the real cost and drive , no pun intended , for oil . It's all about that , to be sure , today , and in 1982 the case made for it makes it probably even more prevalent sci-fi than Blade Runner , also released that year . Going into it , I heard about the over-the-top antagonists ( Humungus , ho-ho ) and startling action , and I thought in expectation that I might get a really nifty biker movie . It wasn't that , but it was the first two parts . It's also got Mel Gibson in his early years in truly one of his very best parts . He doesn't have to say much , like a " no-name " Eastwood or other , and when he does the camera often tracks up fast to him , as what he has to say - one sentence and all - make up crucial turning points for the plot . And what plot is minimal , to be sure . Gibson's Max happens upon a petrol factory , where a group of people holding up with the refinery are hassled and told to give up their stash of oil by a group of road warriors led by Jason-like-masked Humungus ( Kjell Nilsson , boy can he shoot and attack and act really creepy when he talks ) , and headed up by the mohawked madman Wez ( Vernon Wells , who ridiculous and all is one of the best and most terrifying villains of any action film ) . Max , however , will help them out on certain conditions , i . e . getting his car back from them and enough fuel , by getting another truck to haul the oil away . Sometimes the acting isn't very top notch , but then why bother to carp ? Miller's strong suits are getting the right atmosphere of the film , a unique Australian wasteland in the desert populated by all outsiders - even the ' good guys ' - and creating enough sustained chaos through it all . It's suffice to say that even if you liked the first one more , it's still a worthwhile experience for the completely and unfathomably engrossing last twenty minutes as the battle wages on . At times this comes off more like a war movie ( well , road WARRIOR in the title ) , and as such Miller and his actors make it very exciting and scary in equal measures . What helps though is that a sense of absolute absurdism is underneath the very tough exterior of it all - I'm sure Miller knows how silly Humungus looks and sounds , and it's refreshing to be able to laugh at the villainous characters - at times - and even at a couple of extremely random moments . It's got Mel Gibson giving off just the right ' star ' presence , and he goes along very well as the real outsider in this struggle of the story . Mad Max 2 The Road Warrior a truly dynamic film that I want to watch again with friends .
Insightful and Entertaining - One of the best films of the 80's	The Wild Side ( I personally know it as Suburbia ) is a very well done film . It may not have a lot of heart or plot or other things some good films have , but it does have one thing - attitude . And that is something that counts in this type of film . It also has some good acting ( Flea makes his screen debut in this film ) and good scene design . And I think the film is insightful because it shows ordinary film buffs about a world not many of us know or want to know about - the world of punks . The film does have plenty of drama to go around ( if you don't believe me , just look at the first scene where a rabid dog attacks a defenseless baby ) and even though it doesn't have enough heart to back it up , it brings it back up with it's cool punk rock scenes , stylish techniques , and other small things . In short , besides Wayne's World , this is Penelope Spheeris ' best film yet and most likely nothing like this will come around again .
The final fight is worth it , but it may be the real underrated Star Wars movie	I say that comment in full understanding that this film isn't perfect ; the love story at times reminded me of something out of a Hallmark love movie , and Hayden Christensen as the padewan Anakin shows how the right looks and attitudes still need some better acting choices to make it work right . Yet , after viewing it in an almost packed theater , and a few times since at home , I am assured it is a return to form after the very good but lacking TPM . Director / Co-writer George Lucas returns to the vivacity and great visual splendor he had in his original trilogy , and thank goodness , Jar Jar Binks was kept very minimal here . This time there's room for some new creations , though more than anything it's more of a mystery movie than anything else - also one of loss . I know I shouldn't give away spoilers , and the one line summary might give away enough , but I will say that it was a better idea than I expected to see Yoda in computer animation . Oz's original puppetry can't be touched , but with all things considered the animation team and designers matched up to the work that was cut out for them . Whether you view this movie in regular projection or digital or in a full-screen TV cut is irrelevant . Lucas just filmed it in digital film to give those in digital theaters a bit more of a kick and if you see it on a regular screen won't matter in difference . Bottom line , if you felt a little cheated from Phantom Menace , this will bring back the believer in you that a story can be told in absorbing and cool fashion while delivering awesome graphics and action , not to mention a fantastic lot of new visuals that help tell a basically good story . That it still has a couple of acting ticks should try to be overlooked
I didn't know what to expect from this , and it's really a nifty short	They Caught the Ferry is a superb little exercise in filming and editing to maximum potential . According to the summary , it was meant as a propaganda piece against fast driving in Denmark . Going into it I had no idea that would be what it's about , maybe it would be some quick doc on ferries . Turns out it gives the director Carl TH Dreyer much to work with in little time and resources . All he has is a few opening and closing shots of a ferry , with the filler being a couple on a motorcycle . It starts off mundanely enough , not even bothering with things like really establishing character or a story . In a way it's in common with Passion of Joan of Arc by it being a simple , fatalistic situation unfolding . Like that film as well , it could just as well function as a silent work with its very brief , interesting but unimportant dialog , and it's style more akin to that era's reaches for a visual freedom . The numerous shots of the field going by , the two on the motorcycle , the intensity that starts to slowly build ( there's no music ) with what might come of these characters in pursuit of their goal . It's not too far out or over-stylized , however , and it's more in tune with cinema verite at times , bordering on it being quite ahead of its time ; shots like these pop up close to being this good in today's movies with more resources and time . Obviously not one to be seen by many as it's on a DVD with an equally obscure silent film from the 20s , but it's definitely worth the ten minutes if you got it .
won't be for everyone - it's an experimental drama-documentary by Brian De Palma - but it has an effectiveness in a ' lack ' of style	The legendary words of Marshall MacLoughan , " The media IS the message " , couldn't be further seen played out as in Redacted , Brian De Palma's latest film which ventures the director back into his experimental early days as a filmmaker in New York city . In his film , the media is the message , but only in part - it's about how media is used , or how subjective perceptions are taken into account , for coverage of a conflict which ironically enough has not had the kind of coverage seen in America as in the local Iraq and European media . But what stays true to De Palma as an auteur is the idea of voyeurism , or the watchers and the audience as the ones who continue to watch , and like Godard with his video experiments , Redacted is about its subject but it's also about process . Like Blair Witch Project , we're seeing things " as-they-happen " by the view-point of a camera that a soldier , Angel , is carrying and using as an in to get into film school someday . This might be enough for a film covering a horrible tragic turn of events like depicted in Redacted , where two soldiers rape a teenager and kill and burn her and her baby sister . But De Palma's story , based on real events which were " fictionalized " up to a point only for legal reasons , indicts the whole process of viewing things through the filter of the lens . Of course there are moments when the characters realize that they're on video , and suddenly they either get irate and continue acting as themselves , or they start to posture for the camera . Instead of the carefully plotted and directed shots of films like Dressed to Kill or Carlito's Way ( or , for that matter , the similar-in-premise Casualties of War ) we get the messiness of raw camera-work from the soldier , the embedded journalists , the news media covering the story , web-casts obviously out of you-tube , and as the one " official " kind of film-making a French documentary crew doing a film on the group of soldiers covering the checkpoint . It's suffice to say that this technique is almost a comment on itself , and it's one of the curious ideas behind the experiment of Redacted that makes it interesting . We know that when a security camera or when Angel's camera put on a seat meant to be shut off captures objectively what's going on - like the " what happens in Vegas stays in Vegas " scene or the plot to go after the family . But there's an inverse to this as well since De Palma is filming this with a script and with actors ( who arguably are good at being naturalistic two-dimensional soldiers ) , since there is a stylization , yet without calling attention to the self-consciousness the audience feels during this . And meanwhile , De Palma makes his anti-war film gripping in the unexpected places ; a hard-ass sergeant who gets blown up without any warning at all ; the death of one of the soldiers as revenge from a terrorist group ; the scene with Flake and Rush where they take the camera themselves and ( as proof beyond a doubt that war and repeated tours of duty have made them bat-s ) defend themselves while attempting to praise a fallen brother while one wears a duck hat . One almost hopes the experiment would work even better as one of the director's best , which ultimately it isn't . Certain tactics , like making evident the pretentiousness of the French documentary by having Barry Lyndon orchestrations playing over , or the girl on the fake you-tube site blasting the soldiers , just don't work at all . And a few of the performances could use some tweaking . But Redacted , I think , has some bad rap attached to it . It's not simply about the obvious , which is that war is hell and brings out the absolute worst out of human beings who have no control over themselves once pushed beyond reason . It's also about the means of viewing something of the ultimate routine nightmare like a checkpoint , or the rape of the girl ( so much that Angel can't even watch as the " fly on the wall " ) , or a questioning , that makes it a significant effort . De Palma distinguishes his film , for better or worse , by adding the connotation of what it means to watch , or what it means to get on record , or what it does to break the ' fourth wall ' while questioning it during it . It has the same free-form ambition of De Palma's best experimental work - Hi , Mom ! - if not much a great film in the end . One thing's for sure - it's in a rightful place playing only in one theater in New York city ; it's the kind of work that is hard to market beyond playing as an experimental piece . Ironically , as of late , it's been attacked by Bill O'Reilly WHILE it's being advertised during the show ! Talk about counter-programming for an audience that , for the most part , until it's out on DVD , won't have a lick of what the picture really entails . Message ?
the final installment	There's something about the Star Wars movies that have reached a grand culmination with Revenge of the Sith , the final installment of the prequel trilogy , and of Star Wars completely as a saga - the storytelling has reached a peak ( much like with the other two masterpieces A New Hope and The Empire Strikes Back ) . The visual effects , the sound , the music , all of the background elements are perfectly suited to tell the story . Of course this is how it also went with Episodes 1 , 2 and 6 , but this time George Lucas has reached a peak with the visual effects that has been increasing since Episode 1 . Some of the visuals may be more formidable and concrete than others , however as a viewer I was completely wrapped in the story most of all , emotionally and even intellectually . And , of course , the challenge is to still make an entertaining , compelling film with what everyone who's seen a Star Wars movie knows is the climax - Anakin Skywalker turns into Darth Vader , and Skywalker offspring become separated at birth amid the end of the Jedi and the democracy of the republic . The journey is what counts , and it's a spectacular journey . I would even go as far to say that for one not expecting much from the ashes of the first two entries , this is not only one of the top pictures in the saga , it's also one of the best films of the year . I would dare not to reveal anything crucial to the story , except to say that the story takes shape of Anakin Skywalker ( played with a crucial bravado and intensity by Hayden Christensen ) and his path to the dark side . All of the supporting and key players - Obi-Won Kenobi ( Ewan McGregor , terrific as always ) , Chancellor Palpatine ( Ian McDiarmid , perhaps one of the key villains in recent movie history ) , Padme ( Natalie Portman , a dependable force ) , and the usual cast of characters ( i . e . R2-D2 , C-3P0 , Chewbacca ) - come together to add more to the vision of the film than I could've guessed . One of the only flaws of the past two prequel episodes was the borderline edge of falling into melodrama by way of some of the dialog and characterizations . This time none of that is on the table , as it is indeed a space opera more than anything else . And , Lucas also connects with the Shakespearian qualities of his story of the fall of Anakin Skywalker , and by doing that the film reaches even more power . To put it another way , by way of the hypnotic , strange special f / x , the chilling score by John Williams , and the strengths of Lucas ' storytelling talents that have been strongest throughout the films ( even during the Jar-Jar and Ewok bits ) , Revenge of the Sith can keep one on the edge of their seat , almost catching for breath . Would this mean that a non-Star Wars fan could come to this movie and find it a good movie ? It's hard to say , as it almost requires that you have seen one or two of the previous films . But should the film be suffice to feed the fans of the series , especially those who doubt Lucas ' mind after 1 & 2 ? Absolutely - at the least for the battle / fight sequences , two of which I would rank up there with the first Death Star attack and Luke vs . Vader in ' Empire ' . I guess it's part of that simplicity of a Saturday Matinée serial that Lucas wanted to capture that has made the saga so appealing to millions of people . This isn't exactly the most ' simple ' film of the lot , and it's arguable whether the PG-13 rating was worthy from the content . But , as some would argue for Return of the King with the Lord of the Rings , ' Sith ' does what is practically has to do - take the story full-circle and give the people a good show , while at the same time making Star Wars , as one big movie , feel all the greater .
One of the Best films of the year	American Psycho is a terrific film . I got a lot more than I expected from a horror film . It turns out to be a satire about a narcasistic businessman who has a hobby for killing . I wathced as Christian Bale gave his best performance yet , and I realized his vanity in the film was enough to be a psycho . I guess the killings justify the means . Still , the way I saw his life made me feel a little bit better because he is a maniac in a tie ( what other killer would talk about Sting , Whitney Houston or Huey Louis and the News before ending their life-span ) . Still , his antics are mesmerizing , entertaining , and sometimes even humorous ( in a demented way ) . One of the best of the year .
As coolly intense and exceptionally-staged as any detective story / film-noir of the 40's & 50's	Chinatown is a tremendous collaborative effort that produced one of the most memorable Hollywood pictures of the 1970's . Director Roman Polanski ( his last film in America , and the first he made in America after the murder of Sharon Tate ) , stars Jack Nicholson & Faye Dunaway , and writer Robert Towne , all come together to create a detective story classic . At times it slows its pace down so the viewer can think along with Nicholson's character , to take in the environment as well as the situation he's in ( i . e . when he goes to the empty reservoir , when he visits Noah Crosses house the first time ) . And the script has the perfect sense of drawing us into a story , fueled by curiosity , grit , and cynicism , and engages the viewer by its realistic dialog between the characters . J . J . Gittes ( Nicholson , in one of his best 70's performances ) is in Los Angeles circa 1933 in the line of private investigator , usually dealing with people who may or may not believe that their significant other is having an affair . Evelyn Mulwray feels this may be the case with her husband Hollis , and Gittes decides to take the case . However , this draws him into a deeper case involving the city's loss of water once Hollis - a major player in the water supply controversy in the city - is found murdered . This eventually leads him to Noah Cross ( John Huston ) , a big businessman and who also happens to be Evelyn's father . Intrigue starts to develop , as Jake's own life begins to be at risk . As a intricate , detailed detective story the film is an above-average work , with Towne's script containing the maturity , and wicked sense of humor , of a James M . Cain or Raymond Chandler novel . When the thrills come they come as being striking . And when humanity and compassion get thrown into the mix , the film reaches a whole other plane of intelligence . The last third of the film could turn off some of the audience ( depending on one's own level of belief ) , but it holds strong thanks to the performances . Nicholson doesn't over-step his bounds in any scene , finding the right notes in suggestive conversations . Dunaway is better than expected ( though I'm not sure if it's an great performance ) . And Huston's Noah Cross is one of the more disturbing villains of that period in movies . Add to it some good cameos ( Burt Young as a driver , Polanski playing the little guy in the infamous ' knife ' scene ) , and a smooth soundtrack by Jerry Goldsmith , Chinatown comes out as strong piece of movie-making , and arguably one of the greatest in the crime / mystery genre .
what Mad Max / The Road Warrior was to the action / exploitation picture , Happy Feet is to the animated family / comedy / musical : Miller's back !	Wow , was all I had to say after leaving this movie . I mention the director , George Miller , in the opening one line because it's of note , at least in my line of thinking , to notice where the bending-genre-conventions comes from for Happy Feet . We have seen this , to be sure , in the Babe pictures , where a pig went to great lengths to show that he was more than what his environment defined himself as . But there's even the sense of the outsider coming to save the day , against all odds , ala Mad Max in those crazy Australian films . And , like all of those previous works , Happy Feet actually works , very well , and not just for one set . Going into it maybe my expectations weren't too high , despite seeing Miller's name on the credits - his first directing a practically all-animated ( computer no less , in a time where it's as common as bugs in a tree stump ) - because seeing commercials I thought it would just be another cute kids movie . It also has penguins , which I thought would be sort of appealing , and the possibility that Robin Williams might finally get some good voice time in more than one role . Boy does he ever , but the film has much more for its whole audience , including even some political commentary amid the wild comedy and set pieces . What I ended up getting was some kind of bizarre , unique hybrid of the central concept of Dumbo ( the loner cast-aside from his world , has to use his individuality , likely an influence of the Babe pictures ) , the jukebox mania of something akin to Moulin Rouge , the facts and environment of March of the Penguins ( to be sure , as one can't separate one without the other ) , and even current events . We get the story of Mumble ( Babe voice EG Daily , and Elijah Wood ) , who is born from an Elvis impresario ( Hugh Jackman ) and a supportive mother ( Nicole Kidman ) , in a world where all the penguins sing , not just for mating but for some kind of right to live and hunt for fish . Mumble , however , can only dance , fantastically ( in style via Savion Glover behind the scenes ) , but it doesn't sit well with Noah ( Hugo Weaving ) , head of the elder penguins . He's first cast out by his fellow penguins for not fitting in , and being a terrible singer . He meets up with outsider penguins ( headed by Ramon , voice by Williams , in one of the roles ) , and tries to appeal back to the group of penguins - knowing that aliens are involved somewhere . But when he's rejected again , even more harshly , his journey to find the aliens goes on , which leads to . . . Oh , what's the use . To go on about the plot would be fruitless , but you might get the idea from reading this how silly the movie sounds - at first . But I think Miller and his team are going for a smart ridiculous spirit , one that is actually successfully irreverent for all ages , which is one of the toughest things that any filmmaker can try for . Even tougher is to see Robin Williams tackle roles and actually succeed comically . But it's his best , most rip-roaringly hilarious ( and I don't use the former term lightly ) performance since Aladdin . He goes between a solemn narrator , Ramon the penguin , and Lovelace , the possible link to everything with the ' aliens ' . The musical side of things could be a challenge too , as it is in the Moulin Rouge mode of not being at all original-songs , but done in an extreme , over-the-top manner with the visuals . Imagine dozens and dozens of penguins singing " Somebody to Love " by Queen , sounds risky , but it actually works , well . In fact , Happy Feet does what Moulin Rouge did better than that film actually went for - it's a pop-culture shake-up for characters who see humans as aliens , most especially due to a lack of food . But then there's even the touch of political commentary , which is most surprising . It would be one thing to have an over the top fantasy comedy with bits of romance thrown in ( and there's even some genre-breaking with what ends up between Mumble and Gloria ) , but it's another to be making a kind of underlying point to it all that while lost on the kids won't be lost to some in the audience . This is even something that goes back to the Road Warrior , only here it's perhaps not as explicit - one could read into the ' leader ' penguins who cast out Mumble with his ' outsider ' friends who are not at all like the others , or the significance when Mumble finally comes back from his self-imposed mission , as being like the now - and the control over what the fish does to the group . But that's only a side-bar - however interesting - for what's really appealing about Happy Feet . It's unexpectedly , even outrageously in its silly way , funny , and it's based totally on the characters , and building on it how ridiculous - yet within the logic of the picture believable - how singing / dancing penguins can be in this world . Too often , especially in 2006 , the slew of computer-animated movies for kids that just don't seem appealing . Granted , I'm not a tot anymore , but just on the level of anything in the subject matter being anything more than ' hey , they're animals , they make stupid jokes , its worth it ' is lost on me . Happy Feet stands above all the other animated pictures of this year , including Pixar's work , by delivering truly successfully excitement and absurdity in equal measure , while not doing so to a lower common denominator . I can't wait to recommend this to most of the people I know , and they're not even kids . Miller - welcome to the 21st century !
still at the top of my De Palma list ; stellar cast with a tight ball of a script	Among the top five films of 1987 , and filmmaker Brian De Palma's career , is the Untouchables , a firecracker kind of Hollywood film that gives the story of Elliot Ness versus Al Capone some great panache . And it's the kind of great film that is so only through the combined efforts of everybody , not just De Palma , even as it is his vision ( sometimes playfully homage-like , as I'll mention in a moment ) , but his cast , crew , and the script by David Mamet . The cast here includes Kevin Costner , in one of his three or four passably good performances , in the Ness part ( like his later Jim Garrison role , the confident if a bit conflicted hero ) ; De Niro in a ham-bone best as Capone , with one of the more eye-opening and funny scenes he's ever done ( eg with a bat ) ; Charles Martin Smith and Andy Garcia in juicy supporting roles . And then one comes to Sean Connery , in his deserved Oscar winning turn as Irish cop turned Ness partner Jim Malone , who has the toughest words and the biggest guts of the group . It's in his work here , where he has some of that confidence of past performances into a very real character that makes it quite a piece . Aside from the sheer presence of a star like Connery on screen , there's some depth he gives to the character too , just as De Niro does with his choices as an actor ( even if his role is the larger-than-life one ) . De Palma , at his disposal as a craftsman , has good editors and camera people working alongside him , as well as Ennio Morricone on music ( a small ' yey ' emits from my mind ) . Through them his film is a slick , but not overbearingly at all , kind of 1930's Hollywood picture , with a story of the cops versus robbers , in some unconventional circumstances . The centerpiece of the climax , De Palma's homage to Eistenstein's Battleship Potemkin , is operatic and grandiose and puts the drama of what was in real life likely quite different into a spectacular sequence , is as entertaining as it could be . While it's not the only action sequence in the film , one could point to just that one sequence as being a true highlight of doing homage well . In truth it's been a little while since I've seen the Untouchables , and maybe even longer since I've seen it from start to finish ( and , unfortunately , never on a big screen ) . But I wouldn't dare to tell you not to watch it if you haven't yet .
one of the under-looked classics of the 1950s	I don't know much about cortisone , but from seeing Nicholas Ray's film Bigger Than Life I can have to guess that unless there have been some major medical breakthroughs in the 50 years since this came out , it should have a very huge warning label on the bottle . But it isn't really about cortisone , per-say , even as it does make its case convincingly for the times that such new drugs to possibly help save lives become a double-edged sword . The drug could be anything , it's merely a catalyst for character and story to go into completely un-bound turns . The Avery family could , in fact , be a Beaver-Cleaver household of the fifties , where ' father knows best ' is often a given and the house is as beautiful and elegant - in its suburban middle-class way - as is the outward appearances of the husband , wife and son . But the same catalyst , for the intents and purposes of the changes in all the characters , is utterly fascinating . I couldn't help but actually care about these people , as their sort of sheltered existence became un-covered like some kind of manhole into some metaphoric sewer that many of us sit in . There is something under the surface , and it's one wrong thing that can make it go awry . Ed Avary ( James Mason ) is such a man , who is a school-teacher and cab-driver operator ( on the side , keeping from his wife ) . He starts getting ' episodes ' , and has to go to the hospital . It's discovered that he has to live with a heart condition for the rest of his life , and only a new experimental drug , cortisone , can help with regular doses . It doesn't take too long though for things to start going south with Ed , and at first it just seems like he's a little more ornery , a little more on edge , but seemingly trying to still be the old Ed . But then there's his new school-teaching system , and the inducing and steadily increasing paranoia lifting the fog for him what his marriage really means . " I'm only staying now for the boy ! " he says in a rage at the dinner table . It becomes clear that he's in the psychosis state , in doing too much of the cortisone , and it lifts not only the comfort of this life , but the expectations and ideals of this seemingly calm , perfunctory existence . There were other pictures around this time being made in Hollywood , within but at the same time under the conventional radars ( Sirk comes to mind , though still unseen by me ) . Bigger Than Life is a great example of this , and Ray and Mason get right to the bones of it in the main chunk of the picture . Early on though its interesting to see how the tranquility is set up , and how the first barbs of bad things to come is sort of shielded over , to seem like it's nothing , like it'll be all OK . But the implications that both director and star raise through what they deliver through the material is staggering . On Ray's side , he accentuates things exceptionally by the deception of appearances ; it may be a studio-film , with the usual medium-shots and high-glossy lighting and camera moves , yet there's some room for expression , like the shadow that looms over Avary's son during an ultra-tense study session . His command over the style is shown here as one of his finest and , at times , even understated . Though finally in the climax he goes full-throttle , in a scene of ( possible ) horror that's given the full subjective treatment . Mason , meanwhile , is really at the top of his game , and it's extremely terrifying to see not just how far he can go into losing all touch with his own reality , but the reality of the usual in distortion . Even through the cortisone , Mason has this character come off at first as a braggart , but sort of believable at a PTA meeting ( Matthau's gym teacher friend finds something fishy though ) , and then it doesn't take too long for him to plunge head first into his dementia . A small scene like the one where he gets an extra prescription from his doctor , however , also shows his subtleties . Barbara Rush is also very good as his wife Lou , who as an actress successfully strips away the layers of the very kind , warm , and utmost dutiful wife , and has to actually , finally take charge of things , and do things she wouldn't possibly dream usually , like deception . The son , played by Christopher Olson , might be the weakest link of the three , as he has a character who is , of course , just a boy , and even more put to the extreme test by his father's downward spiral . Even with that it's still a believable turn . It's a piece of subversion that works all the better because of the hidden ambiguities of the ending . The whole facade of things seemingly being this way or another , is like one big joke on the audience . But it's not really a funny one ; Ray is in your face with his audience , and it's not in a retrospect way either . Things are not all honky-dory in the Eisenhower era , is what Ray says at the core , and at the end it can hardly be read that everything will turn out well for the family . The implications made are much more stronger and lasting than the actual perceived outcome . Will things be under control with the Avary's ? Who knows , is what Ray is saying , or that maybe we can learn from mistakes . But the fact that the facade came down like an avalanche is the point . It's even more surprising then to know that this picture is only available on bootlegs , through certain vendors , only occasionally on TV . If you can find it though , it's a real little ruby of a studio picture .
one of the great war films ( for the art-house )	Shame is rather unique as a war film ( or rather quite the anti-war film ) in that it not only doesn't focus on the soldiers or politics involved ( there is politics but not how you'd think it'd be shown ) , it deals with its two main subjects as the only two beings that can possibly be cared about at all in this brutal , decaying society they inhabit . Ingmar Bergman , in the midst of his prime , and following two other heavily psychological films , Persona and Hour of the Wolf , is far more interested in seeing what the effect of war has on usually civilized beings , that it brings out the worst in them , and also in a cathartic way is a reminder of what is truly crucial in living . His two key actors are frequent collaborators and friends Max von Sydow and Liv Ullman ( as the Rosenbergs oddly enough ) , who are musicians living on a farm on an island ( not too dissimilar from ' Wolf ' when one thinks about it ) . They see the tanks roll by , and a couple of old friends already getting worn down , but they try not to put it too much to heart ; there's a sweet scene where the couple just talk , rather frankly but with heart ( all one shot , as is repeated through the film is to perhaps create a sense of being provoked ) . . . Then comes the trouble , including a fake film of propaganda made at gunpoint with the Rosenbergs , the psychological turmoil in being prisoners of war , and the terror involved with a ' friend ' in the military ( one of Gunnar Bjornstrand's most subtle works with Bergman ) . Needless to say this is not one of the easier films to go through in terms of Bergman's filmography , however for some it may be one of his more accessible works . His religious themes this time is kept very low key , even as the idea of keeping a sort of faith pervades the film's atmosphere . When there is war action it's shot in unconventional , quick ways ( via great amigo Sven Nykvist ) . And the deconstruction of the relationship between Jan and Eva is corresponded successfully with the backdrop of a chaotic kind of war-ground where the lines are never too surely drawn . In a way this film , shot right at the height of the worst times in Vietnam , is even more relevant for today ; I couldn't help but see chilling , uncompromising coincidences between Iraq and elsewhere with some of Jan and Eva's scenes with the fighters , or those ' in charge ' . The very last scene , by the way , is one of Bergman's very best , all around ( acting , directing , lighting ) . It's not the kind of war picture ( or , again , anti-war , I find little of the John Wayne spirit in this Svensk production ) that I would recommend right off the bat to my friends all into Saving Private Ryan - it has a little more in kinship with Paths of Glory , looking at the effects of the hypocrisy of war . But in reality , like any of Bergman's " genre " films , it stands alone , however one that packs a wallop for the art-house crowd .
great as spectacle and technical wonder , but also a heartbreaking tale of a lost woman	It is not entirely fair to recommend Lola Montes so highly , or admire it so , since even the version that screened recently at the Film Forum in NYC , purported to be the definitive restoration , is still a truncated version . The original director's cut that premiered in France in 1955 , and then to immediate withdrawal after its " disaster " of a reception at 140 minutes , is no longer available . At the least , it's a saving grace that so much has been saved in this 115 minute cut , considering how many version there are and how they vary with the running time . And , for Pete sake , if by some chance you can see it on the big-screen ( it's soon to leave the Film Forum for its second run following the re-release last October and its re-premiere at the NYFF ) , do so . The filmmaker , Max Ophuls , in what was his unintentional swan song - he died at 55 - shot the hell out of this picture , with director of photography Christian Matras taking the 2 : 35 : 1 frame with new Eastmancolor by the horns and shaking it for all it could be worth within the context of a " vibrant " 19th century costume melodrama bio-pic . The colors all jump off so splendidly , with such a force that compels one to not have too long of a blink , as to do so would be to miss on little surprises , little things that Ophuls uses in his frame which he careens and swivels and moves around with the freedom of a curious , pleasantly intoxicated fowl . It's one of the first masterpieces of the widescreen color film . But it's not just a great film in technical terms . That would be too easy perhaps for Ophuls , who uses this backdrop of the sweeping and sensational to pierce through other deeper things going on with the characters . In Lola Montes his character is someone who re-lives what has happened in her relatively short life ( relatively since she's not really " old " in the sense of being tucked away from the public's gaze ) as a main attraction in a French circus . She's an object first and person second in this context , which as one can imagine bustles and throbs with excitement and fun as only something of a cousin to Fellini could be . And yet as a person she's had quite a journey to where she's at : from aristocratic daughter given away to a marriage she has to run away from ( unfaithful husband , figures with a wife who is about as beautiful a being as could be in the immediate vicinity ) , then becomes a ballerina ( her childhood dream ) , and then . . . well , a topic of gossip and scandal , such as romancing a conductor , all ending in Bavaria with her hopes of possibly settling down squandered for good . Hence the circus gig . It's a story that's given that same kaleidoscopic view as in Citizen Kane , but this time with the twist that the protagonist isn't given the sort of " luxury " of already being dead as the story of a life is sifted through and given a LARGER-than-LIFE context . Lola's story is a spectacle , sometimes farce , sometimes legend , sometimes one of those too-much-to-believe sagas that keeps those glued to their seats while Lola also entertains with trapeze work ! And yet under the blue lights , under the costume changes and other mock-ups and even the Q & A sessions that the ringmaster holds with the audience and Lola , the soul of this woman is about as " there " as a near-empty gas tank . She may still be alive , but it's a kind of limbo that would be too insane if it weren't true and played out to full spectacle and extravaganza . As said , this is a work of true technical mastery , and there's one amazing camera move or one amazing little direction ( I just smiled ear to ear seeing in the opening how the circus performers rolled out , and it stayed for a solid five minutes ) . But , too , Ophuls has an engaging , wonderful actress on top of having a complete knockout visually : Martine Carol , who I'm not sure I've seen outside of this film , pulls out a performance that wavers between weepy , flustered , driven , elegant , tortured , calm and hiding back hysteria . It's half diva and half substantially undermined human soul , and she pulls it off like it's the performance of a life . Good marks also go to Peter Ustinov as the Ringmaster , chugging along through a script that he knows almost too well ( we get very amusing asides with one of the " little " people in the red costumes trying to get their change back from him mid-act ) , and the actor who played the Bavarian king . In Ophuls hands , they're not just other pieces of the set , but actors who work so diligently to make this all one cohesive piece . And , really , that's what makes Lola Montes ultimately so remarkable . Ophuls has moments of melodrama , maybe so much so that one will have to really love costume-period-melodrama flicks to really appreciate it ( I actually don't usually , this is an exception ) , and at the same time they all work as part of this story about what lies behind the pomp and circumstance . You can get lost from time to time in this movie , and it's thrilling to get wrapped up in it . And as well as an artistic achievement of considerable proportions , it's a really fun movie to boot .
A Disturbing and Powerful Masterpiece	Martin Scorsese's Taxi Driver is a riveting , disturbing and powerful masterpiece of a film that gives new meaning to the word " snapped " . The scenes , quotes and characters are legendary and so is this film giving breakthrough performances to Albert Brooks , Jodie Foster , and of course , Robert De Niro . De Niro plays Travis Bickle , a disturbed taxi driver who drives his taxi all around new York City going crazier every day . He also meets Iris ( AKA Easy ) played by Foster who is also disturbed , but in a not as good way . And what the story leads up to is one of the most memorable pieces of cinema ever . The film is great , the score by Bernard Hermann ( his last ) is excellent , and the feeling , and atmosphere is perfect . So , " are you talking to me " ?
a plum of a little film	Here is one of the ultimate tales in Christian parody-parables : Luis Bunuel , who partially made a career out of ridiculing ( though in good dramatic / comedic measure ) the church , made this film about a man ( Simon of the title ) who stands a-top a column to get closer to God . He gains the total attention and praise ( and prayer ) of the locals , who visit him daily . But a problem confronts him in the form of Satan , or rather a sultry seductress , bringing him temptations galore . When she finally brings her torment upon him to the ultimate , it takes him to the most unusual of places ( in particular unusual for a Bunuel film , who mostly has his films of this period set in the early 20th or 19th century ) . This is indeed one of the director's most carefully controlled and sometimes cringe-inducing black comedies , one that starts off so dramatically and sincerely I thought I was watching a different Bunuel - it's at first reverent and thoughtful , and if I was a Christian I would've been very moved . But as the story then progressed I noticed the utter absurdity of it all - in a way this is like a long Monty Python sketch only done with a boat-load more of subtlety to Simon's plight . This is a man in total conflict , portrayed well by Claudio Brook , very straight-faced or trying to through it all . The Devil as well , Silvia Pinal , is excellent in eliciting these dark emotions out of Simon , who has to be literally a pillar of strength for these people . The climax of the film , which you will know if you read the film's plot summary here , is one of the superb strokes of genius in any film from Bunuel - at first sight of what he does in his transition of the story is outrageous ( in the best possible way ) , then when it settles into its manic drive of the sequence it's hilarious , then exhilarating , and then finally something that is underlying in many of Bunuel's films - hipness . It's a whole collision of emotions that come with this scene , and it works as a fitting end to this strange , funny allegory-cum-satire of quasi-religious figures and their worshipers . If you find this film in your video store or browsing around online , it's worth to check out for a 45 minute view into the mind of the religious side of Bunuel : wicked , knowing , and in an ironic and touching way very understanding of what these people went through in those old times and what continues today in decadence .
the " first Hitchcock film " is a taut , visually expressive and even darkly funny serial killer feature	Alfred Hitchcock's the Lodger finds the master of suspense , at 27 , already with an instant knack at mounting suspense and dread , often with some startling camera movements , not to mention the moments of gallows humor . It's exhilarating to see Hitchcock , in a silent film no less , stage the implied murder of a woman by showing movement , shadow , a pause , then a seemingly over-the-top close-up of the woman screaming , then cutting to the next day or whatever . He makes a street corner look downright vicious and creepy , and I'm sure in the intended blue-tinted scenes it's something of a minor revelation on escalating the thriller of the period into art ( the version available on the most recent DVD , as an ' extra ' on the DVD of Sabotage , is acceptable at best and at worst is a travesty for collectors who might want the best musical score or digital treatment of a transfer ) . It's the classic story of Jack the Ripper , with certain names changed and a slight twist of a jealous romantic plot common to Hitchcock films - here he's called the " Avenger - and it concerns a certain lodger who goes to stay for a bit at a house owned by Mr . and Mrs . Bunting . The lodger is a funny sort of chap , hating the pictures on the wall in his room , saying ominous throwaway words during a chess game , and going out in foggy London at night . The Bunting's daughter likes him , but her fiancée , a detective , is jealous and suspects the lodger to be the deadly Avenger , out killing blonds left and right . The story , despite seeming ( at least on the DVD ) to jump around a little bit in mid-scene , is executed with a level of narrative fluidity I was surprised by . Sometimes in silent films one gets so attracted to just the visual aspects of certain compositions or the star power of the leads that the story loses its way . Here Hitchcock balances the elements , and makes for some good details along the way . There are little things that stand out as interesting techniques or little notes in the storyline . I liked the editing style when we see a crowd gather around the corpse of one of the Avenger . I liked , a lot , seeing a figure walk across what seems like a staircase , but looking upward at him . And I loved seeing a little note of romance , as a character cuts out a little heart-shaped piece of dough and hands it to Daisy ( played by , simply named , ' June ' who is a beauty ) , coaxingly , but then when not accepted right away he rips it in two . A detail like that , or a line of dialog at the end cuing the audience to something " you're toothbrush - you left it behind " makes for a nice touch too . It doesn't hurt either that Ivor Novello makes for a perfectly ambiguous character - the sort you're not totally sure of , watching his every facial gesture like it's another clue , or another devilish intonation . Compared to some of Hitchcock's more beloved classics this is sometimes a little crude in its construction , as well having to be subverted to the sound form ( one wishes a little for the big personalities of Hitchcock's 1930s British films ) . But all things considered , it's essential viewing , and shows the kind of breakthrough work that Hitchcock needed ( i . e . a hit ) that could get the ball rolling on his career in England - and not as a fluke , to be sure .
a modern classic in the sci-fi genre	This may just be one of those ultra - excited - after - seeing - a - movie moments , but seeing Sunshine is truly a life-affirming experience , because through all the deaths that occur , it ends on a note that is inspiring in a truthful , gut-wrenching way . Edging in as Boyle's best , and at least most visually and ideologically - ambitious film , Sunshine takes science-fiction into the realm of existentialism , and balances out the loss of immediate life with the " big picture " . This one being , of course , a star , omnipresent and as mechanical as the Icarus II ship the crew pilot to their targeted destination , reigniting what has been dying with an explosion the size of Manhattan . The characters in this film are not simply the usual lot that one sees where the characters have to go race against the clock to save the world from annihilation and there's the various personalities on the ship and would-be drama and so on . But Boyle takes on such challenges with the gusto of a modern master . The script , by the way , is also extremely rich in how we actually get completely enveloped - as a character might when coming face to face with the sun - in the constant peril because a ) they're not one-dimensional twits or walking contrivances , and b ) the suspense level is at its highest peak as far as trapped-in-space movies go since Alien ( one of Boyle's major influences , as one can tell ) . But the idea of choice , and bad decisions , and the level of monumental responsibility , is cranked up all the way for these people : that it's not just really all humanity , though there is that , and it's not just planet Earth , though of course there's that as well , but it's as if there's the complex sensation of having to put yourself totally out of the equation , that your own life and the life of the one sitting next to you are as worthless as the last breath taken from a man caught out in space without a suit ( one of the most haunting images in the history of contemporary cinema ) , because of something that is taken so often for granted and is , indeed , something quite abstract . And then , of course , is the character ( I won't spoil anything - as it said in the press packet specifically not to ) who has become totally immersed in his dementia and loss of all hope by thinking he has a direct line to God . Sci-fi films need good ideas , and in fact ideas that can reach up to the level that the director goes to with his vision , to truly succeed . On its own playing field , Sunshine is as masterful as 2001 : A Space Odyssey - and there's even one sequence , probably the only sequence from Kubrick's film that could be called super-suspenseful , that terrifyingly homages it - by navigating along the implications of humanity with a totally exceptional approach to what space has to offer . One might think looking at the sun would get repetitive , but it never is . And as Boyle and his crew go to great lengths to make this move in a seamless manner , there's many a moment of suspense and terror struck up not just by the Alien influence but by more subliminal techniques and sudden shock value ( a dream scene where Murphy drifts towards the sun is a knockout ) , with jump cuts that are as gripping as any of the infected in 28 Days Later . But after considering how much of a sensational movie this is , it fills me with seething anger to think of the double-standard that Fox is practicing in the release date . While I'm not sure how much the film made in England and elsewhere ( and by elsewhere I mean the rest of the world , the US is the last to see the film theatrically ) , it's a downright and lowdown shame that the film is being widely released the same weekend as the Simpsons movie . I plan on seeing both films that weekend if I can , but Fox shouldn't have made that decision for me , in a sense . They could have made this one of the biggest summer blockbusters - a thinking man's blockbuster , even more accessible than ( if not as heartbreaking as ) Rescue Dawn - and instead are cramming it into an already busy play-list . . . And yet this goes without saying the Fox Searchlight logo contributes to one of the greatest opening shots in recent memory .
the story of man's incredible / mundane downfall , in one of Herzog's best	What an unclassifiable hybrid / whatever movie Stroszek is . I'd wager it's the kind of picture that Gonzo the Great ( yes , the Muppet ) would probably make if he were from Germany and looking to make a tragic-comic look on one man's journey in the rural side of America ( after all , the last sequence would make perfect sense , wouldn't it ) . In truth , it's Werner Herzog at his most focused and un-hinged , a work of wild , original art where the tone ranges from harsh reality , documentary realism ( or so we might think ) , to drama stripped of its ' melo ' , and a brand of satire that goes beyond the usual realm and is satirical only in the sense that you know something is being made fun of . In fact , I'd say the last twenty-five , thirty minutes of this picture are the funniest , and even in these minutes there's a sense of sorrow to what has happened with Bruno Stroszek ( Bruno S . , sort of as himself , I suppose , the line between fiction and fact is so blurry that it's the only way Herzog can get things done ) and how his girlfriend ( Eva Mattes ) leaves him , and his best friend and neighbor gets arrested after armed robbery of a , uh , store in a basement next to a bank , I guess . But whatever weirdness and sort of everyday mundane qualities that go hand in hand with the film Stroszek are given a greater context . I actually had a little more interest in what was going on after having just seen Chaplin's Modern Times , and seeing how there could be a comparison made to the two . Of course , Herzog could never be one to induce the silly physical comedy that makes up the bulk of Chaplin's films , but there is a similarity that struck me , and helped make me really care about what was going on with these characters - Herzog , for all his showing the ultimate follies , loves Stroszek , or at least does not try and show him off as being a complete waste of life . And if it does almost come off that way ( Stroszek is , after all , a perpetual drunk who got released only recently from the mental hospital , and can never get steady work aside from being a mechanic once in the US ) , it's off-set by how much he even cares about the much more flawed Eva , too . He sees them in a context of society and civilization as well as just stand-alone outcasts ( outcasts being another Chaplin comparison ) not to mention the other side characters , both wretchedly cruel and mean like the Germans who bully Stroszek and beat up on Eva , or the wacky co-workers and very formal mortgage / loan people . So , in a way , Herzog takes on the other side of what we might usually find in a Chaplin effort , which includes cynicism ( at least skepticism ) , despair , and replacing morality with a truly twisted sense of humor . Not that the form of documentary , more than anything , peeks its head into the work . There isn't much story to report , aside from the bulk of what I've already mentioned - Stroszek , Eva and their elderly neighbor escape from the harsh and cruel state of being they're at in Berlin ( a brief but interesting commentary on Germany too ) , only to find in the small-town Wisconsin life not much more in line of prosperity . Soon , Stroszek is on his own when he loses his trailer-home , Eva leaves him after a drunken ramble he goes on , and of course the aforementioned botched robbery . He heads off randomly to another small town , tells his story to a random guy , and then as his truck goes up in flames , he gets caught on a ski-lift after passing by a dancing chicken . All the while Bruno S . plays this guy with no punches pulled , and is as intuitive a non-professional actor as any given others in the old neo-realist days . Eva , too , wasn't that much of an actress yet when she took on this role . And a lot of the time ( David Lynch mentioned this in an interview as he started watching the film in the middle ) it's like watching a documentary of these people , showing in all the ordinary working-class ways how they get stuck and any chance of the " American dream " gets squashed . One's never really sure who's an actor or not , but it makes no difference really . A lot of it is some of the most harrowing cinema that I've seen in a while - the tone is of a bitterness at the system , any system , and of a sorrow that is everlooming , that is , perhaps , until the ending . Remarkable then is really how much I laughed during the film . Even in the earlier scenes , when it was dreary , the sort of behavior in parts , and especially notes of the dialog , rang of the complete randomness that is all abound in Herzog's work . But one only needs to look at Stroszek to see the Herzog sense of humor working full-tilt amid the social commentary and despair . The two funniest sequences - not withstanding the armed robbery - are the auction scene ( that guy , wow , just wow is all I could say after that ) , and the dancing chicken . A big chunk of the dancing chicken scene's bizarre appeal is the music , with a true absurdity to the harmonica playing and wailing vocals . Many over the years have wondered the significance of the dancing chicken , most particularly as the ending to the picture . While Herzog himself claims it to be a metaphor for something he can't place , a friend mentioned that it could be capitalism , or the chicken as a representation of Bruno Stroszek , or of an American in general . I wouldn't want to jump to any conclusions just yet , and I'm glad that way - all I know is that it's one of the funniest three minutes of film to ever come out of Europe . It's Herzog's ultimate , tragic-comic tale about a man in the lower depths of himself and his society .
The Best Picture of 1992	This film is great . It won 4 Oscars ( including Best Director for Eastwood and Best Picture ) and are well deserved . Unlike some other wetserns with gun slingers and such , this one is quite different . Here , Eastwood plays a man who for years has tried to forget his past , but it comes back to haunt him after the death of one of his friends . Very important to the film genre as it is to Eastwood , making him one of the best directors and stars around . One of the best westerns ever and the best film of 1992 ( though kids might get scared ) .
Disturbingly effective , for two audiences	A while back I thought after seeing Seven that this is a film gets in the crowd of the macabre disturbing films including Texas Chainsaw Massacre , Clockwork Orange , Dawn of the Dead , etc . It does and then it doesn't as well . It has that kind of horrific core on display of humanities ills alongside the violent nature . But it is also a Hollywood thriller , with big stars , and on that level it's just as affecting and successful . It's almost like a crossover film by having this mystery-investigation side of the story , led by Putt and Freeman , while the investigation itself making it pretty clear its no-holds-barred moments . Fincher's work as a director here is absolute in making style serve the story . It does this and more by making grissly images of cruelness and dark vibes that would make Nosferatu cringe ( slightly ) . Story follows aging detective ( Freeman in one of his better roles ) and new detective ( Pitt does OK here , too ) who hunt down a killer who is doing it in according to the 7 deadly sins . Nailbitting all the way to the end , even when we find out the John Doe ( and if your on this site , you know Kevin Spacey plays one of the most clever villains in recent thriller history ) . Entertaining , and with an everlasting appeal that has spawned on a series of lesser films ( i . e . Saw ) , and still holding up just as strong ten + years later .
it's so embedded in the popular culture and cinema history its easy to forget how much fun the film is	Double Indemnity , first showed to me a few years back in a film class ( naturally ) , struck me in certain ways , and then the more I thought about it afterward even more-so . I watched it again very soon after , and of course agreed with the teacher that it was the " textbook film-noir " , practically defining the ' average Joe ' male lead , the ' femme fatale , and the usages of very specific lighting in almost all of the key night scenes ( outdoor and in ) . But through a lot of the hype surrounding the picture , it would be one thing if it had all of these qualities and then ended up being not too interesting . As it turns out not only is it that , it's also a great hoot of a story , with tongue at times placed so much in cheek the real seriousness and grit of the picture gets lost in the attitude . I can imagine Billy Wilder , after his many strained writing sessions with the master Raymond Chandler , reading the script and wondering ' should a movie from the point of view of the criminals pulling multiple crimes be this amusing ' ? At the time , perhaps , it was nothing but hard-to-the-bone thrilling stuff , with Fred MacMurray's tough , though of course clever , dialog , and the sultry Barbara Stanwyck ( and lest not forget Edward G . Robinson , who's presence in the film is enough to garner it attention right away ) . But with time maybe the film has even grown more appealing in a way ; I know that , for example , the narration in some parts was such a direct influence for the Naked Gun movies that it almost becomes funny in and of itself . But all through this its just a solid story , from Cain's novel , pumped to cinematic life and given enough vigor to last long enough to be written about as one of the all-time classics of cinema in general , not just American . It also contains the one time a man says to another man " I love you , too " and it's so humorous and keenly cool that its almost endearing .
One of the Best Documentaries Ever made	Woodstock is a great documentary . It is edited very well and has great spirit and music in the mix . For the generation of the time it was what symbolized them , and I think this is the perfect film for them . Edited very finely ( by the director , Oscar Winning editor Thelma Schoonmaker and the man himself , Martin Scorsese ) with many parts of the movie in separate sides in great splendor . I think this film is the best movie in which a sound track was made , and one of the best documentaries ever made ( definitely the best of the 70's ) .
a true tragic-comedy , balanced out to pure Michael Moore	Michael Moore , even with all of those who have lambasted him over and over again , serves a strong purpose in this day and age . In a time when democrats can whimper out of many an issue , Moore is someone who's got guts as a muckraker and filmmaker , but also as just a thinking member of the populous . The health-care crisis ( and it is a crisis , in America anyway ) is his target this time , and it's one that goes beyond the usual party politics or instantly hot-button issues like , Bush and guns . Everyone gets sick , it's a fact of life , and unless you're young and healthy and die instantly in a car crash or other you're bound to have to deal with death and the ailments that perpetually lead to it . It's not Moore's intention to find out how people get sick - that could be for a whole other movie , probably by somebody else - but to reveal two major things . how America , the only first-world nation to not provide universal health-care , makes it in the corporate interest for the insurance companies to people to STAY sick and , even crueler , to more than likely let one die than to help save a life ( and not simply for those who don't have health-care , but for those who do and get screwed as if it were with your car ) . And , how other countries , countries that the news media in this country for many years has said is wrong and bad in different respects ( eg France and Cuba ) , pretty much laugh when asked questions like " do you have to pay ? " or " how much does your medication cost . " What Moore is revealing here ever so clearly is how common sense is put to the wayside and used as an issue , at least by the government , who by the way are paid off by the insurance companies , and pragmatism is put aside for profit . There are some crushing scenes , aside from the typical human interest angles - and there may be more here than in any other Moore film , for first third it's nothing but depressing testimonials ranging from choosing which cut off finger to save to ' I had a brain tumor , and later died ' - where we see one person stand up to testify to congress in 1996 about what horrors the insurance companies allowed by way of choosing money over actual care , and maybe as one of the greatest real-life moments / tributes to fallen humanity a poor woman who's dropped off in a cab from her hospital back to the slums , shown on the security cameras as wandering around in a total daze . And what's more terrifying to contemplate than a baby ( actually two babies to be precise ) dying of a fever due to the HMO not covering enough for proper care ? It comes down to Moore having to ask a question he's been pondering throughout his research : Who are we ? What have we become ? But it would be less typical of Moore to not have his satirist's cap on some of the time , and there are many moments where Sicko is blisteringly funny , as when he showcases the " terrors " of socialism and its connection to social health-care ( featuring Ronald Regean on an instructional record from many years past ) , or just in his choice of songs ( i . e . " I got a golden ticket " ) , or in his bravest move , an exceptional balance of tragic sincerity and laugh-out-loud theatrics , in taking a group of workers who were permanently marked with major health problems left untreated due to over-priced health-care to Guantanamo Bay , the only place on US soil where there IS free health-care . As usual , Moore is top-notch in putting together freewheeling images of pop-culture and images of politicians in mock-able order ( number signs over the congressmen as to how much they're bought by lobbyists ) , and he skillfully weaves together bits of levity when he's talking with his international counterparts - Canadians included - while making it endlessly informative in an accessible way . I loved the scenes in England when we're given light on how National Healthcare works , how it all seems to work out for both patients ( who actually get paid to get rides home ) and the doctors . The same levity , of course , can revert to a creepy feeling , like hearing how the current form of American health-care got started - thanks Nixon ! A lot of this , as any great work of non-fiction film-making should do , will stir up questions from anyone who's willing to go for the simple premise that the insurance companies make things a hundred thousand times more difficult than in the other countries presented . It's always a tough call regarding taxes , and if they should be raised or not , but even if that isn't the case the posit of Sicko , an extremely well presented one , should not be ignored . Presented as an accessible entertainment while also a call to arms , Sicko is one of the most important films of the year , and maybe just as prevalent , funny , and consciousness-shattering in impact as Fahrenheit .
the best mockumentary of the year you won't see	CSA : The Confederate States of America just got released in maybe a few more theaters in America , after being repressed ( or just not getting the right distribution until IFC intervened ) in limited distribution . Maybe I can see why it'll be one of the under-seen films of 2006 . This is a very involving , at times disturbing , and funny in a way that you cringe & / or chuckle film , where writer / director Kevin Willmott makes a striking attack at the racism that is unfortunately inherent in American history . By making the film a rip on the kinds of PBS documentaries that Ken Burns has carved his niche in , and by turning up everything that has happened since the end of the Civil War , he has a lot to shoot at target-wise in a completely , unabashedly ironic sense . But what's surprising at times is how accurate it all is . Basic story , or is it ? The C . S . A . is America if the Union lost , Lincoln got exiled to Canada ( where all 20 , 000 of the abolitionists and people of freedom and good conscience left to ) , and Jefferson Davis became President . Oh , and don't forget slavery . In fact , The Confederate States of America is if nothing else all about the slaves , keeping them , making sure they are ALL black , including the ' mixed ' , and how their reach spreads out to Mexico and South America . Willmott skillfully mixes not only the 20th century history of hate ( Hitler for example ) and hope ( Kennedy ) and turns it all on its ear through a combination that somehow worked for me . It's not very high-budgeted , but it is authentic in that the acting is exactly how one of these TV documentaries would be like , heavy-set narrator and all . But at the same time of this kind of very sincere , dramatic approach to telling the history of this disturbing alternate world of 150 years of history , there is a very un-hinged approach to dealing with the racism of it , which is extreme considering , well , the slave-owning , Aryan-dominated confederacy won . There are brilliant little commercials dealing with products and services for white people based on either keeping the slaves from running away , or making fun of them on sitcoms . The actors used for some of these sequences may not be as on target or amazing as those in a Christopher Guest picture , and there may be one or two story holes ( did Hitler win WW2 ? ) , but where the film succeeds is in really stirring one once the film is all said and done . The epilogue to the film , involving the REAL products and places that displayed the harsh racism lasting until as late as twenty years ago ( one of them has a mention in the film Ghost World by the way ) , puts into perspective what has occurred ; you may even feel a little weird about having laughed at what happened , what does that say about me or the other people in the theater ? Laughter works , at least for this . A sharp , not-for-everyone satire that should hopefully become a satirical cult film .
PJ doing what it does best ; get the DVD !	Pearl Jam have proved themselves to be one of the enduring rock and roll bands of the 90's - still together , still making moving , combustible music that finds that perfect edge of hard-rock while still appealing to a massive audience . For its own cult group , which is rather big in and of itself , a DVD like Touring Band 2000 is a given to buy and soak up multiple times , but for the casual PJ fan it's worthwhile also . Classics like ' Daughter ' , ' Better Man ' , ' Even Flow ' , and some of my other favorites like ' Animal ' and ' Rocking in the Free World ' are among the lot of over two dozen songs included . The added treat is that the songs are NOT inter-cut with interviews , like other music DVD documentaries , and that they are from various concerts giving the wide range of material . I even dug the grainy style of filming , which could get under my skin , but stays above the line of incompetent , amateur filming . The style matches the energy and attitude that pours out of PJ with every song . However , one should get the DVD for its added bonus : bonus music videos , including one in particular for a favorite off of Yield - ' Do the Evolution ' , one of their very best videos directed by Todd McFarlane . To have this on video somewhere is a big treat .
four of the greatest rock epics ever , all in one concert !	To see a complete concert from the Doors is like taking a wild trip into a different frame of mind in rock and roll , when you could see just about anything on stage creatively . This concert , from 1968 in Hollywood , is the band in their utmost prime . With the Doors you get the strange , overpowering presence and lead-man power of Jim Morrison , who gets in such a frame of mind during his sets one wonders if he puts himself in a trance ( or maybe not - before ' The End ' plays , he tries to tell the lighting people to fix something , and it becomes a little comical ) . Bottom line is that the concert features the best of the Doors live , and for especially the more blues-driven rock fans , there are some great numbers of ' Alabama Song ' , ' Back Door Man ' , and ' Five to One ' . But mostly , and this was the pleasure for me , the highlights include the longer songs - the slow , pulsating ' When the Music's Over ' , the classic hit ' Light my Fire ' ( as many times as I've heard it on the radio , it never gets old live ) , ' The End ' being one of the Doors most notorious and beautiful epics , and their most stream-of-consciousness work ' Celebration of the Lizard ' which has the distinction of having Morrison's poetry overcoming the rock parts of the song . Basically , it's one of the purest rock concert videos out there , and it may even turn on some casual observers of the Doors to check out more of the non-radio stuff like ' Lizard ' and ' Spanish Caravan ' .
" Nothing to touch the earth , not to see the sun , nothing left to do but run , run , run , let's run . "	This is just a sampling of the lyrics that singer / writer Jim Morrison contributed to his group The Doors , and just this , as part of his epic piece " The Celebration of the Lizard " shows his skill as a master of the written word . He is shown in Oliver Stone's The Doors as a shy , though often obnoxious and crude , persona who self describes himself in one scene : " I think of myself as a sensitive , intelligent human being , but with the soul of a clown that forces me to blow it at the most crucial of moments . " He may have blown it in the end , but it makes for a fascinating story . As being a Doors fan , the music and words are the best character of the movie - the songs represent feelings and emotions , desires and hatreds , and other facets of life in the late 60's , are indispensable gems of rock and blues . While the Doors recorded only six albums together ( not counting American Prayer , Morrison's awesome feat of an album ) each one is still transfixed into the minds of people all over the world . It's thirty-two years since the king died , but in another thirty-two he will still be remembered . And that is a fact that Stone plays with like Travis Bickle in front of the mirror with his guns in Taxi Driver . He reveals only Morrison's known persona , and not the quiet moments . The concert recreations are grand , but there isn't more of the sweet Jim ( one glimpse of such a Jim is seen at a birthday party when he gives out gifts as " Chief Mojo Risin ) What is shown is splendid enough for his abilities - he paints a vivid picture of Los Angeles 1965 onward , with Val Kilmer in the second best acting job of 1991 ( deserved of an Oscar nomination ) , and puts Jim in the middle . He is a man who is fascinated with death , with man's wills to power , and how life gets painful without the chemicals top open the mind . Kilmer gets so much into your head in this film that by the end you'll love him , hate him , or feel wonder about him . I felt wonder about him , wonder why he looked to heroes who gave him such ideas about the love of death , wonder why he felt the need to take it to the limits . But his desires are Stone's as well , and while this isn't a perfect film , it's one that isn't easily forgotten .
for the casual Doors observer it'll do it's job and be interesting , but it's gold for the die-hard Doors fan	I knew that this video existed , but it seemed to vanish in the wake of videos and the call of DVDs . Luckily , it was included in the Doors collection DVD set among two other good specials ( Dance on Fire , a best-of collection , and a live concert in 1968 ) . It was my favorite of the three for several reasons , but not least of which that it tends to be less music-video-ized by director Ray Manzarek ( not that there aren't some patched together pieces , like with " the Changeling " and " The Unknown Soldier " , which is live here ) . Most of the video includes documentary footage - clips from a television special ( their last in the USA I believe ) , and two priceless live performances , the first being of behind-the-scenes on ' Wild Child ' , and the other from the special called " Build me a Woman " ( one of personal favorites ) . Even more indelible are two clips of interviews with the Doors , in particular Jim Morrison , who gives cool , intelligent words to say about the future of music , and on how his poetry fits in with the Doors . It all leads up to the title track of the video , which is one of the longer Doors songs ( and very entrancing in some ways ) . So , for the avid Doors fan , or just fan of the music from the period ( or rock in general I'd guess ) , this is a must-have . But it may turn on some too - it's a mix of blues , straight-up rock , pop , and poetic stances on life and the beyond .
a visual fable of the highest order - one of the five great future films ever made	Fritz Lang was constantly experimenting with ways to tell stories by way of the visual medium , and his 1927 opus Metropolis is the cream of the crop of examples of this . Perhaps it was seeing the film in the greatest possible format ( a fully restored print on the KINO DVD , filled with inter-titles to keep the story complete ) that had me appreciate it more , but even if I had seen the film on a scratchy print or with not very appropriate music ( I heard one version had a horrible rock score attached to it ) , it would still be affecting . At the core of the story , Lang and his collaborator Thea von Harbou , the sides of good vs . evil , or at least the complete lack of understanding of the powerful over the weak , is set up so strongly that even when it has it's fairy-tale type of heaviness to it , it doesn't seem to feel compromised in strength or relevance for adults . This is the kind of film that should work for anyone , young and old , as it deals with universal themes ( i . e . " The mediator between Head and Hands must be the Heart ! " ) The story leaves room for the visual style to come through - Freder is the son of a kind of Imperial man over the workers who die for the machines of Metropolis , Joh Frederson . He feels the sorrow and pain of the people , and goes down to their level to be one of them . He falls in love with the most compassionate and angelic of women , Maria ( played by the beautiful Brigitte Helm , in multiple roles she plays without a fault ) , who succumbs to capture after the jealously of Freder's father . Enter the robot , a marvel of a mad scientist , who gets transposed from Maria , and becomes the havoc-wrecker of the part of Metropolis . I won't reveal too much of the story , except to mention that as a foreshadowing for Freder for the last act , as he wakes up in one scene the Book of Revelations sits in his lap . Amidst in all of this , Metropolis is a masterpiece of visual effects , camera-tricks , and of course editing ( if I wouldn't quite rank Metropolis in my all-time top ten favorites , I would rank it in terms of the editing and pacing Lang uses , which is apparent even in a permanently truncated version ) . It starts off with the image of the machine transposed over steam , and then soon moves to a vision of a city that was not far off from how it is in present day ( cars moving on roads built to the sky , airplanes flying every-which way , and mammoth skyscrapers built in extravagant ways . But it's not just the use of the models , or the sets , or the backdrops , or even the use of space and atmosphere in most of Lang's shots ( which are all spectacular ) , it's also the use of light that really caught my attention throughout the film . One thing I remember still days after seeing the film is the use of one spotlight on the character of Maria in a suspense scene ( it also appears in other scenes I think ) . It's little things like that which make as big an impact as the montages , the super-impositions of faces and eyes in the dream-like shots . And , of course , Lang's greatest innovation with the film is that in telling a futuristic story , he goes beyond his time period in stylizing . As I mentioned with the pacing being unique , it was surprising ( though maybe not as much from seeing his classic M ) that many of the suspense sequences , mob scenes / riots , chases , I knew that this is the same kind of styling that's used today for many of the most modern of science-fiction / action films . In its own way , much like Stanley Kubrick's 2001 Space Oddysey , it breaks the mold of conventional forms of storytelling , while not completely abandoning the storytelling form . Although Metropolis has a checkered history of being cut down by countries , and it hasn't been seen in its full form in almost eighty years , what remains doesn't seem at all dated or crude . Quite the opposite , its visual expressiveness , its use of time and character and action , and its deliberate pacing , makes it ahead of its time and influential , and at the same time keeping itself unique . It's a tale we're all familiar with , being the tale of love and compassion coming into play in an industrial , cruel world - which I'm sure was even more relevant to post WW1 Germany at the time - filmed with a mix of over-the-top melodrama , mega-budget set-pieces , and designs that confound the senses . Add the appropriate music , and you've got a classic fantasy . A tremendous film to see two , three , a dozen times over - though some of those too impatient for films without spoken words ( or by the operatic dramatic side of it all ) may become disappointed or frustrated .
Don't Look Back part deux	Another slice of the time capsule is what 65 Revisited comes down to - a capsule from the ' Don't Look Back ' documentary , where Pennebaker put his practically objective 16mm lens on Dylan and what might be considered his crossover period ( I say ' practically ' since it's right before his electric switch , which may or may not had happened on the tour , it might've not , I can't say yet till I listed to the commentary ) . What's so great about Pennebaker's films of Dylan - this shouldn't be considered any more or less than what DLB gave its audience which was unfiltered Zim up on the screen , is that he has the fly-on-the-wall approach . He's just there , and Dylan is just there ( or is he ? ) and aside from the beautiful acoustic performances given , we see a Dylan - even more in Revisited arguably - jovial and kidding around . A reporter asks him " What will you be doing in the future ? " Dylan says , with a grin , " Sleeping , about 60 years . " There are also the moments of downtime with Dylan and Joan Baez in a room improvising some folk tunes , or Baez just softly singing as Dylan goes feverish on the typewriter . The structure also goes a way to represent the structure , if there is any , to traveling on the road , one place merging into the next , a long continuous chain . At one point we see Dylan a little ambivalent with fans , but who's to say if he'll meet the same fans when he comes to Birmingham , or Sheffield , or some other small town ? Prophet ? Probably not , but with something to say and sing and play . It's relatively short , but you get a very cool offering as an extra on the Don't Look Back DVD ( or , if you had the chance , for one week only at the IFC in NYC ) , as there's just a little more added to the plate of Dylan-lore , and a look that strips down , if only a bit , the myth-making that surrounded Dylan in the 60s . It's raw documentary film-making at its best .
a wonderful romantic comedy , both light and dark , and ultimately bittersweet .	Michel Gondry has been a name branded into my movie-going consciousness ever since Eternal Sunshine , though he's also been extremely adept and unique with his direction of various music videos ( some of the best being for the White Stripes ) . After Block Party earlier this year now comes The Science of Sleep , and it's further proof of the filmmaker's need to tell of a character , and a vision , making it onto the screen in a way that has sides both touching and deranged , sweet and dark , and like all dreams they're not for those always expecting precise ' logic ' . It doesn't work that way in a Gondry film , it's more about getting something up there that sometimes is very real , and awkward , and weirdly funny , but then also scenes that ask us to peer inside of a character's brain and walk around without missing a step . It's ambitious without being too stuck-up with itself to close off viewers who might not usually go to the art-houses . But what got me really hooked into the all-too-surreal logic of the film , is how the character of Stephane ( Gael Garcia Bernal ) has his dreams become more of the reality than the reality itself . And this same perplexity makes the Science of Sleep always something trippy , but not pretentious sort of ' trip ' . It's ingenious meddling with the cinematic elements that are at his disposal . One of the great things utilized is stop-motion animation . It's truly a hard process to pull off , which is why for feature films - unlike the numerous music videos that this sort of inadvertently pays homage to while being unique on its own - it rarely is seen . But to see what the animation team , led by Lauri Faggioni , and production designers do with Gondry's ideas and script is to see something even rarer in movies from recent memory - elements many of us know , such as a horse or cars or skiing or other things , and turn them into original set-pieces and creations . All of this does have to connect somehow through the real people in the film , such as Stephane and Stephanie ( charming Charlotte Gansburg ) and Stephane's co-workers ( Alain Chabat's Guy is the funniest ) , and this is still achieved too . The story is all set-up so that it's all preamble for the real meat of the picture of the wild dreams and fantasies : Stephane gets a job at a calender factory he doesn't like , and moving back into an apartment not lived in in years , he meets Stephanie across the hall , likes her , is friendly with her , and they're even playful , but love on top of it ? The crises of work , Stephane's past , his imagined self of a TV show , and the women in his life , all begin to cross from his dreams into reality , and the distortions of this - and of his personality - take their toll . Towards the end , one might almost be apprehensive of saying Bernal still plays Stephane with him being believable or sympathetic , but maybe by the end it's not even really the point . There is a sense of loss by the end of the picture , but not a heavy one , as the drama of the story still can't give way totally to the delightful chunks throughout . This is almost like a film made for kids , but for adults more than anything ( Guy is one of those ultra-horn-dog men who even in Stephane's dreams remains as such even when Stephane wield's gigantic hands and controls the environments to bend people to his will ) . So this sort of crossroads gives something very fulfilling for the open mature viewer . It taps into what it's like being a kid , but then also in a coming-of-age sort of way having to deal with the realities that can't totally be dealt with in dreams . There's a sort of desperation in Stephane to be more than he is , and have more than he does , and he can never really articulate everything to Stephanie , who does love him to a degree , or doesn't as well . Like Eternal Sunshine - if not to a totally successful level - Gondry is looking at the inner-workings of two people and why and why not they could click together , through the fanciful times and the more emotionally tarnished ones . This substance level is upheld most of all by the images , the cinematography excellent even in the reality-based scenes where practically all is hand-held , though it's quite memorable and free-wheeling with the images in the dreams . I loved seeing the fake cars , the over-emphasized sets and figures , all putting an absurdity in the surrealism ( it might be one of those rare crosses , too , of absurdism and surrealism in modern films ) that's also very funny . If it's not really for all tastes it's understandable , and it doesn't have the more well-rounded and known cast of ' Sunshine ' . But it's bound to have me seeing it again sometime soon , just to take in some of these incredible ( in a not-CGI way ) special effects , and even Bernal's performance to a degree . One of the best pictures of the year .
Walt Disney Pictures presents : a film by David Lynch ; far from it being a crazy concept , it's a sweet little slice of great film-making	What a truly and unabashedly serene road movie this is . Lynch , through his co-writer / wife's script , seems to understand how simple but not so simple life and the people living in rural areas can be . Veering on part Iowa-neorealist fable and in part a truly experimental feat for the filmmaker ( eg how to match together the absurd yet sort of logically illogical comedy of everyday life with true whimsical overtones in visual style and choice in leading role ) , The Straight Story provides some measurable food for thought , however in little doses , and if there was ever a film that I might want to have playing right before I die - or even at my funeral , as some people have songs - it would be this . Rarely do actors get enough leverage out of playing kindly old people , but Farnsworth really digs down deep for something that is , actually , not too far from his real life ( the aches and pains in just getting up from his lawnmower seat and walking around were truer than just in portraying Straight , as Farnsworth had early-stage bone cancer during filming ) . Though aside from physical presence , Farnsworth makes an easy role not so easy . Beneath Straight's stubborn , well-mannered but no BS-in exterior , there's some demons he carries , mostly from WW2 , and a life lived via good times and very bad times in the history of his family shows always on his face and his fragile eyes . It's an extraordinary turn , and it's one of those career-capping performances that many actors only wish they could achieve let alone a veteran stuntman turned character actor like Farnsworth . And as for Lynch , he takes a few playfully wicked stabs at the rural life he's portraying , though playful the key word ; spouts of dramatic conflict and comedy come in the forms of a whole fleet of bicyclists riding on the other side of the road , or a woman who's hit one too many deer , or when he just has to get out of the rain - albeit there's one shot , one of the very best I've seen in a Lynch film , as Straight stars his journey and we see it from a perspective of the road as an uproarious in-joke to Lost Highway . Many crane shots and sweeping views of fields and tracking shots of the man on his mower are splendid , but it's this contrasted with how intimately portrayed the human interactions are , on levels of the goodness and occasional slow-ness of small-town folk , that scores Lynch his richest points . Although the film does end on a note that's satisfactory only in the sense that it leaves it on a " well , we made it , that's what counts " kind of level , and that it's far from being Badalamenti's best musical score overall ( some of it feels like it should accompany a Quaker Oats commercial , which maybe is the point ) , it remains a small but succinct triumph of the aging human spirit , where the light side of Americana still has its quirks via the Lynch universe , and abstraction blends into naturalism with the greatest of ease .
Bizarre , frightening , oddly beautiful	David Lynch's Blue Velvet is many things , but it definitely is one of the most audacious and original pictures from the 80's . It blends in humor from the good old days and macabre that would make Tobe Hooper cringe ( if only a little bit ) . It's a type of movie filled with so much style and little cinema tricks that some might not see the substance . I saw it about three times in two days to get it all in and I must say that the films themes do match the style on the surface . Beneath is something that the viewer will have to judge and I can not go into . Kyle MacLaughlin plays a regular kid who comes upon a single ear and that is the start of his search to find who is behind the cutting of this ear . He and another teenage girl ( Laura Dern in a very early role ) , or mainly by himself , he fins a possibly mentally unbalanced nightclub singer ( Isabella Rosselini ) is in danger from a hopped up madman , played by Dennis Hopper in one of his top 5 roles ever . One thing I should point out though , is that when I said it is in the viewer's hands often in this film is because Rosselini's character is alternately meant to be sympathetic , but then she does acts and wants acts done to her ( get my drift ) that will make many seem puzzled as how a woman caught in a situation like the one she's in can be so fed up . In the overall view , the film brings a compelling story brought even more compelling with awesome performances and style to burn . Some might not find the humor spread about and might feel angry ( a certain R . Ebert for example ) when uneeded satire is brought to a scene where a woman is lying naked on a lawn . But I just think it's meant to soften the shock , if only in some demented way . A worthwhile view into the perpetual dark-side of human nature , if only once .
a gritty , lost classic in the biker movie era	On the one hand , after watching Angels Hard as They Come , I could understand why it's not higher rated or even been seen anymore than the common garden-variety B-movie biker flick , as it is true shamelessly Corman-style . On the other hand , I ended really liking how it was executed . The collaborators , Joe Viola and Jonathan Demme , wring out plenty of dirty fun out of such violent and twisted material without ' softening ' it up like some biker movies of the period . It's got almost no characters from the ' outside ' world , just bikers , and maybe a few hippies ( and yes , one of them an out-of-place and amusingly one-note Gary Busey ) . So part of the entertainment comes from bikers just being as rough and crazy as possible . But with this the writers come up with some unexpectedly funny moments , some more harsh than others , and sometimes even commenting on some of the absurdities of the Dragons . This is done dialog-wise many times - as Viola's style isn't nearly as strong or affecting as Demme provides - and sometimes through ideas shown and it all being realistic even as its crudely artificial . One such scene , as a quick example , is when the leader of the pack General ( Charles Dierkop as a well-played maniac ) is seen from the waist up having short moment of pleasure , then as the camera pans down his motorcycle is getting a cleaning ( pun intended , but then the title itself is almost there just for a goof ) . Or in having one of the side characters , the one black character of a story , adrift in the desert , almost putting to a stop the Corman rule of there being almost constant danger & / or fights & / or sex / nudity / et all . Other ideas abound in the crazy extremities that the Dragons go through against the three Angels ( one being Scott Glenn in maybe the best ' acting ' of the film ) , including a final idea that never does come to fruition . All through , the filmmakers basically acknowledge what kind of film they're making , and don't skimp out on the early biker movies might not have dealt with , at least as much . Rape , racism , torture , pure decadence and decay in the devastation . But the factor of it all having practically a Western-movie element to it , a B-Western at that , is not thrown away for a story without focus . It's arcane and simplistic in music , usually exploitive in themes and character , and it's got the cinematic flavor of a beer soaked ashtray . But to hell if it isn't one of my favorites of its kind , if only on the most guilty-pleasure level .
one of the best episodes - at least an obvious fan favorite - Ricardo Montalban's finest hour ! . . .	. . . till the Wrath of Khan that is . In a precursor to one of the finest Stark Trek films , this is the episode that introduces the ' superman ' type of villain in specially-bred Khan , who came aboard the enterprise following a sort of ' dethawing ' that awoke him from sleep since the 1990s . It's a fascinating episode just on the basis of how there is almost a game made out of power , of things that aren't said but intonated about who's in charge . And the title , to be sure , isn't just something suggestive . There's a power-ideal going on there too , a Darwin thing almost . Oh sure , there's the typical facet of the villain taking over the ship and making the crew choose the captain ( death ) or him ( subservience to an Alexander-type figure ) . Sure there's the defector in McGievens , who lit by the cameramen to look like she's in an impressionist painting , and how she loses sight of her professional interest in history for the magnetism of his will when he says ( paraphrasing ) " stay or go , but do as you truly decide " . But it's all pulled off with the utmost attention to entertainment , as well as some of the usual bright food-for-though in the Trek cannon . It's also a riot just seeing Montelban and Shatner go head to head - a kind of battle of the bulge in over-acting and machismo-steel looks - and this goes without saying that this is only the first step before things really went overboard on the 1982 sequel . It's wonderful pop-iconic stuff , with dashes of humor and statements on tyranny .
certainly the smartest of the " talking-head " shows on cable-news TV	In a time when watching Chris Matthews , Tucker Carlson , Lou Dobbs , Bill O'Reilly and Hannity can be repetitive , boring , safe , wretched , and just downright wrong and bullying ( even if the former sometimes is OK ) , Keith Olbermann is a sublime respite . Yes , he'll make his point of view known , but an unpopular one ? I think not ; when watching Olbermann go into one of his " special comments " it comes about as close to - if not quite as classical - as an Edward R . Murrow speech rallying against one injustice or another . It's actually inspiring to see what is usually just another ' talking-head ' speaking intelligently not from some vapid " gut " ala O'Reilly , but from facts that send many Americans as of late into a tailspin . How to put such a travesty like the Bush administration into a context of articulation ( and one that isn't of full-on satire like the Daily Show ) ? Look at Olbermann . But it isn't all serious and such ; one of the great joys of Countdown is that , within the parameters of the archetype of the structure of the show . Olbermann makes his show into fun satire and moments of levity following the first half just the typical lot ( though an interesting lot usually ) of talking heads , with his " Best Person " and " Worst Person " listing , Oddball moments ( videos of crazy Santa's or deer jumping over a car as it's driving , among many , many , many other classic bits that most often would be left in the dregs of you-tube ) . He's a man that understands irony - he's not one to back down from giving a scathing comment against someone whom he thinks deserves it ( and , whatever affiliation you have , you got to admit that he can give the sucker punch linguistically like few others in cable news , and not with the rancor of some of his rivals ) . But he's also a man of conscience , and he'll reveal himself as having more lucid thoughts on a subject than one would ever expect of a Tucker or even Anderson Cooper or other . For me , it's one of the most addictive shows on cable TV news .
Another one to add to my top 50 - a delicate study of desperation in post war Italy	Vittorio De Sica's ground / heartbreaking motion picture , The Bicycle Thief , is based on a very simple ideal for a story - man against the elements . In this case the elements are of a society that is often cruel and unforgiving , and that a job in post-war Rome is looked on as the luckiest of good luck charms . Such a man as presented by De Sica is Maggiorani ( an actor who really is the type of actor right off the street ) , a father of a little boy who gets a job putting up movie posters along some walls in Rome . To do this he needs a bicycle , or the job will be lost , and he gets one following a pawning of linen sheets . Very soon though , the bicycle is stolen , and from there a sad downward spiral unravels for the man and his son as they scour the streets for the bicycle . While the score adds basic dramatic tension , everything else on the screen is done to such a pitch of neo-realism it's at times shattering , joyful ( scene in the pizzeria the most note-worthy ) , and with a feeling of day-to-day resonance to those who may have not even felt at or below the poverty level in their lives . Credit due to all parties involved , though I don't think the boy Bruno , played by Staiola , gets nearly enough considering his role as a minor coming of age ( that moment after the father and son leave the church nearly brought tears to my eyes ) .
One of the best of Italian , and Fellini's , films	Great movie by Federico Fellini that reveals in the minute details of life , even as his visions go wild . I saw the film again recently and realized how much I didn't see when I first saw it ( and reviewed it subsequently in an improper , amateurish way ) in my own youth . It's a film detailing a specific place in Italy at a specific time , and though the eccentricities of the characters that Fellini lays out ( not to mention the bizarre performances these players put in ) , it captures this time and place without fail . And unlike a couple of Fellini's other films it really isn't as confusing as I first though ; his works at times are like those poems read one year and then taken again years later work on another level . Some of the images in Amarcord in particularly are quite strange , and beautiful often at the same time ( and the director's affinity for putting at least one large , cartoonish-type woman is on display here as well ) . That it's been called semi-autobiographical isn't without its merit , but more in that Fellini is tapping into his emotions and sights and sounds from that time , however abstracted it might seem . Anyone who loves a good foreign film , and may not have seen a Fellini film , may do well to check this one out .
" . . . Do you lie ? "	The Departed is the most entertaining kind of non-stop , intense crime thriller of the year , maybe in the past few years . Some critics have said that it's the best film that director Martin Scorsese has made since Goodfellas . I understand where the compliment comes from , though I slightly resent the subtle criticism in the charge as well , meaning that Scorsese hasn't made a film as great or powerful or entertaining in over fifteen years . I would even go far as saying this is Scorsese's best since , well , Scorsese's last film , or at least since Gangs of New York . Some may forget , or maybe just not really take in , how consistently strong Scorsese's career has been overall , how he keeps on taking chances and still keeping his style so instictually ' cinematic ' ( he is possibly the biggest " film-geek " ever ) , so distinctive , and even so fresh in the 21st century , that his is a career akin to the likes of Kurosawa ( many masterpieces , and otherwise very good to excellent efforts ) . The difference though this time from some of his previous outings - and this is perhaps the correlation with Goodfellas besides the obvious of genre linking - is that it's pure , devilish fun , it goes by quickly but supremely satisfyingly over what doesn't really feel like 2 hours , and it's cast is uniformly good . Leonardo Di Caprio in particular is so impressive here - and this may be the first-viewing-buzz talking , it might be my favorite of all the performances I've seen him in up till now . Under Scorsese these past several years he's kind of grown up more and more from the oddly pubescent look to him even in his 20's . His performance as Costigan is often very ferocious and tough , but he also makes it a fully rounded character , one that he makes very much his own . He has a dark past , almost too dark to even be an informant for the Boston PD . His whole family is messed up , and there were even links to Frank Costello ( Jack Nicholson ) . So , what better way then to send Costigan into Costello's wing and see what comes out ? Then the flip-side comes with Matt Damon's Colin , who infiltrates the police department in legitimate fashion . Damon's is the flip-side as well in performance quality to Di Caprio ; while Di Caprio , even when lying through his teeth , is truthful to the bone and always believable , Damon is pitch perfect as a bold-faced liar , as he never flinches for a moment , even when caught like a deer in the headlights . And the performances end up making a sort of square , with Damon and Di Caprio in their own corners , the bulk of the excellent supporting players ( Martin Sheen , Marky-Mark Wahlberg , Ray Winstone , Vera Farmiga in a breakthrough role ) on one , and Jack Nicholson all on his own . That was the first thing about hearing of the Departed that had me psyched , knowing that one of the great stars / actors of the past 40 years was teaming up with someone with a stature and track record like Scorsese's . With Nicholson in the role Frank Costello is at first already a character to feel is the ' man ' in the room when he walks in and talks . But as far as performance goes , it's vintage Nicholson all the way , digging into it with the style , vigor , wit , charm , and all that and a bag of shark-grin chips that have made Nicholson so remarkable . His is such a dastardly character that it teeters on becoming self-parody , but both director and actor know how to reel the part in to being someone to fear , while also being someone who's a helluva lot of fun . It's worthy of an Oscar nomination , and not just because it's Nicholson in a movie . As for the director and his crew , they have assembled what could be by the bare essentials nothing more than a genre film with a premise that seems a little cooked-up . But , of course , it is a remake of a trilogy of Hong-Kong police pictures , so that may be why the premise and story feels not completely original , even as it's passing itself off as one . Yet that too didn't detract . If anything , I felt as if Scorsese was doing what very few filmmakers working today - particularly this year if you look at what's come out - don't do , which is to take material , and not just do a simple ' remake ' , but to do a re imaging , a refashioning , a full-on reinterpretation into the deeper aspects , in this case the morality and sense of loss among all of these characters . There's some religious bits put in , as it IS Scorsese after all , but this time there isn't something like in Mean Streets where it's always there in the background . Here the characters are on , like in Goodfellas , a version of hell , where things all do come to a head ; the last thirty minutes had me laughing , cringing , and mouth-agape in equal measures . In other words , go see this film , if you think it might be up your alley , and you think you were burned by Scorsese ever since he left behind modern-time crime pictures ten years ago .
the David Lynch film is his funniest ( though still with some strangeness to bear )	I saw the David Lynch short film , the Cowboy and the Frenchman , not with this mini-series , but on a DVD featuring some of his other recent and early short film work . While this wasn't necessarily the most ' Lynchian ' of the bunch on the disc ( check out the Amputee or Alphabet for that ) , it happens to contain more laughs per minute than any of Lynch's other films . Often his work contains dark , almost next-to-death like black comedy that almost comes out by accident from the terror and drama that is laid into his surrealism ( and , of course as Bunuel has shown , without humor surrealism is quite boring ) . But this time the surrealism is kept to a low-key as Lynch puts more humor into the blatant , uncomfortable differences between American cowboys and an aloof Frenchman who's stumbled upon the ranch . The cowboys , one of them played by the great Lynch regular Harry Dean Stanton , can't understand a word he says , searches through his luggage to find every piece of ' French ' kind of wares around , and are just generally perplexed . Oh , and there's also a Native American to boot , adding a little more un-ease to the situation . It's the kind of comedy that would usually be found in a Jarmusch film , where cultural differences add some humanistic amusement to characters who are trying to relate on common ground . But the minimalism of it helps keep the laughs coming , and then here and there little touches come in to definitely remind us that the director has his stamp on the material ( like the singing ladies matted into the sky like in Wild at Heart or Eraserhead ) . Great art ? Maybe not , but it reaches a peak of ( light ) satire that Lynch has only sometimes reached since .
it can now be found on some sites on-line ; well worth seeking out as one of the best of the 60s	Jim Henson as a filmmaker sometimes doesn't get as much credit as for his main innovations with the Muppets and establishing them throughout the years as the head producer of the Henson company . But behind the genius puppeteer that he was , he was also very good at creating a style that was all his own , whether it was with the original and enlightening fantasy films he made in the 80s or with the Muppet movies . Part of what crosses over from his time with the Muppets with this rarely seen short film , Time Piece , is the pure sense of tongue placed firmly in cheek . The theme of time is one that many art films deal with ( not the least of which Bergman ) , but this film is like a collaboration between the crazier silent shorts of the 1920s and Chuck Jones . I laughed many times during this film , but it's also a marvel of - of course - timing , but also at getting the right rhythm with the images . It goes without saying that its directness in the editing , with its tempo always on step without going overboard , is some of the best I've ever seen in a short film . Little moments end up making the best parts of Henson's film , where no real story emerges aside of himself sort of being witness to the follies of the world in a very crazy manner . And it's also an exercise in repetition - a few times the one spoken word of the film pops up ( " Help " ) - by Henson , and it's always very funny . But the comic timing is explored in little themes Henson had in later films , such as food , with one of the real laugh out loud bits being when Henson and the woman eat at the table as they one-up each other . Or seeing the delirious pathway in Henson running around towards the end ( being chased , no doubt , by archive footage ) . It all ends then , to put it mildly , down the toilet ( literally I mean ) . This is a surprising film with as much invention that can be fused cinematically into its concept - showing time as being very musical in a sense , and possibly breaking the balance that it usually keeps with day to day life . It's an early gem , and its quite a stroke of luck to find it on-line or through a rare 16mm print ; one of the true unfortunates in being unavailable to the masses and other fans of Henson .
a movie that embraces the Hollywood studio machine while putting a harsh criticism of it	That one line summary makes me sound like I'm calling the Bad and the Beautiful a case in ' tough love ' , where director Vincente Minnelli wags his finger at what happens to some people ( cough , David O . Selznick , cough ) , while also showing too the joys of working in the business . But it's a business at its most booming time , coming out of the 40s where the producer was king , and the director had to vie for room at times to really get his vision in . Here the producer Jonathan Shields is played by Kirk Douglas as someone with big ideas at first - he even has an idea to help make a scary movie about cats even more frightening by not showing the cats ( echoes of Val Lewton ) . Soon he rises the ranks and becomes big enough to really call the shots all he wants , but it also gets in the way of personal relationships , severs ties , and sometimes even makes him out to be monstrous ( there's one shot I remember all the time where Douglas , in a big fit of anger against Lana Turner's character , seems like he's a whole foot taller with the ego almost manifested ) . The narrative of the film is a retelling by people who knew him , a sexy but soon disillusioned actress , a director who once worked with Shields but then got cut off from him , and a writer played by Dick Powell . Rashomon or Citizen Kane it is not in trying to reveal more grandiose and amazing things about human nature , but rather a supreme rumination on the good times and the bad times , possibly more of the latter . What's great about Douglas's portrayal is that through the stories from the three ex-friends and co-workers and lovers , he becomes a very well-rounded character . At the core , of course , is the producer who at the time had as more creative say than anyone else on the set . This brings some of the great scenes ever shown about movie-making , such as the moment when Amiel , the director , tries to put Jonathan in his place about how a scene should be shot , " in order to direct a picture you need humility " . Another comes with the moment when Jonathan and his soon to be ' asistant to the producer ' has to object out of just being stunned . But more than Douglas , it's also tremendous , memorable screen time for Lana Turner , perhaps in her most successful performance in just sheer acting terms ( not necessarily just in presence or style like in other pictures ) , and for Dick Powell , who with this and Murder My Sweet has two defining roles outside of his usual niche . With many sweet camera moves , a script that crackles with the kind of scenes and dialog that makes one wish for the glory times of Hollywood's Golden Age , and at least four or five really excellent performances , The Bad and the Beautiful might not be as astounding and near-perfect as 8 or as funny as Bowfinger , but it ranks up there with the best movies about movie-making , and can make for some fine entertainment even for those who aren't really interested in how movies are made .
Thoroughly enjoyable , memorable characters and scenes , an early classic in humanist / prison escape films	I can't deny that Jean Renoir has a genuine eye for human connectedness and moves his camera with a practical naturalness . The performances by the principal actors as well ( Jean Gabin as the working-class Marechal , Pierre Fresnay as the eloquent Boieldieu , Marcel Dalio as the subtle and happy Rosenthal , and Erich von Stroheim as the un-mistakenly stiffest and suavest of movie prison wardens Captain von Rauffenstein ) are on the money every step of the way . Perhaps my one problem ( and it's not a big one ) with The Grand Illusion is that despite it being made at a time when cinema , in particular sound cinema , was just starting out , there could've been better targets hit by Renoir . He hits on a mark with these prisoners as well as with the guards - these are regular people , caught up and made to feel like they're in the schoolyard with ruthless heads and rebellious minions . As a satire , for some reason , it works a lot better for me than a drama - at least at first . For example , when Marechal is in solitary in the first prison , this is a masterpiece of a scene in and of itself , and for some reason I wanted more moments like this . While this could be attributable to the fact that Renoir didn't film everything he had intended with his script ( lack of budget one can assume ) , there are some expectations that weren't up to what could've been met . This may be variable from viewer to viewer , which is why this shouldn't deter those interested in seeing this - this is one of those POW films that's inspired others ( i . e . Great Escape ) , but has a sort of spirit that's all it's own . On the other hand in what comes out when one takes more of a look - which Renoir allows through how watchable ( in terms of just being able to not turn off the film once it starts ) the drama does become integrated with the critical view of the characters and changing situation . It's almost TOO complex , if that's possible . One of the fantastic joys of Grand Illusion is how much there is life and energy in his scenes depicting the prisons of world war one . Like in a Fellini drama ( which it may very well have inspired for the later Italian ) , there's a lot pf love for how cinema is made itself to get too depressed with the story & characters . And like in a neo-realist film , the dialog between the people is quite realistic and interesting . Some of the supporting characters / actions may seem odd to some new viewers , although one has to take into context the period . With an awesome cameraman ( Christian Matras ) , finite music score by Joseph Kosma , and an escape scene that's almost as thrilling as what Darabont cooked up in Shawshank , Grand Illusion is deservedly so the first film released by the Criterion collection ( DVDs ) , and is a suave , nice note in film history . AND , it definitely becomes better upon repeat viewings , as these characters become more familiar , as if we're in there in the prisons with these amicable , existential beings .
not exactly subtle , but it is some kind of morbid comic masterpiece	My first thought as Arsenic and Old Lace ended : I didn't know Capra had it in him ! This is a delightfully morbid comedy , one that sometimes is pitch-dark in tone , but it so insane that it can do no wrong . It opens on a Brooklyn Dodgers game that goes into riot and then . . . it moves on right away to a whole other location somewhere else in Brooklyn , as the title cards reveal . We're then placed into the home of two little old ladies - the Brewester Aunts - who happen to keep not one , not two , but about twelve or thirteen dead bodies down in the cellar ( well , also one in that chest in the living room ) , much to their son Mortimer's ( Cary Grant ) total shock and wide-eyed " WHAT ! " attitude . But , hey , how can just this make a movie ? Why not also throw in a " Boris Karloff " character in Raymond Massey and his cohort played by Peter Lorre who hold up in the house and have a body of their own . And then , well , I haven't mentioned Theodore Roosevelt . . . This is one of the all-time champion madcap comedies . It starts with craziness and never lets up , not for a minute ( maybe for a second or two , and even then there's some sardonic weirdness ) , and Capra also has a great control of style when it's commanded ( i . e . the scenes in the dark , the silhouettes , the solid close-ups on Grant and Massey when they make indelible , uproarious facial expressions ) . Mostly , however , he just lets the material take over as his guide , and it's genius work . Never something that is much subtle - matter of fact , it's one of the most obvious works ever - it's like a high-voltage spoof of Hitchcock's Rope , before it was released , and themes of death , insanity , marriage , the tenderness between brothers and mothers , are put up in the air for total comic frenzy . Even Grant works wonderfully , in a performance he himself thought was too over-the-top , which might be true in any other context but here is pitch-perfect . It's got plenty of amazing quotes , more than a few moments that seem to be hip and wild even by today's standards , and there are several strands of comedy that go through and overlap and make up lots of things that are sometimes unbelievable . . . wait , sometimes ? You've got a guy who trumpets and charges up the stairs , and distrusts men who look like Taft , and he might not be the most delirious character in the movie ! It's incredible work , and one of the funniest movies ever made .
Inland Empire - where the stars make dreams , and dreams make stars . . .	The bulk of that line refers to a quote from the film Inland Empire - spoken in a cameo by William H . Macy as a TV show announcer - and one might be tempted to use that as the template to try and ' figure out ' what happens through the course of the film's three hours . It is indeed , especially on a second viewing , the most intriguing and useful theme for what goes on with the character of Nikki ( or Sue , depending on the scene or mood of the moment ) , as she goes through what can be described as , well , indescribable . But the line is helpful to look at what director David Lynch is most after and interested by with the film - dream logic . More over , the dream logic of life , and how it relates to the cinema , and to perceptions , and to , as the tag-line suggests , " a woman in trouble . " But all of this still can't really help me , even on a second viewing , give at all an idea of what to expect with Inland Empire . It's a dense , ambitious , graceful , crude , ambiguous , and flawed work of the highest order of abstractions put together into one big Lynchian package . And don't forget the rabbits with that . The first time I saw the film , I was more swept up into the emotional mix & match that Lynch threw up on the screen , and by the immensity of how beautiful he was able to put everything together through his DV camera ( like with Eraserhead , he plays with a form that is difficult in some ways , but inviting and exciting in others ) . The second time , I thought that it could be another excursion as Mulholland Drive was , where I could focus more on piecing whatever the hell kind of puzzle Lynch put up for the audience to possibly figure out . About half an hour into the film , however , I realized it was an act of futility to ' figure it out ' , at least in any conventional sense . But this is not necessarily a bad thing , even if it leaves the audience sharply divided as to take it : the greatest mind-bender of the new millennium , or the pretentious ramblings of a director un-hinged ? I maybe went more with the former , even as I could understand the latter ; it allows so much thought to come out of what happens in terms of characters ' behaviors , of themes that emerge , and what might seem to come together when it really doesn't . What it lacks in narrative flow it makes up for with an originality in delving into personality , and what personality even means . At first it might seem as if there's a simple story here - Laura Dern as Nikki gets the part she's been waiting for , in a film by the great director Kingsley ( Jeremy Irons ) , and with a fine co-star ( Justin Theroux , even better here than in Mulholland ) . The actors find out though in a moment of confession from Kingsley that the project they're about to work on is technically a remake of an unfinished film where on the project the two main stars were killed , as there was a kind of ' curse ' on the project called " 47 " . It isn't long after this that Inland Empire gets even weirder than before , but by weird will be totally subjective to the viewer ( and may depend as well on how much you're familiar with Lynch's world - or thought you knew what it could hold ) . Lynch then submerges Dern's character ( s ) into a landscape of suffering and bewilderment , where sub-plots possibly emerge involving a Polish circus , a murder via screwdriver , a " sitcom " TV show involving rabbits on a couch , and Nikki / Sue caught up in the maelstrom of an abusive downfall . A lot of this madness that comes through in Lynch's style , which is as audacious and remarkable and totally mesmerizing as it is going almost over the edge with its delirious need to push the dream logic and surrealism to its limits , could not be completely of worth without Laura Dern , who in particular is almost on equal footing of Lynch with heart and soul poured in . As required for looking at what it means to be an actress , or what it means to be a person , or to have a reality shattered by various un-realities , Dern is always perfect in relaying her emotions , however intense or drained or shocked or horrified they may be ( or , sometimes too , of just listening to someone , like in that wonderfully batty scene shared with Grace Zabriskie as a ' neighbor ' ) . It's probably the pinnacle of her career thus far , with everything she's ever either hinted at or shown as an actress up till now thrown up on the screen to match up with the wild demands of Lynch's own mind-set . It won't win an Oscar for her , but she should at least get a nomination , if it even means anything at this point . In a sense , this IS what acting is all about , at least for the sake of what Nikki has to do to play Sue , and vice versa , if that make sense . So on a second viewing did I understand Inland Empire any better than the first time ? Probably not by much , and I actually still felt the flaws that pecked away the first time , namely that it does go too long , becoming sluggish towards the end ( albeit with an astounding end credits sequence ) , and every so often a moment or scene felt too over the top . Yet overall , this is a film filled with so many ideas , so many visions , and so much to cast into one's mind about the nature of reality , of what it means to see an un-reality ( either through the media , or through a form , or just in front of one's eyes like Dern with the " hot " girls who dance to the ' Locomotion ' ) , and how things are never , ever as they seem . Just like Hollywood , one might say .
the Hustons and Bogart in a perennial story of money being the root of all evils - even in good men	Fred Dobbs doesn't have a nickel to his name , at least when he's in the small Mexican village at the start of the Treasure of the Sierra Madre . But whatever the situation is , he wants what he can get , and if anyone tries to get in his way he'll let em have it . We see this early one when he and Bob Curtain have to beat it out of a sleazy boss at a construction site to get their earned wages . It's then no surprise that the two of them find it the best idea to take on Howard , an old seemingly-by-gone codger who once was a great prospector , on their ideal trip to look for gold in the mountains of Mexico . But then we start to see a kind of psychological head-trip go on with Dobbs , which makes the Treasure of the Sierra Madre that much more special of a film . The main characters aren't against any very dangerous adversaries - aside from the bandits - and it's not Cowboys and Indians . In fact , getting all the gold together isn't even the climax of the picture , which is usually where one might think a conventional picture would take this story . But John Huston , the director , has none of that here . In ' Sierra Madre ' , Dobbs becomes the " bad guy " , but it's hard exactly to call him one . I'm almost reminded of Crime & Punishment , the Dostoyevsky novel , where the morality is very blurred and the character becomes a fragmented version of himself ( not to mention trying to reason out in a lack of inner monologue , as Dobbs rambles to himself ) , and as Dobbs tries to make out with the gold on his own , he meets an end that any lessor Hollywood picture wouldn't dream of going to . That Dobbs then is played by Humphrey Bogart adds , at first , to the initial confusion of the moviegoer . This isn't how it usually happens , is it , least of which since Bogart started playing " good guy " roles . But Huston knows , as well as Bogart does - who may be in a true career highlight here alongside In a Lonely Place - that a character shouldn't be just one thing . Even Howard isn't just a kind-hearted old fella , even as he is that to a large extent ( he even admits that he might have been tempted to take the money too , had he been younger ) . And in a sense Dobbs , through Bogart , is a bittersweet reminder of the American dream , where all one really wants is enough money to get by - but then how much can really be enough ? Huston is brilliant in building on Dobbs's character , as is Bogart in showing little by little how his generous and genial personality gets stripped away when paranoia and fear settles into his mind-frame . Like when the men discuss how to divide up the money , or when the ' outsider ' American comes in , the one who's definitely not invited - notice the striking body language of Bogart in relation to the other actors . Most especially , even if it's a small scene , when the three men talk about what they'll do with their share of the money - Dobbs's goals are in the short-term , unlike the practicality of Howard or Bob . By the last third of the film , if one were just looking at that set apart from the rest of the picture , one might think it's a flashback to Bogart's ' old days ' as a character actor in the 30s . Yet he's the star here , which makes Dobbs's plummet a kind of sad testament to the American dream , so called , and to the corruptibility of goods . But aside from building strongly on the characters , Huston is also a good storyteller , and his Treasure of the Sierra Madre is one of the finest ' yarns ' of the 40s , albeit subversive as his other great films , the Maltese Falcon and the Asphalt Jungle , were . It's such a simple story , really , but it works because we believe in the characters , the nature of the setting , of the outside influences ( i . e . both bandits and the ' common ' Mexican peasants ) . Huston doesn't clutter up his story with any unnecessary moments , even as he uses a lot more bits to build on character than just plot . While Howard ends up being usually expository or with all the information for the other two - as he IS the most experienced like a gold-digging Yoda perhaps - the story never gets clunky . And there's a great sweep to the style of the picture too , with just the right studio score by Max Steiner , and some wonderful desert shots ( and shots of the men's varied faces ) Ted McCord . And one can't leave thinking about Treasure of the Sierra Madre , aside from considering the performances . Sure , Bogart might be at his best here , both an every-man and every-man-for-himself ( plus his own worst enemy ) , but there's also Tim Holt , who has to carry the most restraint of the three main characters , and he's terrific at it , in what was probably his best remembered role among mostly B pictures . But it's arguable that Walter Huston , John's father , steals the show sometimes from Bogart , or at least gets in enough room to stand right alongside him as a presence to be reckoned with . The character ranges from being wise , to being a cook ( like when he laughs wildly at the younger men being tired climbing the mountain ) , cautious , and always with a sense of truth and honor . Huston probably has one of the more deserved supporting actor Oscar turns here for the part , and if I had to show anyone one performance noteworthy most of all from him it'd be from ' Sierra Madre ' . Bottom line , a must-see in the realm of the western / adventure A-pictures of the 40s , with enough to say on the dangers of greed and money to last so many years .
long but lean , heroic but very knowing , visually gorgeous and well-acted	I'm not sure why I put off , or just didn't get around , to seeing the Right Stuff . I could take my pick , but really I was never made to sit down by my parents or in school or other to watch it , and . . . screw the excuses , I wasn't sure about a 193 minute movie about astronauts as a kid . But now having seen it it's quite clear I was missing something fairly excellent in the cannon of the " Bio-pic " . It's one of those true compelling 20th century stories , and the filmmaker Philip Kaufman cares about all of these real guys so much that it moves right over into the cinematic treatment of the characters . And more impressively considering its ensemble there's almost a key character to the mix with Chuck Yeagher , the first man to break the sound barrier who never got into NASA with all the other go-for-broke test pilots , but did taste that rush up to the sky just once - and what a rush . This is film-making of a superlative caliber . It is such a story that is told extraordinarily because of how it takes itself seriously as a historical document , but never so much so as to get in a great joke ( the kind of natural joking that people do , such as the few quips done by Yeagher in the cockpit to whoever was listening after breaking the sound barrier , which actually happened ) or some sliver of satire to the mix . It pleases both as an emotional experience , one of those rousing and inspiring tales , but it's also at times intellectual too . We see the lives of these guys , of Yeagher , Shepard , Glenn , Cooper , Grissom , and their wives too . The Right Stuff is a very human story , told with an approximate awe for the subject matter and an attitude that says " we can be epic , but we can also point out the flaws that come around in human nature . " There were so many obstacles that could have come , and sometimes did , for the folks at NASA , the scientists as well as the handful that were picked to do missions up into space in direct competition with America's foe the Russians , that all the astronauts could sometimes do would be to joke or give a hard-lined measure . We see some expected things like a big press conference , but we also see things that ring so true that they feel so real as minor events , like when the scientists are showing the astronauts the pod without a window or proper escape hatch and they all band together to put pressure on them to do it right or else the press will hear all hell ( the wording in this scene is very good ) . The veneer of pure heroism is shown for what it is , as something of not always a tricky thing ; the film was criticized by some of the original astronauts for the depiction of Gus Grissom ( if only because Grissom had passed on in tragedy and couldn't do it himself ) , but his story of going into space , and the aftermath with his wife , is important to show for the story the film's trying to tell . That's one of the remarkable things in the Right Stuff , which is giving as much equal time and depth as possible to these guys , and their wives at other times . We see Dennis Quaid's cocky pilot saying he's the best their is , and then another where he suddenly becomes like 12 years old in front of the female doctor as she speaks / laughs with his wife behind doors . We see Ed Harris ' John Glenn as the supposed spokesperson of the group , the " Dudley Do-Right " as it were , but then the slightest bit of uncertainty - not to mention a really well told drama with his wife , who was a stutterer , and stood up against being pressured by Vice President Johnson . Little details all add up in the film , and even the ones that don't entirely work ( i . e . the cut-aways to the aborigines during Glenn's flight up in space ) still carry some worth as far as being filmed wonderfully or with a strange quality that makes it fun to watch - any other director might take out the crucial detail of Alan Shepard urinating in his suit before the very first successful launch of a US man into space , but it's left in , and stronger for it . And as far as just details with the characters go , all you need to see is the kind of simple but very strong representation of death in the man in the black suit and hat who has to pay call to those who've lost their husbands or fathers up in the sky . And , thankfully for such a long running time , we're given several moments in terms of the power of cinematic technique , of showing us the subjective perspective of what those who orbit the Earth see and the views outside the windows at so many countless miles up in the atmosphere . Basically any scene with Chuck Yeagher is one of these , especially early on but then also towards the end with his absolutely stunning bittersweet moment of going up to the sky and , well , nearly dying in a last-minute jump from the plane into flames . Kaufman takes the audience into these moments , and even just quiet or interesting ones with the actors , and imbues it all with just enough importance to level off the occasional goofiness he allows his character or in the choice of edits ( watch as the chimps , being spin around in that big circular thing are cut with Glenn spinning around ) . That it's also one of those outstanding ensembles helps a great deal too . It's exciting and refreshingly bittersweet Hollywood cinema , and at the least of the must-see pictures of 1983 .
one of the few truly amazing Italian horror films ( at least outside of Argento )	I've wondered having seen a few of the films by Lucio Fulci what the big deal about him was . Zombie was decent and had a couple of moments but didn't impress , its " sequel " Zombie 3 was atrocious and New York Ripper , while entertaining , felt hollow and without any real grip of terror consistently . With the Beyond it's a whole other matter , and it's finally clear what ( some of ) the hubbub is about the prolific Italian " master " of the Giallo . He actually makes , for one , the story somewhat more interesting than most horror films , nevermind Italian , as if it's a descendant of Lovecraft ; some of this , in all actuality minus the crazy gore , could make something for a Val Lewton script . But aside from the story , which in all actuality Fulci as never been totally concerned with , his powers as director are at their peak . There's things like , well , atmosphere and terror from the Louisiana locations and lighting in those subterranean quarters near the ' gate ' of hell , and , of course , the manic gore . What surprised me most of all though after the fact of Fulci more than proving himself as a near-virtuoso with the camera and moments of great suspense ( maybe not quite Argento but close enough ) , was how scary the film turned out to be . This is most recommendable of all : it's not simply one of those guilty pleasure exports in the genre , but a legitimate work of terror out of things as simple as ghosts and demons from hell and curses and " that place has been abandoned for 50 years . . . What starts from the set-up in the premise - a woman , Liza ( Katherine MacColl ) inherits a decrepit Lousiana hotel that happens to lead into one of the seven gates of hell ( or maybe all seven , I lost cont ) - unravels into a series of murders , shocks , attacks , spooky wanderings with the blind woman and her dog , shenanigans and rot at the morgue . And never once is something far too cheesy , save for one or two shots from the gun in the climax , or too far into the realm of it being " so-bad-it's-good " like in other Fulci films . This time , it's just good . So good that it should please even today's " I - can - take - anything - you - dish - out " horror fans . Although characterization is at a reasonable two-dimensional limit , it is never a distraction ; on the contrary the horror perfectly streams out of this increasingly nightmarish place where just the introduction of the blind woman and her dog in the road is one thing . . . and then the eventual undoing of her with the dog something else ( the kind of scene , I should add , that reminds one of I Am Legend only with more horror-cajones ) . And characteristic for an Itallian " splatter " pic there's gore , lots of it , usually around popping eyeballs or close-ups of gashing flesh - the sepia-toned opening crucifixion is just one such fantastically over-indulgent treat - only with the Beyond Fulci tries out some things that gain their power from the cranked-up " what-the-hell " factor , such as the little girl in the autopsy room walking back away from the flowing pool of blood / whatever . The Beyond isn't for the squeamish , or for the easily frightened . It's a movie for hardcore fans of the genre , and more specifically Giallo-geeks . Its truly a fantastic piece of exploitation-as-art , where such a scene as the ending , which would never be seen done as well as in a more average or less ambitious production , displays what a director like Fulci could do when put to the extremes of his talent . I'm not sure if he's a great director like Argento yet ( certainly he gives other misogynists a run for their money ) , but he's attracted my attention more than ever to his oeuvre .
Not the best , but still fun	Return of the Jedi is the last of the series ( episode 6 ) and it may not be the best of the series , but like the other films , it still is all in good fun ( and the Flash Gordon matinae serials ) . The story brings Luke Skywalker to confront his father for the second time with Emperor Palpatine helping along . Also , a group of freedom fighters ( led by Han Solo ) , try to shut down a power base on the moon Endor that is controling the second Death Star . By the way , don't forget the first half hour of the movie which shows the gang freeing Han from Jabba the Hutt . This story is just the beginning of a fun , entertaining and important film that goes just right with the other six ( or three ) sagas .
one of the best European horror films this decade	The key to keeping the sci-fi horror genre alive in the cinemas , as of late , is to make sure the material and techniques the filmmakers present is at least competent , at it's average creative , and at it's best something that we haven't seen before or haven't seen in such a style or form . George A . Romero did that back in prime 60s and 70s era of film-making , bringing forth one of the most memorable trilogies of all time for the genre . While many consider Romero to be on any given list one of the greatest horror directors ( I included ) , it is important to know that he too had his sources for his little independent film in 1968 , and after that was when he really got inventive , resulting in a masterpiece and a lackluster . Director Danny Boyle and author Alex Garland know that if they were to cook up a yarn all too similar to Romero it wouldn't be satisfying . So , they've done what is essential to the success of 28 Days Later - they take ideas that have been in practice for many years , turn them fresh , and as the audience we feel repelled , excited , terrified , nauseous ( perhaps ) , and enthralled , but we won't leave feeling like we've seen complete hack work . What does Boyle and his team set out to do to freshen up the zombie string ? By making not in precise terms a " zombie " movie - you never hear " living-dead " uttered in this film , although you do hear " infected " and a new word for what these people have , " rage " . Indeed , this is what the infected have in Britain , when a monkey virus gets let loose on the Island , and from the beginning of the infectious spread the film cuts to a man , Jim , lying in a hospital bed , who wanders abandoned streets and views torn fragments of society in front of him . That Boyle implements atmosphere as heavily as he does with the action / chase scenes gives an indication of his dedication to the detail . Jim soon finds a few other survivors , including Selena ( Naomie Harris ) and a father and his daughter ( Brendan Gleeson and Megan Burns ) who hear of salvation on a radio and decide to brave it out to find it . When they do , it's a military outpost that's without any true salvation , outside of the various military typos . Like in Boyle and producer Andrew MacDonald's spellbinding ( if that's the proper terminology ) adaptation of Trainspotting , the craft is on par ( or arguably topping ) with the story and characters , and thus it has to captivate us all the more so to care about the plight of Jim and his companions . The photography by Anthony Dod Mantle is striking , not the least of which since it was done on digital photography ( like in Blair Witch , the use of non-professional camera equipment adds the proper shading when needed ) , but also many of the shot compositions are different for such a film . The editing by Chris Gill goes quicker than expected in the attack scenes , going so fast between the infected throwing up blood , the screaming on-looker ; the new infected transforming within seconds , and then the results that follow . Mark Tildesley's production design , as well as John Murphy's music , evokes haunting , evocative moods even in the more mundane scenes . And the acting , considering not many of the actors are well-known , is more than believable for such a script . I'm not sure if 28 Days Later will be everyone's cup of tea . Some of the horror and science fiction fans out there will immediately hear of this film , see a preview or a TV ad , or even see it , and dismiss it as phooey rubble borrowed from the video-store . I can see their points of view , since I saw many similarities in Romero and some other films ( the military scenes reminded me of Day of the Dead , though the chained up Zombie in this was done for more practical reasons , and the supermarket scene is a little unneeded considering the satirical reverence it had in Dawn of the Dead ) . But what they should understand is that Boyle isn't making a 100 % original film , and no one could at this point of the genre's history . He has done , however , the most credible job he could in getting a different tone , a different setting in country , and of a different , enveloping view of the scene structures . Overall , 28 Days Later is constructed and executed like most sci-fi horror films you've ever seen , and like not many other sci-fi horror films you've ever seen combined , in a sense , for a modern audience : fascinating throughout .
as cool a homage to the Thing you're likely to see	A team varied between Scully and Mulder , two other scientists , a pilot , and the guy who plays Bana on Seinfeld , go up to an Arctic research post where all members have died off by either killing each other or killing themselves . They discover there's a worm - a virus - that is parasitic to the point of madness and death . The problem is , after a certain dog lashes out , anyone could be infected , but who ? This is not just my favorite episode of season 1 , but also one of my favorites from the show . The Arctic environment encloses the characters and , of course like Carpenter's the Thing , it's a lot of fun watching these even-tempered characters suddenly start to flip out in dramatic scenes . And the visual effects of the worm and its effects under the skin are cheesy , I didn't mind them at all . The drama between the characters ends up working more than it would usually because of the tension and because all of the actors ( including the Bana guy ) understand what's going on in the story . And , as usual , I loved the ambiguity of the ending . Highly recommended .
Even better to see in on the DVstill topical special	Following his first few comedy specials on Comedy Central , the angriest , superb take-no-prisoners comic Lewis Black made this special dedicated to what every American ( well , almost ) can identify with - the procedures and overall stress that goes with the lead up to April 15th . His special is mostly done with Black in front of a college classroom , where his ' lecture ' consists of slides , and with scenes cut-in with him interviewing people about taxes . The special as on the DVD is far superior ( it also includes the three comedy specials that helped to bring Black to major attention as one of the top comics in America ) , as it is un-cut with the language that might have been cut down on Comedy Central . Basically , the special will be funny even for those who don't pay taxes ( i . e . too young , or just avoid altogether ) . Perhaps he's angrier in his other specials , but here he's sharper than ever .
shocking not just for what is shown but what is implied ; it's an act of perverse psychological trickery on the part of Cronenberg and Irons	Dead Ringers wasn't necessarily a very pleasant film experience , but it's one that did shake me to the core as I watched it , in a way that is slightly comparable to The Fly . As an auteur , which could likely be applied to David Cronenberg , he keeps pressing on with many themes that he's been working through in the bulk of his career - and if not outright themes , general ideas that can draw out the darkest and saddest drama there is in the minds of men . Duality , to be sure , and also the complications that arise through forms of fetishism , or rather a kind of strange obsession with things involving the body , touching , feeling , close to one another in ways that are truly grotesque ( in this case there is the quintessential nightmare scene where Bev sees Claire split apart himself from Eliot , his twin , by taking a bite out of the deformed connection with a vein in her mouth ) , and sometimes having to do with outright criminals ( History of Violence and Spider come to mind as those who are just right on the brink all the time ) . But there's more , probably some things I didn't quite catch on , though I wouldn't put all of it on Cronenberg for making it such a beautiful work where objective perception through the camera - a bit like a documentary in a clinical sense , as many have noted - goes on with the subjectivity that is blurred through the twins . And in typical Cronenberg fashion , there's something of an exploitation catch to start with , that soon dissipates upon a deepening of the characters . In what is one of the very bravest acting challenges , Jeremy Irons plays twin Canadian gynecologists , Bev and Eliot Mantle ( Mantle = Mental ? obvious perhaps but not too much so ) . They have some unorthodox methods , though not necessarily related to how they treat patients in the office . It's almost been a game for years , we find out , how they go between having women without them noticing . But actress Claire ( the very talented , and maybe not quite on screen enough , Geneviève Bujold ) can soon tell the difference after meeting one to see if she can have children , which she can't due to three uterus's , and then getting screwed over ( literally ) by another . But there is love between her and Bev , who is soon revealed as the more vulnerable and dependent of the two while Eliot is more confident , the ladies man , the one winning awards and getting teaching positions . It soon becomes apart of a breakdown process for Bev as she leaves him to go get work elsewhere , and soon its a spiral into drugs and delirium , including some unorthodox procedures with a ' gold ' clamp . The ingredients here could make for some truly wacky cinema , but under the hands of Cronenberg it's done to such a realistic extent that you can't escape the humility of the situations . These brothers , as well as brother-to-lover , are linked in a manner that defies general descriptions . And it's not necessarily in a very fetishistic construct , though it pops up once and again ( my favorite was seeing the first sex scene between Claire and Bev - or is it Eliot , maybe it is - when he has her tied up to the bed with hospital equipment , as it's dangerous as anything Cronenberg has done with sex on film but touching in its long takes ) . But as in Spider , Cronenberg wouldn't have it get done correctly without the proper lead , and in Irons he finds someone who has such a wide range in pure theatricality : formal grace , apprehension , embarrassment , cruelty , reckless behavior whilst on drugs , delirium , moments of quiet tension , pain , fear , anger , it's all there up for grabs . Even when some scenes near becoming a little flat almost by Cronenberg's wavering detachment Irons brings it back to something that is profound . This is something unexpected , given that some scenes have to rely on levels of dark depravity ( the first ' test ' of the new instruments during surgery ) and dark comedy even ( the question inferred about sex with a dog to a woman is priceless ) . It might come close to being , oddly enough , a definitive work from the director , even if it isn't perhaps his absolute best film . Yes , it's tone is cold and without the levels of sentimentality that could come had it been someone who went for a lower common denominator . Yet it has what most of his fans come to expect - twisted psychological drama , intense and quick shocks , and high-caliber performances to match the technical aspects achieved . It's not an easy film to love , but damn if one can't look away and not get it out of their heads once it's over .
like Alexander himself , the latest epic from Oliver Stone , it has it's moments of greatness , though surely not overall	The final product of Oliver Stone's decades-in-the-making epic on Alexander the great had me stunned walking out of the theater . Not because I thought it was particular great or masterful , and not because I thought it was a failure either . What stunned me was how there could be a few points in the film where I thought that Stone , like Alexander in a sense , reached heights he's barely gone to before , but then in other spots he boggled my mind with how he lost me . For example , take the second battle sequence , in which Alexander leads his weary army towards an Indian army , where Elephants stampede furiously against the troops on horses , and Alexander gets a bit of a shock ( one which I won't reveal ) . After this shock , the rest of the battle scene is tinted , with a red glaze and form that gives the scene a complete , abrasive illusionment . I can consider this to include what is best and worst in Stone's talents as a storyteller - he creates this huge , massive sequence , using multiple angles and special effects . There is also an over-load of the kind of symbolism and melodramatic tendencies that have only popped up occasionally in past Stone films . The main focus being the significance of the bird in the sky ( or King Phillip ) to be used like the shaman in the Doors , only far too prominent to be easily desired . It's the kind of battle sequence I'd like to analyze shot-by-shot sometime , not necessarily because I'd like it more , but because it's the kind of sequence that you almost never see in major motion pictures . Like Natural Born Killers ( which is one of the ultimate love or hate films ever made ) , Stone brings his unique , art-house sensibilities to a Hollywood budget and goes wild . The story he tells jumps around in revealing the rise and fall of the Macedonian . More than showing how ferocious and intelligent he was at battle ( though that and other scenes of violence take up more than a third of the whole picture ) , Stone opts to get into his psychology via parents Phillip and Olympia ( the sexy , sometimes frightening Angelina Jolie ) . This is where Stone makes some interesting ground , yet also , more often than not , doesn't know how to stick to something . A lot of the scenes involving Alexander's anger and frustration with his parents probably looked better on paper than they do on screen . And it's not necessarily the actors ' faults entirely - the repetitive usage of close-ups , and the sometimes horrendous musical score by Vangelis , adds to it being less engaging . The acting , much like the direction , tips the scale to both sides by either fitting into their characters wonderfully , or not finding what is there at all and over-playing . Kilmer was impressive at playing a cretin of a father . Jolie was so-so . Leto's was one of the least impressive performances I've seen this year ( I just could not see what affect Hephaistilon could have had on Alexander ) . Dawson and Hopkins were good , though somewhat under-used . Then there is Farrell , who for many who see this film may be what makes or breaks it for them . In most scenes , he finds the right notes and tones for his expression , the way he looks in close-ups . He does prove he can be a leading man in Hollywood . But what disappointed me was in how in some scenes he lost a grip on what he was doing with the character , and I saw less of Alexander and more of Farrell . Sometimes , I suppose , that look in his eyes would just vanish , the kind of look that has been in the major , Dionetic performances of Stones ' films ( such as Willem Dafore in Platoon , Woody Harrellson in NBK , and Kilmer in The Doors ) . Alexander , after a first viewing , is my least favorite of Stone's pictures - much of it goes to lengths with historical exposition that might have fared better to show ( three battles , even if it was a small one or in montage , may have balanced out with the other major two ) than to go on and on with . It doesn't make the mistakes of this year's Troy , but it doesn't fare much better . Simply put , Alexander the film is like the man himself - an ambitious , crazed man who ended up dividing his audience . Go see it , and know you will be challenged to love , like , or despise it .
One of the best Godard films	First Name : Carmen is an enthralling hybrid for director / actor Jean-Luc Godard and screenwriter ( and frequent collaborator ) Anne-Marie Mieville . After almost a decade of weird , philosophical experimentation , they took on the opera of Carmen ( the original story of which , unfortunately , I am not very knowledgeable of ) and deconstructed it with some amusing self-awareness ( " Uncle " Jean-Luc Godard at the start of the film is in a hospital of sorts , over-staying his welcome ) , while going back to Godard's olden days of movies with lovers on the run . This time the lovers meet by accident and chance - Carmen X ( the alluring and dangerous Maruschka Detmers in a controlled , if downtrodden debut acting role ) asks of her uncle Jean if she can use his beach-side house to make a film with some friends . He agrees , though not knowing she's apart of a terrorist gang that robs a bank . During the robbery she has a shoot-out , and kiss , with Joseph ( Jacques Bonnaffe , whose performance shifts from bizarre to intense and then believable ) the security guard . They hide out for a little while , becoming more involved , while Carmen knows at the same time his uncle prepares to make his comeback film after being washed up for so long , her terrorist friends are planning another scheme . The acting ranges from forceful to observant , from a little boring to a little ridiculous , but like in Godard's 60's films the actors contribute to Godard's documentary style feel ( of which he calls a documentary which is ' fictional ' ) . And Godard is able to get a few laughs during his few scenes on camera , even as he spouts a few quotes that make a viewer dig in their minds for a meaning . Accompanied with evocative and sweet late-night shots of cars and a train in Paris , are shots of the ocean , which contributes as the film's main flaw for me ( I kept on saying , yeah the sea looks nice , but what's the point he's getting at here - is it the characters or himself that likes staring at the sea ? ) . Nevertheless the compositions are no less than on par with what to be expected from Godard ( via the great Raoul Coutard and Jean-Bernard Menoud ) , and the emotionally charged musical selections from Beethoven and Bizet to Tom Waits are pulled off as a successful , often emotional experiment as the footage of the string musicians are inserted several times . Overall , ' Carmen ' , however little or much it follows it's source , is a fine piece of art-type of cinema , where romanticism and cynical humor plays as much of a role as the story .
" My brain ! . . . That's my second favorite organ . "	Woody Allen's Sleeper is one of his best films yet . The wit is , common for 70s era Allen , razor-sharp on the fronts of Woody's retorts and nervous ramblings , as well as in visual terms . Allen comes closest to taking the visual comedic spirit of the silent era , or of the first sound comedies , and making it fit perfectly into his work of pure absurdist science-fiction . There's never a wisecrack to miss , or a nod to political or social ties of the contemporary sort . In fact , there are almost TOO many sight gags to go around , like with the huge fruit and vegetables , or the orgasmatron , or the " Nose " , which is meant to be the leader of the dystopian future Allen gets thawed out of in the year 2173 . And by sort of stretching out of his New York skin , as he also did with Love and Death and Bananas to an extent ( though even more winningly here ) , there's some fresh ground to break . There's also some great team-work with Diane Keaton - the first time the two teamed up under Allen's direction . Topping this with a sensational up-beat rag-time jazz score by Allen and his band-mates ( the only time Woody's done the bit as composer ) , you've got great one-liners , great physical comedy , and superb , jokey production design . One of the best film of 1973 .
takes cues from Hitchcock and then takes a leap forward ; De Palma's best , most bizarre comedy / thriller	I'd have to say that this film , though sometimes just shamefully manipulative for audience reaction ( and I say that sort of as a compliment ) , is one of De Palma's very best films , both artistically and just in sheer entertainment value . It's got the low-budget quality of an AIP production , but set apart from Roger Corman's films or other films from the company . It's got such a strange , occasionally off-the-hinges , but dedicated wit that it's hard to ignore . In fact , this wit , and a good number of tight , screwed-up close-up angles , special point of view takes , and some of De Palma's trademarks ( split-screen , ambiguous villain , women in trouble , etc ) are what set it apart from being a complete Hitchcock homage . It's no doubt that the director is so in love with the Master's style that , apparently , he even times his edits and shots to go with Bernard Herrmann's music . But what sets Sisters apart from even the more macabre Hitchcock films is that since De Palma is working in a low-budget , under-the-radar , with actors with not much credit to their names , things can be taken further than usual in dealing with the psychological ' whoas ' of what goes on . This is possibly one of the most morbid tales to be told in 70's cinema . Another important aspect to Sisters and its success is the faith that De Palma has in his actors / friend Margot Kidder and Jennifer Salt . They fit their roles so well one can't imagine big-name actors doing them any better ( though Salt , up until the last act , is playing it all appropriately one-note ) . Kidder's Danielle / Dominique is quite a character too , one with so much complexity her story becomes like some wild ball of string that gets unraveled with little blood-laden marks along the road . Danielle brings home a truly nice guy , Phillip ( good character actor , Lisle Wilson ) , sleeps with him , and then goes ape when she doesn't get her medicine . . . or is it her sister , Dominique ? This first half hour is like some kind of satirical , sincere kind of film-making that could make just a great , open-ended short film . But with the addition of De Palma's split screen ( possibly the best he's used it in any of his films ) , the story spins off into Grace , a reporter who gets on the case on her own to find out what happened to the body . This leads her into a very dark place , one that leads her into something so bizarre I dare not mention here . But those last fifteen-twenty minutes or so are where things become a kind of make-or-break test in a sense for the audience ; how far can one push this overtly surreal quagmire of a scene where the ' doctor ' is present in front of our two main actresses ? The ' doctor ' himself is played by William Finley , and it would be arguable that his is such a toweringly creepy , scary performance of a villain that it becomes almost too uncanny . In this climax one has to wonder how far it will go , and then it becomes clear that it's almost the point of the story to go over the edge like this . We're dealt with an already peculiar premise of two Siamese twins , one of whom may or may not be alive , and how they're let loose onto the world . Early on it seems like this might just be an off-beat , funny noir kind of story , but by the end it becomes a bit more . It takes originality to pull off some of the scenes here , or at least faith in what's written will work on screen . In a way this is the best place to see the bridge of De Palma's early black comedies ( Hi Mom , Greetings ; the neat opening TV show scene brings this to mind ) and the hit or miss thrillers that have dominated his long career . Basically , for me , this was a hit , and that it was manipulative , sordid , and left the viewer still wanting some answers , makes it as successful a wink ( if not homage ) to Hitchcok that the filmmaker has done .
