Makes Even the Who's Music Sound Bad	Really , a pretty hopelessly bad movie . I can't imagine any but the most die-hard Who fans liking this , and even then it might try their patience . The music doesn't even sound good in this rock opera about a traumatized boy who becomes a pinball sensation . There might be a point to the story , but God knows what it is . It's filled with people who can't act , and showcases Ken Russell's direction at its over-indulgent worst . It's really not much more than a random series of images set to music by the Who , that maybe would be cool if you were stoned out of your mind while watching it . Otherwise , just listen to the original concept album and leave the T . V . turned off .
Gives a Bad Name to Independent Cinema	" Happiness " is a film that has nothing to say to me , as it's about a version of America I don't recognize and have never seen . Director Todd Solondz , whose style and choice of subject matter could best be described as repellent , seems to think all Americans are living miserable , fractured lives and anyone who's not is lying about it . This is an ugly film filled with ugly characters doing ugly things , that ultimately has very little to say . Solondz may have fancied himself a new and daring artist at the time of this film's release , but showing a cum shot on film does not a groundbreaking or profound movie make . Todd Solondz belongs to a small group of filmmakers ( Lars von Trier is another ) who primarily want to use cinema as a device to drive people away , making one wonder why they want to make movies at all . I hate this movie .
A Terrible , Pointless Movie with a Wasted Cast	A whole bunch of talent is wasted in this dismal film that wanders all over the place but goes nowhere . Mark Ruffalo , Naomi Watts , Laura Dern . . . . come on ! If you've got a star roster like that and can't come up with anything better than this film , your right to make movies should be revoked . This is one of those films about a bunch of late-thirty-somethings who have too much time on their hands and spend all of it whining about how miserable they are . The problem is that none of them are likable , and we're not given any reason to care about any of them , so it's much like going to a party full of a bunch of people you don't know and will never see again , complaining about lives you know nothing about and will never need to . If I found myself at a party like that , I'd want to leave and go get ice cream or something , which is what I wanted to do while watching this movie .
Has It Been 9 Songs Yet ?	This is the question you may find yourself asking repeatedly throughout this dismal movie . It takes talent to make even graphic sex scenes dull , so I guess in that regard Michael Winterbottom is a talented film maker . This movie sucks , plain and simple . It wants to be too tasteful to be outright porn , yet the explicit sex is absolutely the only thing of interest in the movie . However , you'd do better to rent a good old-fashioned porno if that's what you have the hankering for , because the sex scenes in this are so fragmentary as to be frustrating . As for the rest of the movie . . . . wait , REST of the movie ? Hah . Let's see , there are some songs performed live . . yippee . The male character , called " Brian " for want of anything better to call him , wanders around Antartica doing his job ( whatever that may be ) , and ruminating about how icebergs are like relationships , or people , or something . I'm sure Winterbottom thinks there's a point to this movie , but if that's the case , he's either delusional or incredibly pretentious . As for the girl , " Lisa , " she opens her mouth every so often to deliver a line that proves nothing but how gratingly annoying her character is . If you filmed my life for a week , you'd have a movie about as boring as this . No , I take that back . My life is more interesting than what's shown here . At least I go to work , eat , go to the gym , leave the house , walk the dog , sleep . There's some variety to my routine . These two people grow to dislike each other , but if all I did was have sex , go to a concert , then come back and have more sex , ad infinitum , I'd probably hate the person I was with too . And to top it all off , the whole movie is filmed in digital video and looks like crap . Strike three .
Did John Huston Lose a Bet ?	What possessed John Huston to make a film version of the popular stage musical in the first place is beyond me , but if he was going to bother to make it , what possessed him to make such a gormless , clunky mess of it is inexplicable . " Annie " is simply dreadful . It has none of the movement and flow a musical should have , much of the score has been altered for the worse , and it's completely lacking in charm . A talented cast led by Carol Burnett and Albert Finney ( ! ) do what they can , which is very little with Huston fighting them every step of the way .
A Repugnant Film	A typical conversation from " Margot at the Wedding " might go something like this : " You were always so pretty . " " WERE pretty ? Does that mean you don't think I'm pretty anymore ? " " Why are you responding with all of this passive aggressive hostility ? I was just trying to pay you a compliment . " " You know , I was noticing earlier today that you have really bad body odor . Does that ever bother you ? " " You're such a bitch . " And that's it . Scene after scene of dialogue like this , spoken by one unlikable character to another unlikable character , until you feel like the only possible way for the movie to end satisfactorily is for all of the characters to be impaled on something very sharp and preferably jagged . Noah Baumbach made an auspicious debut with " The Squid and the Whale , " but with " Margot at the Wedding " he makes the mistake of assuming that one person's morbid neuroses are inherently interesting to another . We don't learn anything about these characters , we don't care about them , and we don't like them . You tell me - - do you want to sit through 90 minutes of that ?
Relentlessly Awful	If this aggressively , sadistically cheerful movie does not make you want to jab a fork into your eye within the first two minutes , then you and I should probably never get together for drinks . A stage musical based on the songs of ABBA was probably an unnecessary endeavor to begin with , so a movie based on that stage musical is unnecessary to the second power . But was that any reason to inflict a film this terribly made and relentlessly un-entertaining on its audience ? Who was director Phyllida Lloyd trying to punish anyway ? " Mamma Mia ! " the movie ! retains a single monotonous ! tone of mania ! that I think is supposed to be wacky but instead comes across as deranged . I didn't think I could be embarrassed by a Meryl Streep performance , but this movie proves that there's a first time for everything . Streep mugs and writhes and jumps up and down on beds and emotes to pointless songs shoe-horned into a vapid plot to the point where I just wanted someone ( the grip , the script supervisor , anyone ) to shoot her and put her out of her misery . But the misery inflicted by Streep's performance is nothing compared to the misery endured having to listen to Pierce Brosnan sing ABBA songs in the style of Bruce Springsteen . Wonderful actresses like Julie Walters and Christine Baranski are asked to behave like fifteen-year-old girls ( which is the only demographic I can even come close to seeing this film appeal to , by the way ) . Other nightmarish images flash across my eyes when I think back on this movie , like a phalanx of male dancers wearing scuba flippers and a fleeting glimpse of Stelan Skarsgaard's naked ass . Everyone looks like they're having a good time , but I wouldn't be surprised if they were doing so at gunpoint . What's next , a musical based on television commercial jingles ?
Like Having Glass Ground Into Your Eyeballs	Heed the warning of this movie's title and don't look at it now . . . or ever . This atrocious psychological thriller is neither psychologically complex nor especially thrilling . Julie Christie and Donald Sutherland play parents mourning the accidental death of their daughter , wandering around Venice while Sutherland is engaged in the renovation of an old cathedral . They run into a blind psychic and her sister , and their encounters with them bring Christie some solace about her daughter , but send Sutherland into a paranoid spiral which culminates in him following who he thinks is his dead daughter into the bell tower of a church and then . . . . . well , much hype has been built around the " shocking " ending to this movie , but let's just see if you give a damn about what happens by the time you get to it . My description of the plot makes it sound like it makes much more sense than it does when you're actually watching the film , because I've left out all of the utterly gratuitous and boring scenes that bring nothing to the party . Director Nicholas Roeg never met a trendy 1970s film trick that he didn't like , and so this movie is full of zooms , both in and out , jarring camera work and harsh , ear-splitting sound effects . I guess he's trying for a nerve-jangling effect , but it all seems like a lot of fuss and bother over nothing . This is an assemblage of disconnected scenes badly in need of a story . The most frightening thing about " Don't Look Now " is the extended love-making scene that assaults us with a fully nude Donald Sutherland . Now that's what will make you turn your eyes away in horror .
Eva Longoria Deserves the Flames of Hell	Much of " Over Her Dead Body " is so painfully unfunny that I was actually squirming in my seat out of embarrassment for the actors . Eva Longoria proves that she can't carry a film in this terrible romantic comedy , and further , that she doesn't really even have any comedic timing . She's grating and annoying as a ghost who returns to earth to keep a cooky psychic from dating her widower fiancé . The fiancé is played by Paul Rudd , drippy and charmless , while the psychic is played by Lake Bell , bringing the movie whatever anemic energy it has . I felt most sorry for Bell , as she appears to have some comic abilities and was working overtime in an effort to make the material work . Unfortunately , she is up against the insurmountable task of making any movie that features Jason Biggs tolerable , and she is dragged down with the rest of the cast like Leo DiCaprio at the end of " Titanic . " " Over Her Dead Body " actually pied me off , because of its laziness and utter lack of effort . I started to think of all the interesting projects that can't get funded because vast amounts of money are being funneled into bland crap like this . Seriously , does Hollywood think movies like this are good enough ? How stupid do they really think the movie-going public is ?
When Slasher Films Were Innocent	How did this movie ever get the reputation as a horror classic ? I've been re-watching the " Friday the 13th " series recently and have been struck by how awfully incompetent they are as films . This first installment I guess has the advantage of being novel , though not really , since it doesn't use any formula conventions that " Halloween " didn't use two years earlier . And the actual film making technique in " Halloween " makes it seem like " Lawrence of Arabia " compared to this . Still , there is something nostalgically satisfying about these movies . Seeing dopey teenagers get axed in the face and knifed through the throat brings a little glow to my heart . This was made at a time when slasher movies had a kind of innocence that horror movies now have lost . These films were nasty at the time , but they're absolutely quaint when compared to the nasty cinema coming out now in the same genre , a sad testament to just how jaded we've become . As far as rating this particular movie , not all of the movies in the series are as bad as this one , but I can't bring myself to give the original anything other than a big fat F .
A Terrible Cassavetes Film	I found this film to be nearly intolerable . John Cassavetes in many ways was a love him or leave him director . His films were never easy - - he definitely required his audience to work , not sit passively and let his films quietly come at them . I don't mind this approach to film-making , but I do require that the rewards I receive are worth the effort I bring to the experience . Not so here . " The Killing of a Chinese Bookie " simply wore me out , until by the end of the movie I could not have cared less what happened to anyone in it or to the story itself . This is Cassavetes at his self-indulgent worst . The only thing I liked about this movie was Ben Gazarra , who I've always thought was a fine and overlooked actor .
This Tree of Life Would Be Put to Better Use as Firewood	The only compliment I can pay " The Fountain " is that it's not ordinary . However , a little ordinariness might have helped this nearly unwatchable mess of a movie . Darren Aronofsky has made a cerebral , abstract film completely lacking any ounce of emotional significance . It comes across as one of those films that one person had too much control of . I can't believe for a second that there weren't people around Aronofsky who thought this movie was completely indigestible bilge ; unfortunately , none of them had the balls to tell him so . In " The Fountain , " Hugh Jackman plays some sort of doctor in the near future who is engaged in research to slow the aging process ( or something - - I was never entirely clear on this point ) . His wife ( Rachel Weisz , a long way away from " The Constant Gardener " ) is dying of a brain tumor , and curing her with these new but unperfected methods becomes an obsession of Jackman's . Meanwhile , she has written a book about a Spanish Conquistador during the inquisitions ( Jackman again ) who is sent by Queen Isabella ( Weisz again ) to find the famed tree of life . And as if that weren't enough , another version of Jackman ( this one bald , looking like a cross between Kevin Spacey and Dr . Evil ) floats around space in a big bubble with said tree of life ( which I think we are meant to think at this point is Weisz in her immortal form ) pausing occasionally to break off pieces of its bark to eat . All of this is treated with utmost seriousness and earnestness , and the results are ridiculous . The tone of the film is one of unrelenting gloom , with sombre music and muted line readings . Jackman is not nearly a capable enough actor to handle this role , though to be fair , I don't know that anyone else would be either . He mostly just looks sad and harried , and the only difference between any of the incarnations of him is in how much hair he has on his head and face ( there's the hairy Jackman , the moderately hairy Jackman and the shaved Jackman ) . Weisz mostly floats around in a stranded role as no more than something for Jackman to respond to . Arronofsky apparently was able to convince both of them to take this nonsense seriously , and the results are simply embarrassing at times . My wife and I laughed out loud more than once , and trust me , nothing in this movie was meant to be funny . But the climax , in which the Conquistador begins to gobble sap from the tree of life , only to have flowers erupt from all of his bodily orifices , is a tour de force of unintentional screen comedy . Ellen Burstyn inexplicably shows up in a small role as Jackman's boss . I have to believe she only agreed to do so as a favor to Aronofsky for giving her such a good role in his " Requiem for a Dream . "
Pretentious and Dull - - The Worst Combination	Ugh . . . an endless and interminable movie about a batch of oppressed school girls who go missing during a picnic at the eponymous rock formation . There seem to be plenty of viewers armed with psycho-babble to defend this film's deeper meaning , its undertones of sexuality , power , repression , etc . , etc . , blah , blah , blah . Whatever . I'm sure director Peter Weir knew what point he was trying to make , but this movie is a monotonous , droning bore , and I was left with no incentive to make sense of it . On top of all of that , it's also unforgivably pretentious , proof that Weir is better off sticking to the mainstream fare that has made him famous ( " Dead Poets Society , " " Witness , " " Master and Commander " ) and leave the art film to others .
What's the Point ?	What's the point of reviewing a movie like this ? It's painfully and embarrassingly bad , not even in a way that allows you to make fun of it . Movies like " Little Man " depress me . They represent film at its most disposable . This movie was made for a bunch of 18-24 year old dipsht frat boys who the studio was hoping would come out and see it on opening night before word leaked out about how bad it was , so that the film could quickly recoup its investment . A hundred other filmmakers with great ideas probably couldn't get their films made because resources were going toward making this puddle of vomit .
Atrocious	Ron Howard , who never met a story he couldn't screw up , takes the delightful holiday cartoon classic and turns it into something gormless , vulgar and awful . The cartoon used imaginative language and iconic animation to create its magical effect . Howard replaces all of that with gaudy art direction and stupid physical humour . The makeup effects are creepy , not cute ; the Whovillians are anonymous drones - - and it doesn't help that they look like half pig / half human lab creations . Jim Carrey , who on paper seems like he would be perfect casting , overplays to the hilt , creating exactly the opposite effect to that inspired by the original droll creation of animator Chuck Jones and actor Boris Karloff . The only positive attribute Carrey could have brought to the film , that rubber face with which he could have created any number of comic moments , is buried underneath heaps of prosthetic makeup . This is a foul , terrible movie , and I can't believe that anyone could possibly like it . How it even rated a 5 . 6 here at IMDb is beyond me .
Beyond Watchable	I've been having my own little Altman revival over the past months , watching all of his available movies in chronological order , both his masterpieces and his duds . I'm up to 1987 , and I think I may have finally found it - - that elusive thing known as Robert Altman's absolutely worst film . If you know about Altman , you know that all of his movies were an experiment to a greater or lesser extent and that some of them misfired dismally . In re-watching them with a fresh eye , I've found that none ( not even some really bad ones , like " A Wedding " , " Quintet " , or " Popeye " ) misfired quite as egregiously as " Beyond Therapy " . A farcical romp lampooning modern-day ( for the time ) romance , sexual preferences , neurotics and the analysts who are crazier than they are , " Beyond Therapy " has nothing to recommend it . The two leads , Jeff Goldblum and Julie Hagerty , make their characters instantly unlikable and never recover . Tom Conti and Glenda Jackson are probably the best members of the cast , as two whacked out therapists , but the parts they're given to play feel random and arbitrary . Christopher Guest basically plays the petulant gay man he would reprise so classically ten years later in " Waiting for Guffman " . I don't know how Christopher Durang's stage play would read in a different context . It seems paper thin judging by this version , but knowing Altman , I have a feeling he dealt with the source material liberally , and who knows how much of Durang's original play remains . This film certainly has Altman's footprints all over it , and in this case that's not a good thing .
Adding 3-D Doesn't Help	If possible , the third installment in the hit hack-up derby is even worse than the first film , which is really saying something . The entire " Friday the 13th " series is like a ten-car pile-up for me : I know I should avert my eyes , but something compels me to stare . These movies are an insult to my intelligence , yet I keep coming back for more , mostly because I remember these from being a kid and so they have a nostalgic tug to them . At least this one is the most 80s of the series . . . it's like a slasher version of " Roller Boogie . " We get punk motorcycle gang members with puffy hair and chains . . . one of them looks suspiciously like Debbie Allen . We also get a groovy disco space-agey them playing over the opening credits , announcing that the series has officially accepted its place as pure camp . Jason dons his trademark hockey mask for the first time , and proceeds to do quickly away with another batch of teens , who for their pure lack of anything intelligent to do or say deserve to die , if for no other reason . The 3-D effects are a riot in this - - especially when you watch the film in 2-D and can realize just how far out of their way the film makers went to work 3-D into the film . Some of the effects were inventive : Jason shoots an arrow into a girl's eye , and the arrow comes right at the screen ; he squeezes a guy's head until his eye comes squiggling out toward the camera . But I have to assume that some of the other 3-D effects , like an overhead shot of exploding popcorn ( Oh my God , it's coming right at us ! ) were less than terrifying to experience . Jason outdoes himself with the body count this time around - - whole scenes exist for the purpose of introducing someone he can poke , prod or skewer . Is he working on commission ?
Dreck	Saying that " Friday the 13th Part VII : The New Blood " is god awful is like saying the sun rises in the East . It's just an objective fact , and there's not anything anyone can possibly say to refute it . I have about as much energy to muster up a comment about this film as the filmmakers had in creating it , and believe me , that's not much . This movie doesn't have one redeemable quality about it - - the acting , writing , directing and editing are remedial . My friends and I made movies as good as this in college goofing around on a Saturday with nothing more than a camcorder . Even the " kills " ( to use fanboy parlance ) , which I'm assuming are the primary motivating factor behind most people watching this at all , are dull and unimaginative , and gorehounds will be supremely disappointed , as they're censored to the point where you don't see much of anything at all . After Part VI , I didn't think the " Friday the 13th " series could get much worse - - this movie proves that there's always the opportunity to achieve a higher level of incompetency .
Ugh !	Well , I guess I didn't " get it , " since that's how everyone who loves this stinking movie explains away those of us who don't . Couldn't have anything to do with the ridiculous performances ( who else wanted to see John Leguizamo take a long walk off a short pier , and who else but me felt embarrassed for poor Jim Broadbent , terrific in so many other things ) , Baz Luhrmann's irritating directorial style ( his target audience would appear to be 14-year old girls with ADS ) , or the banal music ( " Hedwig and the Angry Inch , " a REAL musical , made fun of " I Will Always Love You . " " Moulin Rouge " pays homage to it ) . This film is vapid eye candy stretched out over an exhausting 2 hours . Congrats , Baz - - - you've succeeded in inventing a new genre - - - the feature-length MTV video . And for those of you who think we've all missed the point - - - - Baz ain't exactly Ingmar Bergman .
Hold on to Your Artichokes	Here at IMDb it's called " The Mutations " ; the version I saw was called " The Freakmaker . " No matter what title you give it , the result is one pretty bad movie . Donald Pleasance slums mightily in the role of a college professor / mad scientist whose ultimate dream is to create a race of half plant / half human creatures . He enlists the help of a horribly deformed owner of a carnie freak show to find human subjects for him to experiment on . These subjects end up looking like artichokes and cabbages , and are played by actors wearing rubbery costumes that don't look remotely realistic . Meanwhile , a group of students begin to unravel the mystery of the professor's doings , while the members of the carnie freak show ( played by actual circus sideshow members , in an homage to Todd Browning's 1932 classic " Freaks " ) become increasingly angered by their boss's abuse and take revenge . This sounds like the makings of a juicy cult classic , one that if nothing else would be in the " so-bad-it's-good " category . Indeed , this is why I watched it . Let me save you the time and trouble of finding out on your own that it's not so-bad-it's-good - - it's just bad . Bad as in fairly boring , poorly acted , poorly written . Much of it doesn't make any sense . It's almost unbelievable that Jack Cardiff , a film artist with a number of prestigious credits to his name , directed this . This is the sort of thing my wife and I might make using a video camera and some friends . Actually , I think we could make a better movie than this . And am I the only one to wonder why the color in the film is so bright as to actually hurt my eyes at times ?
A Nearly Unwatchable Hollywood " Classic "	Hopeless . If you can endure Charlton Heston's painful attempts at " serious " acting for nearly four ( ! ) hours , you will ultimately be done in anyway by the film's sheer unwieldy clunkiness . It lumbers along under William Wyler's direction like a crippled elephant , coming alive in only a couple of places ( the lauded chariot race scene , the sea battle sequence ) , only to ultimately collapse under its own self-important piety . I'm sure the creators of this film thought they were doing their audiences all sorts of favors by dazzling them with gigantic sets and crowd scenes . But really , their efforts backfire , because they make it futile for the actors to try and compete with the film's sheer physical size . Who can give a compelling performance when he / she's never filmed in anything more than medium close up ? Watching this film is like watching a stage production from the eighteenth row . Movies like " Ben-Hur " are the reason why people roll their eyes at the thought of watching a biblical epic . I'm not religious , but it's not the religious subject matter that turns me off from this film - - it's the way it's presented , the way it's performed and virtually everything else about it .
Downright Painful	Believe me , I did not want to dislike this movie , but ultimately I thought it was just awful . They Pythoners show none of the comedic dexterity on display in " The Holy Grail " or " Life of Brian , " and this movie put me sadly in mind of the worst " SNL " skits , when one lame joke is drawn agonizingly out over a 10 or 15 minute skit . " The Meaning of Life " is much edgier in subject matter than its predecessors , but so what ? Making something edgier does not inherently make it funnier . I have to believe the high rating this film received at IMDb is a tribute more to all of the love out there for Monty Python and not for this film in particular . A movie that may cause you to crack the barest of smiles once or twice , if it's lucky .
Start Spreading the News , This Movie Is Crap	Martin Scorsese's deconstruction of the golden Hollywood musical is a meandering disaster . " New York , New York " is damn near unwatchable . It tells the VERY slight story of a jackass saxophone player ( Robert De Niro ) who falls in love with a nightclub singer ( Liza Minelli ) and proceeds to emotionally abuse her until her life is miserable . De Niro is consistently one note in his performance , creating a character without a single redeeming feature . In his early scenes , I think we're supposed to be charmed by him , and by extension understand why Minelli's character would fall for him in the first place - - unfortunately , he comes across more as a creepy sociopath than anything , Travis Bickle with some musical talent . Minelli's role is utterly thankless , but she's absolutely the only thing that kept me watching . The last 40 minutes of the film is practically a Liza Minelli concert . Her character has vaulted to film stardom and left her loser husband in the dust ; Scorsese devotes what feels like half an hour to a movie within a movie featuring Minelli in one of those epic ballet scenes that always derailed Gene Kelly musicals . It does the same to this film , but the diversion was welcome , since it meant we could enjoy a nice break from De Niro . The movie grinds on for 163 ( ! ) minutes . At the 120 minute mark I wanted to cry . At the 150 minute mark I was beaten into submission by indifference . By that point , the film had been going on for far too long , yet at the same time I couldn't believe it would be ending in 10 minutes because it didn't seem to be moving toward any kind of resolution . Scorsese seemed to be unaware that this story had already been told - - maybe he'd never heard of " A Star Is Born . " More likely , he was paying homage to that film , but he created something that on its own terms has no reason for existence .
Changing the Point of View Doesn't Make This Movie Any Better	What could have been a reasonably entertaining B-movie is instead turned into a total disaster . Here's the gimmick : the events in " Vantage Point " unfold multiple times from the perspectives of different characters . Each time we see the story , we either learn something we didn't know before , or the movie tosses us a new twist for a subsequent story to unravel . If this were made as a film noir back in the 1950s , it would have been a modest , slick little film with a clever narrative device . But blown up to Hollywood action movie proportions , with a big cast of good and wasted actors , and pretensions to some sort of intelligent commentary about the way we perceive our fragmented world , the movie stinks . A movie like this must have absolutely perfect editing , but the editing in " Vantage Point " is terrible . The first hour of the film is repetitive ; I grew quickly tired of the film rewinding itself to start over every ten minutes . The filmmakers must have grown tired of it too , because the last half hour is told through no particular point of view , and is so badly edited that nothing makes much sense . The action in " Vantage Point " never stops , yet the whole things feels oddly inert and boring . All of the characters are given back stories told in short hand to give us a reason to care about them , but the stories are hackneyed , like something high schoolers would have written . And it doesn't help that the dialogue , especially that reserved for the swarthy terrorists who put the film's action in motion , sounds like the stuff you hear on those telenovelas that air on Telemundo . This movie is a perfect example of what happens when a stupid action movie tries to be smarter than it is . From whichever point of view you choose , " Vantage Point " still sucks .
A Steaming Pile of Demon Puke	A ridiculous and laughable " horror " film about demonic possession . " The Exorcist " is simply terrible . William Friedkin directed with an iron fist , and there isn't the least shade of subtlety to this story . You may feel assaulted , but you won't be scared . Poor Ellen Burstyn has to wade her way through this crap in the thankless role of mother to Linda Blair's possessed daughter . The two actresses are quite effective in the film's early scenes , when the possession has yet to fully take hold , and these scenes are the creepiest in the movie . But once Blair is relegated to the bedroom , strapped down to the bed and bedecked with caked-on prosthetics , this movie gives up all claims to seriousness and becomes a procession of shameless shock moments . Jason Miller and Max Von Sydow wander around and intone imperiously as the two priests assigned to the exorcism , and Mercedes McCambridge gives the film's most lively performance as the demon's voice . Disgustingly , Friedkin actually claimed that this film was religiously significant , a ruse that worked , since it became a blockbuster . Times haven't changed . Religious fanatics turned Mel Gibson's bloodbath , " The Passion of the Christ , " into a cultural phenomenon , and they've done the same to this . If religiously-themed films have taught us anything , it's that religious people certainly do like their Sunday school messages to come packaged in pain and suffering .
The Horror , the Horror . . . .	I so wanted to give this film a better review , because if nothing else , " Hulk " at least takes a more interesting than average approach to the comic - book - turned - into - summer - blockbuster genre . Ang Lee gets kudos from me for his use of split screens to suggest the panels of a comic book , but that's about where my praise ends . Because I usually like Lee , I'm giving this two stars instead of one , but I'm doing that under duress . " Hulk " is dreadful . It's 140 minutes of nonsense , which might be o . k . if that nonsense had any notion that it was nonsense . But Lee and company seem to take their material utterly seriously , which is deadly for this kind of film . Lee uses the comic book look for his film , but he doesn't use the comic book tongue-in-cheek style of story-telling , so every single scene comes across as unintentionally silly . Even with that , the film might have been enjoyable . Hey , I enjoy a fun bad movie as much as the next guy . But this is a fun bad movie without the fun . The story takes forever to get going , and once it does it doesn't make a lot of sense anyway . I can't believe I'm saying this , but this is one case where the story overwhelms the visuals . I don't really need that much back story to the Hulk - - - what I want are cool action sequences and zingy special effects . Well , the effects in this suck . I almost have to believe the CG animation in this film was intentionally corny , otherwise the producers got seriously ripped off . The only thing I can say about the animated Hulk is that he's a better actor than Eric Bana , who plays Bruce Banner . Please don't ask this boy to act , and especially don't ask him to cry . Jennifer Connelly is starting to really get on my nerves . She's stealing the market on noble suffering away from Joan Allen . But the real booby prize goes to Nick Nolte , who has driven another nail into the coffin of his career with his appearance in this . He's absolutely putrid , chewing the scenery every chance he gets in a greasy fright wig . His big showy soliloquy toward the end might have been more effective if the viewer could understand a word he says , but I doubt it . Perhaps the filmmakers should have chosen to use a CG version of Nick Nolte instead of the real thing . And darned if this movie doesn't suffer from action movie syndrome , complete with false finale and a real finale that is jaw-droppingly wretched . $100 bucks to anyone who can make sense of what happens at the end , and who can also tell me how all of the people back at the military base were able to see the big battle between the Hulk and Nick Nolte as if they were watching it on screen as we are , even though they are miles away watching nothing more than a radar screen . Bad , bad , bad . . . . .
Ghastly	This is a terrible movie , and I'm not even sure why it's so terrible . It's ugly , for one , with that trendy 1970s visual style that maybe seemed like a good idea at the time but which now enables one to instantly recognize a film from that time period as being a 70s product . The film retains the story and songs that made the stage version of the musical such a hit , but the songs sound lifeless on screen . But mostly , the movie sucks because of the wan performance of Lucille Ball , who you'd think would be able to make something of this larger-than-life character if anyone could . She sleepwalks through the movie like a terrified actress choking on her opening night , and the film sinks with her . Even Bea Arthur , who I bet was hilarious in the best friend role onstage , can't breathe any life into this stinker . Avoid at all costs .
Do NOT Ease on Down THIS Road	A colossal misfire . My theory is that every great director had to direct at least one crappy movie musical ( think about it , John Huston did " Annie , " Robert Altman did " Popeye , " etc . ) , and " The Wiz " is Sidney Lumet's dubious contribution . An all-black , motown version of " The Wizard of Oz " isn't a bad idea , but this movie's atrocious . It's ungainly , uninspired , unengaging . The only thing it has going for it is some funky art direction and costume design , but eye candy will only get you so far in a movie as bad as this . Diana Ross and Michael Jackson look and sound so much alike that I had trouble telling them apart .
Film Almost Single Handedly Undermines the Integrity of the Pulitzer Prize	If you were to judge based on the movie alone , the committee that gave the stage musical " A Chorus Line " a Pulitzer Prize , and Broadway audiences that kept the war horse running for 15 years , were all on heavy narcotics , because one singular sensation this film certainly is NOT . What possessed anyone to think that Richard Attenborough was the right fit for this material utterly mystifies me , but he makes a musical that is almost entirely about movement just sit on the screen like a lump of clay . Not content with the original score the way it was originally written , someone decided that what the film really needed was a brand new song to give the movie some zip . Thus we are assaulted with the Oscar-nominated ( ! ) " Surprise , Surprise . " Well surprise , surprise , the song stinks , and so does the movie .
Heston's Performance Is About an 8 . 5 on the Richter Scale	1974 was a bad year for L . A . First , its brand new skyscraper caught on fire and imperiled the likes of William Holden , Faye Dunaway , Steve McQueen and Paul Newman - - whose lives were all partially in the hands of O . J . Simpson , no less ! Then it was struck by a mega-quake that completely devastated the city and scared the bejesus out of movie audiences by subjecting them to yet another Charlton Heston performance . If I'm not mistaken , movie theatres showing this film were equipped with special sound systems that would make the auditorium rattle and shake , until the systems were all removed when the theatres started to experience actual damage . And we think we've got it bad now . . . . . .
" Quintet , " I Apologize - - THIS Is the Worst Altman Film Ever Made	Oh , Robert Altman , I love you and may you rest in peace , but DAMN did you make some bad movies . I've been re-watching Altman's entire oeuvre on DVD lately ( or at least the movies available ) and have had to seriously reconsider my ranking system . I had thought that " Quintet " was the nadir of his 1970s film career , but I had forgotten just how atrocious " A Wedding " is . But then I re-watched " Popeye " and think that there's a new serious contender . It's almost like after making " Nashville , " Altman set out to one-up himself in bad movies , and see just how much worse each could be than the one before it . ( Though I have to exclude " 3 Women " from this - - a remarkable film ) . " Popeye " is an example of what happens when Altman's rambling style goes completely wrong . The film is a shambling mess , with not much discernible plot , and it's almost the exact opposite of the cartoons on which it's based . Those were little jewels of narrative economy - - even a movie made for kids needs to be well written . Robin Williams is a riot as Popeye , and his constant muttering is easily the best thing about the movie . It's also worth watching to see Shelley Duvall in the role she was born to play , and she does it almost too well , making Olive Oyl just as annoying in human form as she was as a cartoon . The Harry Nilsson songs are terrible , and they're not really even songs . Characters occasionally walk around sing / talking , but the songs , like the film , have no structure and just sort of end . Ray Walston , as Popeye's pappy , infuses the film with some verve , but he enters the picture too late to save it . The set looks like the leftover remnants from " McCabe and Mrs . Miller " ( look for a blink-and-you'll-miss-it reference to that film in a whorehouse ) , and I think many of them were resurrected for " Waterworld . " The thing with Altman's bad movies , though , is that they're so confidently and spectacularly bad that they almost become entertaining . The ending of " Popeye " is a disaster , but it's so fascinatingly disastrous that you can't look away . That's almost more of a testament to Altman's skill as a director than any of the brilliant classics he made .
Mammoths and Tigers and Bad Acting , Oh My ! !	Thank God that Roland Emmerich is making movies and setting history straight , because without him I never would have realized that prehistoric man looked not unlike cast members from " Rent . " What is that elusive ingredient that makes a bad movie fun to watch ? Because whatever it is , " 10 , 000 B . C . " is missing it . This film skips bad and settles instead for boring - - I found myself having to struggle mighty hard to keep my attention from wandering in the film's last hour or so . On the other hand , it seems almost pointless to bother watching a film like this and then rip it apart . It's not unlike cracking open an egg you know has gone bad , and then complaining when it smells foul .
Can't Anybody Make a Good Movie About the Moulin Rouge ?	This dreary biopic about Toulouse-Lautrec , directed by the usually reliable John Huston , only proves that no one has yet been able to make a compelling movie about the famous painter or the Moulin Rouge of turn-of-the-20th-century Paris . Baz Luhrman's film from 2001 is appalling and unwatchable . Huston's film is just boring . I can't imagine why the screen writer for this film would choose someone as interesting as Toulouse-Lautrec , whose contribution to the visual arts would make a perfect subject for a movie , and then decide to make some stupid , dull romance the focus . Marie , the grating character played by Collette Marchand , is repellent . I hated her , and cringed every time she came on the screen . That awful , piercing voice and nearly unintelligible French accent . . . . . ugh ! Supposedly she made such an impact on Toulouse-Lautrec that he could never get over his unrequited love for her . WHAT ? ! ! You never see any of that take place on screen . Jose Ferrer is stiff as a board , delivering every line with the same inflection and facial expression , and Collette Marchand makes Marie so hateful and unlikable that you can't suspend disbelief for a second and believe anyone would love her . As the central story , it fails utterly . As for the details about Toulouse-Lautrec's life , what details there are , Huston and company play fast and loose with the facts , especially the events leading to the painter's death . But by that point , I was so bored with the movie I frankly didn't care how they ended it . The only redeemable aspect of this movie is its impressive production design , which recreates the look and style of Toulouse-Lautrec's instantly recognizable paintings . The scenes in the Moulin Rouge are diverting , because at least there's some energy to them , even if Huston can't film a dance number to save his life . Someone needs to tell that man about medium and long shots , and encourage him not to shoot every dancer in claustrophobic close up so that you can never really see what's going on . I can't imagine anyone really liking this movie . Not Huston fans , not fans of Toulouse-Lautrec , not even fans of 50's melodramas . How it got as high a rating as it does here is beyond me .
Use the DVD as a Coaster If You Want Your Full Money's Worth	Using your copy of " Seabiscuit " to set drinks on would be a more interesting use for it than actually playing the boring thing . Oh , what a safe , boring , dull movie this is . Gary Ross obviously went to the Ron Howard school of directing , where points are pounded home with a hammer and anvil and manipulated emotions are manufactured with assembly-line rapidity . This is the kind of movie where everyone delivers lines that sound like they should be on self-help bumper stickers ; homilies are handed out like parking tickets . And the movie doesn't end until each character gets to deliver at least one clunker , and most of them get to deliver many more . " Seabiscuit " isn't even really a bad movie - - it's an uninteresting movie , which is much worse . Even bad movies can be fascinating , but the filmmakers here aim so low at trying to please the lowest common denominator of viewer that they've put together a batch of pandering mush that has not one genuine emotion in it . Yuck . . .
This Is What They Make You Watch in Hell	I was going to give this movie 1 star until I realized that I gave " Moulin Rouge " that ranking , and I can't possibly hate a movie as much as that one . You might think from my ratings of these two movie musicals that I don't like movie musicals . Not so . I like GOOD movie musicals , not stinky ones like this . I wish I could have been a fly on the wall when the powers that be sat around the table planning this one . There must have been a lot of acid in that conference room . If this movie had ended at intermission , it wouldn't have been so bad . As it is , this one is deadly , and it doesn't help that it comes in at a ass-numbing 2 hours . No one , but no one comes out the better for having been involved with this movie . Let's just start with Julie Andrews , since she is the star of the show . She's completely miscast , and about 15 years too old for the part . She does her best to make something of this mess , but too frequently simply gives up and resorts to playing her part like Maria from " The Sound of Music " ( a movie musical I liked , by the way ) . James Fox , who plays her love interest , is almost unbearably mannered in his performance , with a full repertoire of facial contortions and nervous tics that will send you to the kitchen for countless refills of popcorn , long after the popcorn is gone . Mary Tyler Moore is simply dreadful in the most thankless role ever put to screen . I was going to chalk her disastrous performance up to being a novice , but then I remembered that she had already been in the " Dick Van Dyke Show " and was starring in " The Mary Tyler Moore Show " even as this film was released , so she has no excuse for being rotten . Beatrice Lillie as the villianess might have been funny if she was given anything funny to do . Carol Channing is Carol Channing , weird and hyper . However , she alone of the cast seems to know what the hell she's doing , and any scene involving her ends up being a highlight of the film . I don't know why they decided to make this a musical . Musicals were gasping for breath by 1967 anyway ; for every " My Fair Lady " or " The Sound of Music , " there was a " Doctor Dolittle " and " Camelot . " The music in " Millie " seems added on as an afterthought , since hardly any of the songs have anything to do with the plot , and director George Roy Hill couldn't direct a musical number if his life depended on it . Speaking of Hill , I'll save my last comments for him . He's all wrong for this film . I'm assuming the movie was intended to be a satirical send-up of 20's silent melodramas , since it comes complete with reaction shots aimed directly at the camera and title cards elaborating on characters ' emotions . But if that's so , why does Hill set everything to such a plodding pace ? The thing staggers along like a rabid dog before finally collapsing under the weight of its inanity . One wishes Atticus Finch would emerge from behind a tree and put this particular rabid dog ( and the audience ) out of its misery . You know what the most memorable thing about this movie is ? The title song . You'll be singing it for days and days and days and days afterwards . Enjoy . ( because only " Moulin Rouge " is entitled to a grade of F )
As Unnecessary as It Could Possibly Be	" Around the World in 80 Days " recreates the sensation of looking through someone else's vacation pictures . Some of them may be pretty , but by the time you've seen your fifth picture of palm trees and sand , you're ready to move on . This movie existed solely as a big F YOU to the television industry and the threat it was making to film box office in the mid-50s . Hollywood wanted to show what film could do that T . V . couldn't , which meant BIG films in exotic locations on enormous screens . Unfortunately , these added " benefits " came at the expense of just about everything else that makes films good - - pacing , character development , dramatic tension , etc . David Niven sleepwalks through this film , Cantinflas is only slightly less irritating that Roberto Benigni , and spotting celebrity cameos may keep you interested for the first half hour , but they're not the hook on which to hang a three-hour movie . Think of all the things you could do in three hours and do any of them instead of watching this film .
Really , Really Bad ( I Mean , Really )	What ? . . . . What did you say ? . . . . Sorry , I'm having a little trouble hearing you . . . . I think all of the caterwauling in this movie gave me permanent hearing loss . . . . . . . I'm suing Bill Condon . . . . . Either the stage version of " Dreamgirls " sucked royally and they made a very faithful ( and sucky ) film version of it , or the team responsible for transferring the stage hit to screen totally butchered what was at one time a good thing . I doubt I'll ever know , because having sat through this mess once , almost nothing could induce me to come within 10 miles of anything remotely " Dreamgirls " - related in future . Beyonce Knowles looks gorgeous but completely fades into the background as the lead singer in a black trio loosely based on the Supremes . The group's manager , played with a mumble and a sneer by Jamie Foxx , wants to bring black music to a mainstream white audience , but instead sells out to the man and makes the black performers and the music they sing progressively whiter . One of the trio , Effie , doesn't fit into this scheme . She's too black , too loud , too . . . . er , everything , so she's booted . But never fear , Beyonce sees the error of her ways , makes up with Effie and gives Foxx a what for . This whiff of a plot plays out over two hours , all of it whirling by in a nauseating barrage of images and songs that all sound the same , making one wonder if Bill Condon was trying to break some kind of record for how fast he can make a movie plot move . Someone needs to tell Condon that simply making a film move fast does not make it inherently interesting . Indeed , " Dreamgirls " is a leaden bore , and what little plot there is is ridiculously hard to follow , because scenes just charge from one to another seemingly at random , songs bleed into one another , and whole decades flash by during montages that don't clearly indicate how much time is supposed to be passing . Jennifer Hudson , who received idolatrous praise for this movie , gives a one-note performance as big-mouthed Effie . I think she was meant to be endearing and spunky , but instead she's aggravating as hell . She sings every song at the same ear-splitting volume , and gives no indication that she's taken the time to understand the words she's singing . It doesn't really matter though , as the songs here do nothing to further the plot , and don't match the characters that sing them . The only songs I remotely liked were " Love You I Do , " one of the handful written directly for the film , and the pseudo-rap song that Eddie Murphy's character sings at one point ( which ends with him dropping his pants ! ) . Effie's big number , " And I Am Telling You I'm Not Going , " is intolerable and actually laughable . Beyonce's big number , " Listen , " recreates the sound of a pussycat being slowly squeezed through a meat grinder . Speaking of Eddie Murphy , he's the only thing that makes " Dreamgirls " watchable , and that's really only because he spends all of his screen time doing his Little Richard impression from Saturday Night Live ( " I'm getting ' in the hot tub ! " ) . Everything else about this movie is a total disaster .
Love Is a Syrupy , Schmaltzy Thing	This film looks great , and that's about where my praise ends . " Love Is a Many Splendored Thing " came out in the very schizophrenic year of 1955 , when candy-coloured nonsense like this co-existed with trail-blazing artistic fair like " Kiss Me Deadly . " As a trend toward smaller , socially conscious films like " On the Waterfront " and " Marty " established itself in the mid-50's , other directors felt the need to stick with the unchallenging , pandering melodrama that classifies so many other films from that decade , and " Love " is one of the latter . This is the kind of 50's movie where the Technicolor is used to its garish utmost and the lighting is invariably high-key ; even scenes taking place in a dark room or at night are brighter than the average sunny day . I never want to hear the theme song again , as it's played frequently enough over the course of the film to last anyone a lifetime , and I certainly don't want to hear it sung by the shrill , ear-piercing choir that belts it out over the end titles . Jennifer Jones and William Holden are passable , but really anybody could have played these parts . Jones ' role is horribly written - - her character is incredibly inconsistent , and it seems as if whenever her character is required to make a decision about something , the screenwriters flipped a coin to decide what that decision would be . People will undoubtedly tell me I'm taking this film too seriously , that I'm unromantic , etc . But I loved " All That Heaven Allows , " released the same year and just as cornball in its own way , except that Douglas Sirk is able to turn melodrama into an art form , whereas Henry King ( director of " Love " ) is not . I'm usually able to enjoy bad melodrama , but in this case I was just bored .
I've Rarely Seen a Movie So Utterly Ruined by Its Ending	" Sunshine " is an hour of pretty good movie completely ruined by a disastrously terrible final 30 minutes . Danny Boyle's latest exercise in feel-bad cinema finds a crew of astronauts on their way to launch a mega-bomb at Earth's dying sun , hoping to revive it and save the fate of humanity . They're the second crew to attempt this feat ; no one knows what happened to the first crew other than that they didn't succeed in their mission . Cillian Murpy of the other-worldly eyes plays Capa , the crew's physicist and only one who knows how to actually launch the bomb itself . Chris Evans is Mace , the crew's hyper-male maintenance guy . Michelle Yeoh cares tenderly for the ship's oxygen garden , which needs to provide the crew members with enough oxygen to get them to the sun and back . There are other crew members , like a stoic captain , a psych officer who's obsessed with staring at the sun , and a sensitive female , but really none of the characters ever amount to much and they're all virtually interchangeable . This wasn't especially troublesome to me , because I don't expect strong characterizations in movies like this , and also because the science fiction element of the film's first half is interesting enough to stand on its own . Boyle creates a feeling of impending dread ; we know something bad is going to happen , and there's a squirmy but not unpleasant sense of tension in waiting to find out what that something is going to be . All of this opening action is reminiscent of " 2001 : A Space Odyssey . " Boyle focuses on the silence and oppression of space , and the claustrophobia of space life . But when the crew accidentally locates the spaceship sent out on the first mission and boards it in search of clues of what happened , the film switches into " Alien " mode and things get noticeably more jumpy . Even though I had no idea where this movie was going , I was willing to go along for the ride , and was even enjoying the unpredictability . Then , about half an hour from the end , the screenplay veers into ludicrous , shlocky slasher-film horror , and the utter awfulness of the movie's remainder completely canceled out anything good that came out of its early half . I'm repeatedly amazed at Boyle's inability to NOT royally screw up every movie he makes . I don't know what he was thinking here . This movie's screenplay is a disaster , and it's clear he had no idea what kind of movie he wanted to make . It's like he wanted a little bit of everything , but instead of forcing himself to pick and choose , he tries to include it all . By the time the credits role , this movie has lapsed into near incomprehensibility . It's a shame , because this movie had some original things going for it , and Boyle does know how to put haunting images on screen . But what I ultimately felt like I got for my ten dollars was a montage of rejected scenes from every other sci-fi / horror film produced up to now .
For Use in Place of Chinese Water Torture	If I were to be kidnapped by terrorists , making me watch this movie again would be more effective than any other brand of torture they could devise . If you want information out of me , just let me get a glimpse of Jeanne Crain's saccharine , dreadful performance here and I'll break faster than a ninety-year-old woman's hip . Ugh ! This movie is obnoxious , probably loved by people who like that horrible home improvement show on T . V . hosted by that twerp who screams into a bullhorn for an hour . As everyone probably knows because of the remake , Clifton Webb plays the droll father of a big batch of precocious , freckled , gooey 50s children , and the laughs I guess are supposed to come from watching him run his home with the efficiency of a drill sergeant . Myrna Loy is on hand , which you'd think would make things more tolerable , but the director pretty much shoves her into a corner and throws a dust cover over her . There's nothing funny in this movie , nothing moving , nothing even interesting : it's entirely lacking in dramatic conflict , and what drama there is ( a shameless attempt at tearjerking in the film's final moments ) doesn't work because it's so phony . Yuck . ( o . k . I'll refrain from giving it an F only because I like Myrna Loy )
The Movie Sucks , Which Means It's a Faithful Adaptation of Its Source	Well , you might not actually SEE any women in love in this movie , but you'll certainly hear women TALKING about love , and men talking about love , and women talking about men , and men talking about women , and men talking about men , and everyone talking about death , and talking , and talking , until you yourself will want to scream and do something that requires no talking at all , like paint your bedroom or water your plants . Welcome to the world of D . H . Lawrence , where psycho-babble reigns supreme , and where no one can get down to living a productive life because everyone is too busy talking about how unproductive their lives are . Spending time with the characters in a D . H . Lawrence novel is like being locked in a closet with a group of your most self-absorbed acquaintances who you would run away from if you met them at a party . When I read " Women in Love , " I so desperately wanted to strangle every single character in it , but since I couldn't , I was hoping they would at least strangle each other . Alas , only one of them dies , not by strangulation , and I won't spoil it for you by telling which one , in case you actually give a damn about this story or any of these people . To give director Ken Russell his due , he makes this filmed version about as entertaining as it's possible to make this essentially unfilmable novel . He throws out much of the psychological mumbo-jumbo that Lawrence adored , and focuses instead on all of the naughty parts , so we get lots of histrionic lovemaking in beds and fields , two buck naked men wrestling by firelight , and one embarrassing scene featuring Alan Bates ( yup , buck naked again ) roaming around in a meadow making love to bushes and grass ( I'm not kidding ) . Glenda Jackson won an Oscar for her performance as Gudrun , the more dominant of the two sisters at the story's focus , and she certainly tries her hardest to do something with this material ; anyone would deserve an Oscar simply for having to bear Russell's decision to give her a scene where she has to dance wildly in front of a herd of mystified-looking cattle . Oliver Reed has one expression , an intense glower . The whole thing is over-written and over-directed , and it's deliriously campy . Indeed , this vies with " Mommie Dearest " as perhaps the most unintentionally hysterical movie I've ever seen .
Huge Disappointment	For all of its nonstop action set pieces and narrow escapes , " War of the Worlds " is a strangely inert piece of film-making . There's absolutely nothing in the film to retain your interest . Tom Cruise plays a completely anonymous character who you learn nothing about , and his kids serve little purpose beyond being mere plot devices and giving Tom Cruise something to do besides save himself . Steven Spielberg directs this film with a grim relentlessness ; there are scenes to frighten and disturb , but there is absolutely no sense of fun . It's as if he brought the same sensibility he did to " Saving Private Ryan " to this film , but here the approach and the material don't match . " Private Ryan " was about an actual event , and there was some value in depicting it as realistically and disturbingly as possible so that those of us who've never lived through something similar might be less inclined to treat the subject casually . But come on - - this is an alien-invasion flick , the stuff of pure fantasy . Spielberg's obvious efforts to take advantage of the movie-going public's post - jumpiness seems calculated and rather tasteless . There's no point to talk about the acting , since there isn't any . But I do have to mention Tim Robbins , who gives a ghastly performance in a pointless role . His minimal storyline should have been left on the cutting room floor , with much of the rest of this film . This is one of those movies that doesn't even follow its own logic ; the kind where all electronic devices stop working , until someone needs to be able to use a cell phone for the convenience of the plot , and then miraculously their phone works . I was actually quite surprised at how bad this movie was . It's shoddy storytelling , which is not what I've come to expect from Spielberg . He's never been one of my favorite directors , but I've always given him credit for being far more capable than he is here . Maybe he was just directing this film to pass the time before " Munich " ( his Oscar-bait movie of the year ) was ready to start filming . Whatever the reason , his heart was obviously not in this one . ( some splashy visual effects prevent it from receiving an F rating )
One of Allen's Worst	" Shadows and Fog " is surely one of Woody Allen's weakest films , right up there with " September " and " Hollywood Ending " ( though nothing Allen has done equals the awfulness of " Anything Else " ) . " Shadows and Fog " is Allen's homage to the German Expressionist style of film-making , all stark and stylized light and shadow and . . . you guessed it . . . . . lots of fog . But you can tell Allen got caught up in the technique and the parody and forgot to make a movie that anyone would care about . Luckily , he made " Husbands and Wives " the same year , so things weren't a total wash for him .
After This Disaster , Spike Lee Needs to Keep His Mouth Shut	This God-awful mess of a movie is the last piece of proof I need to convince me that Spike Lee is pretty much worthless as a filmmaker . I have to believe that critics who gave this film even the faintest praise were merely being respectful to its subject matter and the intentions behind it . Because everything else about it is quite horrible . It's one of those movies that gets worse the more you think about it . Lee jumbles together a mish-mosh of stories into a WWII epic about the experiences of black soldiers on the front lines . The trouble is , the film isn't really about the black experience , or anything else for that matter . Oh there are some scenes of blacks being treated poorly by their white commanders , and one lengthy scene shoe-horned into the film that shows them being mistreated in an ice cream parlor back in the states , but these scenes feel as if they were inserted arbitrarily . It's as if Lee felt the need to meet a quota of obligatory racial diatribe , not like he included these scenes because they sprang organically from the story . In fact , the racial overtones become almost an afterthought under the weight of countless tangential plot lines involving Italian freedom fighters , a little boy " adopted " by one of the Americans , a traitor , a love triangle , and a valuable historical artifact . The last plot line in particular sets the stage for a clunky framing narrative set in 1983 that gives John Leguizamo , John Turturro and Joseph Gordon-Levitt pointless cameos and ends the film with one of the most embarrassingly clumsy scenes I've ever seen . What makes me most angry about Lee is his public arrogance and pomposity . He seeks to deflate the myth of the American war hero and call to task all of those famous WWII films ( " The Longest Day " specifically makes an appearance in the film ) for ignoring the black soldiers who served their country as ably as the whites . Fair enough . But then he makes a terrible movie that can't even get the war part right . Every battle scene in this feels like rejected footage from " Saving Private Ryan . " If you're going to shoot off your mouth and claim that you can do it better , you better damn well be sure you can . It's that quality about Spike Lee that makes me actually enjoy seeing a movie like this fail when I otherwise might meet it with a shrug of indifference . I've given Lee lots of chances to impress me with his film-making abilities , and this movie was beyond strike three . He's out .
A Formula Worn Thin	A tedious yawn of a film that retains nothing of the zing and raciness of its predecessor , " Gold Diggers of 1933 . " The Production Code was firmly in place by the time of this film's release , so the humour is all of the hokey , wocka-wocka variety and gone are the dry one-liners that sounded so cosmopolitan dripping off the lips of the gorgeous dames from the first film . A cast of second-tier stars and character actors go through the motions here , and the " puttin ' on a show " motif seems awfully forced ; instead of the make or break world of Broadway , the show here is a charity event hosted by a swanky hotel . Who really cares whether or not the show goes on ? The score here is bland too . Of course the movie's big number is " Lullaby of Broadway , " which accompanies a long fantasy dance number about a New York socialite's eventual demise from too much partying - - doesn't exactly have the same effect as the searing " Forgotten Man " number used as the finale in ' 33 . Busby Berkeley directs as well as choreographs this film , and whatever promise is built up in the film's fluid opening scenes quickly deteriorates . Unfortunately , no one learned any lessons from this , and there was yet another Gold Diggers movie two years later .
If I Ever Eat at This Diner , Please Seat Me Far Away from These Yahoos	Ugh , I hated " Diner . " A group of college twerps who don't want to grow up sit around and blather on incessantly . I believe we're supposed to think they're cute and lovable , shaking our heads in mock disapproval of their pesky antics . Give me a break . Nothing's more boring than watching a movie about people who want to avoid all of the responsibilities you accepted a long time ago . Maybe when I'm years older and further away from my own passage into adulthood , I will find this movie nostalgic and charming . As it is , I find it unbearable .
No Cheers for This Warners Short	This Warners short , which I presume ran on the same bill as Mervyn LeRoy's " I Am a Fugitive from a Chain Gang , " is a mostly tired and unfunny film . It reminded me of just about every " Saturday Night Live " skit ever made , in which all of the actors think the material is funnier than the people watching it , and push a one-note joke to the brink of exhaustion . It is sort of fun to watch this after LeRoy's movie , because it spoofs specific details from the movie rather than its premise in general . Replacing the jailers ' pack of bloodhounds with a bunch of fluffy white poodles was sort of funny , and I also liked the bellboy whose uniform was made of prison stripes . There are a lot of musical numbers incorporated into the action , performed by people I'd never heard of . The whole thing feels very patchwork and grade Z , with terrible sound and only the most cursory attention given to the actual film-making .
An Ugly Stage-to-Screen Adaptation	The Broadway musical on which this film is based may display oodles of charm , but if so , the film adaptation captures none of it . Kathryn Grayson and Howard Keel prove once again that they were singers first and actors second , and exhibit less than compelling screen presence . It wouldn't matter if they created fireworks together , because they would be overwhelmed anyway by the film's ghastly , unwieldy production design , whose sole purpose is to showcase the film's fancy 3-D technology , which of course means absolutely nothing now watching it on DVD .
A Boring Do-Over	Ugh , this film is dull and tedious . It followed the huge box office success and heap of Oscars bestowed upon " Going My Way , " and virtually sets out to recreate that film with some minor changes . One of those changes is the addition of Ingrid Bergman , and thank God for her . I've never been much of a Bergman fan , but I'm so glad she was in this , or I would have slipped into a coma . The best scene in the film is when she teaches a young boy how to fight . I've never seen Bergman so breezy and happy-go-lucky on screen , and the sight of her in her nun's costume bouncing around her office in imitation of a boxer is the only moment of life and energy in this desultory film . Bing Crosby plays the same role for which he won an Oscar the year before ; that is , he plays himself . As in the previous film , he croons a sappy song ( in this case " Aren't You Glad You're You " ) . As in the previous film , there's some attempt at dramatic tension built around a curmudgeonly old man who wants to tear down the church or something . Frankly , I wasn't paying that much attention . As in the previous film . . . . . but you get the picture . When I had my wisdom teeth removed , my oral surgeon prescribed a hefty dose of Xanax an hour before the surgery to send me into a loopy stupor . This film might have had the same effect on me , and would have saved me a pharmacy co-pay .
A Deadening Woody Allen Film in the Style of Ingmar Bergman	Woody Allen's cringe-inducing " September " comes across as something a film student would make if he were given the assignment of making a movie in the style of Ingmar Bergman . It's oppressive , claustrophobic and intolerably whiny , filled with unpleasant people complaining about their boring problems . Though the film is filled with good actors , like Mia Farrow , Elaine Stritch , Dianne Wiest and Denholm Elliott , none of them gel as a cast , and the pacing is repetitive . The film is a huge misfire from Allen , and thankfully it's one of the last times he dabbled in this kind of hackneyed experiment .
Horribly Dated	With apparently no faith in the pretty strong material , the filmmakers decided to do away with most of the aspects that made the musical charming in the first place ( like , oh , most of the music ! ) and replace it with groovy 60's trickery that looks like something right out of Benny Hill ( look , the action is sped up to make everyone look like they're running really , really fast . . . isn't that funny ? ) Zero Mostel does what he can , but he can't salvage this . No one else even registers . I saw this on stage , and that version blows the film version out of the water .
A Pointless Exercise in Human Nastiness	This crabby pill of a movie takes place in the dreg districts of Boston and stars Casey Affleck and Michelle Monaghan as a boyfriend / girlfriend detective team who are hired to search for a missing child . What follows is a twisty plot with a stupid and implausible finale . The movie is surly , everyone involved is in a bad mood , and the whole thing left me gloomy and angry . What am I supposed to take away from a movie like this ? The film thinks it's asking weighty moral questions , like what does it mean to do the right thing , what's the difference between what is right and what is legal , etc . ? But any point gets lost in the ugly , horrid world the movie lives in . Director Ben Affleck has been getting loads of praise for painting such an accurate portrait of working-class Boston , and maybe he did , but then why in God's name does anyone want to live there ? The film makes Boston look like the worst place on Earth , filled with degenerates and thugs . One scene set in a drug house - - by far the most demoralizing scene in the film - - is straight out of " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre , " inbred hillbillies and all . After a while , your only defense in this film is to laugh at the preposterous human ugliness Affleck unrelentingly heaps on you . Maybe good performances could have saved the movie - - or more accurately , good characters , because the performances are decent . But I don't know what any actors could have done with this material . I'm sick and tired of Hollywood churning out movie after movie that has no reason for existing other than to make people feel bad . What happened to movies that communicate ideas and engage in dialogue ? Now film makers seem to think that what moviegoers want more than anything is to simply wallow in human baseness and meanness . It's movies like " Gone Baby Gone " that are responsible for the insidious belief that the world is a much more nasty and violent place to live in than it really is . I'm glad this one bombed .
Are You Kidding Me ?	I should have known to stay away from this movie when it was recommended to me by someone who wouldn't normally be caught dead watching a foreign language film . The best way to describe the kind of movie we're dealing with here is to say that if you liked " Life Is Beautiful " you will like " Cinema Paradiso . " People who don't like foreign movies like this one because , if you take away the Italian subtitles , this film is as fake and schlocky as the worst piece of sentimental clap-trap churned out by the Hollywood myth-making machine . Not one single moment of this movie rang true for me . Subtlety was passed over on every occasion for the the most manipulative of cinematic tricks , and the love story that anchors the film is boring and completely missing any sort of sexual spark . I have a feeling that this movie is so beloved because people who in reality have pretty low-brow movie tastes can watch it and feel like they're cinematically smarter . A double feature of this and " Life Is Beautiful " might just be enough to make me lose hope in serious film forever .
YO , HO , HO and a Mixed Bag of Fun	Midway through the third installment of Walt Disney's deliriously popular pirate franchise , a character says of Capt . Jack Sparrow ( played by Johnnny Depp in what now has to qualify as one of the weirdest characterizations in screen history ) , " Is he making this up as he goes along ? " Shiver me timbers , mateys , but one has to ask director Gore Verbinski and his team of wranglers , er , writers , the same question of the entire series . I did not fall in love like so many others with the first film in the trilogy , " The Curse of the Black Pearl , " but I saw its appeal . It was far too long and sloppy , criticisms that have been leveled at parts two and three but which apply to the first movie as well . I can't even really remember the plot . It has something to do with Sparrow's beloved ship , the Black Pearl , being stolen from him by the rival pirate captain Barbossa ( the marvelous Geoffrey Rush , bringing some obligatory British class to the proceedings ) and his army of undead , and Sparrow's efforts , along with that most boring pair of screen lovers , Keira Knightley and Orlando Bloom , to get it back . Depending on your perspective , that plot summary either wraps it up or barely scratches the surface , because " Pirates " is stuffed with more subplots than it can handle . Never has so much plot been shoe-horned into a movie ( or trilogy of movies ) and so much of it not mattered a bit . It turns out that Sparrow is actually undead himself , and some sort of curse need be broken if he is to regain his mortality . Well , it's not ruining anything to tell you that the curse is indeed broken , and loose ends are wrapped up while everything's left conveniently open for a sequel . That sequel , " Dead Man's Chest , " takes everything that is charming about the first episode and pushes it past the limits of the audience's endurance . What a gormless mess the second part is , all furious action and racing around with absolutely no attempt made at coherence . A tremendous amount of plot exposition occurs in this installment . Indeed , the whole film is really set up for part three , yet at the same time is paced as if the entire movie is one long climax . Our consolation is that Bill Nighy makes his first appearance as Davy Jones ( no , not the Monkey ) , looking like a serving of very angry calamari , and taking up the classy British slack that Rush left behind at the end of Part I . " Dead Man's Chest " makes no sense whatsoever , and it's not really even very fun . Even in a mindless action movie , one likes to have a vague idea of what all the fuss is about . So it pleases me to report that the third and ( maybe ? ) final entry , " At World's End , " gets more right than not , and provides a tremendous amount of fun . It doesn't even feel overly long , despite its run time of nearly three hours . The " Pirates " movies ' saving grace is the cast the filmmakers have assembled , and there are moments in this film , when the cast is all together at the same time , that rival " Star Wars " for sheer screen chemistry . Rush returns , so we get to enjoy both him and Nighy , and of course Johnny Depp is back , and returns to the inspired performance ( and surpasses the downright nuttiness ) that made the first installment so memorable . Chow-Yun Fat is this episode's most significant addition , but let's not dwell on him or the embarrassing Asian stereotype he hauls along behind him . There's a huge amount of jokey humour in this segment , perhaps the most in the series , which helps it succeed in becoming what one sensed it wanted to become all along - - a sort of Indiana Jones set on water . My prayers that the pre-pubescent Orlando Bloom would be killed off looked as if they might have a chance of being answered for a brief moment , until the writers cruelly resurrected him as a swarthy pirate captain and give him a dramatic entrance that gave me the biggest ( if most unintentional ) belly laugh of them all . Why is it that despite his swishing and mincing , Depp still gives the impression that he could kick Bloom's ass ? The " Pirates " trilogy will not go down as classics of the genre , but they'll be remembered for wedging themselves firmly in the consciousness of movie-going America . Grade : " Curse of the Black Pearl " : B " Dead Man's Chest " : " At World's End " :
Great Cast Stranded in a Lame Movie	John Turturro's terribly uneven film ranges from the fairly imaginative to the downright horrible . Much of the film reminded me way too much of the worst traits of certain Coen brothers movies : too grotesque , too jokey , too enamored of its own charm . There are moments that come close to saving it , but overall this film is a big disappointment . Set in no particular time period ( present-day cars mingle with 1960s pompadours ) , this quasi-musical tells the completely dispensable story of a big oafish lout ( James Gandolfini , so physically disgusting for so much of the movie that I actually got tired of simply looking at him ) who cheats on his wife ( Susan Sarandon ) with a crass harlot ( Kate Winslet , bringing the movie a burst of energy ) and then feels bad for it . Big deal . This exact same story could be told by anyone about anyone in any number of ways , so why should we care about this particular man and his particular story ? Well , Turturro doesn't answer that question , which is the movie's biggest flaw . The film veers all over the place in tone . For its first two-thirds , it doesn't take itself seriously at all - - every musical number is a pastiche . Then it lurches into tragedy for its final half hour and ends on a downer note completely at odds with anything else that preceded it . Turturro gathers a large and talented cast , and then wastes most of it . The film sticks too closely with Gandolfini , who isn't interesting enough to hold our interest , and completely ignores all of the marginal characters that bring pizazz to the story . Actors like Bobby Cannavale , Christopher Walken and Mary-Louise Parker simply drop out of the movie without making the slightest impression , while we're stuck following around boring schmuck Gandolfini while he mopes and moans . I guess Turturro deserves some kudos at least for creativity , but little else about this movie deserves your time or energy .
A Big Fat Holiday Turkey	If you've got a hankering for a good old fashioned feel-bad holiday movie , " The Family Stone " will be right up your alley . Then you may be able to enjoy this grueling story about an uptight and mostly unlikable yuppie , Meredith ( Sarah Jessica Parker ) , being introduced to her fiancé's mostly obnoxious and unfriendly family , led by dragon-lady mom ( Diane Keaton ) and wet noodle dad ( Craig T . Nelson , playing a complete lump of a character ) . I guess we're supposed to find the Stones charming , because they're liberal and are nice to their saintly gay ( and deaf ! ) son ( who's adopting a child with his black boyfriend , no less ) , but I just found them intolerable . Things get oh so wacky when Meredith's sister , Claire Danes , shows up to lend support and falls for Meredith's fiancé , while Meredith herself falls for the stoned slacker son ( Luke Wilson ) who we're supposed to believe , in a stretch of imagination that no amount of yoga will make possible , is a documentary film maker . Oh , and did I mention the cranky youngest daughter , played by Rachel McAdams , who you just might want to see stuffed and roasted along with the turkey ? This is perhaps one of the worst scripts ever put to the screen . Not one moment in this film feels genuine or even logically sound . The screenwriters drag Claire Danes into the film and then have absolutely nothing for her character to do ; her " love story " with Dermot Mulroney ( he of the perpetual snarl ) is not the least bit developed or believable . The middle of the film nearly grinds to a halt , then lurches queasily into a mad-cap screwball comedy mode that finds the women dropping food all over themselves in the kitchen while the brothers chase each other around the house with the intention of beating each other up . And to top everything off , there's a tacky and maudlin ending that's as cheap as it is cliché . Bah humbug to this poisonous dose of holiday cheer .
An Unforgivably Bad Adaptation of a Great Book	I'm fine with filmmakers adapting books to the screen and doing what they need to do to make the source material cinematic . But I'm always mystified by filmmakers who adapt a book to the screen and change so much that it's nearly a completely different story . I wonder why they wanted to adapt the book in the first place if they felt that so much of it was inadequate . This is a terrible adaptation of the wonderful Graham Greene novel , that even a dynamic performance from Maggie Smith in the title role cannot save . George Cukor directs this film like it's a relic from a different decade . Yes , the main character is stodgy and stuffy but that doesn't mean the movie has to be . And by the time the ending has rolled around , all vestiges of the source material have vanished completely , an unforgivable crime in my opinion when working with an author as great as Greene .
Uneven and Unscary	Notable primarily as Wes Craven's first feature film , " The Last House on the Left " does not deserve the reputation it has garnered as one of the scariest films ever made . There's really nothing scary about this movie , except for the admittedly frightening idea of being murdered in your own back yard ( figuratively speaking ) . Craven would have done better to really focus his film on either the murderers or on Mari . Instead , the focus is all over the place : first on Mari , then on the killers , then the cops , back to Mari , back to the killers , to Mari's parents . It all seems patched together and messy . And the uneasy juxtaposition of documentary-like rapings and killings ( which are indeed disturbing ) and slapstick comedy seems more like the product of a sloppy director than a tool used for its effect . No , " The Last House on the Left " is really only worthwhile viewing for horror buffs who want to have an opinion on it . Otherwise , you could produce something just as good using your home video camera .
Did Altman Even WANT Anyone to Actually Watch This ?	The best thing I can say about " Quintet " is that it's not quite as bad as I remembered it being on my first viewing . But that doesn't mean it's good . This weird , sci-fi thriller is not quite like any other movie I've ever seen , which I guess at least gives it the stamp of novelty . But it's a borderline disaster of a movie , and one of the worst Robert Altman ever made . On the DVD special feature about the making of " Quintet , " it's clear that even Altman didn't know what the hell the movie was supposed to be . It's set in some distant future when the world is in the grip of another ice age . The film was shot at the abandoned site of the Montreal Expo ' 67 , and I do have to admit that this gives the movie some interesting production design elements , even if much of it looks like it's being filmed in an iced-over shopping mall . Paul Newman , looking zonked out and absolutely disinterested in anything going on around him , and Brigitte Fossey , play drifters who wander into this futuristic city looking for Newman's brother . Soon Newman is caught up in a deadly game of " Quintet , " which all of the bored inhabitants play for lack of anything better to do , and the rules of which are never made clear to the audience . All we know is that the object of the game it to kill everyone else you're playing with and remain the only person alive . This gives these nihilistic inhabitants their only thrill , because as one of them says at one point in a psychobabblish soliloquy , only by being near to death can one appreciate being alive . The movie is slow , ugly and actually uncomfortable to watch due to its unrelenting gloominess . It's almost as if Altman was purposely setting out to make a movie no one would want to sit through . There aren't characters - - oh sure , actors walk around speaking lines , but none of the lines really means much and the impressive list of international actors Altman assembled for this register not a whit . Only Bibi Andersson gives the closest thing to a memorable performance as could possibly be found in a movie like this . But nevertheless , it does succeed in establishing an atmosphere , even if that atmosphere is one of pure awfulness , and it is oddly fascinating in the way that watching a man slowly starve himself to death would be fascinating . Altman really hit a dry spell after nearly a decade of superb films . " Quintet " followed close on the heels of the atrocious " A Wedding " and was followed in short order by the not bad but mostly forgettable " A Perfect Couple , " the by-all-accounts terrible " Health " ( which I've never seen because it's not available anywhere TO see ) and the disastrous " Popeye . " Thank God he rebounded .
Exasperating	" Antonia's Line " is one of those movies that's in love with its own quirkiness . This isn't always necessarily bad . Quirky films can be quite delightful when done well . However , in this case , the quirkiness comes at the expense of plot and logic . My sense is that this film's director intended Antonia and her line of female descendants to represent strong , fearless heroines imbued with the fighting feminist spirit . I get this sense because most of the men in this film are brutes , buffoons or a combination of the two , and the women kick butt , make love to each other and tell all of the men off at regular intervals . This film is insulting to anyone who truly values feminist sensibilities in our movie culture . As so often happens , the makers of this movie equate " strong " with callous and emotionally distant . It's hard to care about Antonia and her relations because they all come across as either vacuous or heinous . Antonia's daughter casually chooses a complete stranger to impregnate her because she wants a child but doesn't want to have to deal with the father . Did she ever think that maybe the child would want a father . Is selfishness like this supposed to impress me with its strength of character ? The script meanders from one incident to the next , characters you barely learn anything about appear and drop out of the movie listlessly , and the pacing of the whole thing is limpid . The film is only about 110 minutes long but feels much longer . I'm tired of the trend of thinking that propagates the belief that in order to be considered strong , women must prove that they can live entirely without men . That's such a juvenile attitude and serves no purpose . Callousness is callousness whether displayed by a man or a woman , and there's nothing weak about leaving yourself vulnerable to the complex relationships that spring between men and women . Of all the life lessons Antonia supposedly passes down to her ancestors , this is the one she forgot to include .
Impressively Large , But Unimpressive	" Show Boat " is one of those garish musicals from the 1950s where scope and spectacle dwarfed content and story . It's directed lethargically by George Sidney , as if he thought audiences would be so tickled by the elaborate Technicolor sets and costumes that he could just set up his camera and let it run . Said costumes , though this is supposed to be a period piece , have a distinctly late-40s / early-50s flavor . And Ava Gardner is miscast in her role ; she sort of vapidly walks through it with little conviction . It doesn't even do the sterling musical score justice , which is its greatest crime .
For Those Who Cry at Hallmark Commercials	Slow , ponderous , almost completely lacking in dramatic significance and cavity-inducing in its sweetness . If it's not as intensely boring as its sequel , " The Bells of St . Mary's , " released a year later , that's only because this one came first and so at least has the advantage of being new . The acting is fine , such as it is . Bing Crosby was born to play roles like this one , so needless to say he does it well . Barry Fitzgerald is also effective as a curmudgeonly priest past his prime , and he and Crosby have some good scenes together . But they can't overcome the pure desultoriness of the whole affair . No doubt this film was just what a war-weary country needed , which is clear from its box office success in 1944 and the heap of Academy Awards bestowed upon it . But in 2005 it seems hopelessly dated and just plain uninteresting .
A Romantic Slog with Ronald Colman and Greer Garson	Plausibility was never a strong suit of 1940s romantic melodramas , but even at that " Random Harvest " is just too much to bear . This ridiculous twaddle finds Ronald Colman as a WWI veteran who has lost his memory and wanders out of the mental institution in which he has been living , only to be adopted by Greer Garson , an actress / singer who performs atrocious musical numbers in terrible stage revues , and who falls in love with him instantly and marries him . Years pass and they have a baby . Then one day , when Colman goes into the city on some business , he's hit by a car and regains the memories he previously lost , but loses all of the memories he's gathered since the last time he lost his memory ( following me ? ) . He then returns to his hoity-toity family , is set upon by a young step-niece who wants to marry him , becomes a big shot , and completely forgets about wife and child . Meanwhile , Garson , suffering nobly , becomes his secretary ( ! ) so that she can be close to him and help him possibly regain his memory of her . If all of this sounds like it would make for a juicy soap opera , it maybe would , if someone other than Mervyn LeRoy had directed it . Instead , this film drags pointlessly on and has no life to it . Characters come to dramatic conclusions and life changes in the blink of an eye , with no set up from the screenplay , so that plot twists seem to happen completely at random . Garson's early obsession with Colman comes across as a bit too intense and unstable ; likewise , Colman's step-niece ( Susan Peters ) attaches herself to him with a creepy obstinacy . I half wondered if she was only marrying him for the money he stood to inherit from the family fortune , and was disappointed when I found out that wasn't the case - - at least that would have explained her behavior . As it is , that whole story line could have been left out of the movie altogether without sacrificing much of anything , and it would have had the added advantage of making it about half an hour shorter . Greer Garson brings some glamorous beauty to her role , but little else . Colman sleep walks through the movie . Everything is languorous and dull , perhaps welcome attributes to a battle-weary WWII audience , but we ain't in WWII any more . The only thing I liked about the movie was its visual style , which borrows the chilly , shadowy look that was emerging as the predominant style of film noir . The early scenes even display hints of German Expressionism , I'm sure meant to be a visual representation of Colman's fragile mental state . Everything else about the movie is a slog .
An Unintentionally Creepy Short	This short film , featuring ventriloquist Edgar Bergen and his famous character creation Charlie McCarthy , appears on the DVD release of " The Public Enemy . " This was my first exposure to this popular comedy " team , " and there's just no getting around how incredibly creepy Charlie McCarthy is . Ever since I saw " Magic , " ventriloquist dummies have been ruined for me , and scenes of Charlie making suggestive and lewd comments to an optometrist's nurse don't help to sweeten the deal any . Ahhhh . . . . to think that there was a more innocent time when ventriloquist dummies and clowns did anything more than give people the willies . . . . .
At Least It's Got Holly Hunter	" The Firm " is the only John Grisham book I've ever read , and while I remember barely anything about it , I remember that the movie version veered far away from the plot of the book as it reached its climax . I also remember that the film is flabby , far too long and has one of the most annoying piano scores I've ever heard in a film . This belongs to Tom Cruise's cocky wonder-boy period ( or wait , maybe he's still in that period ) . What I remember most about this movie is the performance of Holly Hunter in a tiny role as a secretary . She acts like she's in a totally different movie , and that's a good thing . She brings some pizazz to all of the cloak and dagger hoo-ha .
Haven't Rocky and De Niro Pretty Much Said All There Is to Say About Boxing ?	Ron Howard has carved a niche for himself as creator of treacly populist hokum , and it seems pointless to criticize his movies again and again for being maudlin , manipulative and pandering . To his credit , he knows how to put a movie together , and by now everyone should know what to expect from a Howard film and not complain when that's exactly what they get . For the first two-thirds of " Cinderella Man , " Howard appears to be bucking his own trend . It's quite respectable , fairly reserved and well acted . O . k . , so Howard's version of Depression-era America still looks as glossy as a home decorating magazine , but I'll let that go . Russell Crowe is an actor who can make any movie better than it has any right to be , and Renee Zellweger is nowhere nearly as squinty and mealy as I thought she would be playing this character . And then we entered the final third of the film , and . . . . Oh my . Watch out " Seabiscuit , " there's another huge piece of corn coming up fast on your tail . In case you're not sure which boxer you should be rooting for in this movie , we get lots of closeup shots of big-eyed kids looking pleadingly at Russell Crowe like a bunch of little Oliver Twists . We get a scene in a church on the night of the big obligatory show-down match that all boxing movies must have , in which every pew is filled with people praying for Jim Braddock to win his fight , and we get a priest delivering the following subtle line to wife Renee Zellweger : " In a way , he's ( Braddock ) fighting for them ( the lowly downtrodden ) . " If you're still not sure who to root for , Braddock's arch nemesis , Max Baer ( played campily by Craig Bierko ) , makes lewd comments about Braddock's wife in a nightclub a few weeks before the match . And in the ring , he continues to make nasty comments in between slow-mo shots of him leering like a sadistic psycho . And if you're STILL not sure who to root for , Baer punches Braddock in the balls a couple of times during their match for good measure . Not since Rocky Balboa faced off against Drago ( or whatever that big heap of Russian was called in " Rocky IV " - - or was it " V ? " ) has a more cartoonish boxing villain stepped foot in a make-believe ring . There's some scary talk here and there about Braddock possibly dying during the big fight , because he's old and past his prime . But since his kids are listening to the fight at home , and since this is a Ron Howard movie , we're pretty sure that he's not going to die . In fact , we're pretty sure he's probably going to win , or there would be no purpose for the film's existence . Howard dutifully connects all the dots , stealing from every other boxing movie ever made , throwing in lots of rapid-fire editing and thundering sound effects to make the fight scenes exciting . It's sad and yet typical that Paul Giamatti , who gave two of the greatest film performances in the last few years ( " American Splendor " and " Sideways " ) would only be recognized by the mainstream Hollywood constituency for the hammy , dreadful role he's saddled with here . I only hope he was given a hefty paycheck to offset all the scenery he was forced to chew as Joe Gould , Braddock's wise-cracking manager . It figures that in a year that gave us hard-hitting film after hard-hitting film that took critical and thought-provoking looks at current trends in American culture , Ron Howard would deliver a product as sanitized , safe and bland as this piece of instantly forgettable " entertainment . " It looks good and has a solid performance from Crowe - - I can't recommend it for any other reasons .
A Bunch of Nothing	From its opening moments , " Bobby " announces itself as an IMPORTANT movie , and it never recovers from that most deadly of deadly movie intentions . One wishes he could get inside of writer / director Emilio Estevez's head , because I have a strong suspicion that all of the parts that were supposed to make " Bobby " interesting are still sitting inside there . Estevez clearly has a lot of passion for this story , and for Robert Kennedy the man , but very little of that passion appears on screen . What we get instead is one of those ensemble films , in which several plot strands are spliced together and converge at some momentous event , here the assassination of Senator Kennedy on the night of the Democratic primary . Is it a leap to suppose that Estevez was influenced by Altman's " Nashville , " another great American film that brings its characters together at the finale for an assassination ? The problem here is that none of the plot strands are very interesting , and the actors , though many of them are fine , aren't given much to work with or much time with which to work with the little they are given . Most of the plot lines go absolutely nowhere , like the ones featuring Harry Belafonte and Anthony Hopkins as two retired Ambassador Hotel workers reminiscing about the good ' ol days ; Helen Hunt and Martin Sheen as a couple of well-to-dos ; Heather Graham as a switchboard operator ; Demi Moore and Estevez himself as a boozy singer and her put-upon husband , respectively . I could go on . The whole movie is preachy and vaguely liberal , but its commentary never sharpens into anything concrete . Estevez obviously sees parallels between the state of the country now and the state of the country as it existed in 1968 , but he's not successful in bringing any of those parallels into focus . Instead , he tries to cover just about every hot-button issue , from racism to anti-war sentiments to body image obsessions , with the film finally ending on a diatribe against violence . The ending is the film's best asset . The assassination itself is well filmed by Estevez , and it's a real shock to find that several of the characters whose stories we've been following are also victims of the shooter ( I didn't even know there were other victims ) . But then the movie just ends , and we're left with a bunch of random pieces of film that feel like they should have come together in the editing room and didn't . And one of the film's most glaring faults is the embarrassing hero worship of Kennedy himself . If Estevez is to be believed , had Kennedy actually become president , we'd all be living in a rainbow utopia , frolicking with unicorns . Sorry , but no one politician , no matter how idealistic , can alter the world THAT much .
Dull Screen Adaptation of Rodgers & Hammerstein's Classic	Joshua Logan turns the Pulitzer-Prize-winning stage musical into a lumbering , charmless film . You can tell he doesn't know what to do with stage material , because his instincts to open the film up and take advantage of stunning South Pacific locations ( though who knows where it was actually filmed ) fight constantly with his tendency to bathe every musical number in highly stylized and saturated color . Everything feels inert , nothing about the film moves , and nobody seems to be having a good time . However , we do get Mitzi Gaynor as a consolation prize , who fights all the odds to deliver as perky a performance as Logan will allow . This is one of those movies you could watch and come away from having no idea what made the source material so beloved .
A Mawkish Bit of Utter Cheese	Poor Shirley MacLaine tries hard to lend some gravitas to this mawkish , gag-inducing " feel-good " movie , but she's trampled by the run-away sentimentality of a film that's not the least bit grounded in reality . This was directed by Curtis Hanson ? Did he have a lobotomy since we last heard from him ? Hanson can do effective drama sprinkled with comedy , as evidenced by " Wonder Boys . " So I don't know what happened to him here . This is the kind of movie that doesn't want to accept that life is messy and fussy , and that neat , tidy endings ( however implausible they might be ) might make for a nice closing shot , but come across as utterly phony if the people watching the film have been through anything remotely like what the characters in the film go through . My wife and I made a game of calling out the plot points before they occurred - - e . g . " the old man's going to teach her to read and then drop dead . " Bingo ! This is one of those movies where the characters give little speeches summarizing their emotional problems , making you wonder why they still have emotional problems if they're that aware of what's causing them . Toni Collette ( a fine actress , by the way , and one of my favorites if not given a lot to work with here ) , gives a speech early on about why she buys so many shoes and never wears them , spelling out in flashing neon the film's awkward connecting motif . At that moment , I knew what I was in for , and the film was a downward spiral from there .
Amiable But Very Slight	A rather uninspired but harmless enough movie that goes around the world and back again to establish its goofy premise . Even for movies from this time period this one stretches the boundaries of credibility . Cary Grant gets many chances to show off his flair for physical comedy , Shirley Temple is no less grating as a young adult than she was as a child , and Myrna Loy ( who I watched this for ) is in the movie a lot , but never given very much to do . I've long since decided that Myrna Loy was one of the most underused actresses of her time . I'm still looking for a film that really allows her to strut her stuff ( " The Thin Man " is the closest I've come to finding one ) . Grant fans will probably enjoy this one because there's really nothing to dislike exactly , but fans of Loy may be disappointed .
Altman's Take on the Wild West	A very weak Altman film , all the weaker because it came out the year after one of Altman's best works : " Nashville . " " Buffalo Bill . . . " is one of the most savagely satiric films from a director known for savage satire . Unfortunately , it's also a one-joke film , whose joke is given away in the first five minutes , leaving the film nowhere to go . Paul Newman plays Buffalo Bill as a complete buffoon , surrounded by yes-men and lackeys . He practically buys ex-Indian chief Sitting Bull for his Wild West show , and what we suffer through is scene after scene of white men making asses of themselves while native American Indians nobly and quietly observe and judge them . It's two hours of smug finger pointing at oblivious Caucasians for raping and pillaging the American frontier . All of Altman's films have the feel of coming together in the editing room , and many times this approach to structure results in inspired moments , but " Buffalo Bill " feels even more than usual like a film without a center . There's no narrative thread to hold it together , so it has a wandering and monotonous quality . Also , it doesn't help that Altman's shooting style is uncharacteristically distant . There are virtually no close-ups in the entire picture , so scene after scene is photographed in medium and long shots . Both the screenplay and the camera keep us at a distance ; as a result , we never become engaged in the action . A definitive misfire .
A Far from Perfect 10	Any movie featuring Dudley Moore as an object of sexual attraction is doomed from the start , since I can't imagine anyone wanting to have sex with him . I CAN , however , imagine a lot of people wanting to have sex with Bo Derek , that is until they see her act . This Blake Edwards film is not good - - people think they remember it as being good , but what they're really remembering is a three-second slo-mo shot of Derek running through the surf . Like most of Blake Edwards ' movies , it's limp and blah .
Kathleen Turner Got Stuck in a Bad Movie	Did Francis Ford Coppola have a brain aneurysm some time after directing " Apocalypse Now " that made him absolutely incapable of making a good movie ? You have to wonder what the director of " The Godfather " and " The Conversation " was thinking when he made this flabby film . It gives Kathleen Turner a starring vehicle , playing a woman who travels back in time and gets to redo her adolescence knowing all of the things that life as an adult has taught her , and Turner , the trooper that she is , does what she can with it , but this movie couldn't be saved by anyone . It doesn't even have any style to it , and , given its director , one would expect that even if it had nothing else , it would have that .
Holliday Leftovers	Judy Holliday struck gold in 1950 withe George Cukor's film version of " Born Yesterday , " and from that point forward , her career consisted of trying to find material good enough to allow her to strike gold again . It never happened . In " It Should Happen to You " ( I can't think of a blander title , by the way ) , Holliday does yet one more variation on the dumb blonde who's maybe not so dumb after all , but everything about this movie feels warmed over and half hearted . Even Jack Lemmon , in what I believe was his first film role , can't muster up enough energy to enliven this recycled comedy . The audience knows how the movie will end virtually from the beginning , so mostly it just sits around waiting for the film to catch up . Maybe if you're enamored of Holliday you'll enjoy this ; otherwise I wouldn't bother .
If Only the Title Were True	Maybe to save themselves the embarrassment of admitting just how many of these stinkers they sunk money into , the studio dropped the " 4 " from this sequel and gave it the cryptic subtitle " The Final Chapter . " Yeah , right . Like anybody believed that , even at the time . Someone once told me that all of the even " Star Trek " movies were good and all of the odd ones were sucky . Since I've only seen two of them ( both even by the way ) , I can't comment . But that rule seems to apply to this series . Parts 1 and 3 were beyond atrocious ; parts 2 and 4 aren't that bad , as these kinds of movies go . This movie freshens up the tired formula somewhat by adding a plot strand that features Corey Feldman and continues through the next couple of films in the series . And this one has a more unique style to it . I liked the murder that took place in silhouette , a shadow thrown on to a wall during a flash of lightning . The makeup effects were also much more accomplished , and there was some catharsis in seeing Jason get his head split open with a machete ( though why does he look like a product of radioactive fallout ? Didn't he drown originally ? ) This movie will still lower your I . Q . by a few points , but you'll be able to respect yourself in the morning . ( compared to parts 1 and 3 . It's still an F compared to virtually any other movie available to you )
A Somnolent Experiment from Robert Altman	" Fool for Love " is one of the several now forgotten films Robert Altman directed throughout the 1980s . This one , a screen adaptation of a Sam Shepard play that features Shepard in the lead role , just simply isn't very good . Altman made many not-very-good films over the course of his fascinating career , and many times the fault was his . But here I think the fault lies with Shepard for writing such a flimsy play . Altman's direction is assured , the performances are o . k . given what the actors have to work with , but this inconsequential screenplay goes nowhere , and takes its time getting there . Shepard is Eddie , a stuntman who has a love / hate relationship with May ( Kim Basinger ) . The two fight endlessly over the course of an evening spent in some dusty motel in the middle of nowhere , while a mysterious man ( Harry Dean Stanton ) who may be either a figurative or literal father to both Eddie and May quietly observes . Randy Quaid rounds out the four-person cast as a gentleman caller . The only dramatic hook in the entire plot is the suggestion that Eddie's and May's relationship is incestuous . However , this hook feels more like a gimmick than anything . The screenplay doesn't explore their relationship in any detail , and it doesn't use their relationship to explore any more universal themes . Shepard and Basigner create eccentric , mannered characters who grow irritating within the first five minutes ; Stanton and Quaid have little to do but provide reaction shots . The last half hour or so of the film is especially bad , when Eddie's and May's back stories begin to play out in flashback over monotone , somnolent voice over . Chalk this up to another of Altman's experiments gone awry .
A Coma Is Induced	Oh Lord , what a long , long , long movie . Rarely will you find yourself investing so much time for so little payoff . Alcoholic husband makes wife a star . Husband dies . Wife feels sad . The end . Director George Cukor thinks he's making a Biblical epic , because he uses an enormous aspect ratio and fills it to the brim with tacky Technicolor sets and costumes . Sure , Judy Garland gives a fine performance , as does James Mason , but both were better in other things and both are dwarfed by the sheer size of the production and the wispiness of the plot . And this is one musical in which I could have done with less music . A word of warning : the restored version may sound like a good idea , because it's the most complete version of the movie to be released . But " restored " means that still photographs have been inserted into the film in a simulated reproduction of certain scenes , while a soundtrack accompanies them . This wouldn't have been so bad if there hadn't been so many scenes needing restoration , and if they hadn't been quite so long , and if they had contributed anything of value to the final product . I want these three hours of my life back .
Tell Me Why I Should Care , Miss Brodie	I felt much the same way about " The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie " the movie as I did about " The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie " the book - - so what ? Miss Brodie is an unlikable character ; she's pompous , arrogant , sometimes delusional . So when she goes too far and is brought down by one of her less impressionable female students ( who is also unlikable ) , I didn't really care at all . Nothing of grand consequence seems to hinge on the outcome of this battle of wills , one way or another . I've never understood the allure of this book . It's supposed to be a great piece of literature , but it strikes me as immensely inconsequential , and the movie didn't illuminate anything for me . Yeah , Maggie Smith's pretty good . I also enjoyed seeing Celia Johnson , as she's responsible for one of my favorite female performances of all time , in " Brief Encounter . " But the rest ? Meh . . . And by the way , the sound on this film is horrible , muddled and indistinct , not that I cared much about what anyone had to say .
Who Knew Fritz Lang Could Make a Boring Movie ?	A mediocre pseudo-noir thriller from Fritz Lang . I watched this only a few days after seeing the 1947 film " High Wall , " and was struck by how the two films tell much the same story with genders reversed . In this one , Anne Baxter plays a phone operator who goes out with a lecherous artist ( Raymond Burr ) on an impulsive whim after being jilted by her boyfriend , a soldier stationed in Korea . On their date , Burr tries to rape her , and Baxter blacks out in the ensuing struggle , only to find out the next day that Burr was found dead in his apartment . The search is on for the " Blue Gardenia , " as the unknown murderess is dubbed , and Baxter begins to unravel under the guilt of her secret . Richard Conte plays a reporter who is desperate to crack the case , and who makes an outreach to the murderess , promising to help her if she'll only come forward . Of course Baxter does , and of course it turns out that she wasn't the murderess after all , but there's absolutely no mystery surrounding who actually did it , because the real murderer isn't a character we've already met , but rather is introduced at the very last moment simply to give the film some resolution . Lang could usually be relied upon to give us stylish , memorable movies , but this film isn't particularly stylish or memorable , and feels like it could have been directed by anybody . The romance between Conte and Baxter feels perfunctory , and it doesn't go anywhere . Ann Sothern plays Baxter's roommate , and I was at first intrigued by the fact that she and Baxter look almost exactly alike - - I thought maybe the film was going to make some comment on the interchangeability of women in the eyes of male predators , or something like that , but it doesn't . It's all very straightforward , with none of the psycho-sexual subtext that makes so many other noirs so juicy , and it's all very dull .
Messy Ensemble Movie Sinks Faster Than the Time It Takes to Watch It	It never gives me pleasure to report that any Robert Altman film is a dog , but there's just no denying that " A Wedding " rolls over and dies about mid-way through . Altman tries to instill the same sort of divine chaos on his massive ensemble that he did in " Nashville " to such tremendous effect , but without the strong narrative threads that anchored the earlier movie , this one flounders around without going anywhere . Mostly to blame is the absolutely terrible script , that no fewer than four people worked on . In an interview on the DVD , Altman reveals that the script was virtually made up as it went along , with scenes planned for filming late in the day being written that morning ! Well , the improvisation shows , but in this case not in a good way . Altman has always been famous for giving his actors the freedom to experiment and build their characters in any way they'd like , but in " A Wedding " too much freedom is a bad thing . The characters in this film seem to each live and move in a universe separate from all the others ; none of them is consistent , and nearly all simply act arbitrarily in what I suppose is meant to be a zany , farcical way , but instead comes off as incoherent . Altman's project was actually probably doomed from the start , because the subject of weddings just isn't important enough for the brand of scathing satire that Altman brings to his movies . Somewhere in the unfocused mess of Altman's film is a very funny , light-hearted farce that pokes fun at an institution that Americans take very seriously , and there are some parts that work very well . But there are simply too many characters , too many plot lines , too much STUFF going on in general for the movie ever to come to any sort of conclusion . Altman's point seems to be that weddings are silly , but that's not the hook on which to hang a two + hour film . And by the end , hot-button topics like abortion , homosexuality , class differences , etc . are being introduced at whim without the slightest effort at fleshing them out or tying them into one another or the plot ( such as it is ) at large . The greatest tragedy in " A Wedding " is that a cast of marvelous actors is wasted . Carol Burnett is perhaps the biggest , most recognizable star , but unfortunately she's saddled with a terrible role that she can't do a thing with . Vittorio Gassman and Nina van Pallandt , as the parents of the groom , have a lovely moment together during which they reminisce about how they met and which is one of the film's sole attempts to build sympathetic characters with a history . John Considine has some funny moments as chief of security , one of which involves him escorting the doddery and cranky bishop to the bathroom . Pam Dawber , of all people , breezes into the film at mid-point and does some nice work as the groom's ex-girlfriend . And Lillian Gish is her usual cute self in a couple of early scenes as the family matriarch . She's lucky that her character gets to die before the movie's barely gotten started , so she can avoid the whole debacle . As for everyone else , they do the best they can , and there are throw-away moments here and there that are amusing , but they mostly get lost in the shuffle , and there are some characters whose names , let alone their relationship to anyone else , we never even learn . To his credit , Altman had been making on average a movie a year for about ten years by the time " A Wedding " was released , and it was the first out-right bad movie he directed . That's a pretty good record . However , he would make up quickly for lost time by releasing in quick succession " Quintet " and " Popeye . " I guess no one can have a winning streak forever .
" Romeo and Juliet " for Dummies	Start with " Romeo and Juliet , " remove the soaring Shakespearean language , the interesting characterizations and plot intricacies , and keep Romeo alive at the end , and you might get something approximating this gloopy 1970 blockbuster . " Love Story " made temporary box-office stars out of Ali MacGraw and Ryan O'Neal , who both fooled American movie audiences into thinking they could actually act based on their performances as star-crossed lovers whose socioeconomic status threatens to keep them apart . Never fear though - - love always triumphs in the end , unless of course leukemia triumphs first . O'Neal's star would last a little longer , and at least he would choose a couple of very memorable films throughout the next few years ( " Paper Moon , " " Barry Lyndon " ) even if his performances would be instantly forgettable . To be honest , I can't come up with one other film starring Ali MacGraw . I know she recently appeared in the play " Festen , " based on the Danish film " The Celebration , " which opened on Broadway and quickly tanked . Some 37 years later , the only truly memorable thing about " Love Story " is its musical theme .
A Waste of Good Source Material	This Oscar-winning screen adaptation of the Pulitzer-Prize-winning Robert Penn Warren novel feels oddly truncated , like director Robert Rossen filmed a much longer movie , and then an unqualified editor hacked it down to the movie we see . The pacing is off , scenes feel cut short and much of it is confusing , as if there are elements missing . It doesn't come close to capturing the greatness of the novel , and it's one of the weakest films to win the Best Picture Academy Award from that time period . Broderick Crawford makes a fine Willie Stark , though , I'll give the film that . He's all bluster and hot-headed arrogance , just what the character calls for . John Ireland does fine with the role of Jack Burden , but the character itself is minimized . The book is really more about Jack than Willie , but the film doesn't give Jack much of a character arc , and he feels decidedly supporting . Mercedes McCambridge nabs the role of a lifetime playing Sadie Burke , perhaps one of the most colorful female characters ever put to paper . Here again , the movie doesn't begin to make use of her character like the book does . It uses the elements of her character that are necessary for the plot , but leaves behind everything else - - - the more human dimensions of Sadie , and her own moral crises , are lost . Overall I thought this was a tepid and forgettable movie based on a landmark and compulsively readable book . If you avoid this one entirely , you won't be missing anything .
Well Below Wilder's Usual Standard	Perhaps it's inevitable that a film that appeared so shocking and candid 60 years ago would seem so hopelessly out of touch with reality today , but I don't think the ultimate failure of this film can be blamed on the passing of time alone . Billy Wilder was a fantastic director , making movies that at the time were so much more intelligent and sophisticated than their peers , so I think he simply stumbled when making this overly-simplified message movie . To be sure , Wilder does bring some creative vision to this story of a raging alcoholic struggling through his addictive demons for one long weekend . He uses the cinematic equivalent of first-person narrative to get you into Ray Milland's mind , and tries to make the audience feel what it's like when alcohol is the focus of your world . Thus , at a performance of " La Traviata , " instead of filming the stage as it might appear to the audience watching the opera , Wilder cuts from shots of Milland's face to close-ups of the fake drinks the actors are holding as they perform . At other times , he even shoots scenes from the perspective of the alcohol , so when Milland tries to hide his booze from himself , we'll get shots of him storming around the room from the vantage point of the hidden bottles . But Milland gives a histrionic performance in the lead role , as cartoonish in its own way as Nicolas Cage's was in " Leaving Las Vegas , " playing another hopeless alcoholic , and he undermines any effort at seriousness on Wilder's part . The alcohol itself is nearly personified to the point of caricature ; I half expected to see a bottle of gin stand up and twirl its silent-film villain mustache while giving a dastardly laugh . And to top everything off , Milland delivers a ridiculous inspirational speech at the film's end , a call-to-arms for other silent alcoholics to emerge and begin overcoming their disease . After a whole movie in which alcoholism is depicted as a form of demonic possession , the ending makes it seem that the decision to quit drinking is as easy as changing from 2 % milk to skim . Still , this film should be commended for admitting that alcoholism IS a disease , and that it's not simply a lack of will power or self control that causes people to abuse . I can't think of a film before this one that really treated alcoholism seriously , or even addressed it at all . Think of all those 30s comedies ( " The Thin Man " comes to mind ) where hardly a scene goes by without the leading man holding a martini , or where the stumbling drunk is a stock character included for his comic potential . So " The Lost Weekend " is a film that I can't whole-heartedly pan , because I do feel that points should be rewarded for trying to use cinema as a communication device for addressing social concerns , but if you know an alcoholic , I doubt you'll be able to do anything but laugh at the silly version of alcoholism you'll see here . Compared to other Billy Wilder films , this one seems almost bad .
Might Possibly Make You Vomit	Audiences loved this biopic about good ' ol boy Alvin York , fresh from the hills of Tennessee , who entered World War I despite his pacifist beliefs and then carried out an almost unbelievable act of bravery . It probably helped that the film came out just as America was entering WWII , and a message about someone devoting himself to God and country was just the rallying cry needed . Seen all these years later , the film is virtually intolerable . It's got the " Forrest Gump " factor . Gary Cooper plays York as such a simpleton that his bravery seems to come more from a general state of oblivion rather than courage . York and the movie spend most of their time reconciling a belief in the Bible and its pacifist teachings with the necessity of killing during wartime , and the countless sanctimonious speeches and aw-shucks American downhome-ness made me want to gag after a while . Cooper won one of his two Oscars for this , and Walter Brennan and Margaret Wycherly were nominated for playing the town preacher and York's salt-of-the-earth mom , respectively .
When the Walker Is a Rockin ' . . . . .	A gooey Ron Howard film about a bunch of old people who go swimming with alien pods and begin to regain their youth and vigor . The film is a who's who of famous veteran actors like Don Ameche , Wilford Brimley , Maureen Stapleton , Hume Cronyn , Jessica Tandy and Gwen Verdon , but it's all rather embarrassing and condescending - - awww , see , little old people still like to have sex too , isn't that cute ? ! ! A no-hands sex scene between Steve Guttenberg and one of the female aliens in a swimming pool freaked me out when I saw this as a kid . One of the numerous films in Ron Howard's canon that prove what a completely untalented director he is .
Can Someone Justify This Film's Existence ?	Shirley MacLaine and Anne Bancroft play one-time ballerina rivals in this pointless sudser from 1977 . MacLaine has a loving husband and comfy home , but gave up her career ; Bancroft has the career , but no one to share it with . Both re-meet when MacLaine's daughter becomes a ballerina and struggle with feelings of what could have been if each had pursued the life of the other . Congratulations if you can muster up the energy to care about any of this , because I sure as hell couldn't . The film features an Academy Award nominated performance by Mikhail Baryshnikov , whose nomination was for his dancing , not his acting , and another wonderful low-key performance from the shamelessly underrated Tom Skerritt as MacLaine's husband . The high point of the film is when MacLaine and Bancroft let loose on one another in a good old fashioned hair-pulling , face-scratching cat fight . The rest is a dull bore .
This Film Could Have Used a Little More Lust and Life	A plodding biopic about painter Vincent Van Gogh . Vincente Minelli was a terribly uninteresting director , and the day after seeing this film I had forgotten entirely about it . The most interesting thing about the film are the images of Van Gogh's actual paintings that Minelli inserts throughout , and the occasional attempt by the film's art director to recreate some of the famous scenes that Van Gogh used as his subjects . I will give the movie credit too for not shying away from some of the more unsavory characteristics of Van Gogh's story , unlike the dreadful biopic about Toulouse-Latrec that had come out four years earlier , " Moulin Rouge . " Kirk Douglas blares to the second balcony as Van Gogh , playing every moment of the film like he's recreating the transformation scene from a production of " Dr . Jekyll and Mr . Hyde . " Anthony Quinn is no less loud in his small but crucial role as rival painter Paul Gaugin . And whenever the two are on screen at the same time , you might want to have a pair of earplugs handy .
Dull Horror Film Goes Nowhere	Unfortunately , it appears that I saw Dario Argento's best film , " Suspiria , " first , and none of the ones I've seen subsequently measure up to that one . All of the imagination Argento could muster for this serial killer story went in to staging a few elaborate and gruesome murder scenes . Too bad that all of the scenes connecting those moments are a dull bore . And the movie overstays its welcome by at least half an hour . What seemed novel in " Suspiria " begins to seem like limitations when you realize that Argento couldn't do anything else . His attention to style can only go so far in making up for the lack of good plotting , acting , character development and just about everything else that separates good films from bad ones .
Lost in Translation	" Towelhead , " the story of a 13-year-old Lebanese girl dealing with both cultural and gender identity crises in a Texas suburb , has a distinctly autobiographical feel about it . It's based on a novel by Alicia Erian , one I have not read and so cannot comment on . But either the source material was weak to begin with , or something got lost in the translation to screen by writer Alan Ball , because the story is missing any of the adult perspective that's necessary to make something told from the point of view of a child instructional . The film focuses on Jasira , who lives with her domineering , traditional and hypocritical father , who rants about " typical " Americans and won't let his daughter date a black boy , even while he whines that he's being discriminated against for being Lebanese . Jasira's mother is played by Maria Bello as one of the top ten worst mothers in the the world . Meanwhile , Aaron Eckhart plays a next-door neighbor who takes sexual liberties with Jasira , while Toni Collette plays another neighbor who takes it upon herself to mother Jasira in the absence of anyone else who will . The film is monotonous , heaping one humiliation after another upon Jasira by a parade of awful , hateful people . The characters aren't consistent and don't make any sense , and we don't really care much about Jasira because she's played as such a drip of a character . I'm not sure what we're supposed to learn from a film like " Towelhead , " other than a lot of things we already knew , like stereotyping is bad , and calling people names is not nice . It's one thing to have your main character be a 13 year old child , but if you want the film to be watched and understood by adults , you have to communicate with them at their level . Having a lot of scenes of a teenager being sexually abused by a man probably three times her age is just sensationalistic and rather icky when they're not used to say anything of value .
Just Watch " The Philadelphia Story " Instead	A completely unnecessary remake . The casting's not half bad for what the film makers were trying to accomplish , but every time anyone delivers a line , you'll simply sit there thinking how much better the line would have been had the actor from " The Philadelphia Story " who played that particular character delivered it instead . I'd like to say that adding musical numbers makes the film different enough from its predecessor to justify remaking it , but it doesn't . Known mostly for introducing the Cole Porter tune , " True Love , " which received an Academy Award nomination for Best Original Song .
A Joyless , Arduous Experience	With " Miami Vice , " on-again-off-again director Michael Mann gives us a grim , hateful movie , and large parts of it feel more like an endurance test than a summer entertainment . I don't care whether or not this movie accurately reimagines the original T . V . series for the screen - - I never saw the series and so have nothing to compare this film to except itself . Mann is a good enough director that no movie he directs will ever be bad without at least being interesting , and " Vice " is no exception to that rule . He does deserve credit for bringing a unique vision to a tired formula and for resisting the urge to spoon feed his audience summer blockbuster nonsense . " Miami Vice " may have many problems , but obviousness is not one of them . In fact , the film is frustratingly vague and opaque . We only know who the good guys are in this movie because they're played by actors we recognize . With a blast of techno music and a writhing female body silhouetted against pulsing neon , the movie just starts in the middle of a scene and is off and away before we know who anybody is or why we should care . This would be fine if we ever learned any more than we can glean from the film's opening few moments , but we don't . We root for Crockett and Tubbs , but only because the movie sticks with them and there's no one else to root for . The only attempt at giving them any backstory or character development comes through the women in their lives , but those parts of the movie feel obligatory , and you can feel Mann aching to get back to the good stuff ( meaning the jittery , loud stuff ) whenever the film settles into a quiet moment . The camera never stops moving , so everything rushes by in a blur of murky color and extreme close-ups ( do we need to see every individual blade of stubble on Colin Farrell's face ? ) and Mann gives the audience no anchor around which to orient itself . I only know this movie takes place largely in Miami because otherwise the title would be meaningless . At the risk of sounding like a prude , the violence in this movie really bothered me - - or more accurately , the reaction of the audience to the violence in this movie really bothered me . The movie is so relentless and humorless , no one involved seems to be having a good time , and then - - BAM - - someone gets his insides blown out against a wall , we see blood splatter , and the audience cheers . The violent moments are the only thing Mann allows us to feel anything about . The only scene in the film that remotely approaches humor involves a nasty white supremacist getting shot in the head . Sound like a good time to you ? " Miami Vice " ' s greatest offense is that it's pointless . Do we need another undercover cop story that does nothing new with the genre ? Plots to these films are always formulaic , so if you're not going to distinguish your film through your characters , what's the point of making it ? And , I don't know what critics are talking about when they say how great this film looks . The grainy , pixillated digital film may come out stellar on the DVD release , but it looks terrible on a mile-wide multiplex screen .
To Be Endured , Not Enjoyed	" Death and the Maiden " tells a harrowing story , one that's not meant to be pleasant . But even so , there is a difference between telling an unpleasant story and creating an unpleasant experience , and unfortunately , director Roman Polanski doesn't maintain that distinction with this film . He's proved that he knows how in other films , like " Rosemary's Baby " and " Repulsion , " neither of which dwell on pleasant themes but both of which are exhilaratingly entertaining . " Death and the Maiden " is an oppressive slog , a film that must be endured rather than enjoyed . Sigourney Weaver and Ben Kingsley give top-notch performances , but the whole thing is too one note and aggressively depressing to be very good .
A Huge Disservice to What Should Have Been a Powerful Story	Niki Caro's follow up to her wonderful " Whale Rider " is full of good intentions , but it's a poundingly monotonous film . Charlize Theron plays Josey Aimes , poor mother of two who goes to work in a northern Minnesota mine where women are decidedly not wanted . She and her female co-workers suffer all manner of mistreatment from the men , before Josey takes a stand and brings a class-action lawsuit against the mine , the first sexual harassment class-action suit in legal history . This film obviously follows in the footsteps of " Norma Rae " and " Erin Brockovich , " though you can tell it makes an effort to stick to the gritty realism of the former rather than the slick phoniness of the latter . It's a gloomy film that makes northern Minnesota look like the last place on Earth I'd ever want to live . The color scheme is all blues and grays , and a crusty layer of snow covers glum-looking houses and trailers . Caro gives us a cartoonish version of events despite the gritty realism of the film's setting , in which nearly every man in Minnesota is presented as a leering animal , and in which every woman is dowdy and downtrodden . Any attempt at realism is thrown out the window , however , in the film's last quarter , in which we're witness to a ridiculous court-room scene that looks like something lifted from an entirely different movie , and ends with a cheesy , " Dead Poets Society " climax . For all of her efforts , Caro has failed to make a film even remotely authentic . Arbitrary plot twists occur out of thin air ( like the sudden redemption of Josey's father or her mother's decision to walk out on him ) . The timeframe isn't clear . The entire movie seems to take place over the span of a week . The acting's o . k . , but really there's only so much the actors can do with such a weak script . And poor Frances McDormand is saddled with a thankless role , that of the token dying character who the script hurries into a wheelchair only so that she can make a maudlin surprise appearance at the end of the film . If you watch the documentary that's included on the DVD of " North Country , " in which the real-life women who lived this story discuss their experiences , you will realize just how inauthentic a film this is . As one of the women says ( the one on whom Theron's character is based , in fact ) , there were only a handful of men who were the aggressors ; there were lots of normal miners who left the women alone . But you don't see that in the film , because Caro is too busy pushing with all her might every emotional button she can find in a shameless effort to win our sympathies . " Norma Rae " was able to get it right , so this film doesn't even earn an " A " for effort .
Wow , I'm Really in the Minority Here	I've read reviews of " Dark City " in many places ( and many of them here ) hailing it as a modern science fiction masterpiece , so boy was I disappointed when I watched it and came to the sober conclusion that it's just not very good . Yeah , yeah , yeah the visuals are stunning , blah , blah , blah , but as is proved time and again , visuals alone can't make a movie . At least this had an interesting story , but as befalls so many films in this mind-bending sci-fi genre ( and " The Matrix " suffers from this as well , though it's a far better movie ) , the writers have set up such a cerebral concept that the movie grinds to a halt when it has to trudge through all the exposition just so that the audience can keep track of what's going on . Though that in itself is never very clear in " Dark City . " This movie just rushes from one scene to the next , in an attempt to create a breathless and exciting tone I guess , but scenes aren't allowed to play themselves out . We're on to the next set piece before we've had time to absorb the one we just saw , and the characters get buried underneath all the furious editing . However , I don't believe there would be much chance for them anyway , since most of the actors aren't very good either . Rufus Sewell and William Hurt do o . k . but Jennifer Connelly phones in a wan performance and Kiefer Sutherland is barely watchable in a lamentable impersonation of the creepy Nazi chasing Indiana Jones in " Raiders of the Lost Ark . " His line delivery is so eccentric and monotonous that I was cringing every time he opened his mouth by the film's end . No , I'm afraid the majority is out to sea with this one . This film and " masterpiece " don't belong in the same sentence .
Pass Me a Barf Bag	Blech ! ! A gloopy soap opera starring Shirley MacLaine and Debra Winger as a contentious mother / daughter duo , whose on-again / off-again relationship culminates in the daughter dying of cancer in one of the most emotionally manipulative plot developments in the history of cinema . Both MacLaine and Winger are too good to waste their talents on this , but it's only because of their wisecracking smart-ass personalities that the film is watchable at all . Jack Nicholson , as a retired astronaut who cozies up to MacLaine , gives us all an inkling of the actor he would eventually turn into , all sarcastic smirking and self-conscious mugging . I especially hate the way this movie looks . It's gauzy and padded , all big hair and bigger shoulder pads . Nothing ever looks like it's completely in focus .
This Is What Everyone Got So Worked Up About ?	I finally saw this film after everyone has said all that can be said about it , so I'll be brief . Expecting the absolute worst from Mr . Mel " Sadist " Gibson , I have to say that this film is nowhere near as good as its idolatrous fan base would have you believe , but neither is it as repellent as its detractors claim . In short , it's just a movie , not a particularly good one , with absolutely no emotional content and nothing in it to either explain what's happening or to make you care . It looks terrific - - - Mel obviously has cash to spare for his film-director-as-God craziness . But that's about where the praise ends . The whole thing has a nasty tone ; in Mel's version of the tale , anyone who had anything to do with Jesus suffers nothing but misery , and while I'm not a believer myself , my guess is that's not the moral of the story as Jesus would tell it . And when Jesus marches out of the tomb at the end , eyes a-blazin ' and military music blasting away on the soundtrack , I forgot for a second whether I was watching a film about Jesus or whether I had accidentally stumbled on to " Braveheart Part II . " Mel Gibson is a wretched director , and the worst thing anyone can do with wretched directors is to take their work too seriously , for that gives them clout they don't deserve . All he's done here is turn a Biblical story into a horror movie , complete with creepy Satan babies and more shredded flesh than is on display in the entire " Friday the 13th " series . This stuff was camp 30 years ago , and it's just sad to see Gibson resorting to schlock effects in an attempt to make up for his movie's complete lack of narrative grounding . See this or don't see this , whichever is your preference . But religious or not , this film is not going to change your life . If it does , then you need to get a different one .
A Good Movie Turned Bad	How disappointing that " The Last Samurai " becomes dreadful in its last half , because the first half is quite engaging . This movie is what results when a director with left-leaning sensibilities tries to make a liberal-minded " message " movie without the courage of his own convictions . So the movie is not content to merely show us the crisis facing the Samurai in the face of westernization and letting our sympathies lie with them . . . . Oh no , fearful that an American audience would not take to a film centered around Japanese characters , we have to have a white , hot-shot Hollywood actor to root for , who sweeps in to be our hero . We get a token Japanese hero to root for as well , but guess who remains living at the end of the film ? Didn't Kevin Costner already make this movie ? Tom Cruise's heart is obviously in the right place . He gives an incredibly earnest performance . . . and that's part of the problem . He's SO earnest that I never forgot for a second that I was watching Tom Cruise , Mr . Hollywood A-List , feeling self-important for attaching himself to such an important film . Ken Watanabe received heaps of praise for his performance , but I fail to see what the hype is about . And the obligatory love story is just silly - - - obviously , the movie makers thought so too , because they make only a half-hearted attempt to develop it in the first place . I loved the message in " The Last Samurai , " but I hated the approach taken to the material . It's yet one more movie in which the creators give the audience not one single amount of credit for having a brain ; emotions are force-fed to us through superficial means like slow-motion and thundering music . Not comfortable with any amount of ambiguity , all of the Americans except for Tom Cruise have to be evil , and all of the Samurai have to be entirely noble . The film inadvertently makes the point that killing someone with a sword or a bow and arrow makes you a better person than killing someone with a gun , conveniently sidestepping the fact that killing is killing , regardless of how it's done . My summary : a pretty film with not a brain in its head .
Just Not Very Good	" Cover Girl " is a lacklustre WWII musical with absolutely nothing memorable about it , save for its signature song , " Long Ago and Far Away . " This film came out before Gene Kelly really hit his artistic stride , and while there are evidences of his burgeoning talent here , mostly he plays sidekick to Rita Hayworth . And there's the problem . Rita Hayworth is gorgeous , no doubt about that . But she's simply not a compelling screen presence . I've always found myself wanting to like her more than I actually do , and this movie is no exception . She's simply not a very good actress , and she's not even a very good dancer . Good looking as she is , there's something vapid about her , and this movie suffers because of it .
The Alien Itself Is One of the Least Unpleasant Things About This Movie	David Fincher's contribution to the " Alien " series is a completely unpleasant experience . It's grim , dour , grungy and depressing , filled with ugly characters who we don't learn anything about and therefore don't care about . As they get picked off one by one by the alien , we're moved to feel nothing more than that Fincher is automatically going through the motions . There's no thrill in this film , as there was in the first two films . There's also not a scare - - neither psychological nor visceral - - to be had . This sequel brings nothing new to the story - - after " Aliens , " the creators of this series should have put it to rest , because there isn't much more material to mine from this particular concept . And one of the things that bothered me the most about " Alien 3 " is its inconsistency . How can Ripley be impregnated with an alien for weeks before it hatches from her , whereas every other single creature infected before her ( even including the dog in this one ) hatches an alien seemingly within hours ? You can't change the rules on us and not expect us to rebel .
Ridiculous in More Ways Than I Can Count	Just in time for the holiday season , director Edward Zwick offers the latest in his long line of bloated , liberal do-gooder movies , this one designed to make a bunch of privileged Americans feel ever-so-slightly-guilty about all of their Christmas consumerism . Of course , he ( and Hollywood ) doesn't want you to feel TOO bad about it ( they want to make money off of us after all ) , so he gussies up his movie with a bunch of traditional action-movie histrionics that maybe wouldn't seem ridiculous if this was a jungle flick from the 1940s , but that in the here and now of 2006 feels like a hopeless attempt to give us our medicine with one hand while spoon feeding us ice cream with the other . This is sanctimonious , hypocritical film-making as only Hollywood can deliver , folks . Let's show people what it's like in Africa , but let's not make it too realistic for them or they might not enjoy that popcorn they're scarfing down . We could tell the real story the way it really is , though no one would come to see it , or we can show Djimon Hounsou and Leonardo DiCaprio flexing their pecs and capitalize on people's love of a good ol ' blockbuster . DiCaprio plays a jaded diamond smuggler with a heart of gold . Jennifer Connelley plays a fiery reporter with whom he falls in love ( yeah , right ) . Djimon Hounsou plays the noble savage ( big surprise ) , who once again proves that he is cast in films primarily for his ability to scream at the top of his voice while delivering his lines . If you can muster up one ounce of concern about what happens to any of these people , good for you . I certainly couldn't , and while the lady next to me in the theater was sniffling and dabbing her eyes at any one of the film's shameless bits of sentimental nonsense , I was checking my watch and stifling a yawn . I have no doubt that Edward Zwick has the best of intentions when making his movies , but I should have listened to my gut and stayed away from this film . He treats his audience as if they're stupid and can't understand a point unless it's underlined three times and has 20 exclamation points tacked on to the end . Yes , I'm glad that there are filmmakers who want to tell important stories to mass audiences and try to find methods of storytelling to which those audiences will respond . But if you're the kind of moviegoer who would rather engage in an intelligent discussion than listen to a bully - - no matter how well intentioned he may be - - pound away from his pulpit , Zwick's films are nearly intolerable , as this one is .
Peyton Place in a Boarding House	A varied assortment of guests sling gossip , secrets and loads of melodrama liberally around the rooms and grounds of an English boarding house . Profound ? No . Entertaining ? For the most part . " Separate Tables " is what results when you mix " Peyton Place " and " Clue . " Everyone's a suspect for Most Noble Sufferer , and mostly the cast does well with the material given , even if in many cases the material doesn't deserve the quality of the actors delivering it . Inevitably , some of the stories are more interesting than the others . The Burt Lancaster / Rita Hayworth love-hate plot line grew tiresome in record pace - - - and too bad , since obviously this is the story the screenwriter and director were most taken with . It definitely dominates . I wanted more of the Deborah Kerr / Gladys Cooper storyline . Deborah Kerr is a bizarre woman-child , unrecognizable in frump garb , dominated by her overbearing mother , Gladys Cooper doing her withering old biddie routine for the umpteenth time . Cooper is a riot , an old lady with WAY too much time on her hands , eager to go witch-hunting at every available opportunity . Poor David Niven is saddled with the role of a lonely British man pretending to be something he's not and trying to hide an embarrassing secret from the group . He wanders around in a smoking jacket doing his best Colonel Mustard impersonation , saying things like " Wot , wot " and mumbling lines to the point of unintelligibility . He inexplicably won a Best Actor Oscar for his performance ( must have been a weak year ) , no doubt more for his body of work up to that point than for this performance specifically . He has maybe 20 minutes of screen time altogether and for most of them is required to do nothing more than look uncomfortable . The best cast member is Wendy Hiller , playing the proprietress of the hotel . Her acting is natural and low-key , and she gets the chance to play a fully rounded character , one with some implied history , and not merely an assemblage of mannerisms . The end of the film is a like a stuffy version of " Dead Poets Society . " I would have given anything to see Deborah Kerr jump onto a table and start clapping , but I guess these guests are a bit too reserved for that sort of thing , wot , wot .
Desultory Adaptation	Coming into this adaptation of the Edith Wharton novel , I thought that Gillian Anderson was the element of the film I would most dislike . I'd only seen the occasional clip of her from " X Files " or the odd award show , but she always came across as vapid and slightly unlikable . My opinion didn't exactly change after watching this movie , but she handled the role better than I anticipated . No , what I disliked most about this film was pretty much everything else : the plodding , dull direction that misses every opportunity to invest the story with the vitality and suspense it has in the novel ; and the screenplay , which obligatorily hits all the plot points but misses all the nuances and shades of character that Wharton offers . The resulting movie is even drier than the stuffiest Merchant / Ivory project and wouldn't give anyone a sense of what makes the book so powerful . The novel is a page-turner , believe it or not . It's at times unbearably suspenseful - - but you wouldn't know it watching this movie . Lily Bart is one of the best heroines ever created in the history of literature , and Anderson , even if better than I thought she would be , simply isn't up to the task of portraying her . Lily should be a life force ; there should be something startling and enigmatic about her . Heads should turn when she walks in the room . Anderson's approach is much more waif like . Her Lily is passive , submissive , meek . The scene in which Lily attends the reading of her aunt's will amid a batch of disapproving relatives should come across with the force that Scarlett O'Hara's party entrance wearing a bright red dress has in " Gone with the Wind . " And the scene in which Lily finally says goodbye to Selden should be heartbreaking , but it doesn't resonate here . Nothing resonates . " The House of Mirth " would make a terrific movie in the right hands . Just because it's a literary adaptation doesn't mean it needs to be freighted with ponderous pacing and a restrained , embalmed atmosphere . On the strength of " The Age of Innocence , " I could see Martin Scorses doing the story justice , with perhaps Reese Witherspoon in the leading role . As for this version , pass it by on your way to the library to pick up the book .
Decent Idea . . . . Not Very Good Movie	" 28 Days Later " would be a much better movie if the film makers had known what story they wanted to tell . As it is , they start with a high-concept apocalyptic plague premise that degenerates into a slap-dash , jumbled action movie . I suppose Danny Boyle and screenwriter are trying to make the idea of people being infected with rage relevant to our current troubled world state ( the film begins with an image of multiple T . V . monitors each showing news footage of one violent action or another ) , but I think they are much more taken with the idea of making a gross-out movie that will appeal to the alternative grunge crowd , not realizing that grunge is now cliché . What is supposed to feel cutting edge feels stale and like something you've seen done before and done better . The movie gets kudos from me for its visual look , and I do admit that it's never boring , but there's a general feeling of senseless nastiness that negates any message you're going to get from this .
The Unfunniest Comedy of the Year	" Wedding Crashers " just isn't that funny , though I think it wants to be . After a dazzling , energetic initial fifteen minutes or so , the movie settles into a hum-drum , routine comedy formula and never recovers . Owen Wilson is low-key and pleasant enough to carry it through , but Vince Vaughan creates a grotesque caricature that ceases to be funny early on . There are lots of subplots that could have made the movie a cut above average , but none of them go anywhere , and an actor like Christopher Walken is utterly wasted in a disposable part . Come on , if you have someone like Walken in your movie and you can't find anything funny for him to do , you've got serious problems . The film goes on far too long , and its final quarter gets downright depressing before everything resolves itself predictably in a corny finale . I thought this was supposed to be the funniest movie of the year - - must have been an unusually unfunny year .
" Great McGinty " Not So Great	A blah Preston Sturges " comedy " about a bum ( Brian Donlevy ) who climbs up the political ladder in corrupt Chicago as a stoolie for a crime boss ( Akim Tamiroff ) , but who discovers a conscience and a genuine desire to do good work along the way . Compared to some of Sturges ' other sparkling films , like " Sullivan's Travels " and " The Palm Beach Story , " " The Great McGinty " is a resounding dud . Donlevy doesn't have the screen presence to carry a film , and there's nary a laugh to be had . The only thing that felt fresh about the film was its unpredictable resolution . Sturges had a knack for ending movies on a high note ; unfortunately , in this case the rest of the movie doesn't live up to the ending .
Cue Tears	A fairly maudlin film with undistinguished direction from Penny Marshall . Robert DeNiro gives an Oscar-bait performance as a catatonic man who responds briefly to the treatment of a benevolent doctor ( Robin Williams , in serious mode ) , only to sink back into his catatonic state . It's reminiscent of the short story " Flowers for Algernon " ( which by the way was made into the movie " Charly , " for which Cliff Robertson won an Oscar - - am I seeing a theme here ? ) The film tries to earn tears the cheap and easy way - - through treacly music and directorial tricks , but I didn't respond much to it .
Somebody Sabotaged This Film's Screenplay	I don't hear " Saboteur " talked about much in conversations about Hitchcock's films , and I can see why . It feels more like a product of a second-tier director filming in the style of Alfred Hitchcock than a movie directed by the master himself . Robert Cummings is the wronged man in this story , accused of sabotaging a war munitions plant . He takes off to find the real culprits , running into Priscilla Lane along the way and reenacting some scenes that felt stolen directly from Hitchcock's own " The 39 Steps . " The only thing resembling a Hitchcockian set piece is the film's climax that finds our hero and his nemesis dangling from the torch of the Statue of Liberty . What relegates this film to the Hitchcock bargain bin and renders it forgettable is its ridiculously implausible screenplay . It feels sloppy and frequently makes no sense whatsoever . And the film ends so abruptly that you're not even sure what happens to the main character , but in a way that doesn't feel intentional . I've yet to see a Hitchcock film that isn't at least entertaining , and this one is that , but it's certainly not among his classics .
A Star Is Born ( For Real , This Time )	" Funny Girl " may as well be called " A Star Is Born , " because that's what audiences at the time were witnessing , right before their very eyes . This is the film that introduced Barbra Streisand to film audiences and catapulted her into mainstream stardom , and nearly 40 years later , she remains pretty much the only reason to watch this musical . Movie musicals have always been notorious for having flimsy scripts , but " Funny Girl , " s is probably one of the flimsiest . Too often , the transition from stage to screen only serves to magnify the original stage version's biggest problems , and that's the case here . " Funny Girl " is epic in length , but not in scope or substance , so it's one of those movie musicals that feels like it's over before it ever starts . On top of that , it has a bland actor as its leading man ( Omar Sharif , who never again captured the intensity he brought to his role in " Lawrence of Arabia " ) , an unmemorable score , and a rather ungainly look , courtesy of veteran director William Wyler , who perhaps was unused to the mechanics of making musicals . Streisand is the show , the whole show and nothing but the show , and if the film's final shot , the one truly memorable moment in the whole movie , conveys nothing else , it conveys that .
Girl Power , Ridley Scott Style	The critical scene in " Thelma & Louise , " and the one I think the screenplay got most wrong , is the one in which Thelma ( Susan Sarandon ) interrupts an attempted rape of her friend , Louise ( Geena Davis ) , in a bar parking lot . The attack is over , the women are walking away , and the attacker calls Thelma something ( I forget what ) , after which she turns around and shoots him . The way the scene plays out , " Thelma & Louise " could have been an interesting movie , putting the audience in a quandary . The sympathy we're obviously supposed to feel for them would struggle with our desire to see Thelma and Louise face the consequences of their decisions . But the film doesn't go that route . Instead , it drags out a cliché back story for Thelma involving a past rape , so that we have an easy and tidy way to justify away her sociopathic behavior . This removes responsibility from the women , takes choices away from them and presents them to us as victims of an uncaring society . A most UN-feminist viewpoint , if you ask me . Still , Susan Sarandon and Geena Davis give two superb performances as the women on the run , and director Ridley Scott always knows how to keep a story moving . The male characters aren't worth mentioning , since the screenplay treats them as disposable . I guess since they were making a " feminist " movie , the filmmakers thought that they couldn't possibly have a positive image of a male character without somehow weakening their point . I sincerely hope those interested in truly feminist works of art expect more from them than this film has to offer .
Women in the Workplace , 50s Style	With the decade quickly drawing to a close , director Jean Negulesco realized that subsequent generations would likely revere " Peyton Place " as the ultimate example of 1950s camp , so he hustled this cornball movie out and ended up giving " Peyton Place " quite a run for its money . Actually , " The Best of Everything " is moderately more enjoyable than the other film , if only because it doesn't take itself quite so seriously . A group of young women working in a secretarial pool fight , scheme , fall in love , get jilted , kill themselves and put themselves through all other sorts of histrionics in this hysterical film . I wish my work place was even half as intriguing as the one here . Joan Crawford presides over all with an air of icy menace , her eyebrows arched to the high heavens , sending her latest assistant on impossible errands just for the hell of it . Meanwhile , the syrupy title song warbles on and on in that grating way that only film title songs from the 1950s can warble . Crawford , as usual , brings some dignity to the material and , also as usual , almost makes you care about a movie you know you wouldn't otherwise give a damn about . There are men in the movie - - salacious bosses , preening celebrities , square-jawed hotshots - - but frankly , all of them run together . Though now that I think of it , so do the women , except for Crawford , that tireless workhorse who pulled more than her fair share of stinkers out of the gutter .
Classic Horror Movie Sorely Disappoints	I knew Universal Studios excelled at low-budget horror in the 1930s , but I didn't realize just how low budget this movie would be . Tod Browning's " Dracula " looks and moves like an Ed Wood movie ; you can practically see the crewmen hiding just outside of the frame , holding the strings of the fake bats that come flapping up and down and blowing fake fog on to the screen with a fan . This movie only has one or two creepy scenes ; I was sorely disappointed with the rest . Bela Lugosi is effective as the famous Count , but everyone else is terrible , the pacing is sluggish , and the movie just ends , as if the director ran out of film . Did Monty Python direct this ? I expected much more from Tod Browning , who did such compelling work , and on no bigger a budget , with " Freaks " a year later .
Makes Unreality Seem Realistic	Jason Statham returns as Frank Martin in this weaker-sibling sequel to the 2002 original . This time around , he's filling in as chauffeur for a mucky-muck politician ( Matthew Modine ) and his wife , carting their little boy around from school to doctor to home and back . The little boy is kidnapped by a swarthy villain with an accent and a penchant for walking around with no clothes on and his right-hand man , or should I say woman , who stalks around in red heels and racy lingerie and looks like a satanic version of Twiggy . They inject the kid with a deadly virus in the hopes that he will infect his father who will then in turn pass it on to a conference hall full of world politicians . The villain's one mistake is in making Jason Statham angry , and he comes after him , using all manner of transportation , like cars , jet skis , school buses and , in the grand finale , a private jet plummeting into the ocean . There's barely any plot , and what plot there is is incredibly preposterous . Many plot strands are left hanging , and the script doesn't even attempt to explain how all of the people infected with this deadly virus are cured of it . It's fun for a while , but even in an outrageous action film , I require SOME semblance of reality . Statham kicks ass , as is expected , and the movie is ( no surprise ) at its best when it's moving . When it stops long enough for anyone to actually deliver one of the lines from the script ( which could have been written by a 12-year-old ) , the effect is woeful .
One More Violent Christ Fable	Every so often I have that uncomfortable , squirmy feeling I'm sure all moviegoers do , when you're sitting in the theatre watching a movie that critics and audiences alike have hailed as a masterpiece , and you're not enjoying it all . That was me during " Pan's Labyrinth . " My only reaction after coming out of this grueling , depressing Christ fable was : " Did I see the same movie everyone else did ? " Critics are likely responding to director Guillermo del Toro's fierce originality of vision , and indeed that is this film's most impressive asset . But the originality is wasted on a lame story capped by a lamer message , that essentially goes something like this : Don't worry if the life you're currently living brings you nothing but pain and misery - - all of that pain and misery will make you eligible for eternal happiness in Heaven . If you get cozy fuzzy feelings from canned religious homilies like this , then please , go watch this film and enjoy . But for one who doesn't believe in Heaven , and who would rather see films that offer practical messages of hope and salvation for our current troubled world , I felt gypped that in the end this movie had nothing better than that to say . I don't need movies to tell me that the world can be a cruel and uncaring place to live . And a movie certainly need not go back to 1944 Spain to offer up examples of that cruelty . But if it's going to address a problem , it should at least be part of the solution , and give me something I can use . " Pan's Labyrinth " is bold in suggesting that a child's fantasy world may be no match for the harsh realities in which she is living - - in an industry that exists to sell us fantasy through which we can escape the real world , del Toro takes quite a gamble to give us this product that tells us just the opposite . But all of that boldness does nothing more than lead one to a Sunday school lesson that may just be the biggest fantasy of them all . There's very little fantasy in this film , actually , much less than the trailers would have you believe . A majority of the film is devoted to the sadistic actions of a military captain serving Franco's regime , and we get to see him smash a peasant's face with a wine bottle until it caves in , shoot numerous people in the head and other parts of the body , torture one man with all manner of carpenter's tools . At one point , we get to see him stitch up a knife slice in his face in graphic close up detail . Those of us with less of a lust for blood may wonder if the more graphic scenes are truly necessary . Defenders of them will say yes , and that the horrors of this film's reality must be made clear if the juxtaposition of the main character's retreats into fantasy are to be effective . But I say that there is a difference between using violence graphically and using it effectively , and that the most graphic moments in this film do nothing but cheapen the overall effect . And by the way , what is it with religious people and movies ? Why does every religiously-themed film that anyone wants to see have to be dripping in sadism ? What exactly do they teach you in those churches anyway ? This is a really grim film folks , completely lacking in any kind of wit . Guillermo del Toro obviously has imagination to spare , but it's not the kind of imagination I want to be spending any more time with any time soon .
As Believable as the Bush Administration's Reasons for Invading Iraq	Not to be outdone by Julia Roberts , Craig Brewer and his earnest cast led by Terrence Howard set out to prove that pimps , as well as whores , can have hearts of gold too . And despite the gritty 70s movie finish they spray over their film , " Hustle & Flow " is about as grounded in reality as " Pretty Woman . " Howard does a decent job , and anyone who's seen him in person knows how different he is , at least in his mannerisms and voice , from the character of DJ in the film . But he didn't really stand a chance when up against the ridiculous screenplay he and everyone else were forced to slog their way through . Howard's character , a small-time pimp stagnating in some Tennessee back water , who dreams of breaking out into the hip-hop world , felt about as authentic as the cartoon blacks Steven Spielberg created for " The Color Purple . " There are some involving scenes built around DJ and his motley assortment of fellow music lovers creating their songs , and it's easy to be swept along in the funky rhythm of these moments . But the ghastly plot twists toward the end of the film that find DJ going to jail for injuring a thug in a shooting , and then finding stardom on the airwaves while he sits behind bars , surpassed mere over-earnestness and sailed headlong into plain stupidity . Are we really supposed to believe that just because DJ's hooker sidekick dropped some demos off at a couple of local radio stations that suddenly the whole world knows who he is ? Or that prison guards are going to be handing him their own demos and seek his help in breaking into the music biz ? Even Spielberg isn't that corny . And not since " Chitty Chitty Bang Bang " assaulted our ears has a movie's theme song more quickly worn itself thin due to its sheer catchy repetitiveness .
Show Boobs , Win Oscar	A grueling film . Don't worry ; the two protagonists , played by Halle Berry and Billy Bob Thornton , eventually find a sense of peace and redemption . But , and this is a big " but , " not before both of them suffer through the most ridiculously heavy-handed series of tragic events ever committed to celluloid , which actually begin to become funny after a while ( let's see , maybe one of them can develop a brain tumor now , that will REALLY get people's tears pumping ) . It's kind of like Dick Cheney's shooting accident ; you keep wondering how worse it can possibly get before the boundaries of credibility disappear all together . Berry gives a fine performance , if fine performance means she was convincing shoving her boobs in Billy Bob Thornton's face ( convinced me ! ) Her performance during her Oscar acceptance speech was better than anything you see from her here . Thornton , for his part , is good , but he's always good . The finest scene in the film comes when he drops his bastard of a dad off at a retirement home and decides never to visit him again ( there , that's this movie's idea of a happy ending , if you're wondering ) . And before there was " Brokeback Mountain , " Heath Ledger proved to the world that , hey , maybe he can act after all . Too bad his character's in the movie for about ten minutes . This is one of those movies that a liberal white Hollywood fell all over themselves to honor so that Spike Lee would shut up about how there are no movies for black people . I agree with Spike - - African Americans are woefully underrepresented in today's movie marketplace . But come on , we can do better than this , can't we ?
First Chapter of the Iwo Jima Saga Is a Resounding Dud	A noble failure . I saw " Letters from Iwo Jima " first , admired it but wasn't blown away by it , but reserved complete judgement until seeing this film , thinking that possibly taken together both it and " Flags of Our Fathers " would resonate more as a whole than either does separately . They don't . " Letters " remains by far the better film . " Flags of Our Fathers " is a mess , and a rather boring one at that . Clint Eastwood tries to use a complicated structure to tell this story , using mixed up chronology so that pieces of his story fall into place gradually . But he shows no knack for managing a film like this . The screenplay follows three of the surviving Americans who raised the flag on Iwo Jima and were famously photographed doing so , and their guilt at returning to the States and being used as poster boys for the heroism of the American military when in fact they weren't part of the group that initially raised the flag , but were among those who " re-staged " the moment when the first flag was taken down . Eastwood examines the callousness of those behind the American war effort , who want to use the boys as walking commercials for buying war bonds , and he also examines the psyche of the American public , who just needed something , anything , to latch on to in order to make sense of the senseless slaughter , and who found it in that picture and those soldiers . All of this is interesting subject matter for a movie , and certainly relevant as we find our country embroiled in a much more senseless military conflict , but Eastwood directs with sledgehammer obviousness , and the screenplay lectures and preaches what it should be letting us take away for ourselves . The movie makes the point that there is no clear good and bad when it comes to war , despite the desire of the average citizen to have it so , but the movie itself is very black and white in examining the issue . All of the soldiers are noble and good and true ; all of the war mongers are crass , insensitive buffoons . I'm almost tempted to believe that Steven Spielberg , who served as producer on this , helped direct it - - it has his overly earnest fingerprints all over it . I'm cooling in my regard to Clint Eastwood as a filmmaker . Each movie he's made since " Million Dollar Baby " has come attached with such sombre self importance that any engaging film-making gets buried under good intentions . The only remarkable thing about his Iwo Jima films is that a mainstream director so warmly embraced by the conservative faction of Hollywood studio production made two such high-profile films that cast such a critical eye on a war America likes to think was an unequivocal military and moral victory . But the films themselves , especially this one , are not deserving of the praise that's been heaped upon them .
" Fame " Without the Brain	If watching a bunch of high-strung theatre star wannabes prancing around and hissing at one another is what you're in the mood for , " Camp " is made to order . I happened to be in the mood for it , but even so found that it tested my patience . For one thing , it's way too long for its subject matter . For another thing , it's all over the place as far as plot goes , with no dramatic center to anchor the story . O . k . , I wasn't expecting " Citizen Kane , " ( hell , I wasn't even expecting " Legally Blonde " ) , but I do like my movies to be written with a modicum of competency . " Camp " flounders from one scene to the next , sort of focusing on three principal characters but not really even doing that , climaxing in a flashy dance number that looks like the final scene from " All That Jazz " mixed with an episode of " Star Search . " What this movie is good for , however , are the musical numbers . Seeing teenagers belt out songs from " Follies " and " Company " is admittedly fun . And there are some life-affirming lessons about being true to yourself , etc . , but these are even more diluted than your average after-school special . There are worse ways to spend a couple of hours , but you might want to consider re-watching " Fame " instead .
Maybe the Only Film in History to Feature a Giant Rampaging Boob ?	Woody Allen's two previous films , " Take the Money and Run " and " Bananas , " had comedy-skit feels to them already , and in " Everything You Always Wanted to Know . . . . " he borrows even the comedy-skit format and breaks this film into several independent vignettes , each revolving around the topic of sex . Like any variety show , some of these skits are funnier than others ; the movie overall is pretty uneven , and isn't one of Allen's best efforts . My favorite skits were those depicting Allen himself as a neurotic sperm nervous about the voyage ahead , and a mad scientist spoof in which a giant breast escapes the laboratory and terrorizes a countryside , captured only when the townspeople manufacture a giant bra to catch it .
Missing the Polanski Touch	If you love " Oliver Twist " and want nothing more than a very straightforward retelling of the Dickens classic , you will be well served by this movie . If , however , you approach this because you're interested in what one of cinema's most interesting and accomplished directors will do with the subject matter , you may just be disappointed , as I was . This is a faithful but uninspired , and ultimately unnecessary , version of the story . Polanski's heart is in the right place , and one suspects that he LOVES this tale and didn't want to tamper with it . Fair enough . But if he loves it , he did it a disservice by removing so many of the elements that make Dickens ' stories so engaging . If nothing else , the characters should jump right off the screen in vivid and lively detail . However , Polanski manages to make all of them fade into the background and not one of them is memorable . Ben Kingsley's Fagin should be front and center ; ultimately , he's the one whom Dickens ' novel is about . It's Fagin that grows throughout the course of the story ; the moral arc of the tale rests on him . It's the opposition within Fagin between being a loyal father figure to his rag-tag bunch of boys and looking out for his own self interest that makes all of the action so interesting . But here , Fagin is relegated to a supporting role , and it doesn't feel like he has much impact on the story . Ditto Nancy . She emerged as a bawdy , vivacious life force in the novel . She was the mother figure to Fagin's boys and there was a burst of energy and fresh air whenever she entered the picture . In the movie , it's never made clear how large a role Nancy plays in the boys ' lives , so there's no real feeling of loss when she's gone . Here , the main character becomes Oliver , and that's Polanski's biggest mistake . In the novel Oliver Twist is a blank slate ; he only exists to give us a window into all of these situations and characters . He just lets things happen to him . In this regard , Polanski remains faithful , but he never should have made Oliver the true focus of his film . The movie looks great . It's dripping with period detail , and that alone makes it worth watching . It's also got a great atmospheric score by Rachel Portman . However , the visual design cannot make up for the tepid storytelling .
A Junky , Clunky Movie That at Least Left the Door Open for a Good Remake	John Waters acolytes will hate me for this , but I saw the recent movie musical version of " Hairspray " before I saw Waters ' original , and I couldn't get over the feeling that the original fails in comparison . Ricki Lake does not have what it takes to play Tracy Turnblad , the chubby girl with the big hair who lands a spot on a teen dance show and becomes a Baltimore sensation . Tracy should be so engaging and lovable that no one can help but root for her , and Lake is definitely not that girl . It doesn't help that the rest of the cast acts like they're reading their lines off of cue cards , or that Waters lost all ability ( or interest ) in bringing his movie to a coherent conclusion . It's like Waters sets out to make his film too weird for the mainstream , but the directing and acting are too pedestrian to elevate it to the level of camp . So by the end it's just sort of boring . I'm vaguely turned off by John Waters movies . They're always so cheap looking and lazily directed , like no one , not Waters , the actors or the film artists , could be bothered to take anything very seriously . My question is : why should I expend the energy in watching this movie if the people who made it weren't even interested in the project to begin with ?
Pre-Code Stanwyck Sleeps Her Way to the Top	This notoriously racy pre-Code film stars a gorgeous and sexy Barbara Stanwyck as a young girl from the wrong side of the tracks who moves to the big city and uses her " feminine ways " to keep herself in furs and jewels . Within the film's first fifteen minutes , Stanwyck's father has tried to pimp her to a frequenter of his speak easy , and a shoe cobbler and friend of the family ( and closest thing to a father figure she has ) has delivered a speech about how she should use men to get what she wants . Taking his advice , she hops the rails with her black maid , and gets to try out her newly found technique for the first time on a railway worker who threatens to turn them over to the police . Aside from the film's general frankness about sex as a means to an end , this is perhaps the most shocking single scene in the film . Stanwyck , in extreme close up and for the first in what ends up being about 30 times over the course of the film , says " Why don't we talk this over ? " , the railway worker , looking grizzled and horny , looks her up and down and moves closer , the black maid smirks and takes herself off into the corner , and a pair of gloves dropped to the floor clearly indicates what's going on just outside the frame . If you're looking for jaw-dropping content on a par with other notorious pre-Code films like , say , " The Sign of the Cross " ( I haven't yet seen anything quite like that movie in all my years of watching films ) you may be disappointed , as this is about as racy as " Baby Face " gets . But even so , it's obvious why the enforcers of the Code freaked out and demanded that much of this film be recut . The rest of the movie sees Stanwyck quickly making her way through the various bigwigs in a hot-shot company , and soon men are shooting themselves over her . It's all pretty silly , and if it were not for its racy reputation , it would be a pretty forgettable film , but it does offer a sleazy kind of fun . By the way , I love this film's tagline : " She made her way up the corporate ladder , wrong by wrong ! " That should give you some indication of what you're in for .
A Humorous Experiment , But That's About It	Before he worked up the courage to grab directorial reigns himself , Woody Allen produced this curio that will be entertaining to anyone who's stayed up until 2 : 00 am making fun of bad movies that seem manufactured specifically for air time during the wee hours . The format won't seem fresh to anyone who watches " Mystery Science Theater , " but for the time I imagine this film struck people as giddy and inspired . Allen takes an existing Japanese film and lays his own jokey , kooky soundtrack over it . It's like a feature-length version of the " film dub " game played on " Whose Line Is It Anyway ? " in which the players make up dialogue for random , obscure movie scenes . You might find yourself tiring of " Tiger Lily " before it's over - - luckily it's not an exercise Allen felt compelled to repeat , and it never took hold as a sub-genre of its own . Some of it made me chuckle , much of it fell flat , and any substantial memory of the film vanished from my head five minutes after ending .
Classy and Boring	A tasteful and oh-so-dull film about writer Isak Dinesen and her love affair with a big-game hunter in the wilds of Africa . Sydney Pollack clearly wanted to win Oscars with this one , so that most vile of vile movie terms - - prestige - - is dripping from every frame . Well , he won his bookcase full of Oscars , but the result is a movie that looks better in stills than it does running across your television screen . Who knew that you could make something like syphilis look glossy ? Meryl Streep acts up a storm as usual , and practically leaves tire marks over poor Robert Redford , who simply can't keep up with her . Any movie with her in it is worth watching , but give me Pollack's less prestigious but far more entertaining " Tootsie " any day .
Pacino's Oscar Bait	You can tell that Al Pacino was determined not to let the 8th chance of an Oscar pass him by , so he throws everything he's got at the Academy voters in this hammy performance as a cranky , blind veteran . Chris O'Donnell gives a blank-faced performance as the preppy college student who's paid to care for the blind dude for the day , but boy doesn't he get more than he bargained for , and isn't Pacino's irascible geezer a hoot as he shows O'Donnell a good time ? Why director Martin Brest needed two-and-a-half-hours to tell a story that could have made a half-hour sitcom is beyond me . Oh and guess what . . . . . Pacino won his Oscar . Michael Corleone is turning over in his grave . . . .
Too Literal and Not Anarchic Enough	Mike Nichols tries for a literal interpretation of Joseph Heller's amazing epic comedy , and the results crash and burn . " Catch-22 " the book is , of course , unfilmable as it is . A movie version would have to be 12 hours long just to fit in all the characters and plots , but there would still remain the daunting task of finding a visual language that approximates Heller's surrealist , hilarious , nightmarish authorial voice . The best any movie could shoot for with a screen adaptation would be to capture the tone of Heller's novel , and that's where Nichols fails most . His " Catch-22 " tries to impose a linear , logical structure on a novel whose very point is the utter insanity of war . Therefore , the movie feels like a series of underdeveloped episodes that don't relate to one another , and characters that live on the page in almost three-dimensional detail are relegated to a mere minute or so of screen time each in the movie . I can't stand it when people rip movies apart by saying that they're not as good as the books on which they're based . Movies and books are completely different mediums and require completely different kinds of artistry . And I think it's possible to do a screen version of " Catch-22 " that would retain everything that is wonderful about the book while bringing to it the unique additions of cinema . But Nichols ' film isn't that version . I wonder what Robert Altman could have done with " Catch-22 " if he'd ever taken a crack at it . His goofball , anarchic and cynical directorial voice would have been perfectly suited to Heller's novel . I've always thought that " MASH , " the Altman film released the same year as " Catch-22 , " was more like the Joseph Heller novel than the film actually based on it .
Disaster Strikes Again	Just when you thought disaster films couldn't get any dumber than " The Poseidon Adventure " ( 1972 ) , " The Towering Inferno " comes along and proves that anything's possible . ( And if you think this movie is dumb , check out " Earthquake " from the same year ) . Steve McQueen , Faye Dunaway , Paul Newman , William Holden , Fred Astaire and Jennifer Jones ( holy crap , what a cast ! ) are the A-list actors who prostitute themselves in this one . O . J . Simpson , in his pre-murder years , pops up here and there to prove how little he can act , and Richard Chamberlain is the arch villain and is on hand to thoroughly creep me out . Astaire does a little jig , McQueen uses his manly squint to good effect and everyone else squeals in terror as they fight to save themselves from a flaming office tower . The sets and costumes look like someone's nightmare version of a 1970s prom and a warbly love song written expressly to win an Oscar ( which it did ) blares away on the soundtrack . The last time I saw this film was long before - - watching a bunch of people trapped in the top floors of a collapsing skyscraper may not be as much fun now as it once was .
Meh , Whatever	Ho-hum screen adaptation of yet another John Grisham pot boiler . Joel Schumacher is pretty much my least favorite director of all time , and Grisham represents the kind of author whose books instantly give me a hankering for classic literature , so the chances that I was really going to think much of this film were slim from the get go . Good actors like Susan Sarandon and Tommy Lee Jones put a lot of effort into the material and give committed performances . But with Schumacher at the helm , trying to make a good movie is like trying to walk up a down escalator . Sarandon was inexplicably nominated for a Best Actress Academy Award for her work , more an indication of how weak a year 1994 was for actresses than how good her work in this film is .
Too Much Even for a Sirk Fan	I like Douglas Sirk movies , and I find the genre of 1950s melodramas fascinating , but even I had trouble stomaching this giant cornball of a movie . Jane Wyman plays the widow of a respected doctor , who dies because a piece of machinery needed to resuscitate him is being used on a nearby accident victim , a spoiled rich playboy ( Rock Hudson ) who was goofing around in his speedboat . Later , when trying to make amends with the widow , this same playboy causes another accident which makes her go blind . Having thoroughly ruined this woman's life , he decides to devote himself to a higher calling and becomes a doctor , and guess what happens at the end ? I don't think it's any spoiler to say that he operates on the widow and miraculously cures her . Not being a religious person myself , I found the heavy-handed treatment of faith too much to bear . And the reason I like other Sirk movies is that they always have a subversive element of social commentary to them , like he's slyly criticizing the very people he was making movies for . But that's lacking here . This is melodrama served straight up , without a wink of irony . Otto Kruger plays an old friend of the deceased doctor who coaches Hudson toward doing something with his life - - Sirk couldn't have made it clearer that he's meant to evoke the image of an angel sent from heaven ( Beethoven's " Ode to Joy " plays on the soundtrack pretty much every time he makes an appearance ) . And character actress warhorse Agnes Moorehead gets saddled with a thankless role as Wyman's spinster nurse .
Yes , It's Another Version of " A Christmas Carol "	Yet another version of " A Christmas Carol , " this one set in the present day and starring Bill Murray as a self-absorbed television producer . Though another version of the classic story probably wasn't really necessary , this one is entertaining enough if you're looking to kill a couple of hours on the sofa . The funniest moments come not from the main action , but rather from glimpses of the kinds of terrible shows Murray's producer character is responsible for putting on the screen . Featuring some ghoulish makeup effects that won the film its sole Academy Award nomination .
The Midlife Crises of Ordinary People	Nothing is more boring to me than any movie or book about someone else's midlife crisis , and " The Big Chill " is about nothing but a bunch of privileged baby boomers in the middle of them . The big cast features all sorts of actors who would go on to become big stars of the 1980s and beyond : Glenn Close , William Hurt , Kevin Kline , Tom Berenger , Jeff Goldblum . There's no denying the chemistry between these fine actors , but the whole movie feels whiny and self-indulgent . I sense that it may be one of those films that you have to be the right age to appreciate . After all , I was all of eight years old when it came out , and saw it while I was still in college . Actually , it was aimed squarely at people who in 1983 were about the age I am now , so maybe I should revisit it .
Kelly Provides the Dance . . . But What About the Rest ?	Gene Kelly was so interested in putting groundbreaking dance on screen in this 1951 musical extravaganza that he forgot to include a story or characters while he was at it . The " Gotta Dance " fantasy ballet sequence in " Singin ' in the Rain " is considered by many to be the only thing wrong with that movie ; the entire running time of " An American in Paris " feels like that ballet . Gene Kelly runs amok , and the result is colorful but tiresome when stretched out to this length . It doesn't help matters any that " Rain " had the perky Debbie Reynolds and comic antics of Donald O'Connor , while " Paris " has , well , Leslie Caron . This little gamine is as bland as an unsalted pretzel , and I just simply didn't care a whiff about her or Kelly or whether they were going to get it on or not . Some memorable musical numbers distinguish this film , but I think people are wrong to consider it Gene Kelly's choreographic masterpiece .
The First of Many Oliver Stone Onslaughts	So began the string of films with which Oliver Stone would assault our senses and earn him some of the most undeserved accolades in film history . " Platoon " is probably one of his stronger films , but it doesn't hold up well . At the time , it was notable for its authenticity in depicting the life of a Vietnam grunt , and I certainly want to be sensitive to anyone who served in Vietnam and has an appreciation for this movie because of it . But the movie itself is hopelessly overwrought and reeks of Stone's sledgehammer style of film-making . He can't allow emotions to speak for themselves , so he asks slow motion shots and thundering music to do the work instead . And there was enough material for a movie about Vietnam already without his having to concoct the ridiculous rivalry plot he cooks up for Tom Berenger and Willem Dafoe to play out , both of them seemingly transplanted straight from the jungles of " Apocalypse Now " . Every time I hear that classical composition that plays over and over and over in this film I want to jab a fork into my eye .
A Rather Dull Disappointment	This slightly dreary film about the mysterious death of George Reeves , television's " Superman , " and its subsequent investigation feels like an opportunity missed to put a compelling and engaging story on the screen . The pacing is too sluggish and the ambitious screenplay too muddled for the film to ever come fully alive . It doesn't help that the central role , that of Louis Simo , the down-on-his-luck private investigator who consumes himself with Reeves ' murder in an attempt to win himself some needed publicity and fame , is woefully miscast . Adrien Brody is not at all right for the role of Simo . At one point in the film , one of his ex-colleagues makes a crack about there only being room in the world for one Ralph Meeker , an unfortunate line because it only draws attention to the fact that Brody has nowhere near the physical presence to pull off a tough-guy attitude like the one he's asked to pull off here . He's so young-looking and so slight in build that he comes across more like a scruffy high-schooler than he does a toughened and bitter detective . We see him become obsessed with the Reeves case at the expense of his personal life - - he's estranged from his wife ( I'm not sure if they are divorced or merely separated ) and his young son , and his girlfriend is cheating on him - - and he convinces himself and tries to convince everyone around him that Reeves was killed when the death was labeled by the LAPD as a suicide . Throughout the film , we see various versions of Reeves ' death played out in Simo's head as new evidence leads him down different paths toward different theories . But this investigation never picks up steam . The screenplay is torn between following Simo and his personal demons and Reeves and his . Much of the film is devoted to showing the rise and fall of Reeves ' career , and the movie can't ever decide whether it's more interested in him or Simo . In the end , I think we're supposed to feel that the two men shared something in common , and that Simo's personal downward spiral gives him a privileged peek into the mind of Reeves . He finally comes to see how the suicide angle could be true , and that , though all of the conspiracy theories he's shuffled around in his head make for better headlines , the real story might be something as simple as the hopelessness of one washed up actor . But the moment of this revelation is not clear and the connection between the two men isn't given enough focus or impact , so the audience is left holding two halves of a movie that don't completely fit together . Ben Affleck plays George Reeves and does a serviceable enough job . He gives probably the best performance in the film , thought it's not a film filled with great acting . Diane Lane plays Mrs . Mannix , wife of studio head Eddie Mannix ( Bob Hoskins ) and sugar momma to Reeves . Lane gives a mannered performance , and plays a rich pampered studio wife the way a college actress might play her . It doesn't help that the role as written flails all over the place . Hoskins makes little impression in his brief screen time . The thing I disliked most about " Hollywoodland " was the awkward blending of reality and fiction . Because certain moments take place exclusively in Simo's head , I wasn't always sure what was actually happening and what he was imagining , and in this case I didn't feel that the effect was intentional . The most egregious example of this comes during a scene when Reeves is performing for a group of children as Superman , and a small boy comes up to him with a real loaded gun and asks if he can shoot him . The way the scene is filmed and edited , it seems to be something Simo is either imagining or dreaming , but later on Reeves himself makes reference to the incident . How the situation played out , or how the little boy managed to get his hands on a loaded gun in the first place , is never explained . A disappointing film .
Too Much of a Not Very Good Thing	A very long and very boring soap opera that finds Bette Davis taking care of Charles Boyer's children , much to the disapproval of Boyer's wife , played as a shrill harridan by Barbara O'Neil ( most known to me as the mother of Scarlett O'Hara in the previous year's " Gone with the Wind " ) . Though set in France , the film could be taking place anywhere as far as the actors and filmmakers are concerned . Authenticity is pretty much an afterthought - - Davis attempts something resembling a French accent , but the result is an oddly stilted and clipped way of talking ; O'Neil doesn't attempt an accent at all . And the four children ( one of them Virginia Weidman , who played Dinah in " The Philadelphia Story " ) could be straight off the farms of Nebraska . Davis is asked to be reserved and gentle , which is never as fun as when she's playing a character that gets to let loose . The story just goes on and on long past the point where you really care about what happens , and it doesn't help that the framing device - - which finds Davis relating the story as a flashback to a group of students - - removes any suspense surrounding how things will turn out . Anatole Litvak directs with no discernible style whatsoever , and Max Steiner provides a score that never quits . The melodrama is ladled on like maple syrup , and some of it is just as sickly sweet .
The Russians Are Coming . . . . . Wake Me Up When They're Gone	One of those epic all-star comedies in the " It's a Mad Mad , etc . " vein , with a bunch of rushing around and chaotic blundering that's supposed to tickle us with how funny it all is . Well , it's not very funny , or at least I didn't think so , and the fact that it was taken seriously enough to snag four Academy Award nominations ( let alone one for Best Picture ) mystifies me . Featuring a bunch of recognizable stars who have all done much better elsewhere , like Carl Reiner , Theodore Bikel , Brian Keith , Eva Marie Saint , Paul Ford and , most notably , Alan Arkin , who for what it's worth gives the film whatever chutzpah it has .
I Can't Forgive It for Not Being the Book	This version of the Roald Dahl classic has always weirded me out , and not in a good way . I don't like the way it looks - gangly and ugly - nor the liberties the screenwriters took with the book . I would borrow " Charlie and the Chocolate Factory " from my little grade school library , read it , and as soon as I got to the end of the last page go right back to the beginning and read it over again . It was imprinted on my wee young brain , and I simply cannot accept any deviation from it . Gene Wilder at least has fun with this , though he reminds me way too much of my loser ex-brother-in-law for comfort . The thing I remember most about this movie , as many others probably do as well , is the catchy anthem sung repeatedly by the Oompah Loompahs .
If Awards Were Given for Scenery Chewing , They'd Be Named for Nicolas Cage	A dismally depressing film about an alcoholic who travels to Las Vegas to drink himself to death and the hooker he shacks up with in his last days . I think writer / director Mike Figgis intends to amaze us with the film's frankness , but I was instead impressed by its ugliness . Nicolas Cage overacts to the gills ( big surprise there ) as the alcoholic , giving an even hammier performance than Ray Milland did in Billy Wilder's similarly-themed " The Lost Weekend . " Only Wilder's film was released fifty years before this one , so what is Cage's excuse ? Elisabeth Shue fairs better as the hooker , but has to endure some degrading directorial choices by Figgis , like enacting a love scene topless while Cage pours booze all over her boobs and then getting anally raped by a bunch of punks later in the film . The film is bleak , pointless and unpleasant .
This Isn't Life , It's Blake Edwards	This Blake Edwards movie is like all Blake Edwards movies . That means it's fairly lame , has no particular style by which to distinguish itself , and looks like it's been airbrushed . This one revolves around some mid-life crisis topics afflicting a middle-aged couple played by Jack Lemmon and Julie Andrews . Andrews is diagnosed with a tumor and spends the film waiting for test results ; Lemmon has the hots for Sally Kellerman ( who wouldn't ) and spends the movie dithering about it . Lemmon and Andrews are good actors , and they almost make the film worth watching , but only almost .
This Sure as Hell Ain't No " Casablanca "	A bit of a dud . This Steven Soderbergh experiment tries to recreate the tone and look of WWII cinema and all of those films noir that used the war as a backdrop for stories of foreign intrigue and dirty dealings . He films everything in crisp black and white and uses a square aspect ratio , the same ratio that films were shot in prior to the invention of CinemaScope . But the movie doesn't really work , because Soderbergh doesn't pay enough attention to telling his story . The whole film is sluggishly paced and the screenplay is muddled . I enjoyed the look of the film , but that only takes one so far . George Clooney looks bored in the role of our hero , a part Humphrey Bogart might have played back in the day , and Cate Blanchett gets the Marlene Dietrich role , complete with guttural German accent . Tobey Maguire is woefully miscast as an unbalanced American G . I . , and his death early into the film is rather welcome . Can anyone take Maguire seriously playing anything other than a pimply teenager ? Soderbergh doesn't take his experiment far enough . Too much of this film feels contemporary , like the acting styles and the profanity and violence that pepper the screenplay . Soderbergh even gets the opening titles wrong . Only Cate Blanchett , whose performance reminded me of Alida Valli's in " The Third Man , " and Thomas Newman , who blankets the entire film in an atmospheric score , succeed in truly working in the appropriate styles . Otherwise , we just get a modern-day movie filmed in black and white , and not even a very good movie , leaving one to wonder what exactly was the point of Soderbergh's exercise to begin with ? Intentionally paying homage to " Casablanca " at the film's finale serves only to highlight how far away from that movie this movie is .
Eh , So-So	A harmless enough movie , but at the same time without much to recommend it . " There's No Business Like Show Business " provides one of those backstage musical frameworks on which to hang countless flashy production numbers . The stars ( Ethel Merman , Marilyn Monroe , Donald O'Connor ) take back seat to the CinemaScope and Technicolor - - this was one of those films that Hollywood dutifully dragged out to convince everyone that movies were still better than that pesky competitor , television . Too bad that " Show Business " came out at a time when musicals based on Broadway shows - - which integrated plot and music in sophisticated ways - - were coming into vogue and making quaint little musicals like this seem antiquated . I'm not recommending it exactly , but you could do worse on a rainy day .
Some Hate It , But I Think It's the Best in the Series	That wily rascal Jason Voorhees is at it again . . . . or is he ? Yes , this is the installment in the interminable " Friday the 13th " series that thought it would be a good idea to do without its only reason for existence . . . the hockey-masked Jason . Though you hardly notice the loss , since you don't KNOW it's not Jason until the film's final moments , and the copycat killer dresses like Jason anyway , so what's the difference ? If you've seen one axe-wielding psycho in a hockey mask , you've seen them all . Actually , I kind of like this entry . It provides the best nudity of the series . . . . no fewer than three gratuitous boob shots , and nice boobs they are . And it's funny , sometimes intentionally so , as when the hillbilly mom calls her dufus son a dildo , sometimes unintentionally , as when the Michael Jackson look alike sings a duet with his girlfriend through an outhouse wall while he's on the crapper . And the filmmakers outdo themselves with the body count this time around . By the end of the movie , there's no longer time to show them being killed off . Characters you've completely forgotten about just pop up as dead bodies . But what do you expect with all that plot to get through ? Compared to the other films in the series , this is practically " War and Peace , " what with the murder mystery story and the Tommy Jarvis plot line , which attempts to add a sense of continuity to the middle batch of movies ( o . k . so Part 6 picks up Tommy's storyline in a completely different place and with a different actor , but for a series like this that's the best you can hope for in the way of consistency ) .
Tom Cruise Became a Star	" Top Gun " was to the 1980s what Jerry Bruckheimer movies are now : loud , dumb , uber-macho and slightly homoerotic . " Risky Business " had put Tom Cruise on the map , but it was probably this film that launched him into full-fledged stardom . Looking back now , he was obviously born to play this role , since it's not a far cry from his actual persona : a cocky jackass . Kelly McGillis , fresh off of " Witness , " also stars , though her character here is quite a bit removed from the strait-laced Amish mother she played in the earlier film . There's lots of footage of hot shot guys flying big jets really fast - - it's like a ramped up commercial for Gillette razors .
Hot and Bothered in Small-Town America	A hopelessly corny and stodgy piece of 1950s film-making that thinks racy subject matter alone makes it important . Well , it doesn't . " Peyton Place " is a static adaptation of a scandalous book , filled with a cast of females who all look the same - - as blonde and coiffed as the most stereotypical image of a 50s housewife . Of them , Hope Lange does the best with the material given her , playing a sweet kid with a lousy dad , who rapes and beats her in glorious Technicolor . Arthur Kennedy growls his way through the movie as said dad , providing it with some much-needed testosterone , even if that testosterone is somewhat misdirected . Also technically providing some male hormones to the film , though in much diluted form , is Russ Tamblyn , who plays a shy nerd smitten with the movie's narrator , played by Diane Varsi . And bringing the film its star voltage , Lana Turner delivers an imperious performance as an uptight mom , all pointy breasts and platinum blonde hair . " Peyton Place " supposedly takes place in the early 1940s , but you'd never know it from the film's production design . The clothes , hairstyles and saturated color are all pure 50s - - in fact , this movie is the kind of hokey 1950s melodrama that later films making fun of the 50s would parody .
Look Mr . Kotter , I Can Dance !	It would be almost impossible to believe that John Travolta received an Academy Award nomination for this movie if the Academy didn't have a long history of nominating films and performances that left us scratching our heads at what they were thinking . Actually , Travolta's not bad in this movie ; if anything , he's absolutely the only reason to watch it now , because the movie itself just isn't very good . It's got groovy music , coiffed hair and 1970s disco atmosphere dripping from every frame , but it's primarily an excuse for a bunch of flashy dance numbers without the burden of stringing them together with anything resembling a real plot . It's hokey and harmless , but I can think of a thousand other movies off of the top of my head that would be more worth your time than this .
Men in Tights	Kevin Costner had worked hard the year before to cement his place in Hollywood as a serious director and actor , and nearly undid all of it with his embarrassing performance in this film . Though at the time I believe this film was a hit , so maybe the joke's on me . Costner can't hold on to his British accent for anything , and actually just gives up on it about 20 minutes into the movie , spending the rest of it talking like an American . Alan Rickman enlivens things through his performance as the villain and has the film's funniest scene , but the fact that that scene involves his attempts to rape Maid Marion should tell you something about the approach of director Kevin Reynolds . The whole thing is far more violent than it needs to be and way too long . " Robin Hood " should be a sprightly story , not this lead-footed thing .
Good Luck Getting the Theme Song Out of Your Head	" I Know Where I'm Going ! " is like other Powell and Pressburger films thematically : forces beyond the control of humans intervene and determine to a large extent the destiny of the heroine . But if you're expecting a dazzling , vivid and energetic film like " The Red Shoes " or " Black Narcissus , " you're bound to be disappointed by this one . I couldn't get into this movie at all . The filmmakers seemed unable to settle on a tone or mood , so I wasn't ever sure if I was watching a romantic comedy or a darker , more psychologically complex character study . Wendy Hiller is good in her role , but her character drove me over the edge . I couldn't stand her - - bad news for a movie in which she's in virtually every scene . And that theme song . . . . . UGH ! To this day I have moments where that awful song plays on a constant loop through my mind , over and over and over . I really like Powell and Pressburger over all , so I choose to see this movie as an anomaly in their body of work rather than representative of it .
Wacko Merry Melody	This bizarre cartoon short is more disturbing than anything . The animation is creepy , and the content is rather adult for the art form . A bunch of unidentifiable animals ( I know I saw a gorilla , and maybe some foxes ? ) drink it up until they're soused , and a grand finale consists of a horse exploding while a bunch of rowdy saloon customers dance around it maniacally . The songs are annoying , a quality not helped by the fact that they stick to your head like glue ( I caught myself humming one of them in the shower ) . If I had seen this come on the screen as a little kid , I probably would have wanted to crawl under my seat and hide . This is on the DVD release of " Little Caesar , " if you're interested in seeing it for yourself .
Cat Has No Claws	Yet another example of a 1950s stage to screen adaptation in which the entire reason for the play's existence is removed from the screen version in order to placate the censors . Why did people even want to make movies out of plays if they wanted to remove everything that made the plays interesting in the first place ? Without the homosexual subtext , " Cat on a Hot Tin Roof " isn't about very much except Paul Newman and Elizabeth Taylor disliking each other until they do a complete 180 and get it on in the film's final scene . I guess at the time the pairing of two hot actors was enough to get audiences into the theatres , but that's not good enough now . This is tepid and bland , with uninspired direction , and would make anyone wonder why this Tennessee Williams play is considered to be such a classic . There is one reason to see this film , though , and that's Burl Ives . Newman and Taylor fade into the background , and the movie becomes the story of Ives ' Big Daddy , who gives a fascinating , bellicose performance as a dying patriarch , desperately in need of a worthy heir to carry on his legacy . With this and " The Big Country , " released the same year , Ives had perhaps the best 1958 of any other actor working at the time .
Say You , Say Me , Say Cold War Tension	One of many films from the 1980s that used the U . S . - Soviet tension of the time as an excuse to put all manner of hokum up on the movie screens . Mikhail Baryshnikov and Gregory Hines come away relatively unscathed from this movie . Both are in it solely for their dancing abilities , and really that's the whole reason for the film's existence , that and the opportunity to give us not one but two smash hit songs to perform at that year's Oscar ceremony . Featuring Helen Mirren , before anyone knew who Helen Mirren was , and Geralding Page , who would win an Oscar that year for " The Trip to Bountiful . "
A Lame Effort , Partially Saved by Juliette Lewis	Is there a production company somewhere that specializes in churning out the kind of banal , unoffensive films that are frequently used as in-flight movies , and if so , is it responsible for this film ? A flight from London to Chicago happens to be where I saw this movie , and even with absolutely nothing else to do or distract me , I had trouble staying with it . " Catch and Release " isn't bad . It's too safe to be bad . Rather , it's painfully uninspired . It's the kind of movie you simply can't imagine anyone getting up the energy to make . Was there really a screen writer out there who thought this story needed desperately to be told , and actually went to the trouble to tell it ? Was there really a director who decided he had to bring this story to the screen , a cinematographer who put effort into planning shots ? Did any of the actors read this script and think it was a project they simply had to be involved with ? Apparently , because we have the movie itself as proof that at least someone thought it was worth brining to audiences . And there are decent things about it , notably Juliette Lewis , who gives a delightful performance as a new-age hippie struggling with motherhood , who makes you wish the movie was about her every time she appears on screen . Jennifer Garner , who the movie is supposed to be about , fades into the background , because neither she as an actress nor the character as written is capable of drawing our attention to herself . The script is too timid to allow any dramatic conflict to last more than a couple of scenes , so loose ends are neatly tied up with assembly-line efficiency . This is film-making at its most disposable .
Gloomy Film Has No Real Reason for Existing	An unmitigated gloomy pall has settled on Hollywood this fall . Apparently , a message went out to all filmmakers that every movie released from now through the foreseeable future must be sombre , gray and depressing . Well " We Own the Night " certainly does nothing to buck the trend . This tale of two brothers on opposite sides of the law - - one a cop , one a nightclub owner - - has a been there , done that quality to it , and despite its not being necessarily a bad movie , simply has no reason for existing . It doesn't have anything new to say beyond things like drugs are bad and being a cop is dangerous . It felt like a waste of my time and money . Joaquin Phoenix is quickly becoming an actor that I despise . He's so unappealing to me , both in looks and in acting style , that I actually get physically uncomfortable watching him . Looking pasty and puffy , he gives a bleary and mumbling performance as the wayward son whose nightclub harbors drug lords and members of organized crime syndicates . Mark Wahlberg , as the cop brother , isn't in the movie much , and when he is he reprises his tough-guy role from " The Departed . " Robert Duvall , as the police chief proud of his upright son and embarrassed by his other , is merely grumpy . The movie starts in a burst of sound and energy , but that energy quickly dissipates , and everyone ( including the movie ) gradually descends into a funk . Director James Gray treats the material as if it has all the import of a Shakespearean tragedy , but the screenplay lets him down . The relationship between the two brothers never really comes alive , and there's not enough emotional investment in any of the characters to make the end mean anything . And that ending , to top it all off , felt distinctly dishonest and implausible to me .
" Old Acquaintance " Feels Old Hat	I didn't much like this Bette Davis women's picture from 1943 . It starts out promisingly enough , with Davis as a successful writer paying a visit to childhood friend Miriam Hopkins . Always competitive , Hopkins decides she wants to be a writer too , and finds tremendous success writing popular entertainments while Davis struggles to find an audience for her more artistic endeavors . If the film had continued to examine the relationship between these two artist friends , it might have been engaging . However , it instead goes off on a bunch of standard-issue romantic tangents , all of it the stuff of dull soap opera , none of it very interesting , that feels like a hundred other movies you've seen before from the same time period . Davis gives one of her best performances up to a point , until the material abandons her . The less said about Hopkins ' hysterically unfunny performance , the better .
Just Not the Same Without Charlton Heston in a Loincloth	Tim Burton takes a disappointingly literal approach to remaking the 1968 cult classic , and what he gives us is an undistinguished action film , not necessarily worse than any number of action films produced in a given year , but so much worse than it could have been given the source material and Burton's fierce imagination . Tim Roth is the standout among the simian characters - - he actually scared the crap out of me . The shock ending to the original was so well known that Burton knew he had to come up with something different , and to tell you the truth I can't even remember what it was ; that might give you an indication as to how effective it was . The opening credit sequence is this film's high point , and it all goes downhill from there .
Makes You Wish This Had Actually Been a Screwball Comedy from the 30s with Different Actors	George Clooney was clearly trying for screwball nostalgia with this sports comedy , but what he actually put together sits on the screen like a lump of lead . Clooney stars as a professional football player back in the days ( 1920s ) when no one cared much for professional football . As an attempt to bring some attention and fans to the sport , he cajoles a popular war hero and college football star ( college football happens to be the rage ) to go pro . Eventually , the two become rivals when the college star transfers to an opposing team . Meanwhile , the editor of a newspaper learns that the war hero's story is a fraud , and sends out a feisty reporter ( Renee Zellweger ) to expose him . All of these ingredients are meant to mix into an antic romp , and Clooney , Zellweger and John Krasinski ( who plays the war hero ) try their damnedest to be madcap , mugging shamelessly at the camera at every opportunity . But the movie grinds along painfully , and you can practically see the sweat beading on the actors ' brows as they work overtime to make the material funny . Krasinski is miscast as an all-American war hero ; there's something a little too bookish and dopey about him to make him believable . And Clooney and Zellweger have absolutely no romantic chemistry - - they're given roles that , say , Gary Cooper and Barbara Stanwyck would have played if this were a screwball comedy from the 1930s , but they work up no heat and deliver almost no laughs . No expense was spared on the period look of the film , and Randy Newman for once provides a tolerable and playful score , but everything else about the film is a dud .
This Age of Aquarius Came About Ten Years Too Late	Hollywood ignored the fact that the cult classic musical was virtually unfilmable ( not to mention the fact that by 1979 it was already outdated ) and made it into a movie anyway . The results are predictably mixed . It's not a disaster , but it's no classic . It suffers from having a strong narrative forced on it , whereas the stage version felt organic and like it was being made up as the actors went along . The music sounds pretty good , but the whole movie has the taint of the unnecessary . Treat Williams is pretty good , and Nell Carter shows up in a cameo and knocks one out of the park with the " White Boys / Black Boys " number . Milos Forman ( of all people ) directed .
Everything This Movie Has to Say Has Been Said Before and Said Better	The subject of suburban misery and malaise , and the myth of the American dream , has been dealt with so frequently in movies , television and literature that you may wonder what more there is to say about the topic . If " Revolutionary Road " is any example , the answer is : not much . Indeed , the whole time I was watching this strangely insubstantial film from director Sam Mendes , the only thing I could think of were all the other movies I've seen that have dealt with the same themes and dealt with them better . Frank and April Wheeler are the miserably married couple at the center of this story . Frank , played by Leonardo DiCaprio , goes off to work in a featureless anthill of a company , diddling the occasional office girl on the side . April stays home and frets over the acting career that never materialized for her and rebelling against the stifling sameness of suburbia that she feels she's better than . Most of the film consists of monotonous scenes of these two screaming at each other . I guess it's meant to be a sort of modern-day " Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf ? " , the story of a married couple who could be helping one another but instead decide to tear each other apart , except that the material isn't nearly as interesting as Edward Albee's play , and neither are the characters . For " Revolutionary Road " to work , we have to really understand why April is so unhappy , and that's something the film doesn't tell us . Kate Winselt tries awfully hard , but she can't make much of this rather unlikable character . She didn't have my sympathy because I never understood her problem . I understand suburban unhappiness in general , but I didn't understand it as presented here . DiCaprio has the easier time of it , because Frank it turns out isn't all that unhappy with his life , and pretends to be so largely for April's benefit . The film doesn't establish much about these two before they met or about the early days of their marriage . We're supposed to feel emotions about them in a vacuum without any context . I didn't feel anything . There's not much relief from DiCaprio and Winslet , as one or the other is in virtually every frame of the movie . There are a couple of recognizable actors in supporting roles , namely Kathy Bates as a real estate agent friend and Michael Shannon as her bonkers son . This character is wedged awkwardly into the narrative as the movie's id , shouting out truths everyone else is trying to avoid having to admit , but Shannon's performance is over the top and I didn't know what I was supposed to make of him . With wonderful films like " Far from Heaven , " " The Hours , " " All That Heaven Allows " and " Little Children " ( which stars Winslet in a stunning turn , no less ) and the cable series " Mad Men " exploring the same themes as " Revolutionary Road " but much more capably , there's really no reason to waste your time or money on this gloomy , depressing movie that has nothing to say . It's not an awful movie , but at the same time it has very little to recommend it .
Wow ! What a Cast for a Lifetime Movie	A gloopy , mawkish family drama that asks three wonderful actors ( Henry Fonda , daughter Jane and Katharine Hepburn ) to deliver material that belongs on the Lifetime channel . Henry Fonda at least gets a character to work with , that of a curmudgeonly husband and father who's beginning to show the first ominous signs of senility . Any old actress could have played the role given to Katharine Hepburn , and poor Jane gets this film's short end of the stick , playing a bratty daughter who doesn't know how to connect to a dad that would rather have had a son . No worries though ; everything ends happily and Jane is finally able to do back flips off the pier at her parents ' lakeside home ( or whatever it is she ends up doing ) , a talent that bears the symbolic import of encapsulating all the ways she feels like a failure in her father's eyes . I doubt the movie would have been half as well received by the movie public had it not had the gimmick of a real-life father and daughter ( whose personal relationship was also known to be strained ) playing themselves and had the world not suspected that Henry Fonda wouldn't be around much longer . The world was right - - he would win an Oscar for this film and then promptly die . God knows the man deserved an Oscar , but not for this . And don't even get me started on Hepburn's win . . . .
Fairly Lame and Pretty Dull	The word " innocuous " was invented to describe movies like this . Hugh Grant plays an 80s pop star has-been who has the chance to write a song for a hip young music star and perform it with her at an upcoming concert at Madison Square Garden . The thing is , you see , he can only write catchy music , but he sucks at writing lyrics . If only someone could drop into his life out of nowhere with a knack for song-writing , all would be hunky-dory . Lo and behold , Drew Barrymore drops in , in the guise of a neurotic disaster who shows up to take care of his plants , and an unlikely song-writing duo is born . " Music and Lyrics " is so formulaic that even the actors seem bored with it . Of course Barrymore must be persuaded that she can write lyrics even though she swears that she can't . Of course the two must get in a fight and go their separate ways , only to get back together in time for a big finale . Of course , Grant must declare his love for Barrymore by writing a song - - lyrics and all - - for her , proving to her how much she means to him . Meanwhile , nothing about the movie is especially funny , yet neither is anything egregiously bad . It's just THERE , and I guess that's one of my biggest complaints about it . And is anyone but me weirded out by the age difference between Grant and Barrymore ? Couldn't a funny , interesting movie have been made from the same premise without making them romantically involved ? But that would have taken a bit more imagination on the part of the screenwriters , and really , who can be bothered when there's money to be made off of something we've seen ad nauseum before ? The best parts of the movie are the opening and closing credits , that feature a mock music video from Grant's 80s band . It's hilarious , and proves that the 80s can't really be parodied because they were a parody to begin with . Don't spend $10 on this . Rent it instead .
Why Did We Like This Movie So Much the First Time Around ?	Paul Hogan became a minor star ( o . k . , a VERY minor star ) as a result of this well-received comedy about a man plucked out of the middle of the Australian outback and plunked down in New York City . Cue all of the requisite fish-out-of-water jokes . Viewing the film now , one is appalled at 1 . ) how not very good it is and 2 . ) how much smaller the world must have gotten since 1986 - - this movie makes Australia seem like a country from the far side of the moon . Hogan tried to capitalize on the success of this movie and threw his hat in the ring for a sequel . Not a good idea , mate .
So-So Comedy About Nudity During the Blitz	A lightweight and not especially engaging biopic about a rich bored widow in WWII London who buys a theatre and decides to put on a nudie revue . I'm not sure exactly what drew director Stephen Frears to the material , since he doesn't muster up much energy to tell Laura Henderson's story . I'm assuming that the relationship between Laura and the man she employs to manage the theatre ( played by Bob Hoskins ) is supposed to give the movie its snap ; they bicker and trade barbs and tension is created by the implication that Laura is falling in love with him ( even though he's married ) . I suspect Frears was attempting to recreate the kind of battle-of-the-sexes sophisticated comedy prevalent in movies made during the period in which " Mrs . Henderson " is set : think Powell and Loy , Dunne and Grant , Hepburn and Tracy . But Dench and Hoskins don't have a lot of chemistry together , and any romantic spark to their storyline feels half-hearted to begin with and sizzles quickly . The only true sense of drama in the film comes from Hoskins gradually realizing that Dench isn't the frivolous woman he assumes her to be , but rather is setting out to give her life a sense of purpose in the absence of everything that previously gave it meaning . The biggest problem with this movie is its ambivalence . The half-heartedness that pervades the sexual sparks between Hoskins and Dench is present in every other aspect of the movie as well . The writers skate quickly past anything that might lend the movie some gravitas , yet they at the same time refuse to give themselves over to pure comedy . As a result , everything about it feels half baked and rather homogenized . Frears is usually a director I very much like , and his movies have always had a distinct sense of style . This film , though , feels anonymous , like it could have been directed by anyone . " Mrs . Henderson Presents " still manages to be moderately entertaining . There is some great period music and the movie nicely captures the atmosphere of the war-time London theatre scene . But over everything hovers the shadow of a missed opportunity .
At Least Their Hearts Were in the Right Place	I've not read the bestselling book on which this film is based , but I suspect that Rob Marshall jettisoned everything that made the book compelling and left us with a pretty but hollow husk . Regardless , this is one lifeless movie . It's pretty as a picture , to be sure . In fact , stunning production design seems to be the only thing that interests Marshall about this story , for all of the energy he puts into his movie . Now we know what " Chicago " would have been like without the musical numbers . However , prettiness alone isn't enough to save this film , and anyway , it's pretty in that digitally enhanced way that never looks like real life , and that " important " films use when they want to give their films an Oscar-ish sheen . It worked - - the Academy dutifully handed " Memoirs " Oscars for art direction , cinematography and costume design . Too bad the acting and screenplay aren't of the same caliber . The film plays out like an Asian version of " America's Next Top Model " ; it's all bitchy cat fights over who can be the better geisha . In the meantime , children become orphans and prostitutes , WWII comes and goes , lives are forever altered through true love , and not one scene carries any dramatic or emotional impact or even seems to matter much at all as long as there are pretty sets to look at . The hotness factor is high - - Ziyi Zhang , Michelle Yeoh and Gong Li all in the same movie ! But only Gong Li manages to bring any energy to the film as a hateful spitfire . Poor Zhang isn't able to make anything of her character , whether through her own fault or the fault of the script I'm not sure . Certainly the script doesn't help any , with its leaden voice over passages that sound like they're being read verbatim from the book but aren't at all right for a movie . The voice over just flat out tells us things about Zhang's character that should be conveyed through her performance , but aren't . Yeoh is a welcome if somewhat bland presence , and the movie comes alive for a brief period when she instructs Zhang in the ways of the geisha . But the life slowly goes out of the film like the air out of a gradually deflating balloon , and the last half hour or so is deadly . A well intentioned misfire .
Harmless But Uninspired	" Blithe Spirit " has Rex Harrison in his acerbic bachelor mode unable to get rid of either of his dead wives . Now if that's not a knock-out premise , I don't know what is , yet this film fell flat for me . This came out the same year as David Lean's other 1946 release , " Brief Encounter , " but it doesn't have any of that film's elegance and style . " Blithe Spirit " feels pretty anonymous from a film-making standpoint . However , this movie's strength is its writing . The screenplay is terrific , and all of the lines are delivered with such throw away dryness that I have the feeling I could watch this again and find everything funnier than I did the first time . No quibbles with the performances , though no one is asked to stretch him / herself much . My favorite performance probably came from Kay Hammond , playing Harrison's first dead wife . Others rave about Margaret Rutherford , but I found her a bit too mannered and spastic . I love that movies like this won Oscars for special effects . They're so quaint and fake , but you know the artists had to be so inventive to pull stuff like this off in the pre-computer era . My most negative comments concern the quality of the DVD itself . I wholeheartedly agree with previous commenters on the horrible color and sound quality on display here . I wish the film had been in black and white , because the copy I saw was washed out and ugly . And my wife and I missed about the first 20 minutes of dialogue because of bad sound .
Pound , Pound , Pound , Mr . De Palma	I know this film has quite a following , but I found it to be fairly ridiculous . In typical fashion , Brian De Palma pounds away at the viewer , music , sound and performances amped up to deafening levels , and he directs with hammer and anvil obviousness . I'm sure he thought he was being immensely clever to pay homage to the Odessa steps sequence from " The Battleship Potemkin " in the climactic set piece that takes place on the staircase ( imperiled baby carriage and all ) , but it comes across as cheesy . De Palma and Oliver Stone must have gone to the same school of film-making , because neither of them gives his audience an ounce of credit for being able to think for itself .
Suffers the Fate of Most Compilation Films	" Aria " as a whole is a pretty underwhelming experience , as most compilation films are . No one segment is very long , so the whole thing is painless to sit through , but I can't really bring myself to recommend it to anyone . The standout segment for me was Ken Russell's , which depicts a woman hallucinating while on the operating table after a terrible car accident . It helps that the segment is set to " Nessum dorma , " one of my favorite opera pieces - - I would find a filmed toaster glorious as long as it was set to that particular piece of music . Franc Roddam's segment is pretty decent , and features Bridget Fonda in her film debut . I liked Jean-Luc Godard's segment , which is set in a gym and features a bunch of body builders completely oblivious of the naked women dancing around them - - perhaps a comment on male narcissism ? Robert Altman's segment , which is primarily the reason I wanted to see this movie at all , is utterly forgettable - - the only notable thing about it is that you can tell he was filming " Beyond Therapy " at the same time , as many of the same actors are in both . Nicholas Roeg's segment , which opens the film , is pretty bad , as is Julien Temple's painfully unfunny contribution ( though it features a smokin ' Beverly D'Angelo ) , while Bruce Beresford's is just boring . Watch Derek Jarman's segment for a glimpse of a very young and pretty Tilda Swinton . There's not much to say about films like this . Some portions are better than others ; none of them are masterpieces .
We Liked This ?	This huge hit that came out of nowhere in 1990 looks pretty silly in retrospect . Because " Dirty Dancing " was such a big hit , people made the mistake of thinking that Patrick Swayze could actually act and began casting him in roles that required it . His eager attempts at emoting coupled with his ridiculous coif haircut are good for a chuckle or two . Speaking of haircuts , who thought it was a good idea to make Demi Moore look like a little boy ? The love scene between Swayze and Moore is both embarrassing and icky , embarrassing because they rub clay all over each other and icky because Moore looks like Pinocchio . The only person who salvages the movie is Whoopi Goldberg , playing a fake medium who ends up being a real medium after all . Goldberg's crowd-pleasing performance won her an Oscar , and if anything about the film deserved an Oscar , God knows it was her . And I never want to hear " Unchained Melody " again . . . .
Not As Bad As I Was Led to Believe , But No Grand Slam for DePalma	I didn't dislike this modern-day noir as much as many seemed to , but it's certainly no resounding success . Director Brian DePalma directs this big-screen version of the James Ellroy crime novel , itself a fictionalized account of the gruesome murder of Elizabeth Short , an aspiring actress who sadly found more fame in death than she would probably ever have had in life . The film focuses on two L . A . prizefighters turned detectives , played by the squinty-eyed Josh Hartnett and the chisel-jawed Aaron Eckhart , who find themselves wrapped up in an increasingly complex web of deception and murder . Eckhart becomes unnaturally obsessed with the investigation and slowly unravels , much to the dismay of Hartnett and Eckhart's girlfriend , the giant-bosomed Scarlett Johannson . As Eckhart becomes less reliable , Hartnett finds himself investigating the case on his own , and gets sexually involved with a spoiled society girl and sometime lesbian , played by the horse-toothed Hilary Swank . The plot becomes increasingly incomprehensible until it leads to a tidy finale in which the killer of Short reveals all in one of those " here's what happened " summaries that appeared at the end of every episode of " Murder She Wrote " but which doesn't manage to make anything all that much clearer . The confusing script didn't bother me all that much . Anyone who's seen a handful of films noir from the 1940s and 50s , films that DePalma is obviously trying to emulate , know that the plots of those rarely made a whole lot of sense . What bothered me was DePalma's inability to give his film a consistent tone . I couldn't tell if I was meant to take this film seriously as a crime thriller , or if I was meant to take it as a parody of film noir . At different times it's both of these . Hartnett , Johannson and Eckhart seem to think they should be taking everything deadly seriously , while Swank hams up a storm as the femme fatale , faking a hoity-toity aristocratic accent while stalking around dressed up as a 1940s version of Elvira . She at least has fun with the film , and I had fun with her , but she seems to be in a completely different movie . And Fiona Shaw , who has a small but crucial role as Swank's nutso mother , delivers a dreadful , ghastly performance that sends the film reeling into pure camp . Actually , if the film had stayed in the realm of camp , it would have been much better . Hartnett meets Swank in a lesbian night club where K . D . Lang croons a jazzy number to the accompaniment of a troop of glittery chorus girls . A scene in which Swank invites Hartnett to have dinner with her family is a jaw-dropper of bizarre black humor . A couple of set pieces , like the elaborate craning shot that begins with a shootout and sails over a rooftop to reveal Short's body being discovered in a field , or another action sequence that ends with two men plummeting to their deaths into a courtyard fountain , bring some welcome flashy stylistics to the film and interrupt its silly earnestness , but there's not enough of that . Hartnett is a blank spot at the center of the film , Eckhart is wasted , and Johannson can't do a thing with her poorly written character . Not only does the plot make no sense , but neither do the characters or their motivations . Actors just come and go seemingly at random , Hartnett sleeps with Swank , finds out she had sex with a woman once and freaks out ( though I'm not sure why ) , sleeps with Johannson , goes back to sleeping with Swank , all arbitrarily it would seem . There's an earthquake that doesn't have anything to do with anything else , and the first half hour of the film is devoted to the burgeoning friendship and boxing careers of Hartnett and Eckhart , 30 minutes I thought would become significant later on but never did . But despite all of this , I have to admit that DePalma did keep me watching , and I found myself able to enjoy the movie even while ticking off a long grocery list of its flaws .
Oh , Those Corleones . . .	No American filmmaker has had a more disappointing trajectory to his film career than Francis Ford Coppola . To have directed four of the most influential films of the 70's ( the first two " Godfather " films , " The Conversation , " and " Apocalypse Now " ) and then to spend the last two decades churning out one stinky product after another ( " Peggy Sue Got Married , " " Bram Stoker's Dracula " , the third " Godfather " ) earns Coppola my award for Most Promising Director Who Most Miserably Failed at Establishing Himself as an Important Figure of American Cinema . But before " Jack " there was " The Godfather . " While I feel the whole " Godfather " trilogy has been lauded into oblivion and is somewhat overrated , who am I to argue with the majority ? People think these are great movies , and they've certainly implanted themselves permanently in our cultural consciousness . And don't get me wrong : these films have moments of greatness ( at least the first two installments do ) . But I think " The Conversation " and " Apocalypse Now " are ultimately more interesting films , and I think Coppola stretched himself more artistically in those two films than he did in the entire " Godfather " trilogy combined . Of the trilogy , the first film is by far the best . It shows Coppola's flair for being able to craft a story with extreme mainstream appeal while staying faithful to his artistic vision . " The Godfather " doesn't look or sound quite like any gangster film before it , with it's muddy lighting and sound . It's also much more ambiguous morally than the usual Hollywood gangster film , at least any produced up to that point . The line between crime and justice is blurred sometimes beyond distinction , and the Corleone family at times acts with more honor ( in its own way ) than the institutions charged with upholding freedom , justice and morality . In this way , " The Godfather " offered a scathing critique of the foundations on which America as a country was built . Coppola , however , drives this point into the ground over the course of three films . There's really not much more to say after the first film ( it's already apparent that Michael Corleone's style of rule is different from his father's , his coldness and ruthlessness necessitated by a changing time ) , but we have to sit through a nearly 3 hour second installment that does nothing but reiterate this point again and again . Part II at least is saved by the back story of Vito Corleone ( played by Marlon Brando in Part I and Robert De Niro in Part II ) , and that story alone keeps Part II afloat . But Part III is wholly unnecessary and mars the whole enterprise , turning the franchise into the stuff of parody and camp . Al Pacino is the glue that holds the trilogy together , though his character really isn't as complex as a first viewing would have you believe . The major conflict facing him is resolved in the first film , and the second and third films give him nothing to do but replay what are essentially the same scenes over and over again . Other standouts in the cast include Robert Duvall , Diane Keaton and Talia Shire ( who alone makes the third chapter worth watching ) . Obviously a must see for cinema buffs , or even casual fans , but don't feel you have to label this trilogy as great just because of the reputation that precedes it . My Grade : Part I : A Part II : B Part III :
Not a Great Movie , But the Blu-Ray Is Astounding !	If you own a Blu-Ray player , run don't walk to rent this movie and see Blu-Ray strut its stuff . This film looks AMAZING - - it's easily one of the most dazzling visual experiences I've ever had . However , do not misinterpret that praise as a recommendation of the film itself . Though it's not the disaster critics made it out to be upon its release , " Speed Racer " isn't a very good movie . If I hadn't been utterly absorbed in its high-def awesomeness , I likely would have gotten bored pretty quickly , as would I imagine anyone who's not under the age of , say , fourteen . Emile Hirsh is a drip as the eponymous hero , and there's not really anyone else in the cast to pick up the slack , though Christina Ricci tries mighty hard with the meagre material she's given to spice things up as Speed's girlfriend . The action scenes and much of the plot are frequently incomprehensible - - one wonders if a movie based on a cartoon needs to be quite so complicated , or quite so long ( 2 + hours ) . But if dazzling visuals are enough to engage your interest ( and let's face it , sometimes they just are ) , then this one is worth the space on your Netflix queue .
A Dull But Still Popular Disney Effort	This bland , tepid Disney cartoon remains one of the most popular animated films produced by the studio , but it has none of the visual artistry that distinguished the Disney style in its early days in films like " Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs , " " Pinocchio " and " Fantasia . " " Cinderella " acts as more of a transition to the family-oriented Disney of today , that sacrifices artistry and content for popularity and merchandising opportunities . And , to top it all off , " Cinderella " has one of the most annoying soundtracks of any Disney film . " Bibbidi-Bobbidi-Boo , " anyone ?
When Actors Become Directors	All too often , when an actor decides to try his / her hand at directing , the result is disappointing . It's as if actors feel such a need to prove themselves as having a bold directorial vision that the style of their movie takes precedence over the substance . That is the case here with " Confessions of a Dangerous Mind . " George Clooney overdirects this film to the hilt . Count the number of unconventional compositions that serve no purpose other than to be unconventional . I love experimental , original cinema , but I hate pretentious directors who think merely by shooting a scene from a crooked angle they're making high art . " Confessions " should be much better than it is , since it's full of striking images , propulsive music and pretty good performances . But it's a mish-mash , not helped at all by the mess of a screenplay by Charlie ( most over-rated screenwriter in Hollywood ) Kaufman . And whoever made the decision to shoot the entire film in a funky , surreal color scheme should be denied the right to work in film forever . Again , it serves no thematic purpose and does nothing but distract . This isn't a horrible movie - - it's not even necessarily a bad movie . Yet , I just didn't like it . It contains good elements - - the acting , for one , is pretty solid over all - - but I thought the whole thing just felt flat , and wasn't anywhere nearly as interesting or dynamic as it seemed to think it was .
One of Altman's Most Accessible Films Is Also One of His Least Interesting	Paul Dooley and Marta Heflin play a most decidedly IMperfect couple in Robert Altman's version of a romantic comedy . His claim at the time ( justified ) is that Hollywood had always allowed only beautiful people to fall in love , so he wanted to make a romance with a couple of ordinary folk . He succeeded when he found the paunchy Dooley and the distractingly skinny ( nearly anorexic ) Heflin for his leads , but the film itself is not much of a success . This came out during Altman's " experimental " period , meaning he threw together some disparate elements and hoped for the best . Actually , it's quite accessible for Altman , considering " Quintet " came out in the same year , and it's one of his least Altman-like projects . Unfortunately , it's those very qualities that also make it one of his least interesting and ugliest from a purely visual standpoint . The film does boast some good if dated music though , performed by the real-life band Keepin ' Em Off the Streets , led by Ted Neely , most known for playing the role of Jesus in the film version of " Jesus Christ Superstar " ( and whom I saw perform the role on stage in a touring version ) .
Antonioni's Smug Indictment of American Consumerism	I've always been slightly annoyed at non-American directors who propose to understand everything that is wrong with American culture . America is far from perfect , but so is every other country in the world , and each should focus on figuring out its own problems before taking on those of another ( are you listening , George Bush ? ) . " Zabriskie Point " is Michelangelo Antonioni's would-be scathing critique of America's consumerist culture as it existed in 1970 , and like the other Antonioni films I've seen , it's more of an endurance test than anything . It's capped by an explosive ( literally ) finale , during which the female protagonist imagines all manner of consumer goods ( refrigerators , television sets , dinnerware ) , not to mention the desert home of her boss , a corporate big-wig ( played by Rod Taylor ) who's company is planning to use the wide open spaces of the California desert as development property , being blown up in fascinating slow motion , so that all of these material things become no more than abstract bits and pieces floating through space . However , to get to that memorable finale , you have to sit through the rest of the movie , during which our female protagonist and her sort-of boyfriend wander around the dunes and rocky crags of the landmark that gives the film its title . No one put boredom on the screen better than Antonioni , and almost no one was better at boring his audience to tears as a result . We learn nothing about our two young lovers , other than that they're vaguely frustrated and suffering from feelings of oppression . What they're oppressed by is never made clear , and neither of them is remotely likable . It also doesn't help that their acting is atrocious . The male of the couple is involved in some sort of local student protests , but again , we don't ever fully understand what the students are protesting against . Rod Taylor and the other corporate hot shots are meant to be evil , I guess , mostly because they wear suits and have nice haircuts . Antonioni does have a knack for filming mundane locations in such a way as to make them look like something from another planet , like a sleek office in a corporate center or an L . A . boulevard choked with billboards and used car lots . But all of his critiques come across as vague and smug . This film comes across as something made by an angry college student , who's trying to respond to issues he doesn't fully understand . Antonioni evades having to offer any answers because he never gets around to asking any real questions . I would recommend " Zabriskie Point " for the finale alone , but that's about it .
My Jaw Hit the Floor When the Gorilla Made His Appearance	At the intermission of this Cecil B . DeMille epic , I had the sneaking suspicion that I'd been duped . This was the film blamed with bringing down in earnest the iron fist of the Motion Picture Production Code on Hollywood , but I'd seen precious little up to that point to warrant the claim . O . k . so I had seen Claudette Colbert's nipples as she frolicked in a milk bath ( and let me tell you , I was NOT expecting that ! ) which I know for certain were her nipples and not a trick of lighting because I watched the scene in extreme slo-mo on my DVD player to make sure . But that was about it . However , the second half started rolling , my jaw dropped to the floor , and I began to understand all of the broo-ha surrounding this film . Part two kicks off with a drunken orgy , in which a salacious lesbian performs some sort of seductive dance for the benefit of Elissa Landi ( I assume it was meant to be seductive , though it looked more like she was suffering from full-body cramps ) . But that was lightweight compared to the film's climactic 20 minutes , which chronicles in grisly detail the goings on in a Roman arena . We see all manor of wild animal ( crocodiles , elephants , bears , oh my ! ) chomp down on hapless victims . We see a naked woman chained to a post for the sexual gratification of a gorilla ( I'm not making this up ) . We see a battle between " barbarian women and African pygmies " ( as they're billed in the event's program ) , in which one barbarian woman lops off the head of one African pygmy while another skewers hers on a scimitar and holds him up over her head like a Thanksgiving turkey . And of course , no Roman epic would be complete without some Christians being fed to some hungry lions . You're forgiven if you don't shed much of a tear over the loss of the Christians . DeMille makes them so pompous and boring , and the Romans so much fun , that you end up rooting for the lions . The whole movie smacks of hypocrisy . DeMille really wants an excuse to get us off on sex and violence , but couches the whole thing in a pious framework to justify his own bloodlust . He's as debauched as the Romans in his movie . Mostly , " The Sign of the Cross " is terrible . The somnolent pacing will threaten to put you to sleep before you get to any of the good parts . The acting is atrocious , especially from Landi - - who would be the worst person on stage in a high school play - - and Fredric March , who looks about as much like a Roman prefect as I do ( and I don't look a thing like a Roman prefect ) . Leave it to Charles Laughton and Claudette Colbert to bring some dignity to the proceedings . In Laughton's first scene , the one that opens the movie , he babbles incoherently about the burning of Rome while sucking his thumb . Colbert , for her part , vamps through the movie tossing out sexual innuendos like she's Mae West . The most unbelievable thing about the whole film is that March could possibly fall for the goody-goody Landi when he already had Colbert on the side . I can't wholly recommend it , even for the laugh factor , because there's so much dull movie to slog through , but I would recommend at least tuning in for the grand finale and enjoying the spectacle like a true lecherous Roman .
Altman's Stab at Vietnam	I was excited to see that this film was released on DVD , only to be disappointed when I discovered that it's not available anywhere in the U . S . My comment on " Streamers " will have to be based on one viewing a few years ago as part of a Robert Altman seminar I took in college . It's a screen adaptation of a David Rabe play , and I look at it as a male counterpart to his virtually all-female stage to screen film from the year before , " Come Back to the 5 and Dime , Jimmy Dean , Jimmy Dean . " In " Streamers , " a group of Army recruits sit out a long dark weekend in their barracks , awaiting orders to ship off to Vietnam . It's dark , morbid and tense and covers such hot-button issues as racism and homophobia . I recall it all being a bit heavy-handed and one-note ; I was mostly exhausted after it was over , and didn't think it was as skillfully directed as " Come Back to the 5 and Dime , " which also suffered from hyperbolic material but which Altman worked wonders with . " Streamers " does boast some pretty solid performances from a young Matthew Modine ( who Altman would use again in " Short Cuts " ) and David Allan Grier , a far cry from the comic work he would do years later in shows like " In Living Color . " If I ever have a chance to see it again , I might revise my opinion . But for now ,
Hayworth's Attempt to Become More Than a Pin-Up Girl	It seems as if every beautiful actress from the 40's who skated by on looks and sex appeal had at least one bid at gaining credibility for herself as a " serious " actress - - - and " Gilda " was Rita Hayworth's . Don't get me wrong , I think Hayworth is as gorgeous as the next guy , but she's just not a great actress , nor is she an interesting screen presence . Her beauty is of that variety that looks better in stills and movie posters than it does on the screen . " Gilda " isn't an especially memorable film . There was much ballyhoo at the time about the chemistry between Hayworth and leading man Glenn Ford , and I believe the film was a tremendous box office success , but it doesn't seem very exceptional now . The most famous scene , and the one invariably selected for excerpts today , is that of Hayworth's big musical number , " Put the Blame on Mame , " but what I guess seemed sexy at the time - - Hayworth flopping around like she's attached to strings that someone else is pulling - - seems awfully limp and silly now . Not a terrible movie , but there's really nothing much to recommend about it either .
Please Don't Make Me Gag , Mr . Chips	A message about the value of non-conformity comes packaged in an utterly formulaic and treacly film . " Dead Poets Society " belongs to that genre of films about an unconventional teacher who becomes a major figure in the lives of his students . Usually these movies end with the teacher either dying or leaving his position for some reason or another , but almost invariably we must endure a scene where the music swells and his students applaud him in unison . Robin Williams stars as the teacher in this one , and the Academy gave him a Best Actor nomination because he cried .
Trash By Any Other Name . . . . . .	This glossy , trashy soap opera of a movie has won all sorts of accolades and an idolatrous fan base , but its appeal is lost on me . It's filmed in chilly black and white , giving it the patina of an art film , but if this were filmed in blazing Technicolor , it wouldn't be any more distinguished than a heap of other 50s sudsers , like " Peyton Place " or " The Best of Everything . " Vincente Minellis proved that he could do shadowy melodramas as well as colorful musicals , but his direction is still fairly anonymous . The pacing of the film itself , with its rigid flashback structure , is monotonous , and it's much too long . I get a kick out of Gloria Grahame in whatever she's in , so she was a welcome addition to the cast , but she's in the film for maybe ten minutes late into its running time , and I was too numbed by indifference by the time she appeared to regain interest . Dick Powell is the only other actor I really remember , mostly because his dry , cynical writer character was so far removed from the bouncy , googly-eyed boy-next-door roles he played in all of the Warners musicals .
These Zombies Should Know When to Quit	A lot of people have tried really hard to read all sorts of subtext into George Romero's big-budget sequel to his unlikely 1968 hit " Night of the Living Dead , " but I remain a dissenter . Yes , yes , I do believe that Romero in an off-hand and cheeky way is lampooning American consumerism by setting his zombie-fest in a mall , where the undead begin to take on the glazed , staring look of end-of-day shoppers . And there is some significance in the fact that the humans become their own worst enemies by the time the film is done ; the zombies hardly seem to matter anymore when anarchy breaks out among the still living . But Romero's commentary falls way short of profundity , and the movie as a whole is nowhere near as effective or compelling as the original . " Night of the Living Dead " goes down as one of the top 10 scariest movies I've ever seen , so I was really disappointed that there wasn't a scare to be had in this sequel . Color isn't kind to Romero's vision , and what looked stark and frightening and ghoulish in grainy b & w ten years earlier looks cheesy and stupid ten years later . The zombie makeup effects are horrible . And this movie's just too long . There's simply not enough story to sustain a running time of two hours . " Night of the Living Dead " knew its limitations ; the scares came quickly , cheaply and shockingly . " Dawn of the Dead " is overblown and pushed nearly to pointlessness . A disappointing , lacklustre sequel to an inarguably classic film .
Horseplay	What maybe came across as powerful on stage comes across as rather silly in this screen adaptation of the Peter Schaffer drama . Richard Burton plays a psychiatrist who is assigned the task of probing into the mind of a young man who mutilated ( by blinding ) a stable of horses . As he delves further and further into the mind of this troubled youth , we begin to realize that perhaps the lunatics are running the asylum . Credit is due to Richard Burton for restraining himself nicely in the role of the doctor . Dangling a role like this in front of a notorious hammy overactor like Burton is like throwing a bleeding whale into a tank full of hungry sharks . I was just waiting for the acting frenzy to begin . But Burton retains control of himself and does manage to deliver a fairly haunting performance . The most applause must go to Peter Firth in the role of the crazy young man , which he originated in the stage version . He's got a tough role , and not just because he must spend about half of his time buck naked , and some of THAT time riding a horse ( ouch ! ) . For those of you who complain that there's not enough male frontal nudity in films , " Equus " is the movie for you ( though it may not be the kind of nudity you're hoping for ) . Nevertheless , Firth gives a powerful performance that almost makes sense of the obtuse and psycho-babblish screenplay . Sidney Lumet is a fine director ; he's one of those film directors whose movies don't always necessarily work , but who you can be sure will at least make his movies interesting . " Equus " is no exception . Oh it's interesting all right , but it's also turgid and overheated . And be warned - - - if you don't like seeing harm come to animals in movies , the scene where Peter Firth's character blinds the horses leaves nothing to the imagination .
Far Behind " Raiders " and " Temple of Doom "	This third installment of the Indiana Jones saga has never done it for me , though I have to say it looks like a masterpiece compared to " Kingdom of the Crystal Skull . " There just aren't the fabulous set pieces in this one to distinguish it from the others , and the ending veers too far into hocus-pocus supernatural terrain for my taste . I know I'm supposed to be tickled to death by Sean Connery's fussy curmudgeon , but I just found him to be tedious instead . I do , however , like the opening scene , that shows River Phoenix playing a young Indiana Jones at the beginning of his adventurous career .
Steve Carell's Moping Can Be Hard to Take	A harmless romantic comedy that begins to fall apart the second you start actually thinking about what you've just seen . Steve Carell plays the single dad ( the mom died of some unnamed illness ) of three girls who intensely dislike him , who takes his daughters to a family reunion at his parents ' idyllic cabin in Rhode Island . There he finds out that his brother's new girlfriend ( the radiant Juliette Binoche ) is the same mystery woman he previously met and instantly fell in love with at a bookstore when he ran out on an errand . The rest of the film involves him acting like a baby because he can't have her , his entire family being disgusted with his behavior , and him realizing that though he makes a living out of giving people advice about how to get their lives together ( the title of the film refers to his newspaper column moniker ) , he can't do the same for himself . The whole movie suffers the fate of many a romantic comedy in the same vein - - it's amiable , but rather limp . Too much of it feels forced . The screenplay can't allow Juliette Binoche to be a real woman - - she has to be a romantic comedy love interest , otherwise known as the Most Wonderful Woman God Ever Created . Events that would realistically play out over several weeks are crammed into a two - or three-day timespan . This is especially apparent and awkward in a late scene involving some newspaper executives who come to interview Dan about taking his column into syndication ( they would really choose to come and meet with him while he's at a family reunion ? ) Dan's annoyingly perfect family has to share a group amphetamine addiction ; otherwise there is no way to account for the manic energy they have ( when they're not playing football or engaging in group exercise classes , they're planning talent shows ) . But mostly , and unfortunately , I thought the biggest flaw with the film was Carell himself . He moped to perfection in " Little Miss Sunshine , " but he's just aggravating here . I think we're meant to feel charmed and a bit heartbroken at seeing this man act like a petulant teenager , but I just wanted to tell him to get it together . The supporting cast is led by Dianne Wiest and John Mahoney as Dan's mom and dad , along with Dane Cook as his brother and Emily Blunt in a brief but memorable and sexy performance as a possible romantic alternative . However , everyone's talent is largely wasted . This is one of those unoffensive , unchallenging and uninteresting movies that's designed to give family crowds something to do when they tire of their Christmas shopping .
Am I the Only One Who Thinks Guy Pearce Makes a Hot Woman ?	The surprise indie hit about three drag queens who go on a voyage of self discovery . Hollywood liked it so much that it basically remade it as " To Wong Foo , Thanks for Everything , Julie Newmar , " with bigger names and a sanitized plot . Marketing for " Priscilla " makes it seem like a gay romp ( sorry , I couldn't resist ) , but it's not . It's actually a very serious and quite depressing film . These are not drag queens full of bravado and content to be who they are . These are men struggling with serious issues and to some extent using their female personas to hide . Yes , there are some disco numbers and lots of dazzling costumes , and yes , " I Will Survive " does make its appearance , but anyone coming to the movie thinking it's going to be a riot are sure to be disappointed . It boasts three great performances from Hugo Weaving , Terence Stamp and Guy Pearce , who particularly proves to the world how hot a woman he can be .
How Do You Say " Wax On , Wax Off " in Japanese ?	This unnecessary sequel to the surprise 1984 hit picks up exactly where the previous film left off , and though it's not a great movie , it could have been much worse . In this one , Danny and Mr . Miyagi travel to Japan , where Danny finds himself in yet another karate showdown , and finds time to fall in love with a Japanese girl who's way hotter than Elisabeth Shue . Ralph Macchio and Pat Morita return to their roles , and have just as much chemistry together as they did before , even if the novelty has worn off a bit . Like many films from the 1980s , this one is most famous for its theme song , " Glory of Love " .
Barry Levinson's Fan Base Does Not Include Me	Typical Barry Levinson , which means safe , tasteful , lacklustre and fairly dull . An episodic journey across several generations of an immigrant family seeking the American dream . There's lots of syrupy music meant to invoke a vague nostalgia . There are any number of shots clearly intended to impress us with their iconic imagery ( like the one shown on the film's poster ) . It's certainly a quality film , but not one for which I can muster up much enthusiasm . I must not be the target audience for Barry Levinson movies , because I feel the same way about all of them .
Set the Model for Allen's Lightweight 70s Comedies	Woody Allen's first crack at directing his own original material is typical of the kind of films he would make into the mid-1970s : lightweight comedies filled with sight gags and one-liners , episodic in structure , more like skit-variety shows than feature length films . But it has some awfully funny moments , not the least of which is the one that shows " footage " of Allen's character from his school marching band days , and he , a violinist , is trying to keep up with everybody else while dragging his chair and music stand along with him . And just out of curiosity , how do other people get around the stupid 10-line rule when posting comments ? I've seen many other reviews that aren't nearly that long . I had to type this paragraph just to get my comment accepted .
Dennis Quaid Goes on a Fantastic Voyage	An enjoyable enough sci-fi comedy in which Dennis Quaid plays a scientist who's miniaturized and launched into the body of Martin Short . Think of it as a goofy , screwball version of " Fantastic Voyage " . In comedy style , it's actually somewhat reminiscent of the Steve Martin / Lily Tomlin vehicle " All of Me " , in that Quaid is able to influence Short's physical movements . As you can imagine , this results in all manner of physical comedy antics , but if you're going to go that route , you could do worse than placing the proceedings in the hands of Martin Short , a gifted physical actor . The special effects were quite nifty for the time , and won the film an Oscar .
Jodie Foster's Wild Child	Liam Neeson and Natasha Richardson play a couple of doctors who discover a wild child named Nell , a woman who's grown up completely isolated from human contact , and who as a result has developed her own language , mode of communication , etc . I can understand what drew Jodie Foster to the role of Nell , because on paper it's a serious actress's wet dream . However , the results , while earnest , are rather embarrassing . Something about the film , and Foster's performance , never quite works , and I found myself laughing at her performance , never a good sign . The whole thing is just a little too nauseating to be completely enjoyable .
The A Team Goes Arabian	This schizophrenic action film can't decide whether it wants to be a solemn lecture about American / Arabian cultural differences or an episode of " The A Team . " Director Peter Berg does an admirable job of maintaining an air of objectivity in this story about a group of American FBI agents who travel to Saudi Arabia to investigate the crime scene of a terrible terrorist attack against the wishes of both American and Saudi authorities . The Americans are portrayed as arrogant bullies , the Saudis as mysterious and uncooperative . The best part of the film are the tiny details thrown in here and there to highlight the cultural animosity - - a black robe thrown over Jennifer Garner's shoulders to hide the tight-fitting tank top she wears to do her forensics work ; the Saudi chief of police misunderstanding the American slang Jamie Foxx's character sprinkles throughout his speech ; the looks of disdain on the Americans ' faces when an entire unit of Saudi police drop to the ground in prayer in the mid-day sun . The investigation itself never becomes a point of interest in the story ; I'm not sure whether this was intentional or not . The final third of the film devolves into a standard action film chase scene with all of the implausibility scenes like that carry with them , and the race to save a fellow FBI agent before a group of terrorists are able to videotape his beheading seems like a cheap and distasteful ploy to build suspense . The final message of the movie , meant to send us away pontificating , no doubt , is that what Americans and Arabs share most in common is a desire to kill one another . The issues this movie tries to tackle are far too complicated for the lowest-common-denominator treatment they are given here .
You Might Think Twice Before Ordering the Escargot	Nathan Fillion's engaging screen personality was largely responsible for making something special out of the potentially run-of-the-mill sci-fi movie " Serenity , " and that same personality does something similar for this film , the latest in the flesh-eating zombie genre . In " Slither , " a meteor from outer space deposits a gooey egg out in the middle of some woods , which a very unlucky regular Joe comes across one dark night while cavorting with a female companion . A quick moving critter makes a home out of this regular Joe's body , and through him impregnates the female companion . She experiences perhaps the worst pregnancy ever caught on film until she pops like a giant helium balloon , unleashing a horde of speedy slugs that begin taking over the minds and bodies of a whole townful of regular folk . Nathan Fillion , playing the sheriff of this once-quiet village , along with a small batch of survivors , struggle to put an end to the infestation and restore order to the galaxy . " Slither " keeps its tongue firmly in cheek , so if it's not a great movie , it's at least a fun and playful one . It's not remotely scary , but it doesn't try to be . It's gross , but in a stylized way that allows you to enjoy the gross out parts , unlike the gore that characterizes the new breed of torture porn films that are so inexplicably popular . It's a rather lazy movie really , with characters getting killed off when the script doesn't know what else to do with them , and with too many dramatic conflicts being too quickly and easily resolved . But when I sat down to watch this , I was really in the mood for something I wouldn't have to think too much about but that wouldn't insult my intelligence , and " Slither " delivered in both respects .
Tragedy as Melodrama	It was probably inevitable that " An American Tragedy , " in its evolution to screen , would become more about the doomed love affair of Montgomery Clift and Elizabeth Taylor than the moral and ethical dilemmas that really form the foundation of Theodore Dreiser's novel . After all , doomed love is a bigger sell , especially when you have the romantic faces of Clift and Taylor swooning together in extreme close-up . I'm not a fan of doing book to movie comparisons . I figure that film and literature are two different art forms , so I shouldn't compare their rendering of the story anymore than I would compare the same story as presented in a painting as opposed to a ballet . So I tried to take the film on its own merits ( admittedly difficult to do , since I watched the movie on the same day I finished the book ) , but even at that , I think the movie falls short . Clift plays George Eastman , poor nephew to a rich , socially elite family in a small New York state factory town . He's been invited by his uncle to come and work in the Eastman factory , giving him an entre into a world of luxury that has always been out of his grasp due to his family's humble position ( they run a mission and preach on the streets ) . George strikes up a love affair with Alice Tripp ( Shelley Winters ) , a girl who works with him in the factory , but his attentions for her quickly fade when he becomes interested in Angela Vickers , another member of the rich set , played by Liz Taylor . Complications ensue , and George finds himself and his situation spiraling drastically out of control , with an ending more tragic than he ever thought possible . George Stevens directs the film with a sure hand , and there are some breathtaking displays of directorial skill . For example , one that stands out in my mind comes when the camera focuses on a radio reporting a possible murder , while the young , rich kids with whom George has struck up a friendship goof off in the water in the background . There are also some great uses of dissolve editing , though the technique is somewhat overused . But there are many problems with the film , notably its pacing . Much time is spent on George's love triangle with Alice and Angela , while the script races through the trial and George's ultimate fate , as if the screenwriter realized he only had two hours to tell his story when he'd already wasted an hour and a half on front-end material . Rushing through the end blunts much of the story's original intent and power , as that is where the majority of moral questions arise . Also , the character Shelley Winters plays is so drab and mousy , that one doesn't understand why George would entangle himself with her in the first place . But Clift does a great job with the lead role , delivering a performance of raw nerve . It befuddles me somewhat as to why this movie is quite so acclaimed . I can only imagine that its reception has to do with cultural moods at the time it was released and that it just hasn't aged well . It came out in 1951 , a big year for literary adaptations ( " A Streetcar Named Desire " and " Death of a Salesman " were both given big-screen treatments that year ) , and you only need to compare " Sun " to " Streetcar " to see how short it falls at capturing the essence of a true literary classic .
Fun for a Ten Year Old Boy , at Least	I'm sure if I saw this now I would find it atrocious ( or maybe not - - maybe it holds up , who knows ? ) , but at the time of its release , I was all of ten years old , and I ate this thing up with a spoon . This second-tier action flick stars Fred Ward as the eponymous hero , and Joel Grey in Confucius makeup as some sort of wise Asian adviser - - I guess Pat Morita wasn't available . Gotta love those days before political correctness , when we felt no qualms at all about reducing people to cultural stereotypes . This is the kind of movie that winds up now on Cine de las Estrellas , dubbed into Spanish .
Gothic Thriller Is Short on Thrills	This instantly forgettable minor Gothic thriller finds Dorothy McGuire as a young woman who's lost both her parents and her voice , living in a country estate and caring for that estate's invalid dowager ( Ethel Barrymore ) . A killer is loose , one who preys on women with disabilities of one kind or another , and most of the action is confined to the creepy hallways and staircases of the house itself . We know the killer is there , we know sooner or later he ( or she ) wants to get his ( or her ) hands on McGuire , it's just a matter of when . All I can say is thank God for Ethel Barrymore . Her character , despite being confined to a bed for the majority of the film , is the only one who I cared a thing about . There's a lot of subplot involving dark family secrets , jilted lovers , etc . , but none of it is very interesting , and McGuire is such a ninny that you almost end up rooting for the killer . Also starring Elsa Lanchester as ( what else ? ) the family maid .
Why Does It Seem So Much Whinier Than It Did on Stage ?	They waited too long to adapt " Rent " to the screen , and as a result Chris Columbus's film seems dated and irrelevant . A bunch of 30 something's ( perhaps it was unwise to use the original , now too old , cast members ) complaining about having to pay their rent , refusing to work for a living and spouting sanctimonious crap about how much the artistic life is better than the corporate one ( though not one of them has ever had a corporate job , so how would they know ? ) is just too much for this 30-year-old ( who doesn't have a choice about not working in order to pay for a mortgage ) to take . On stage , " Rent " was fresh and exhilarating . It was about the freedom to be whatever you choose to be and a celebration of art of all kinds . It didn't feel preachy , condescending or smug . It took place in an artificial world and a hefty dose of melodrama and unlikely plot contrivances were easier to accept given the fact that it was 1 . ) a piece of theatre and so by necessity an illusion to begin with and 2 . ) based on an opera where melodramatics are readily accepted . In bringing the musical to the film , and adding an ill-fitting realistic structure to the material , much gets lost in the translation . The plot contrivances are not easy to overlook , and everything feels arbitrary ( let's see , who's sleeping with who now ? ) The music still sounds great and the cast does have a lot of chemistry . Wilson Jermaine Heredia and Idina Menzel are the two original cast members who make the easiest jump to the big screen . Adam Pascal looks lost and Jesse L . Martin mugs too much . Of the newcomers , Tracie Thoms is the best addition as Joanne . Rosario Dawson is fine in the role of Mimi , but that character doesn't seem like much of a character on screen . And Taye Diggs ' role is nearly written out of the film . Really , to be honest , none of the characters is much more than a type , easily summarized in a sentence . This was true of the stage version as well , but there the music was allowed to define the characters . On screen , Columbus must come up with things for the actors to do and images for the audience to look at , and he comes up with nothing memorable . Not every single play , book or musical needs to be made into a film , and I wish producers would figure that out . I love movies , but I love movies when they're cinematic or tell a story in a way that could only be told via the medium of film . I'm all for people who don't have access to " Rent " in its stage version being able to see it , but perhaps a filmed version of the stage production would have been a better way to go . This film will make people who don't already know the material wonder what all the fuss is about .
A Serious Sudser , But a Sudser Nonetheless	No amount of black and white art-house tastefulness can hide the fact that " From Here to Eternity " is one big splashy soap opera of a movie . I've not read the James Jones book on which it is based , but it wouldn't surprise me to find that the romantic subplots that dominate the film are only a part of a much larger and intricate narrative in the book . " A Place in the Sun " did much the same thing to " An American Tragedy . " I've grown to like Burt Lancaster as I've seen him in more and more movies , and I think he got better as he got older , but he's at his hammy worst in roles like this . Though he's a big , rugged looking man , I can't take him seriously in these macho , stud roles . He overacts and never once convinces . Montgomery Clift does much better with his role as the sensitive and moony Pruitt ; these were exactly the kinds of roles Clift was born to play . Frank Sinatra , again , could be a fine actor , but his role here is boiled down to a couple of aw-shucks moments before he kicks off in a sentimental death scene . Deborah Kerr and Donna Reed are largely wasted ; they're definitely women adrift in a male-dominated film . I don't know about Fred Zinneman . I used to think he was a good director who made socially relevant films at a time when Hollywood would have been content churning out widescreen Technicolor junk , and he did do that . But his films during the 1950s all feel very pompous , like he was aware that he was making ART while everyone else was making MOVIES . I have the same feeling to an extent about George Stevens , though I think overall his films are more fascinating than Zinneman's . " From Here to Eternity " is certainly no where near the worst that the 1950s had to offer , but it has been overpraised . The fact that Pearl Harbor was still a very distinct memory for so many people probably had much to do with its popular and critical reception at the time , and for its lasting appeal . Watching it now , one kind of wonders what the big deal is .
Nothing New , But Enjoyable Enough	This film's not half bad , even if it does have a " been there , done that " quality to it in the wake of the recent glut of fantasy films based on children's books . Freddie Highmore is a good little actor , and he carries this movie about three children who unwittingly become involved in a battle to keep a book of magic secrets from falling into the hands of an evil goblin ( played by Nick Nolte , because who else would play an evil goblin ? ) The movie never gives us a great deal of reason to care about anything going on , and the special effects are numerous and unimpressive , but I was moderately engaged anyway . It probably helps that I saw it on a flight from Hawaii to Chicago and had little else to do , but still . . . .
Is That a Gearshift in Your Pocket or Are You Just Happy to See Me ?	In " Female , " Michael Curtiz's schizophrenic 1933 nothing , the lovely Ruth Chatterton plays the president of an auto manufacturing company who has put business and power above womanly advantages ( which in this film means she'd rather be independent than be barefoot and pregnant ) . She has her way with just about every even moderately good looking man in the joint , inviting them over to her house for " dinner " and to discuss business , only to halt the shop talk mid-way through and throw a pillow suggestively on the floor while the camera discreetly fades to black . All of this changes when she meets George Brent , an engineer hired by the company who is completely immune to Chatterton's dubious charms . Once she realizes that Brent isn't buying what she's selling , she revamps her product , opting instead to act like a typical woman , which means asking Brent's help in starting fires and speaking in a high-pitched sing-song . By the end , she's decided to chuck the business and hand it over to Brent so that she can be his dutiful wife . This film is absolutely absurd , even by 1933 standards , and you'll have to sit through about 40 feminist film seminars to wash the taste of it out of your mouth , but it's rather fun to see just how backwards it can possibly be . Chatterton is a likable actress and she's got a lot of spunk . The car manufacturing setting means that the screenwriter can create all sorts of double entrendes using car part lingo , and the whole thing's only about an hour long anyway , so it breezes right by .
Don't Watch if You Gag Easily	There are a couple of touching moments in " Meet Me in St . Louis , " most notably the scene where Judy Garland sings a little Margaret O'Brien " Have Yourself a Merry Little Christmas " to soothe the girl who's upset about having to leave the only home she's known to that point . To a war-weary audience , I'm sure this song sung in this context struck quite a chord , and I can't hear it to this day without thinking of this scene . As for the rest of the musical , it's typical MGM frothy stuff , sticky sweet and wholesome , filmed in garish Technicolor . It doesn't have the same sexy humour of some of MGM's other musicals , like " Seven Brides for Seven Brothers " and opts instead for a bland family-friendly approach . There's no denying the talent involved , but if you find yourself gagging easily on sugary family entertainment , this movie may not be for you .
This Dinner Is Served Lukewarm	MGM , inventor of the all-star big-budget soap opera extravaganza , sought to follow up their smashing success , " Grand Hotel " ( 1932 ) , with another high-power ensemble film , and turned to this popular stage play for the material . If " Dinner at Eight " is ultimately not as satisfying as " Grand Hotel , " it's because director George Cukor does not take as cinematic an approach as Edmund Goulding . In " Grand Hotel , " the camera went sweeping around the vast interior of that film's magnificent set , and the viewer comes away from that movie remembering images as well as characters . Cukor takes a much more stagebound approach with his film , and visuals are too hampered by small and static sets . Even the actors perform as if on stage , pausing at their entrances for applause they would have received had they been performing in front of a live audience . And even though the cast is comprised of the best MGM had to offer at the time , it doesn't gel like the cast in " Grand Hotel " did . Lionel Barrymore uncharacteristically seems to be on shaky ground ; Billie Burke and her fussy performance are more distracting than funny ; and Jean Harlow and her on-again-off-again Southern accent are all wrong . One can't help but imagine what Ginger Rogers could have done with the Harlow part if only Rogers had been a big enough name when this film was released . Only Marie Dressler truly delights , so much so that whenever she isn't on screen , you fidget waiting for her to come back . As for the material itself , the play takes on some strong themes but handles them awkwardly . The set up seems to go on forever - - an hour into the film , I felt like the movie was still introducing characters and main plot threads . The ending has a hurried quality , as if the screenwriters decided they had spent all of their time on plot set up and couldn't afford any for actual resolutions . If the film is faithful to the play , the play must have been a fairly minor one . So , certainly not a bad film by any means , and worth seeing for some of the most famous names in the early ' 30s , but it doesn't surprise me that the movie hasn't had the longevity of " Grand Hotel . "
Great Acting , Lousy Story	How many times do you come away from an action movie ( and one based on a comic book series no less ) remembering the characterizations more than anything else ? This was the case for me in watching " Hellboy . " I was totally impressed with Ron Perlman's dry as vermouth performance , and that alone elevates this film above your standard comic book to screen adaptation . Unfortunately , the story is so uninvolving that it never puts the characters in situations that really engage the viewer , so the acting talent much of the time feels wasted . This film looks great , too , but come on , by now don't all Hollywood action films look pretty good , and shouldn't they , given the amount of money thrown at them . No , the makers of " Hellboy " have all the ingredients for a spicy , rich , delicious stew but only manage to muster up a mediocre broth that needs a lot of salt .
Woody Allen Back to His Old Habits	Woody Allen returns as an actor to his latest frothy comedy , but this time he appears to have figured out that making himself the love interest of the hot Hollywood starlet is too creepy to bear , so he instead settles into a new role , that of the paternal , dithering mentor , and he fits it well . Said Hollywood starlet in this case is Scarlett Johannsson , who plays the role Diane Keaton would have played had she been young enough to appear in this film . In fact , the whole movie brings to mind Allen's " Manhattan Murder Mystery , " only this time set in London , mixed with a healthy dose of last year's fabulously entertaining " Match Point , " had that film been played as a zany farce . For me , Woody Allen films are the cinematic equivalent of P . G . Wodehouse novels : I don't come to them expecting surprises - - I come to them because they are cosy and mostly reliable for at least a good chuckle or two . Allen's humour is as comfortable to me as a broken-in pair of shoes , and I frankly don't care whether or not he stretches himself artistically at this point in his career . When he does , as with " Match Point , " he proves that he still has the capacity to make not just good but great movies ; when he doesn't , as in " Scoop , " the results are perhaps more modestly entertaining , but entertaining nonetheless . Allen himself gets most of this movie's best lines , though honestly he could just stand there and look mournfully at the screen and I would laugh . Johannssen has trouble easing into her role , and I felt her struggling with the screwball comedy elements . Hugh Jackman , as the is-he-or-isn't-he villain , convinces as a slice of refined beefcake , but who could take him seriously as any kind of killer , serial or otherwise ? However , everyone is good enough to make this film a painless experience .
Yet Another Version of the Capote Story Fails to Set Itself Apart	Bennett Miller's " Capote " ( 2005 ) gave us what I thought was a fascinating look into the artistic process , and asked tough questions about the relationship between and the responsibility toward an artist and his subject . The film was neither a recreation of the tragic events that served as the subject of " In Cold Blood , " nor was it a strict bio-pic about Truman Capote himself . It was something unique , and in my opinion said all there was to say about Capote's journey in writing " In Cold Blood . " Then " Infamous " came along , in one of the most unfortunate cases of bad timing ever to afflict a movie , and had to justify its own existence . Does it have anything to offer that " Capote " or , for that matter the movie " In Cold Blood " or the novel " In Cold Blood , " don't ? The answer is . . . . . not really . " Infamous " isn't a bad film , but it feels awfully unnecessary , and this isn't simply because " Capote " came out first . It's a much more straightforward , and therefore less interesting , version of the same story . It shouldn't be less interesting , given its cast . Toby Jones actually looks and acts more like Truman Capote than Philip Seymour Hoffman did , but his performance is more of an impersonation than it is a creation of a living breathing character . Sandra Bullock plays Harper Lee , and the movie strands her with nothing to do . The down to earth Lee is supposedly responsible for getting the people of Holcomb , Kansas to open up to the otherwise too strange and effeminate invader from the big city ; but the movie doesn't show this . Lee instead sits around and waits for Capote to come back and update her on interviews he has with his subjects . Jeff Daniels plays the chief inspector in the Cutter family killings . The movie's best scenes are the ones showing how Capote used his familiarity with Hollywood and household name stars to delight the Kansas townspeople , and namely the inspector's family , into confiding in him . Daniel Craig plays Perry Smith , one of the two Cutter family killers , and the movie's biggest factual divergence from other versions of the story is its explicitness in suggesting that Smith and Capote actually fell in love with one another . The film's biggest asset , and most missed opportunity , is the cast assembled to play Capote's high-society friends . Peter Bogdanovich plays Capote's " New Yorker " editor , and a female ensemble that includes Sigourney Weaver , Hope Davis , Isabella Rosselini and Juliet Stevenson plays his various gossip-monger friends . This aspect of the Capote story - - how his " project " was viewed by New York's upper crust , far removed from the world that includes out of the way places like Holcomb , Kansas - - could have made this version unique , but the writers decide instead to focus the entire second half of the film on the Smith / Capote relationship , leaving the New York world in the background . A shame , because it's the New York scenes that inject " Infamous " with the energy its other scenes lack . If " Infamous " isn't a failure , it's also not a resounding success , and not a movie that I would encourage anyone to rush out and see .
John Frankenheimer Doesn't Score with This Creepy Thriller	Rock Hudson deserves credit for stretching himself and taking on this unflattering role , far from the matinée-idol roles movie audiences were used to seeing him in , but the movie itself is a mixed bag . I've always been a champion of John Frankenheimer , and I think just about every movie he's made is underrated ( even " The Manchurian Candidate , " now considered a classic , was underrated at the time ) , but " Seconds " is one of his weaker efforts . I liked the sterling black and white cinematography , always one of the greatest assets in any Frankenheimer film , but I just didn't feel that the movie itself held together as well as some of Frankenheimer's efforts . Part of this is due to Hudson , who , though one admires his effort , was simply too limited an actor to pull a role like this off . But much of the blame lies with Frankenheimer himself , who was just " off " on this one .
One Big Hissy Fit of a Movie	Audrey Hepburn and Shirley MacLaine star as fellow teachers in a girls ' school , and the targets of malicious gossip by one of the students , in this William Wyler remake of his own 1936 film , " These Three , " both based on the Lillian Hellman play . This updated version is more faithful to Hellman's play and is meant to be much more shocking . The little girl spreads rumors that the two teachers are involved in a lesbian relationship , though the word " lesbian " is never stated outright . Complicating matters is the fact that MacLaine's character actually does harbor lesbian tendencies , and does have feelings for Hepburn , even though she's got the hots for James Garner . Wyler wants us to take all of this very seriously , and he deserves credit for tackling a subject like homophobia and the hysteria it can produce before it was vogue to do so . But something gets lost in the translation . The movie feels over-emphatic and teeters on the brink of silliness , and the ending especially , with its doomsday music and shadowy lighting , comes across as very heavy handed , an unusual complaint about this usually reliable and sensitive director . Veronica Cartwright cries and slobbers her way through an early role as one of the children ; she's as unwatchable as ever . Character actress Fay Bainter blusters her way imperiously through the film as grandmother of the hateful little brat who starts the whole thing . Hers is the only performance that solidly lands where it's supposed to .
The Final Answer Is : Fake	" Slumdog Millionaire " is the kind of film that many people will probably rabidly adore , because it's energetic , invigorating and , at first glance at least , feels like something we haven't seen before . But a whole other group of movie goers may find themselves resistant to its questionable charms , as I did . " Slumdog Millionaire " is a fake . An accomplished fake , to be sure , but a fake nonetheless . The film tells the story of Jamal , who grows up in the slums of Mumbai , India , only to find himself in the hot seat on the popular Indian television version of " Who Wants to Be a Millionaire . " Each question he's asked during the game show triggers a flashback sequence that fills in a little bit more of his story - - we see him become estranged from his brother , who gives himself over to the life of a gangster , and we see him stay true through all of his adversity to his one love , a girl named Latika . It's fairly clear that director Danny Boyle intends this film to be a fairy tale , with the love story providing the film its heart . But much of the film is nasty and unpleasant , reveling in every distasteful detail about Jamal's childhood . Within the first 20 minutes of the film , we've seen Jamal tortured with electricity , Jamal jumping into a vile pit of human excrement in order to get an autograph from his favorite Bollywood star ( this scene is played for laughs , because isn't someone covered in sht always good for a laugh ? ) and we see his mother bludgeoned to death by anti-Muslim extremists right before Jamal's and his brother's eyes . Later , we see small children getting their eyes burned out with hot spoons in order to make them more effective beggars . Everyone in the movie but Jamal and Latika , who remain blank slates as characters , is hateful and repellent . Boyle heaps calamity on top of calamity for so much of the film that its facile , simplistic conclusion wrings impossibly false . You can't have it both ways . You can't have your film be both a gritty , slice-of-life indictment and a frothy romantic soufflé . The end product is like " City of God " meets " Moulin Rouge ! " This isn't the first time I've felt this way about Danny Boyle movies . He frequently strikes me as a director who's not in control of his own films . His brand of film-making mistakes the fast and furious for interesting and compelling , and he gets in the way of his own narratives , distracting us when he should be drawing us in . A lot of people might mistake this for a great film . And who knows ? - - maybe it is . After all , greatness is a matter of opinion . But my opinion is that this film falls very short of greatness .
Astaire Minus Rogers Plus Hepburn	This lighthearted musical soufflé doesn't make a bit of sense , but that's part of its charm . Fred Astaire and Audrey Hepburn didn't at first strike me as a likely pair before I saw this film , but Astaire had so much charisma and charm that he could make the oddest pairing seem perfectly natural , and as he's dancing with whatever partner he happens to be paired with at that moment , you can't imagine him dancing with anyone else . Directors always treated Audrey Hepburn like a china doll - - they required that she move her stately way through their films with the utmost grace and poise . It's a treat , therefore , to see Stanley Donen let her have some fun , and cut loose in some jazzy dance numbers , which she handles quite well , thank you very much . Kay Thompson , as a blowzy fashion editor , provides nearly all of the comedy , blaring her way through the movie in supreme Eve Arden mode . There's nothing especially memorable about this movie , but then again it's also a harmless enough way to spend a couple of hours .
Versace , Dior , Armani , Altman ( ? )	A winning streak can't last forever . After making a critical comeback with " Vincent & Theo " and " The Player , " and then making one of his best films in " Short Cuts , " Robert Altman gave us this rather limp lampoon of the fashion industry . " Pret a Porter " is not one of my favorite Altman films , but it's not a disaster . It's one of his big ensemble comedies that probably largely came together in the editing room , but it doesn't cohere the way " Nashville " or " Short Cuts " does . I get the mental image of Robert Altman throwing darts at a dart board and seeing what sticks , and with this film not much does . This is Altman's attempt at a French sex farce , and he gives his film an international flavor by casting big-time stars like Sophia Loren , Marcello Mastroianni and Anouk Aimee , but he acts like simply casting them is enough and forgets to give them any material to work with . Perhaps the biggest problem with " Pret a Porter " is that Altman satirizes something that itself is already largely a satire : the world of high fashion . Fashion is a big industry , no doubt , but it makes a rather meager subject for satire , and Altman doesn't seem to have much of a point to make about the industry anyway . It's fun for a while to just watch goofy people walking around saying and doing goofy things , but without a stronger script to anchor the action , the fun in people watching wears thin after a while . The large cast features a ton of famous faces , some of them actors Altman had worked with before ( Tim Robbins , Sally Kellerman , Lili Taylor , Richard E . Grant ) and many new to Altman's world ( Julia Roberts , Tracy Ullmann , Stephen Rea , Linda Hunt , Danny Aiello , Teri Garr ) . But really , the only one who made much impression on me was Kim Basinger , who gets the Geraldine Chaplin role from " Nashville , " playing a fish-out-of-water reporter who seems to be everywhere at once and sidelines unsuspecting subjects with impromptu interviews . It's a riot to watch Basinger's reporter stumble her way through interviews about a subject she knows nothing about , all the while doing so with a twangy Texan accent , and Basinger damn near steals the show .
A Big Heaping Cornball with an Extra Slice of Cheese	It's easy to sneer at " Airport " for its old-fashioned quaintness , its clunky direction and its laughably melodramatic plot . But all of the same attributes describe any number of films from , say , the 1930s that we now hail as classics ( like " Grand Hotel , " for example , except that I wouldn't call the direction in that film clunky ) . " Airport " had the misfortune of appearing at a time when American cinema was FINALLY becoming more daring , and it now seems like a dinosaur compared to many of its contemporaries . But it is notable for creating the prototype for the all-star disaster film that has been a staple of the movie-going experience ever since . This all-star cast includes Burt Lancaster , slumming it mightily ; Dean Martin ( God , who'd want HIM piloting your plane ? ) ; George Kennedy ; Helen Hayes , cute as a button in the twinkly little old lady role ( can you feel my sarcasm from where you're sitting ? ) ; Van Heflin , as a middle-aged mad bomber ; and Maureen Stapleton , as the mad bomber's wife , who has the dubious job of running around for nearly the duration of the film's running time looking perplexed . Character development is not this kind of film's strong suit , and neither is credibility in any other regard . But it makes for a rather cozy viewing experience , because you know the plane and everyone on it is going to be safe , there are old-fashioned heroes to root for , there's a marvelous John Williams score before all of his scores started sounding the same , and you get to see Helen Hayes socked in the face . If that's not worth the price of a Netflix rental , I don't know what is .
Another Indulgent Fellini Offering	I feel much the same about Fellini's " 8 " as I do about his " La Dolce Vita . " It's a film that people tell you you should like , and it seems impressive and profound when you're a young lad studying film and don't yet have the courage to go against critical and popular opinion . But once you've gained some cinematic sophistication of your own , you realize what an empty-headed exercise it is . Federico Fellini is one of the most self-indulgent filmmakers who ever got behind a movie camera , and I simply don't have the interest or patience for the films of his later career . " 8 " , again like " La Dolce Vita , " is dazzling to sit through once , because it looks gorgeous and there's the promise that on a second viewing , once you're no longer distracted by the flamboyant and beautiful visuals , you'll be able to sink your teeth into the rich substance of the film . But then you realize that there isn't any substance , and the film's beauty is only , and sadly , skin deep . And then you're just cheesed that you wasted so much time on it in the first place . . . .
A Mean Green Mother	A watchable film version of the off-Broadway musical hit about a nerdy flower store owner who finds himself cultivating a giant venus flytrap that needs to eat people to survive . The nerd finds this to be a nifty way to get rid of those who bully him , which is just about everybody . The film has an intentionally stagey look that I liked , and it's self-consciously campy . It's got a cast that knows how to pull off the material , notably Rick Moranis as Seymour , the flower shop owner , Ellen Greene as Audrey , the hot-to-trot girl of his dreams , and Steve Martin , as a demented dentist . It also features toe-tapping tunes and pretty cool plant effects . Overall , not a bad time .
Saved By Isla Fisher	What " Definitely , Maybe " confirms more than anything is how utterly adorable and winning Isla Fisher is . She so utterly outshines everyone else in this movie that I grew impatient whenever the film veered away from her to focus on someone else . That Ryan Reynolds ' character ultimately and predictably ends up with her at the end feels less like a romantic comedy convention and more like a complete no-brainer : " DUH ! " Who wouldn't end up with Isla Fisher if he had the choice ? " Definitely , Maybe " is an all right movie , but it doesn't add up to much . It's one of those films where we watch our leading man ( Reynolds in this case ) stumble through a lot of relationship mistakes , act too immature for his age , and finally reach the conclusion the audience reached five minutes into the movie . I mostly just got tired of his drippy character and wanted him to stop acting like a petulant boy . I haven't decided yet whether or not Reynolds has what it takes to be a big star . He's certainly good looking enough , even if in a bland sort of way , and he has charm and presence . But he's missing an inherent something that would allow him to make a character like this likable even while he's being a baby , and without that , he just comes across as aggravating . The other two women in Reynolds ' life are played by Rachel Weisz and Elizabeth Banks , and Kevin Kline shows up looking smelly and scraggly in what amounts to a series of rather pointless cameos . Abigail Breslin plays Reynolds ' daughter , and while she's a cute enough little actress , I didn't for a second believe that she and Reynolds were really father and daughter . I can't say I was disappointed in this film , because I didn't expect it to be any more than it was , but without the performance of Isla Fisher , there really would have been no reason to watch it .
Mad Men	I found myself admiring Robert Altman's film about Vincent Van Gogh much less on my recent viewing than I had on previous ones . I will admit that there's something fascinating about it , as there almost always is with any Altman film , even his really bad ones ( and this is certainly not one of his really bad ones ) , but it's a one-note and monotonous film , and the central relationship that the film explores remains cloudy and obscure . Altman isn't interested in making a straight biopic about Van Gogh , and for that I'm grateful . The last thing the world needs is another tortured artist biopic . He instead focuses , as the film's title implies , on the relationship between Vincent and his brother , Theo . Tim Roth plays Vincent as a portrait of the artist as a mad man ; in his hands , Vincent is mentally ill to the point that he can barely function . This gives Roth lots of scenery to chew , and it may even be an accurate portrayal , but it doesn't make for a very interesting character . It falls to Paul Rhys , playing Theo , to develop a character around which the film can anchor itself , but I'm not sure I ever fully understood Theo either . He seems as troubled as Vincent , but we're never sure why . He seems to regard himself as a failure , in business and the bedroom . He spends his working hours selling bad art to people with no artistic sensibility and harboring feelings of guilt at not being able to sell his brother's paintings . His love life is hampered by syphilis . The script suggests that the two brothers had a love / hate relationship - - they couldn't get along , yet each got from the other something he couldn't get anywhere else . What that something is is never clear , and without that , the film unfolds as a series of scenes in which the men flare out in erratic bursts of anger , over and over and over again , until both die , miserable and alone . Visually , the film looks terrific . The art director suggests Van Gogh in his production design , and it's fun to pick out the locations that would become the subjects of some of Van Gogh's most famous paintings . Gabriel Yared provides the weird electronic score , which sometimes is too much and other times is just right . Whatever its flaws , " Vincent & Theo " is miles ahead of that other Van Gogh film , Vincente Minellie's hopelessly dull and overacted " Lust for Life " from 1956 .
A Marvelous Short Story Becomes a Mediocre Movie	I was a big fan of Ray Lawrence's 2001 film " Lantana , " and was eager to see how he would handle a screen adaptation of a short story from one of my favorite writers , Raymond Carver . I'm not sure I like what he's done with the source material . In the story , " So Much Water So Close to Home , " four men on a fishing trip discover the body of a dead woman floating in the river . Rather than report their finding to the police immediately ( this was in the days before cell phones ) , the men finish their trip and notify police after their weekend vacation . When the wife of one of them finds out how callously , in her eyes , her husband behaved , a rift develops between them , and the wife begins to question how much she actually knows about the man she married . In typical Carver fashion , the story is unsettling and inconclusive ; there aren't heroes and there aren't villains , just everyday people dealing with the stuff of life . More than anything , the story served as an illustration of the difference between men and women and how they communicate . In " Jindabyne , " the basics of the Carver story are retained , but Lawrence has filled out the film with numerous subplots that expand the story to feature film length . The simplicity of the story can't sustain this , and its power is therefore diluted . Laura Linney plays the wife , Claire , and Gabriel Byrne her husband , Stuart . The screenplay fills out their back stories with marital tension and mental illness so that the discovery of the dead girl serves more as a catalyst for unearthing a rot that was already there . Lawrence also adds a racial dynamic to the film ; the dead girl was an aboriginal Australian , and her family insist that the white men would have behaved differently had they discovered a white girl . In the Carver story , we see things only from Claire's and Stuart's point of view ; in " Jindabyne , " the discovery becomes an issue that nearly tears the small town apart , and it just feels like the reaction is out of all proportion . I will say in the movie's defense that I could have missed much of the point due to a lack of understanding about Australian , and especially aboriginal , cultures . The thing I liked least about " Jindabyne " was the inclusion of a creepy serial killer who we know is responsible for the girl's death . His presence is unnecessary , and I think the enigmatic nature of Carver's original story is served better by never knowing who the girl was or how she died . For a much better screen treatment of the same story , rent Robert Altman's " Short Cuts , " in which this tale is intertwined with several other Carver stories to much greater effect .
Surprisingly Good	" Halloween : H20 " makes an obvious effort to return to the franchise's roots and recapture the qualities that made the first one so good . It doesn't come close to succeeding , but it does manage to become , in my opinion , the second best of the series , though that's pretty faint praise . There are some creepy scenes early on in this film ( the one in the deserted rest stop bathroom , most notably ) , but this movie really exists for the sole purpose of having Jamie Lee Curtis kick Michael Myers's ass , and the catharsis in watching her do so is worth the price of admission . There are some obligatory killings , but they go for gruesome rather than frightening , which was not John Carpenter's approach . But when Laurie Strode takes matters into her own hands and comes after Michael with guns blazing ( so to speak ) , hold on to yourselves - - violent tendencies seem to run in this family . The producers of this movie use a bigger budget to add some modern " scary " sound effects for atmosphere and fill out John Carpenter's original score with a sweeping orchestra - - it's like John Williams ' version of the Halloween theme . The whole thing feels like it's running on an I . V . drip of pure adrenaline . But fans of the series , or at least of the first two films , should enjoy it . LL Cool J is totally wasted in the token black character role , and Janet Leigh makes a pointless appearance as well , but listen for the brief strain of Bernard Herrman's " Psycho " score in one scene with her .
Interesting Historical Document , But Not Very Entertaining	" Hallelujah ! " is fascinating from a film history perspective . King Vidor created the first Hollywood film with an all-black cast , and depicted in almost documentary fashion what life was like for poor blacks living in America's deep South . Alas , any interest the film held for me was purely academic - - as a film , it's otherwise rather boring . The nominal plot focuses on Zeke , who lives with his large family and helps with their cotton-picking business . We watch him struggle with the demons that plague mortal man - - like gambling and horniness - - give into them , repent , give into them again , repent , and so on , until he comes back at the end to the family who loves him . Indeed , family and religion are the two dominant pillars around which these poor folk anchor themselves , much as they are in any culture . Much of the film consists of long scenes depicting a sermon , a baptism , a local dance . There are countless scenes of characters lifting their hands to heaven , praying to Jesus to guide them . It's all rather dramatically inert , and the film is too long . If you are religious yourself , I imagine these scenes might have a certain power to them . I found all of the weeping and wailing tiresome after a while . Credit must go to Vidor , though , for even bothering to make this film at a time when much of America didn't care all that much about the black people . The movie is a memento of the role film can play in leading cultural progress .
One of Huston's Last Is Sadly Not One of His Best	A dynamite conceit - - a hit-man and hit-woman fall in love and then find out that they've been hired to kill each other - - falls flat because of director John Huston's inability to settle on a consistent tone . It's not a satiric comedy , though it has satiric elements , but it's never compelling as drama either . Jack Nicholson is humorous enough as the dolt of a hit-man , and Kathleen Turner was at a career high when she made this film and just about runs the show . Creepy William Hickey gets a few scenes as don of a mafia family , and Anjelica Huston became the first actress ( and I think to date only actress ) to be directed to an Academy Award by a parent , but her role doesn't consist of much more than her walking around , decked out like a bird of prey . Maybe it's because Huston was reaching the end of his illustrious career ( this was one of the last movies he made ) , but the movie feels plodding and lifeless .
I Always Miss Woody Allen When He's Not in His Own Movies	One of Woody Allen's trifles that entirely hinges on a gimmick - - in this one , a dowdy starstruck woman in Depression-era New York ( Mia Farrow ) finds herself flustered when her favorite matinée idol movie star ( Jeff Daniels ) jumps off the screen and joins her in the real world . The film obviously sets out to capture in literal terms the figurative idea of " falling in love " with the movies , and it succeeds on its own modest terms , but those terms are very modest . I never like Allen's movies as much when he's not actually in them , and that's the case here . Though Mia Farrow adds yet one more versatile character to her resume , a far cry from the blowzy broad she had played the year before in Allen's " Broadway Danny Rose . "
Not Enough of That Aldrich Style	This rather over-heated Clifford Odets play gets the screen treatment by pulp specialist director Robert Aldrich . Jack Palance plays Charles Castle , a sex symbol movie star who's blackmailed into re-signing a seven-year contract with his sleazy producer / director , Stanley Hoff ( Rod Steiger ) . Charlie's wife , Marion ( Ida Lupino ) , wants her husband back , and tries to persuade him to refuse . The wife ( Jean Hagen ) of his agent comes on to him ; a floozy studio bit player ( Shelley Winters ) wants him too . Everybody has something on him and tries to use it to get him to do what he / she wants . The film is a bitter and caustic expose of the Hollywood studio system as it existed in 1955 , and how selling yourself to the bigwigs was akin to selling your soul to the devil . The film is too talky by far , and it's marred by sub-par acting , especially from Palance himself , who isn't right for the role , and Steiger , who's absolutely atrocious , screaming his way through an unwatchably mannered performance . Aldrich does his best to lend some visual variety to what is essentially a one-set movie , but it feels restricted . While it's satisfyingly sordid , it doesn't have the fascinating depravity so prominent in Aldrich's other 1955 release , " Kiss Me Deadly . "
Don't Jump	First things first : " Fourteen Hours " is NOT a film noir . I don't know why numerous resources about film noir ( including IMDb ) include it . It does have many of the characteristics of those police procedural docu-dramas from the late 40s and early 50s that so many noirs also shared , so maybe that accounts for it . This film , based on a true story , stars Richard Basehart as a man who threatens to jump from a city skyscraper . Paul Douglas is the cop who works overtime to prevent him from doing so . Over the course of the film , a whole bunch of psychobabble involving the man's childhood emerges to explain his actions , and late in the film , his one-time fiancée ( played by Barbara Bel Geddes ) shows up to shed even more light on the matter . This is serviceable if not overly remarkable film-making . It will probably engage your interest , but I doubt it will linger in your mind . I will forever remember this film as the one I was watching when my wife went into labor with our son . The movie received a rather random Academy Award nomination for its black and white art direction .
A Toss Off Comedy from Woody Allen	This is one of those lightweight Woody Allen comedies with magical realist overtones that he makes while treading water in between his more serious and better films . Mia Farrow plays a housewife who's reevaluating her life , and the movie is stuffed with a bunch of famous faces in small roles , playing the various people she comes in contact with during her modest little soul-discovery journey . Farrow is a very underrated actress , and she's very good here , but she suffers from what many an actor has suffered in Woody Allen movies - - too often his films feel like caprices and they're not developed enough to let any one actor really sink his / her teeth into the material . That's " Alice . "
A Less Satisfying " Hero "	Zhang Yimou's follow up to his 2002 " Hero " is a lesser film in just about every way . It forsakes the grander themes of the earlier movie for a more personal , character-driven story about love and passion that at its best is just silly and at its worst a bit of a snoozer . Yimou's skill does not lie in creating really compelling characters ; he should stick with his gorgeous visuals and dance-like fight choreography . Only once - - during a scene in an atmospheric bamboo forest - - does this movie take flight , figuratively and literally . I have to say for much of the rest of the time I thought it was fairly boring .
I Guess You Either Like Bogie / Bacall Movies or You Don't	Another in the series of Bogie and Bacall films that others rave about , but which left me cold . I don't even remember the plot of this film , but you're not supposed to watch these films for the plots anyway . Like " The Big Sleep " two years later , the point of Bogie and Bacall films are Bogie and Bacall . If their hard-boiled style of playing off one another works for you , then you're going to love this movie and any of their other films . But if not , then there's not much else here to keep your interest . This is the first time I'd ever seen Lauren Bacall as a young actress , and I was astounded at how deep her voice was . There's a scene in which a large group of men and Bacall are gathered around a piano , and this deep voice begins a song . I kept looking around the frame , trying to find the man who was singing , only to realize that it was Bacall . My goodness , that woman ate her spinach !
A Movie That Appeals to the Dork in Us All	Holds up surprisingly well . Ralph Macchio is the little weeny who gets beaten up by the blonde school jock ( played by the actor who made a cottage industry of playing blonde school jocks in 1980s teeny-bopper movies ) and so takes karate lessons from Mr . Miyagi , the wise sage who can catch flies with chopsticks . Pat Morita plays Miyagi with a wink and smile , and he's the heart and soul of the movie , though I'm not sure the performance was worthy of the Academy Award nomination bestowed upon it . With a young Elisabeth Shue before she had her adventures in babysitting and Martin Kove as a karate dojo master straight from the flames of hell .
An Unexciting Emma	A fairly bland adaptation of the Jane Austen classic - - especially considering the fact that the best film adaptation of the story yet had been brought to the screen the year before as " Clueless " - - and not likely to win over any converts , but it does boast a wonderful performance by Gwyneth Paltrow in the title role , who's perfectly cast as the lovable but snobbish title character . All of Paltrow's acclaim has rested on one performance , which also happens to be one of her weakest - - that for which she won her Oscar , " Shakespeare in Love . " This has served to make many of us forget that she's actually a fine actress , even if her most praise-worthy roles go unnoticed : " Sylvia , " " Proof , " and here in " Emma . " She's unfortunately not backed by a stellar cast - - or maybe the problem is not so much with the cast , as all of them have proved themselves to be fine actors in other things - - as with the direction , which never makes the most of the possibilities inherent in Austen's story . The actors don't have a lot of chemistry with one another , and the movie overall feels like a tasteful and dutiful Cliff Notes version of the novel , where plot points are ticked off like a checklist and the whole thing rushes by in a flurry of names and faces . It has none of the cinematic feel that the recent version of " Pride and Prejudice " had , which was able to make a done-to-death story feel entirely new . Without Paltrow , this movie would be DOA .
Watch Out for White Elephants	About mid-way through this movie , the animators dropped acid and kept on working , and what resulted is a bizarre and truly frightening hallucination scene involving creepy white elephants and all other sorts of surrealist imagery . Thank God I didn't see this film when I was a kid or I would have been petrified of elephants for the rest of my life . Otherwise , this is pretty standard-issue Disney . Like many early Disney films , it's almost sadistic in its attempts to feed off of the emotional response provoked by separating a child from its mother . None of the songs or any other scenes are especially memorable , and there's nothing in the artistry to launch it into the same field as other early Disney films like " Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs " or " Pinocchio . "
Sensational O'Hara Performance in a Mostly Forgettable Guest Comedy	Somewhere at the center of Christopher Guest's new film , " For Your Consideration , " is a serious and even scathing indictment of awards-season vulgarity , but it's mostly lost underneath the movie's glib exterior . Which is a shame . Guest proved with " A Mighty Wind " and at moments in " Consideration " that he has the ability , and even the desire , to make dramatically heftier movies , but he seems at the same time to feel under obligation to deliver broad satire , and what we end up with is something that's neither fully emotionally affecting nor sharp and funny . Much of " Consideration " is humorous , but little of it is hilarious in the way that " Waiting for Guffman " is . I thought Guest's ensemble of actors was stretched as thin as it could get in " A Mighty Wind , " but it's stretched even thinner here . People like Bob Balaban , Michael McKean , and Michael Hitchcock get criminally little screen time . Even some of Guest's favorites , like Eugene Levy and Fred Willard , are stranded with roles they can't make much of . Guest's films have always relied on a squirmy brand of humour , the kind that walks a fine line between funny and pathetic , and this is the first film where the balance tips toward the latter . Some scenes , especially those featuring Willard as a vacuous entertainment-show host who tracks down non-nominees the morning after Ocscar nominations are announced to get their candid reactions , are so uncomfortable as to be nearly unwatchable . But fighting her way through this morass , and single-handedly making this film worth watching , is Catherine O'Hara , playing Marilyn Hack , an actress whose name mentioned in association with the words " Oscar buzz " on an Internet site sets off a frenzy of hope for a cast of unknowns or has-beens making a small movie that one doubts anyone will see . O'Hara's early scenes , in which she struggles to ignore the Oscar hype and keep her expectations realistically in check , are small gems of subtle acting . And her reaction to the Oscar nominations themselves , when her category comes and goes without any mention of her name , is devastating . Against all odds , she delivers a powerfully authentic performance in a movie that remains mostly superficial . The ultimate irony of course would be if O'Hara herself is recognized by the Academy .
A Fixation on Human Suffering Hurts This Stylish Episode	" Imprint " is far more disturbing and difficult to watch than Takashi Miike's notorious feature film " Audition , " but it's also much more juvenile and gratuitous . Miike needs to learn that making a film repulsive is not the same as making it compelling ; simply getting a reaction out of his audience seems to be enough for him , no matter what the reaction might be . " Imprint " does have a certain fascinating quality about it . I know this may sound like a stretch , but it reminded me of " Rashomon " in the way it circled enigmatically around the truth . However , too frequently the images Miike puts on the screen make you want to turn away , so how engaged can you ultimately be in his story ? If he can just lose the childish obsession with torture and the desire to constantly shock for shock's sake , Miike might settle down into making consistently good movies .
Lord of the Rings , King of the Jungle	A word of advice before sitting down to watch " King Kong " : make sure you've gone to the bathroom first . You might also want to make sure you have an emergency supply of snacks and some bottled water in case you find yourself weakened from malnourishment about half way through . I issue a challenge to director Peter Jackson : make a movie that clocks in at under three hours . I just want to see if he can do it . Come on , if you can't remake a movie with as little story as " King Kong " in under three hours , you need to hire yourself a new editor . Thank God Jackson doesn't make television ads , or we'd have a four hour commercial for Domino's Pizza . Special effects fiends might just drop dead from bliss during " Kong . " Everyone else might find themselves looking at their watches . Jackson has approached this fable with the same dogged seriousness he brought to his " Lord of the Rings " trilogy , but it seems awfully unnecessary in this case . He and his fellow screenwriters have freighted their beauty and the beast tale with a lot of psychobabble about fate , bravery , honor and other such nonsense . As the film making team headed by Jack Black ( who gives the film's best performance , by the way ) lands on Skull Island , a young crew member named Jimmy ( yes , Jimmy ) is talking to an older crew member about Conrad's " Heart of Darkness . " " It's not really an adventure story at all , is it ? " he asks . " No , Jimmy , it's not , " the other replies . Gee whillickers , I knew we were on shaky ground from that point forward . And what was the point of Jimmy's subplot anyway , or any of the other subplots ? Jackson spends about an hour of our time developing all of these characters and dropping these portentous hints , but as soon as they hit the island and all hell breaks loose , he throws everything else out the window and brings on the giant bugs . Then we get another hour ( though it felt much longer - - - I think I grew some grey hairs along the way ) on the island , during which we watch " Jurassic Park 4 : The Dinosaurs They Didn't Find the First Time . " For a while , it's fun to watch how Jackson will one up himself in one outrageous set piece after another , but it all grows monotonous before long ( let's see , how many giant grasshoppers do we still need to kill ? ) At one point , my wife leaned over to me and whispered , " They haven't even gone to New York yet . " My already numb butt gave a whimper of dismay . I needn't have worried though . It seems that even Jackson realized he had spent way too much time on Skull Island , so we whip right through the New York sequence and get Kong on top of that Empire State Building as quickly as we can ( though not until he and Naomi Watts have re-enacted the ice skating sequence from " The Bishop's Wife . " ) Some people have called " King Kong " too much of a good thing . I just call it too much . Some of the scenes are amazing , like Kong's fight with a bevy of T-Rex's . Others , like the dreadful oogie-boogie moments with the island natives , teeter on the brink of plain awfulness . And Jackson needs to resist the urge to turn absolutely every single moment into an action scene . When the character of the writer , played by Adrien Brody , realizes that the boat with the film crew is setting sail with him still on it , he tries to get off and we get an action scene . Then we get an action scene when they land on the island . Then an action scene when they're kidnapped by natives . Then action scene after action scene while they're fighting off dinosaurs and bugs . Then an action scene when they capture Kong . Then an . . . . . . . . you get the idea . I half expected Jackson to give us an action scene revolving around Watts walking down to the convenience store to buy some milk . I thought a lot of the effects looked pretty cheesy . And shame on you Mr . Jackson for killing off the token black guy and the token Asian guy on the ship's crew . Have we made no social progress since 1933 ? The truly entertaining parts of " King Kong " are truly entertaining . And the bad parts are fun to laugh at for a while . But before this movie is over , you may just find yourself wishing that the damn gorilla would just die already .
Same Old , Same Old	" Walk the Line " is a warmed over version of " Ray , " trotted out just in time for Oscar consideration , shrewd timing since the Academy never saw a biopic it didn't like . The problem is that " Walk the Line " is inferior to " Ray " in just about every way , and I wasn't even a huge fan of the latter picture . If you don't know anything about Johnny Cash , or what it was about his music that makes him such a legendary figure , you won't learn it here . As played by Joaquin Phoenix in a horribly mannered performance , Cash started out his career barely able to function from one day to the next , and never really improved until the love of a good woman ( enter June Carter ) turned him around . Phoenix's performance is one-note , all mumbled lines and eye-rolling freak out scenes . There's absolutely nothing interesting about Cash in this version of events , and there's no explanation of what it was about him that June Carter was so drawn to . Reese Witherspoon gives the better performance , but the material she's given limits the impact she can make . Johnny and June's relationship is muddled and ambiguous . I could never tell whether they were involved or not until his final freak out scene when he clumsily gets her to agree to marry him ( don't even ask me why she'd want to ) . The biggest tragedy of this movie is that it doesn't provide any insight into what made Cash a genius , or how the demons he was working through influenced the kind of music he wanted to make . Tepid as I thought " Ray " was , it at least accomplished that much . I've heard some people say that the performances in " Walk the Line " are better than the movie itself . Revise that to read Reese Witherspoon's performance is better than the movie , and I'll agree .
Allen Looks Back on the Golden Years	Not one of Woody Allen's more memorable films ( I can't really remember a single scene from it , except for one in which a crazy neighbor chases people around with a butcher knife ) , " Radio Days " is Allen's paean to a more innocent time when radio , rather than television , brought people together . The film , in both tone and visual style , is drenched in nostalgia , but it's too episodic to be involving as a story . It's like a Woody Allen essay sprinkled with one-liners more than a narrative film . There are a lot of recognizable faces in this , but few large roles , so most of them don't register much .
Stephen King's First Novel Makes It to the Big Screen	Brian De Palma's assured adaptation of Stephen King's first novel does the book justice , but it falls short of a horror classic for me . Actually , this is one of those movies that maybe really wouldn't even be remembered today if it had not had the luck of casting an actress as good as Sissy Spacek in the title role , who finds things to do with the character that a lesser actress wouldn't have . It's also notable for showcasing John Travolta on the cusp of stardom . And Piper Laurie , who hadn't been seen by movie audiences since her appearance in " The Hustler " fifteen years earlier , pops up as a whacked out religious nutjob who would give Faye Dunaway's Joan Crawford a run for her money as worst movie mom ever . De Palma uses funky split screens to stage the film's big set piece , the prom in which Carrie lets her telekinetic powers loose on her tormentors . The device looks hopelessly dated today , but yet somehow works well in context and makes the scene more disturbing than it otherwise might have been .
Yikes !	A must see for any student of film studies , but not easy to sit through . It's long , it's antique , and by today's standards it's reprehensible in its portrayal of the KKK and blacks . But it's also the movie that virtually invented the entire vocabulary of film language . Not before Griffith's film were all the separate elements of film-making brought together to create such a cohesive whole . And the last quarter or so of the film is admittedly exciting , and Griffith shows he knows how to use editing in ways that no one before him did . So the movie is interesting from a film history standpoint , but otherwise you've been warned . ( for its importance to film history ) but C ( for its watchability )
Dreary Ensemble Film with Some Terrific Performances	In a question and answer session with director Rodrigo Garcia and a handful of the film's cast members ( available as a special feature on the DVD release ) , Garcia says that the motivation behind " Nine Lives " was the idea of looking into people's windows and capturing a moment of their lives in real time , without formal beginning or end . If that is the case , tell me what street these people's houses sit on , and remind me never to live there . This relentlessly sombre film gives us nine vignettes , each focusing on a moment in the life of a woman . Characters from one segment will appear in another , a gimmick that ties into the film's theme of connectedness but that otherwise has become one big mighty cliché in this day of Tarantinos , PT Andersons and Innaritus ( who serves as producer on this film , by the way ) . The biggest flaw is that this gimmick remains just that - - it forces a structured narrative on a film that doesn't need one , but it doesn't bring any additional nuance to the film . For instance , in a segment featuring Lisa Gay Hamilton as a deeply disturbed woman who comes home to settle scores with her father , we find that the character of the father has already appeared in the film's first segment , as a prison warden , but the connection doesn't tell us anything about him , his daughter or their relationship . Hamilton appears as a nurse in a later segment in which a woman ( Kathy Baker ) is being prepped for a mastectomy , but again , there's no continuity of character - - we don't know how to relate this calm and sedate nurse to the frantic young woman we saw earlier , and Garcia offers no help - - Hamilton could be playing completely different characters . Worst of all , Garcia's vision of life is unnecessarily gloomy and sad . Each woman deals with her own private demon , whether it be lost love , fear of death , loss of a loved one , murderous rage , guilt , regret , bitterness . But the movie is seriously lacking any message of hope . According to Garcia , life is a struggle , but he never illuminates what makes the struggle worthwhile . In any movie like this , the selling point is the acting , and it's no surprise that the performances are what make this film most worth watching . Robin Wright Penn , Kathy Baker and Glenn Close , in particular , do smashing work , and Close's segment , which closes the film , may just take your breath away . Nice try , but not an unequivocal success .
Silly , Contrived , But Somehow Lovable	Nobody broke out into spontaneous song and dance at my high school . Of course , I also didn't go to Juilliard . " Fame " was a sort of transition film , bridging the gap between the more traditional movie musicals of the 1960s and 70s and the MTV-style musicals of the 1980s . In " Fame , " characters do break into song , but when they do , the song looks more like a music video than anything else . Some of those songs are terrific ( like the iconic title number performed by Irene Cara ) , and some are just stupid , like the lunchroom number . The movie is full of hot-button issues and melodramatic subplots that would make any tweener salivate , but the film is nearly impossible to take seriously once you're past the age of , say , 25 . Still , it's directed with a fair amount of style by Alan Parker , and it goes down easily enough .
A Thriller That Would Be Nothing Without Hepburn and Arkin	One of those high-concept suspense thrillers that falls apart the second you start analyzing its plot , " Wait Until Dark " goes around the world and back again in order to set up its premise - - blind woman being stalked by criminal thugs - - and then sits back and lets the actors do all of the work . And , luckily for this movie's creators , the actors deliver . Audrey Hepburn makes this a much better movie than it has any right being , and Alan Arkin delivers a weird but effective performance as the off-kilter psycho who comes after her for some heroin he believes is stashed in her apartment . The film gives away its stage origins - - most of the action is confined to Hepburn's apartment , and director Terence Young doesn't do a lot to give his movie a cinematic quality . But Hepburn and Arkin make this worth watching , and some moments toward the end do succeed in generating some truly nail-biting suspense .
See What Happens When Women Join the Workforce	A mildly engaging if unremarkable psychodrama about a man returning from WWII with a head injury who is accused of killing his wife . He's committed to a mental institution until he's able to regain control of his faculties . Once he does , he begins to suspect that he wasn't responsible for his wife's death after all and so begins a fight with the hospital's staff to convince them that he's not a raving nutjob and merely seeks the truth of what happened . We know he's not guilty , mostly because he's played by Robert Taylor , and the female doctor assigned to his case ( played by the lovely Audrey Totter ) begins to realize that too , right around the time she starts to fall in love with him . The film looks like a noir , but's its really just a piece of melodramatic hokum in noir clothing . Taylor and Totter make a rather stiff pairing . I've come to adore Totter , a rather unknown actress who seems to have made her mark mainly in " B " offerings , but I like her better as a hotsy-totsy spitfire , like the one she played in " Tension . " Here she's asked to be straight-laced and professional , and she's not nearly as much fun . Herbert Marshall makes an effectively oily villain though , and he provides the movie the majority of whatever pizazz it has . Released shortly after WWII , the film more than anything is a laughable " warning " about what happens when men go off to war and the womenfolk stay behind . They get bored and set out to find ( gasp ! ) jobs , but they of course eventually have affairs with their bosses and are murdered as punishment . Ah , how far we've come . . . . .
A Screwball Comedy That Never Quite Delivers	A moderately funny film that tries for a screwball zaniness that it just can't quite deliver . Its biggest selling point is the quartet of stars that headline it , four of the biggest MGM had to offer at the time : William Powell and Myrna Loy ( who had already struck gold as a team in " The Thin Man " ) , Spencer Tracy ( just on the verge of winning back-to-back Oscars ) and Jean Harlow , trying ( and failing , in my opinion ) to prove herself as a comedienne . Tracy plays a newspaper reporter engaged to Harlow , who can't ever quite get around to marrying her because of his devotion to his work . Loy is a society girl who is slandered in Tracy's paper . Tracy sends Powell out on a mission to put the moves on Loy so that the slander will be fact and save his paper from a libel suit , a scheme which also entails that Powell and Harlow pretend to be married . Things get complicated ( as these things do ) when Powell begins actually falling for Loy and no longer wants to trick her , and Harlow begins actually falling for Powell , much to the dismay of Tracy , whom no one seems to fall for . This all sounds like it should be the makings of a grade-A comedy , but somehow it's not . The movie is always amiable , but rarely does it take off as a screwball comedy the way other comedies from the same time , like " My Man Godfrey " or " Bringing Up Baby " , do . Much of my resistance to the film lies in the casting of Harlow , an actress I simply can't stand . Every time I see her in anything , I can't help but think how much better Ginger Rogers would be in her place - - they had the same look and played the same types , but Rogers had a graceful way with comedy and Harlow clunks around , always looking like she's trying too hard . No complaints about the other three though , especially Myrna Loy , one of my favorite actresses , who looks absolutely adorable in this . The film is worth watching , though , for one scene : William Powell trout fishing . I'll say no more .
" A Mighty Heart " Is Lacking Just That	Though based on a horrifying and tragic event , " A Mighty Heart " is a strangely unmoving film . Director Michael Winterbottom throws plenty of details at us about the investigation into the kidnapping of journalist Daniel Pearl by radical Muslims in Pakistan , and the film plays almost like a documentary , even copping the documentary look with lots of hand-held camera shots and jump-cut editing . But the human story gets buried underneath the complex web of details , and despite a solid performance from Angelina Jolie as Pearl's remarkably stoic wife Mariane , I wasn't much moved by the film . Winterbottom doesn't display a lot of skill at making the details coherent to his audience , and I'm not sure even now who all of the players were or what role they played . He assumes that everyone will already come to the film knowing the story of Daniel and Mariane Pearl , and while I knew the general outline , I wasn't aware of all the specifics , and this film doesn't help . It recreates the feeling of coming into a T . V . series after having missed the opening episode , and trying to digest material without being able to put it into context .
A Bit Chilly in Here , Don't You Think ?	Part chilly murder mystery , part chilly courtroom drama , the operative word when discussing this film is " chilly . " Jeremy Irons gives a chilly ( I couldn't resist ) performance as Claus van Bulow , suspected of being responsible for sending his wife ( Glenn Close ) into a coma . You can tell that Irons is relishing the opportunity to play this droll monster , and whether or not he was deserving of the Academy Award he won for playing him , he does lend the film some much needed humor . Irons must have had a clause in his contract that stipulated he could only play creepy perverts at this stage in his career , because this followed closely on the heels of " Dead Ringers , " and indeed many felt that his award for " Reversal of Fortune " was really a way to award him for that earlier film .
Tom & Viv & Willem & Miranda	The Tom and Viv of the title are T . S . Eliot and his wife , Vivienne Haigh-Wood , played by Willem Dafoe and Miranda Richardson in an Oscar-nominated performance . I always come away from bio pics about artists thinking that the people around the artist would make a much more interesting subject for a film , because the artists themselves are usually rather dull . It's refreshing , then , that this film focuses much more on Vivienne and her struggles with mental illness than it does on the life of Eliot . The film's not entirely successful , but Richardson earned her Best Actress nomination and she's given able support by Rosemary Harris , who plays her mother in couple of brief scenes .
A Minor Classic Is Buried Beneath a Lot of Big Budget Hollywood Garbage	How much you enjoy " Pineapple Express " may depend largely on how funny you think Seth Rogen is and / or how high you happen to be when you watch it . I wasn't high , and I think Seth Rogen has eked about as much mileage as he can out of his doofus schlub routine , so needless to say I didn't find this film to be an instant comedy classic . There were plenty of moments that made me laugh , but usually they were the result of some minor and silly throw-away line of dialogue that felt improvised , making me want more of that . Which is why I was frustrated and rather depressed that most of the film consisted of hard-sell , aggressive gun / fistfights , car chases and other stock material normally found in buddy action movies . There's a hilarious and potentially classic addition to the stoner comedy buried somewhere within this bloated film that occasionally makes its appearance . But only occasionally . And I wasn't prepared for how graphically violent the film was going to be . It tries to play all of this awful violence for laughs but doesn't succeed . The humor just feels queasy and uncomfortable instead of outrageous . Though I did receive quite a bit of catharsis from seeing Rosie Perez crushed by a car .
Phony Feminism	Jill Clayburgh plays an affluent New Yorker whose life crumbles when her husband reveals that's he's having an affair and wants a divorce . What's a woman to do when everything she's built her life around is suddenly whisked away ? This feminist anthem from Paul Mazursky is well meaning but also condescending . It's a movie that was clearly made by a man , and it's a man's guess at what a feminist awakening would look and feel like , rather than the real thing . Therefore , it records Clayburgh's emotional development with the neatness of a house wife checking off items on a grocery list , and even throws in a lesbian daughter just to prove that there are women out there who don't need men at all , as if that's even remotely what feminism is about . Clayburgh is game , but she's better than the movie .
Compelling Visuals ; Wish I Could Say the Same for the Story	A laconic writer recounts the numerous women he's either loved or who have loved him as he drifts around Hong Kong and Singapore in the mid to late 1960s . In the meantime , he's writing a story set in the future , in which people can take a train to a far-off place ( 2046 ) where they can regain lost memories and where nothing ever changes . The characters and events in his story are influenced by the real women he meets , and the whole thing is spliced together in a dreamy , surreal fashion with a terrific , eclectic score playing constantly in the background . Sounds compelling , right ? It's not , really . The film makers haven't fashioned a story that is as captivating as the movie's visuals , so there's not a whole lot here to maintain your interest . Tony Leung's character seems to make pretty arbitrary decisions about which women he'll take and which he'll leave . He never seems to have much invested in any of the women he's with , including the ones he's supposedly so crazy about , so as a result , we don't care all that much what happens to his relationships either . And one gets the impression that director Wong is far more mesmerized with his lush compositions and languid story than we are , as he lets single shots linger long past the moment when they've made whatever dramatic impact they were intended to make . Allow me also one petty quibble : why did Wong decide to use such a large aspect ratio for his movie if he was going to constantly block half of his frame with a wall or some other stationary object , so that the subject of the shot is always crammed into the corner ? He might try to tell me that this was done for thematic purposes , but he's going to have to give me a better excuse than that . Not necessarily a bad movie , and there are things about it that are moderately interesting , but overall rather lacklustre .
As Kinky as Sunday School	This fuzzy , feel-good message movie tells the tale of Charlie Price ( Joel Edgerton ) , a strait-laced , uptight fellow from the English village of Northampton , who inherits his father's shoe factory . He doesn't really want to make shoes , but feels obligated to continue his late and beloved father's legacy . The business starts to founder , and Charlie feels helpless to save it , until he meets Lola , a drag queen ( Chiwetel Ejiofor ) who inspires him to save the company by venturing into the niche market of boots made specifically for male cross dressers . The film claims to be inspired by a true story ( what film doesn't , these days ? ) and given its premise , it would have to be . There are some minor conflicts , but nothing gets too serious , and the happy ending , which you can call from a mile away , of course features Ejiofor and his troop of drag queen friends belting out showy songs set to disco beats . The movie is only half-baked , lots of details are left somewhat vague , everyone seems to be only going through the emotions to a certain extent , and Ejiofor makes one of the scariest women I've ever seen . But the film's message about being true to yourself and accepting others for what they are can never , in my opinion , be told enough , and though it's flimsy and lightweight , the movie is also entertaining and harmless enough .
Simmers When It Should Sizzle	A talky and rather dramatically inert period drama starring Bette Davis and Errol Flynn . The sparks are apparently supposed to fly between these two big-time stars , but they instead only intermittently flicker . Davis gives a one-note performance as the woman who struggles between her duties as a queen and her love for her man - - she was such a contemporary actress that it's a shame to see her stifled behind period garb and mannerisms . Flynn is appropriately dashing as the man who loses his head over his queen , but there's not much to his role . The film was based on a stage play and it shows ; the usually reliable director Michael Curtiz couldn't seem to find a way to rid the story of its staginess . The Technicolor looks great though , and fans of production and costume design may want to check the film out for those aspects alone .
Dog Eats Dog , End of Story	Too many filmmakers seem to feel that a movie must be ugly and unpleasant in order to be realistic , and Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu is one of them . This movie is nearly unrelentingly grim , and left me just feeling bad - - bad about people , bad about the world in which we live , bad about the human race in general . In the world of " Amores Perros , " it's eat or be eaten , a message that maybe lends itself well to gritty , grungy stylistics but isn't much of a hook on which to hang a compelling narrative . However , this movie scores in the way it tells its story , cutting back and forth between three narratives that build on one another in surprising ways . It's the same approach Inarritu uses in his first English-language film , " 21 Grams , " and it's actually used to better effect there , but it works here as well . His narratives are tangled webs rather than straight paths from point A to point B , and its a storytelling device that seems appropriate for the Internet age and the complicated ways in which we now process information . However , Inarritu should be cautious , as this approach used solely for its own sake can seem gimmicky , and it will lose its novel appeal if he uses it for every movie he makes . Needless to say , I'm not a huge fan of this movie , but I think Inarritu is a young filmmaker to watch . " 21 Grams " is more satisfying , and there's a pervading feeling of redemption to take away from that movie rather than the gloomy sense of doom " Amores Perros " offers , evidence that Inarritu is moving in the right direction .
Harold Lloyd Meets His Match	In this Harold Lloyd short , Lloyd and Mildred Davis play a newlywed couple who get stuck watching their two nephews . One is a baby , the other a toddler , and they proceed to drive Lloyd crazy as only little children can . Lloyd finds his slippers nailed to the floor , finds that preparing a bottle isn't as easy as it might seem and really finds out what it means to be a dad when the toddler comes home with an armload of fireworks and begins shooting them at him and the maid . As far as Lloyd's short comedies go , this isn't one of his funniest , but it's only 25 minutes long , and hey , it's Harold Lloyd after all . You'll be able to see the ending coming practically before the movie has even started .
Stanwyck and Cooper in a Serviceable 40s Comedy	Barbara Stanwyck and Gary Cooper give funny , sexy performances as a gangster moll and a nerdy professor , respectively , in this lightweight Howard Hawks offering from 1941 . Stanwyck plays Sugarpuss O'Shea , girlfriend of a thug ( Dana Andrews ) who finds himself in hot water after a dead body turns up . She needs to hide herself away so that the police can't come after her for questioning , so through a twist of fate she ends up in a male boarding house where Cooper and his group of colleagues are hard at work developing an exhaustive encyclopedia . Libidos start to rumble , and the men delight in their new-found housemate , all but Cooper , who's determined to commit himself to his important work and not answer the call of the wild . Stanwyck proves too much for him , as of course she would for any red-blooded male , and the two fall for each other , which makes her situation much more complicated , as her gangster boyfriend has decided that the best way out of his mess is to marry her ( wives can't testify against husbands according to the law ) . " Ball of Fire " was not as zany or inspired as I was hoping it would be , or as it could have been given its premise . The likable group of actors who play Cooper's colleagues are responsible for much of the film's humour . They act like shy teenagers who have never seen a woman before , and fall all over each other to win Sugarpuss's favor , putting a flower on her breakfast tray or getting in arguments over who's best equipped to help her zip up her dress . Stanwyck and Cooper do generate some heat , and Stanwyck in particular has some wonderfully cute moments , like when she tries to kiss Cooper but has to erect a little footstool out of books because he's too tall for her to reach . But I wouldn't say that this movie is anything especially memorable . Rather , it's a completely serviceable comedy that doesn't really distinguish itself from any number of other serviceable comedies from the same time period .
Movie's Appeal Is Lost on Me	Maybe I'm just not the right age to fully appreciate the nostalgic tug of this film , but I've never warmed to the charms of " American Graffiti . " I usually like movies with loose , improvisational styles , which " Graffiti " certainly has . But here it feels more like pointless meandering than it does hip improvisation . The film stars a number of actors whose faces would become familiar but who were as yet unknown : Ron Howard , Richard Dreyfuss , Harrison Ford , Cindy Williams , and notably Mackenzie Phillips , who gives the funniest and most outrageous performance of the group . Fans of 1960s music and hot rods will also get a kick out of the soundtrack and the souped up cars these kids cruise around in , whiling away the hours before life - - and particularly the Vietnam War - - takes them in separate directions . Many lament the fact that George Lucas went on to make the " Star Wars " series when he could have instead made more films like this . I don't know . I for one enjoyed " Star Wars " a hell of a lot more .
Gird Your Loins , Men !	It's amazing to me that " 300 " is being taken seriously enough to stir up so much controversy . Some say it's homoerotic , others that it's homophobic . Some say it's an indictment of the Bush Administration's attitudes about war , others that it's a right-wing , pro-war diatribe . Iranians are apparently offended by the portrayal of Persians in the film . There are at least three reasons that all of these people need to chill out about this movie : 1 . ) It's based on a graphic novel , and when was the last time we expected subtlety , realism or political correctness from a graphic novel ? 2 . ) Since it's a virtual recreation of a previously existing graphic novel , the blame for its offensiveness should rest on Frank Miller , not the film . 3 . ) The movie isn't nearly intelligent enough or important enough to be offended by . " 300 " is one long , witless , sustained shout of a movie . Sadly , the filmmakers take their purpose very seriously , so this has none of the knowing humour or kitsch value of " Sin City , " the 2005 masterpiece that also recreated a Frank Miller world on the big screen . The creators of " 300 " seem to think they have an important story to tell , and they tell it with deadly earnestness . Therefore , every single line of dialogue , every gesture , every sound effect , is pitched at the same over-emphatic level , with the results being a poundingly monotonous movie . After all the talk of the striking visual style , " 300 " ended up not being stylized enough for my taste . " Sin City " truly created a whole other world on screen ; realism was not only ignored - - it was completely shunned . In " 300 , " the artists try to create a realistic universe for their characters to move and fight in , so what we basically get in the end is an imitation of films like " Gladiator " and " Troy , " with even less brains . Not surprisingly , the movie is at its best when it's fighting . There are a couple of dazzling sequences , like the one in which our feisty band of Spartans sends a horde of Persians hurtling over a cliff ; or a montage that shows an extended series of battles including charging rhinos and elephants . But any time it slows down for plot exposition or scenes of dialogue , you might as well hit snooze , because you're not going to miss anything important . None of the actors really makes much impression , though they probably deserve credit for even doing as well as they do , considering they had nothing but blue screens to interact with . Gerard Butler is o . k . as King Leonidas , but his mush-mouthed line delivery was a constant distraction . Rodrigo Santoro gets stuck with a humiliating role as Xerxes , king of the Persians . The costume designer bedecks him in jewels and piercings , and the sound team give him an electronically fake voice that sounds ridiculous coming from such a fruit loop of a character . But no matter . The only thing you really notice about any of the actors are their sculpted abs and pecs , which are on constant and prominent display . Indeed , by the end of the film , I was identifying the characters by their torsos rather than by any distinguishing personality traits , since there aren't any . I was in the mood for a film like " 300 " and wanted desperately to like it , but it wore me down . Now I know how those Persians must have felt .
Julia Does Hollywood ( And Richard Gere )	The movie that made Julia Roberts a star and brought hope to hookers everywhere . Many condemned this movie as an irresponsible and inappropriate Cinderella fantasy , only proving how stupid they were to take a movie like this seriously enough to protest in the first place . Hell , if hookers actually looked like Julia Roberts , I might be tempted to dabble in the flesh trade myself . Unfortunatelty , most of them look more like Jason Alexander . Entertaining , harmless and mostly forgettable .
Notable for Making Me Hate Kiefer Sutherland	Wow , I'm actually quite amazed at the high rating this film has at IMDb - - in the top 250 ? Really ? Based on a novella by Stephen King titled " The Body " ( hmmm , can't imagine why they changed the title for the movie ) , " Stand by Me " is one of those coming-of-age movies drenched in nostalgia for a more innocent time , set to period rock ' n roll tunes that makes for a better soundtrack than it does a movie . It's ably acted by a cast of young actors ( the late River Phoenix among them ) , and it's a solid effort overall , but it's not a movie that really spoke to me in any way or which I even really remember much all these years later . This movie did , however , trigger my repulsion for Kiefer Sutherland , which I nurture to this day .
Altman's First Time at Bat	" Countdown , " Robert Altman's first theatrical release , is the only film I've seen by the prolific director that feels nothing like an Altman project . A bit of history surrounding it reveals that Altman battled the studios over creative control , and that the final version of the film exists more as a product of the studio than of the auteur . Never again , for better or worse , would Altman relinquish control of his films , a tenacity that won him an instantly recognizable style not afforded to many other directors . So " Countdown " isn't terribly interesting formally and feels like it could have been directed by anybody , but that's not to say it isn't an interesting movie . Released a year before man actually landed on the moon , it provides a remarkably accurate guess at what such a feat would look like , and the film is played with conviction by a strong cast of actors led by James Caan , Robert Duvall and Michael Murphy . Duvall and Murphy would appear again in " MASH , " and Murphy would go on to become an Altman regular . Barbara Baxley , known to Altman devotees as Haven Hamilton's wife in " Nashville , " fulfills wifely duties in this film as well , though women may as well not even exist for all the attention the screenplay affords them . As a studio film , " Countdown " isn't half bad . As an Altman film , it's one of his weakest . But nevertheless , it's well worth seeking out , especially for fans of the iconoclastic director .
An Exhausting Film	Alas , it appears that , based on other user comments here at IMDb , I am in the minority on this film . I found it to be tedious and exhausting , and the effort I put into sticking with it far outweighed any sense of closure I received from it . Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu appeared at the screening I saw and introduced his film as the final entry in a trilogy that includes " Amores Perros " and " 21 Grams . " Inarritu , in a comment that surprised me , said that his intent with this trilogy was not to focus on politics or social commentary , but rather to look at the modern family and what it means to be a father , son , mother , daughter , etc . This may have been his intention , but I don't feel that over the course of three entire films Inarritu did say much about these issues . Instead , he has painted a portrait of the world as he apparently sees it as a pretty bleak , uncaring and unforgiving place to live . I thought " Amore Perros " was so pessimistic as to border on nihilism ; " 21 Grams " came closer to finding a sense of peace and redemption among the general human crappiness . " Babel " sticks closer to the sentiments of the first film than the latter . " Babel " is of course about communication , or more exactly miscommunication , in the modern world . It's a theme that has engaged the interest of many a filmmaker lately - - the idea that technology has made instant communication so much easier , yet people seem to be more than ever incapable of understanding one another . It's a conceit that greatly interests me , but Inarritu doesn't exploit its potential here . " Babel " consists of a monotonous series of scenes in which people shout , storm , fight and talk over one another , always in a hurry to be understood without taking the time to understand . Very well , point taken . But Inarritu makes this point within the film's first half hour - - you only need see one or two scenes of this kind of frustrating verbal gridlock to understand what he's trying to say ; after that , the frustration just mounts without any kind of pay off . People are mean to one another , some are unbelievably callous ( I didn't buy for a second that the group of tourists who accompany Brad Pitt and Cate Blanchett's characters to a remote Moroccan village after Blanchett is accidentally shot would be so uncaring as Inarritu depicts them ) . In Inarritu's world , all authority figures are to be justifiably feared , as they go around beating everybody up and pulling guns on innocent people . There's no nuance here ; Inarritu pounds his message into you . For example , he obviously feels strongly about the mistreatment of illegal immigrants , especially those from Mexico , but instead of engaging in an intelligent debate about the topic , he sets up such an implausible , not to mention one-sided , scenario in this film that you can't help but agree with him . The biggest disappointment in " Babel " is his failure to fully utilize a couple of wonderful actors he has assembled . Cate Blanchett is utterly wasted as the caustic American wife whose shooting sets off the chain of events . And Gael Garcia Bernal likewise gets nothing to do as a hot-headed Mexican whose attempts to run from border patrol creates a sad ending for one of the major characters . Brad Pitt does better than expected with the frenzied , frustrated husband of Blanchett . But these people have no history . We know virtually nothing about anybody in the film , yet are expected to care deeply about what happens to them . Maybe that's part of Inarritu's point - - that we're all connected to one another even if we don't know it , and that the world has become so small that there are no longer such things as strangers in it . But this is a film narrative , not real life , and you can't build a compelling one out of anonymous characters . After " 21 Grams " I thought I was warming up to Inarritu , but this film has sent me back to the detractors ' camp . He certainly knows how to put a movie together , and he finds engaging ways to tell his stories . But his attitudes and approach to the modern world are so depressing and fatalistic that his films push me away rather than draw me in .
Early Capra Film Establishes That Capra Style	Though this Frank Capra film came out a year before the beloved director would establish himself as perhaps the most famous director of the 1930s with " It Happened One Night , " " Lady for a Day " bears all the hallmarks of what would become that unmistakable Capra style . May Robson gives a sweet and at times heartbreaking performance as Apple Annie , a sidewalk peddler who writes to her daughter , living abroad , of her luxurious lifestyle among New York's upper crust . When the daughter announces that she'll be visiting with her fiancé and father-in-law , who wants to meet his son's intended in-laws before giving his approval to his marriage , Annie is in a panic , and even considers having someone tell her daughter that she is dead . But a gangster acquaintance and his minions come to her aid , making her over and posing as her staff and high society friends . This is a fairy tale as only Frank Capra could tell it . On the surface is a heart-warming story about people who are willing to help others , but at the same time , the very real chasms that separate class from class are never far away . And like " It Happened One Night , " though the film isn't directly about the Great Depression , the spectre of it hovers over all . The film also stars Guy Kibbee as a pool hustler who stands in as Annie's husband .
A Fun Little Nothing	Tough-talking mug Lawrence Tierney is the hero of this quick and dirty cheapy from 1948 . He plays a detective who's kicked off the force for being a hot head , and gets a job moonlighting as the bodyguard for an elderly lady ( Elizabeth Risdon ) , matriarch and acting manager of a large and successful meat-packing company , whose life is being threatened for unknown reasons . Of course it's not long before we and Tierney realize that he's been set up to be the fall guy for a crooked plot to swindle the company away from the old lady , and he helps crack the case with the help of his girl Friday Priscilla Lane . " Bodyguard " is almost laughingly short and inconsequential , but it's an awful lot of fun . There's nothing especially striking about the writing or visual style , but yet it doesn't feel anonymous either . There are some clever set pieces to distinguish the film , most notably a scene that takes place in an optometrist's office and that uses some clever lighting and framing . And Tierney has a cute relationship with Lane , and it's refreshing to see a woman in a film like this take an active role in solving the crime rather than simply be someone the leading man has to rescue . Robert Altman ( credited as Robert B . Altman ) wrote the story for this film at the ripe old age of 25 . Far from a must see , but enjoyable if you can find it .
Didn't Bill Murray Remake This Movie ?	A harmless , cute movie that rests nearly entirely on the talents of two women : Goldie Hawn and Eileen Brennan . Hawn is an expert comedienne and her string of late 70s / early 80s comedies are nearly all perfectly watchable now . Brennan is a total hoot as a drill sergeant who you love to hate . The movie is basically an all-female version of " Police Academy " or " Stripes " ( which would come out a year later ) . I don't have anything else to say about this movie but I have to have ten lines of text to get my comment approved .
Young Tracy in an Interesting Slice of Cinema History	A very young Spencer Tracy plays the eponymous guy in this Depression-era short that starts out as a gritty slice of realism and , due to a surprise and funny ending , ends as a comedy . This kind of thing served merely as a time filler , so there's no point in reviewing it for its artistry or film techniques . But it is very interesting from a historical standpoint . Simply knowing that this short film played in mainstream movie houses , and addressed the Depression head on , shows how different a world we live in today , when mass entertainment seeks to do anything but make its audiences think about current events . And there's a chilling moment when Tracy says that the war they're currently waging ( the Depression ) makes the war they just lived through ( WWI ) seem like a cake walk - - - this wouldn't have been chilling at the time , but from today's vantage point , knowing WWII was just around the corner , it gives this little nothing of a film a prophetic quality .
Undistinguished Genre Film	Around this time last year , Hollywood became very interested in terrorism as a movie subject , and it made a whole slew of films about the war on terror , none of them very good but few of them egregiously bad . " Traitor " could belong to that same group of films . It's a run-of-the-mill genre picture that uses the war on terror as a backdrop . It imagines a quite possible scenario - - a group of Muslim extremists infiltrate the U . S . and plan to coordinate fifty suicide missions so that fifty buses around the country will explode at the same moment . The man in charge of the mission ( Don Cheadle ) is actually working for the C . I . A , but the F . B . I . doesn't know that , so they're after him . Meanwhile , he's trying to keep his true identity as an informant from his fellow terrorists while at the same time suffering from increasingly frequent attacks of conscience - - in order to infiltrate the network , he must continue to carry out real attacks that result in the deaths of real people . Don Cheadle is a tremendous actor , and he pulls off this material capably , but it's not worthy of him . The film is full of obvious moral observations , such as the thesis that the United States and the Muslim extremists aren't that different from one another , as both are willing to kill innocent people in their respective efforts to fight one another , and both claim that God is on their side of the battle . These are given lowest common denominator treatment , so that while the film is moderately exciting , it's not very intelligent . It's the kind of movie that fades from memory immediately after viewing . Also starring Guy Pearce , perhaps the most versatile actor in the world , here playing a Southern Baptist F . B . I . agent ; and Jeff Daniels , hopelessly underused as Cheadle's C . I . A . contact .
Engaging , But Far from Great	Obviously , based on user comments here , people LOVE this movie , and there is indeed much to admire . It's got haunting , beautiful visuals and a creepy fun house score by the terrific Maurice Jarre . It flirts with themes such as father / daughter guilt and doctor / God complex , but I guess ultimately my problem with the movie is that it only flirts with these themes ; it doesn't fully flesh them out . The film has become eerily prescient in today's social climate in which everyone is in search of physical perfection - - and will do nearly anything to obtain it - - but it doesn't really explore this idea and come up with any conclusions about it . The whole film seems like set up for a finale intended to shock with its starkness and brutality , but it comes off instead as merely heavy handed . Not a bad movie by any means , just not a great one either .
Can't Remember Much About It Other Than That I Fell Asleep	I have to admit that I remember very little about this romantic comedy that introduced Hugh Grant to American audiences . A girl on my college dorm floor desperately wanted me to watch it ( she was very into all things English ) , so I obliged , but believe that I fell asleep through part of it . So I guess there you have my review . This took the " Full Monty " slot at the 1994 Academy Awards . The little indie comedy from the UK that developed a following and found itself in competition with major Hollywood products ( like " Forrest Gump " ) . I have a feeling I'd watch it now and find it pretty unremarkable .
Kazan Stoops to Schlock	This turgid melodrama is not worthy of Elia Kazan , who abandons completely his restrained , disciplined directorial style to deliver this " Rebel Without a Cause " wannabe . Natalie Wood does what she did best in this film - - look gorgeous . But her performance , lauded in its day , is nearly embarrassing now , as she overacts her way through one emotional freak out after another as a hot and bothered teen trying to deal with raging hormones . Warren Beatty appears in an early film role , but doesn't do much more beyond giving the ladies something to look at . The teen angst films that dominated in the mid-1950s blow this film out of the water .
Davis's Bid for Camp Queen	In 1962 , Bette Davis and Joan Crawford joined forces in that campiest of camp classics , " What Ever Happened to Baby Jane ? " , the film that offered a solution to the problem of what to do with Hollywood's aging actresses : put them in trash and let them make the trash art by virtue of their massive talent . In 1964 , the ladies parted ways to headline their own campy star vehicles . Crawford did " Strait-Jacket , " in which she got to work lopping off heads before the opening credits even began rolling . Davis got " Hush . . . Hush , Sweet Charlotte , " in which she did some pre-credits hacking away of her own . . . . . . or did she ? Of course she didn't , and I'm not giving anything away by stating that outright . The movie doesn't for a second try to convince anyone that there's any real mystery around whether or not Davis truly murdered her fiancé , who we find out in a prologue is actually already married . The mystery revolves around who , some thirty odd years later , is trying to drive her crazy by making her think that she was her fiancé's murderer , and why they would be doing such a thing . It's a pretty good bet that Olivia de Havilland , in a performance that's a far cry from Melanie Wilkes , and Joseph Cotten have something to do with it . At least , housekeeper and Davis confidant Agnes Moorehead thinks so , and takes a tumble for her efforts to expose the dastardly goings on . Moorehead gives the film's best performance , and some life goes out of the film when she makes her exit . This isn't a very good movie . It's enjoyable enough for what it is , but it's far too long ( " Strait-Jacket " knew enough to keep its running time down to a trim 90 minutes ) , and it's not especially clever . There's never any real mystery to it , and we really spend most of the time hoping ( and knowing ) that Davis will eventually catch up with us . It's fun to see de Havilland in such a bitchy role , and even more fun to see her and Cotten meet their end when Davis upends a giant concrete flower pot on their heads . That also makes up for the atrocious title song , one of those warbly numbers that sounds completely out of place in a Southern Gothic tale like this .
Not Bad But Not Especially Compelling Either	Midway through " Prime , " there's a scene in which Uma Thurman's character , Rafi , comes to her boyfriend's ( Bryan Greenberg ) house for dinner with his family . His mom , played by Meryl Streep , as usual giving a performance better than the movie it's in , has up until very recently been Rafi's therapist . The women must now navigate very tricky terrain . A relationship that had been maternal in one way has now become maternal in a very different way . The therapist loves Rafi and thinks she's a wonderful person , but she also knows much about her that prospective mothers-in-law don't necessarily know about their sons ' girlfriends , things that compound the problems raised by Rafi's not only being 14 years older than the son , but also decidedly NOT Jewish . I wish more of " Prime " had been about this relationship , the one between Thurman and Streep . As it is , the movie feels like it has two separate halves that the young director / writer Ben Younger doesn't successfully bring together into a comprehensive whole . The rest of the film follows Rafi and her boyfriend as they try to build a relationship despite the age difference . Nothing about this half of the movie is new or fresh , and Younger never convinced me why I should care . I was too distracted by the fact that he had a wonderful actress like Streep in his film and didn't seem to know what to do with her . " Prime " is far from a bad film , and given its indifferent reception when it was released in theatres , I actually expected it to be worse than it was . But it is a rather half-baked film , and not one you need to spend a lot of mental energy on , which in this case is a criticism , because it raises a lot of interesting ideas that it never explores .
Not Much to This David Lean Travelogue Film	One of the many " spinster " roles Katharine Hepburn played throughout the 1950s , and one of the best . She plays a woman on vacation by herself in Venice , too uptight to let her hair down and succumb to the romance of the environment , yet tired of spending her evenings alone . She succeeds in doing a lot with a nothing role , and earned her sixth Academy Award nomination for her efforts . Beyond Hepburn , there's not a whole lot to this film . It consists mostly of scenes in which Hepburn and Rosanno Brazzi , as an Italian paramour , make tentative gestures toward one another . David Lean provides solid if uninspired direction . The movie looks nice - - Venice especially looks beautiful , and really what's going on in the background almost always holds more interest than anything going on in the foreground - - but one wishes they had splurged on CinemaScope . Subsequent Lean films would not have this problem - - he was about to embark upon his transition to massive epics that would keep him busy for the next thirty years .
Give Me a Break	One has to wonder if Tennesse Williams had plum run out of ideas when he resorted to writing this ridiculous piece of Southern Gothic claptrap . I don't know if any actors could put this material over , but the ones gathered for this filmed version certainly can't . No doubt audiences at the time were fainting all over themselves at the subject matter - - homosexuality , cannibalism , lobotomies . Choose your psychological depravity , it's here . But now it all just seems so SILLY . All of the actors take the affair dreadfully seriously , and I don't know whether that makes the movie better or worse . Katharine Hepburn is the only one who you might suspect is in on the joke . She does an impersonation of Katharine Hepburn doing an impersonation of a loony Southern matriarch who likes to fondle venus fly traps while talking about turtles having their bellies plucked out by seagulls . Her nose pointed at the ceiling while delivering all of her lines in that haughty Eastern aristocratic accent makes you wonder if she showed up on the set , realized what she was in for , and decided to have some fun with it . Montgomery Clift delivers a zoned-out performance and wanders through the film like a zombie - - with all the talk about lobotomies , you wonder if his character has already had one . And it's a wonder there was any scenery left after Elizabeth Taylor was done chomping up her role as the young lass who saw her gay boyfriend eaten by a bunch of Italian hunks . Can't imagine why she would have any neuroses after that . Ah , well . For all of its ridiculousness , " Suddenly , Last Summer " does have a certain fascinating quality about it , mostly due to its lurid subject matter . You keep watching to see how much farther over the edge the film can possibly go . This doesn't make it a good movie , but it does make it watchable .
Not Dark Enough	The dark , brooding Rodgers & Hammerstein stage musical gets the big-budget screen treatment in this 1956 release , and the results are only moderately successful . The actors have great voices - - and certainly the score to " Carousel " is the lushest and densest R & H produced - - but they're simply not good enough actors to explore the depths of the musical's book . Gordon MacRae and Shirley Jones were fine as perky country folk in " Oklahoma ! " from a year earlier , but MacRae is not a dangerous enough presence to pull off the rough character of Billy Bigelow . Still , as mentioned , the score sounds wonderful and remains mostly intact for the film . And Agnes DeMille provides some characteristically stunning screen choreography , especially in the trademark R & H ballet sequence .
I Wish Parker Posey Would Get More Star Vehicles Like This	Parker Posey flashes her 1 , 000-kilowatt smile frequently in this film , and your enjoyment of the movie will rely primarily on how smitten you are by Posey's quirky charm . Count me as a follower . I think Posey is a hoot in everything she's in , incapable of giving an ordinary performance . I have a feeling that in " Party Girl " she plays a variation of herself , but that's just fine with me . She appears in virtually every frame of the film , but the movie isn't much of anything without her , so I welcomed the overdose of Posey . The script for " Party Girl " feels half-assed , though I did appreciate the existential crisis faced by Posey's character and the shelter she seeks in the Dewey Decimal System as a way of bringing order to her chaotic existence . I wish the screenwriters had taken clever hooks like that further . And the ending had a conventional , all-loose-ends-tied-up quality that would better suit a television sitcom than an out-there indie film . But none of these faults take anything away from Posey herself , so really , how serious can they be ?
Argento Bloodbath Doesn't Make Much Sense	Anthony Franciosa stars as a popular American writer who travels to Rome on a book tour and becomes involved in an investigation into a series of murders influenced by his latest novel , " Tenebre . " This whacko movie from horror impresario Dario Argento is no where nearly as good as , say , " Suspiria , " and much of it just feels lazy , like no attempt was really made to make sense out of the screenplay , especially near the end . But then again , " Suspiria " ' s strengths did not rest in its logic and character development . Argento is a master of style , and " Tenebre " has that if nothing else . It's not a scary or even a very suspenseful movie , but there's no denying that it does have a sort of unsettling effect on the viewer . Argento approaches horror with the exact opposite aesthetic of other horror directors ; instead of using shadows and murky lighting to create ominous scenes , he instead stages his movies ' most horrific moments in brightly lit , sterile-looking rooms , frequently with disco music pulsing on the soundtrack . In Argento's world , even scenes taking place at night look like they're being filmed in broad daylight . The overall effect is disorienting when you're used to horror movies looking a certain way , and when blood flows in his films , it looks particularly red when splashed across the pristine white walls he favors . " Tenebre " doesn't make that much sense , and it tested my patience a bit , but it did hold a certain fascination for me , certainly enough to keep me watching through to the end .
Maybe Brad Pitt Should Stick to Zippers	I read a book a couple of years ago called " The Confessions of Max Tivoli , " about a man who ages backwards . The book was nothing special , a moderate diversion at best , but what it did do well was explore the emotional and psychological conflicts the main character faced as he watched everyone around him - - including his love - - lose their youth while he gained his . That same kind of conflict is the missing ingredient in " The Curious Case of Benjamin Button , " and without it , this wisp of a story doesn't add up to anything . This film is a three-hour journey with a blank slate of a character who doesn't seem to react much to the things that happen to him . Yes , Benjamin Button ages backwards , but the film never establishes how Benjamin's life is any different because of this quirk than if he had aged traditionally . The gimmick offers a lot of excuses for cool special and makeup effects , but otherwise this is just a long and rather boring episodic story that doesn't have anything to say about its characters . It's time for the world to face that fact that Brad Pitt is simply a limited actor , and it's a mistake to put him at the center of any film that relies on a complex performance to make it work . The same thing was wrong with last year's " The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford , " but that film worked despite Pitt's presence , largely because good actors were cast in all of the other roles , and they created interesting characters to compensate for the dull one at the film's center . The same is not so here . The only other actor who gets a meaty role to play is Cate Blanchett , and though she looks lovely , she's simply not given the material with which to create a memorable performance . Taraji P . Henson , who plays Pitt's mother , just does the strong Southern mom routine that Sally Field already created in " Forrest Gump . " The best performance comes from Tilda Swinton , who has a tiny role as an enigmatic woman who shares some intimate moments with Benjamin . She was so fascinating that I would rather have left the movie I was watching to follow her story instead . That's never a good sign . It's hard to believe that the David Fincher who made last year's endlessly fascinating " Zodiac " helmed this film as well . While " Benjamin Button " is nowhere nearly as maudlin as it could have been ( and probably would have been in someone else's hands ) , it's downright gloopy compared to Fincher's other works . The sentimentality is not helped by Pitt's thunderous voice over narration that's full of machine-made homilies , the kind that start with phrases like " The funny thing about home is . . . . " or " Sometimes the people that mean the most to us . . . . " The film is as technically accomplished as they come , every scene pretty as a picture . But one wishes that Fincher and company had spent a little less time making their film look nice and more time fleshing out a story that would engage our interest for nearly three hours .
Not Quite a Train Wreck ( Though There's One in the Movie )	If you want to do a garish , ponderous epic , Cecil B . is your man , as he proves with this " Ten Commandments " - sized circus story . " The Greatest Show on Earth " represents just about everything bad about 1950s film-making , but it also happens to be one enjoyable howler of a movie . DeMille always seemed to know that his movies were destined for camp , and there's always that sense that he's laughing at his earnest spectacles right along with you . Give me " The Greatest Show on Earth " over " Ben-Hur , " or any other number of oh-so-serious Hollywood epics , any day . There was no excuse for DeMille to inflict Betty Hutton on audiences a mere 2 years after her migraine-inducing performance in " Annie Get Your Gun , " but she's about the worst you'll have to contend with in this movie . As usual , Charlton Heston's acting is so bad it's good and Cornel Wilde looks like a plastic action figure of himself . Gloria Grahame single-handedly infuses the picture with some much-needed va-va-voom , and she has more chemistry with the elephant she's paired with in one scene that any of the rest of the cast has with each other . James Stewart shows up as a homicidal doctor disguised as a clown ( I'm not kidding ) , and fills the role of the obligatory prestige actor that all such trashy ensemble films must have ( think Fred Astaire in " The Towering Inferno " or Helen Hayes in " Airport " ) . The film is ugly as all get-out ; the Technicolor looks terrible , and the costumes are tawdry . There's nothing to distinguish the entire production except for the entire cast's apparent commitment to the material and DeMille's belief that this kind of movie is worth caring about . He's such a capable , if not especially artistic director , that he almost succeeds in convincing you that it is . Plus , there's a really cool train wreck at the end .
Didn't Find This Movie Remotely Moving	It's too bad that I saw Werner Herzog's amazing documentary " Grizzly Man " before I saw " Into the Wild . " One can't help but be reminded of Herzog's film while watching Penn's , or the fact that Herzog's is so much better . Both films have as their focus troubled young men who travel to the Alaskan wilderness to escape a society in which they feel they don't belong . Both men have persecution complexes of a sort , and feel that there's something noble in their efforts to commune with the wilderness . But " Grizzly Man " is an objective , journalistic account of Timothy Treadwell , and Herzog's fascination is with the obsessions that made him tick . " Into the Wild , " being a fictional film , is already once-removed from the real-life story of Christopher McCandless , and director Penn piles on so much bombast and padding , that the impact of the story becomes blunted under a veneer of pure Hollywood studio . My biggest obstacle in liking this film is that I didn't like the character of Christopher , nor did I like Emile Hirsch , the actor who plays him . McCandless , who gives himself the moniker Alexander Supertramp once he's set off on his odyssey , is an arrogant 20-year old who thinks he has the world figured out , and woe be to anyone who tries to tell him otherwise . His psychological troubles stem from the emotionally ( and the movie suggests at times physically ) abusive environment he grew up in . His parents are played by William Hurt and Marcia Gay Harden as cartoonish caricatures of Southern aristocracy ; his sister , played by Jena Malone , is the only one who Christopher believes understands him , and her character provides the film with one of the most thudding voice over narrations I've ever heard in a movie . We get it - - he shuns the materialistic world as a way of shunning his affluent parents . But a two and a half hour movie built around a kid learning a lesson that many of us already knew going into it makes for a mighty tedious movie indeed . That lesson , learned too late , is that human companionship makes life worth living , and that happiness means very little if you have no one to share it with . Many recognizable actors show up throughout the film as strangers Christopher comes across and develops fleeting relationships with , and all of them have a chance to pontificate . The trouble is that all of them ( especially Catherine Keener as a hippie and Hal Holbrook as a lonely old man ) are so much more interesting than Christopher himself that we wish the movie would stay with them and let Christoper be on his merry way . This movie really copped out as far as I'm concerned . Everyone Christopher comes across is gently understanding of his plan even if they try to discourage him . Not once does someone tell him that his actions represent supreme cowardice and hypocrisy . If he was so bothered by the state of society , why didn't he do something productive to help change it rather than run away and hide ? Maybe this is the point Penn was trying to make , but I felt like Penn himself couldn't decide whether Christopher's behavior was foolish or admirable . I feel like I was meant to come away from this film moved by the tragedy of a life wasted . But I wasn't moved at all , nor did I find it all that tragic . " Grizzly Man " - - now THERE's a film that moved me .
Didn't Do It for Me	Maybe I wasn't in the right mood , but I just didn't think this film was that special . I can't say anything bad about it exactly , because there was nothing wrong with it . It just didn't have that spark that other movies of its type have . Maybe the problem lies with Henry Fonda , who I never thought had much chemistry as a romantic leading man . Barbara Stanwyck is great and sexy , so the fault doesn't lie with her . I almost feel bad about not liking this movie , because all of the elements for a good movie are there , and I can't give any rationale for my opinion . But for me it doesn't even come close to matching the allure of other screwball comedies from the 30s and 40s .
The Commies Strike Again	Another one of those low-budget 50's sci-fi movies that can be read as an allegory for cold war Communist paranoia . There's not much to say about this movie ; it didn't inspire much feeling in me one way or the other . Alien pods mysteriously appear on earth , and the sticky beings that ooze their way out of them take over the appearance and minds of earthlings ( but can only do so when said earthlings are asleep - - go figure ) . Maybe I missed something , but I don't understand what happens to the people whose appearance and minds the pod people take over - - shouldn't there be two of everyone walking around by this logic ? But best to leave logic at the door . At a brisk 80 minutes , this movie breezes by quickly enough , and manages to generate a small - - albeit very small - - level of suspense , but if you're expecting the sci-fi classic everyone has led you to expect , you might be disappointed .
Lost on Me	With the exception of " Moulin Rouge , " this may very well be the most overrated film of 2001 . The first half moves along convincingly enough . Tragedy is handled well and the acting is superb . But when Tom Wilkinson's character actually begins to carry out his revenge , the film gets boring - - - - this is one of the only movies I can think of that gets more boring as it picks up speed . Watching the boiling anguish and suffering on the faces of Marisa Tomei and Sissy Spacek kept me interested for a while , but both women disappear for large portions of the film . A solid enough movie - - - - but one of the best of the year ? . . . . .
An Uneasy Scorsese Experiment	I tried very hard to like " After Hours , " Martin Scorsese's surrealist head trip about a straight-laced word processor ( Griffin Dunne ) who ventures off into the SoHo night and gets trapped inside a frustrating nightmare . It's an interesting premise for a film - - what goes on out there in the nocturnal world while the rest of us are fast asleep ? But I couldn't help but feel that the film was trying too hard , like its creators were intentionally setting out to make something that would eventually end up as a cult classic . That it did doesn't make the movie any better . The best cult classics are those that become so naturally , not those that are manufactured to be so . Griffin Dunne is on screen nearly constantly , and he does well with his role , gradually working himself up to a nearly hysterical pitch of frustration in his failed attempts to get back to the safety of his home . The supporting cast is peopled with recognizable faces in cameos : Teri Garr , Catherine O'Hara , Cheech Marin , Rosanna Arquette . But no one is really playing a character , and no one really gets much to work with . I wasn't bothered by the implausibility of the film ; implausibility is the film's point . But I did get somewhat bored by the arbitrary plot twists , and the fact that I couldn't connect with anyone in the film , not even Dunne , whose character is vaguely unlikable . I did like the film's ending , though . It nicely captures that feeling of waking from an unsettling dream into the familiar world that you know and recognize .
French Farce Is Short on Farce	This French farce lacks the energy and whimsy of the 1996 Mike Nichols remake , " The Birdcage . " Perhaps it's a cultural difference , but the original " La Cage aux Folles " seems to take itself too seriously , and moments that were uproarious in the Nichols version aren't very funny here . I suppose some might say that Americans need their humor to be broader and more obvious in order to appreciate it , but whatever . It's hard to understand now how bold this subject matter - - transvestites , openly gay lifestyles , etc . - - was for 1979 , and that probably has played a large role in the life this film has had since ( thanks largely also to the hit Broadway musical based on it ) . I bet people who saw the original first like it better than " The Birdcage , " and vice versa .
Dietrich's Voodoo	One of the string of movies Josef von Sternberg directed for his muse , Marlene Dietrich . It seems like all of these movies can be identified by a particular scene or image that sets them apart from the others . " The Blue Angel " had the iconic image of Dietrich in top hat and tails ; " Blonde Venus " is the one where she performs the " Voodoo " night club number wearing a gorilla costume . The plot is pure nonsense - - the point of the film is , of course , Dietrich herself , and your enjoyment of it will depend greatly on how enamored you are of the famous star . I actually thought Dietrich's sex appeal increased with age ; she looked hot and sultry in " Witness for the Prosecution " and " Touch of Evil , " made in the late 1950s . There's no reason not to see " Blonde Venus , " but I myself am not much of a follower .
The Truth Is This Grant / Dunne Vehicle Is No " Awful Truth "	This romantic screwball comedy tries to recapture the zany chemistry shared between Cary Grant and Irene Dunne in " The Awful Truth , " but the final product falls somewhat flat . Something's just missing this time around , and it's a shame , because the story has serious screwball potential . Dunne plays Grant's supposedly dead wife , who shows up alive just after Grant has remarried . The rest of the movie is about Grant promising to tell his new wife ( Gail Patrick ) about his old one and finding ways out of it , and then getting jealous when the man ( Randolph Scott ) who shared seven years with Dunne on a deserted island when they both were supposed to be dead reenters the picture and threatens to steal Dunne away . The premise is dynamite , but the humour feels somewhat strained and many of the jokes fall flat . It doesn't help that Grant's character is a bit of a weenie , and the new wife , who we're supposed to think is a bitch but whom the film never establishes as such , comes across as a victim , which makes Grant's and Dunne's antics feel more mean than funny . There is a memorable conclusion though that finds Dunne in bed and Grant dressed as Santa Claus .
Introductory Psychology Gussied Up as a Crime Film	" The Dark Past " is a Psych 101 class disguised as a film noir . William Holden plays Al Walker , notorious criminal who has escaped from prison and , along with his girlfriend ( Nina Foch ) and assorted goons , takes a family hostage in their country home while waiting for his getaway . The family patriarch ( Lee J . Cobb ) , however , happens to be a criminal psychologist , and he begins to deconstruct Holden's psyche , eventually rendering him helpless when the ultimate showdown with the police occurs . This isn't a terribly interesting film , either in style or subject matter . A good portion of the film is spent in Cobb analyzing a recurring nightmare of Holden's , acknowledging it as the key to Holden's anti-social tendencies . But the dream itself is basic Freud , all about anger towards father figures and love for a lost mother . This all might have seemed cutting edge at the time , when psychology as an area of study had become trendy to address in film , but it has a been-there-done-that quality now . Holden isn't very good in his role , overacting to the hilt , and he's not convincing as a bad guy . But it is nice to see both he and Cobb playing against type for a change . Cobb especially is refreshing , for once playing a character quietly and reservedly rather than as a bellowing lout . Director Rudolph Mate and his screenwriter could have done all sorts of things to explore the group dynamics of a situation like this , but they don't . For a much better family-taken-hostage story , watch " Key Largo , " released the same year as this film .
Russia Beware - - Here Comes Woody Allen	The last of Woody Allen's outright screwball comedies of the 1970s is a spoof of Russian novels and drama , with a healthy dose of Ingmar Bergman thrown in as well . The references fly almost faster than you can catch them - - no one is safe , not Tolstoy , Dostoevsky , Chekhov . Watch for Allen's movie quoting other movies , like " Doctor Zhivago , " " The Battleship Potemkin " and " Persona . " The film culminates with a scene in which Allen's hapless Russian schmuck teams up with the cousin with whom he is desperately but unrequitedly in love ( Diane Keaton ) to assassinate Napolean , though the person they're trying to kill is actually a Napolean impostor . All of this madcap , zany comedy ends with a hat tip to Bergman's " The Seventh Seal , " of all films , as the Allen character goes dancing through a meadow with the Grim Reaper . This isn't the funniest Allen movie out there , but it's a harmless enough way to spend a quick 82 minutes .
Forgettable Showcase for Bogie and Bacall	By and large , your enjoyment of this film will depend upon how crazy you are about its two leads . The plot is indecipherable ( almost a parody of those byzantine film noir stories ) , and there's really not much more to the movie than Humphrey Bogart and Lauren Bacall trading saucy , dead-pan barbs . Bogart's o . k . , but for me he's not one of those actors who can single-handedly carry a movie . I've always been immune to the charms of Bacall . So all in all , this movie left little impression on me . It's enjoyable as yet one more entry in that hard-boiled detective genre that was so in vogue at the time , but it's not one of the more memorable examples of it .
Good , But Not as Magical as Some Claim	I can't believe I'm about to say this , but I preferred the animated Disney version of this story to the 1946 Jean Cocteau film . I'm no Disney fan , and I would personally like to stop them from taking over the world ( along with Starbucks ) , but this is one case where I just thought they instilled this fairy tale with more magic . I missed the character of Gaston in the Cocteau version , and I missed also the delightful assortment of animated objects . And I think this story is particularly conducive to being set to music , and I enjoyed the songs in the Disney version . However , on its own terms , the 1946 release is well done , and considered by many to be the definitive version of the beauty / beast tale . I thought the acting was bland , though Belle is indeed a beauty . And there are moments of pure movie magic : the candelabras that light Belle's way , the fireplace that watches her father eat . And for once slow motion is used in a way that doesn't feel cliché . But the relationship between Belle and the Beast isn't well developed . You don't see Belle falling in love with him over the course of the film , and when she professes her love at the end , it seems to come out of thin air . And was I the only one confused by the transformation at the end ? It doesn't get explained well at all . Though it is kind of funny at how blase Belle is when the Beast becomes a hunk and says she'll have to get used to his new face . The film is interesting in that it acknowledges the Beast's animalistic nature . He hunts wild game , he craves blood , and more than once you wonder whether or not he'd rather eat Belle than court her . There's a violent eroticism underlying this film , that I found surprising for the year it was released . I know Cocteau asks his audience at the film's beginning to watch the film with the eyes of a child and to give itself over to the enchantment of fairy tales , and I have no problem doing that . But even so , I felt like he was using fairy tale logic to explain away things that could have been explained better .
Malick Stumbles	It gives me no pleasure to report that the fourth film in nearly eight times as many years from that most roguish of Hollywood's rogue directors , Terrence Malick , is mostly a failure . Give the guy a break , though . When the first three movies you make are unequivocal masterpieces , you're allowed to stumble . All of the devices Malick has employed in previous films to turn what would be sweeping epics in the hands of any other director into feverish internal character studies are present here . But in " The New World , " they curiously have the reverse effect . Instead of drawing us into the minds of his characters , Malick keeps us at a distance , and his film remains too enigmatic for us to fully appreciate . The biggest problem with this movie is its non-committal tone . According to history ( though granted , there are many different accounts of the Pocahontas story ) , John Smith was pretty much an ass , who left Pocahontas behind because he didn't really want her - - - in another account , he's forced to leave America because of a severe injury . Malick turns the Smith / Pocahontas story into a star-crossed lover's tale , with Smith the smoldering hero who turns away because he wants to protect Pocahontas from a world that won't accept her . Except that once she is taken in by the colonists , she's treated just fine , which makes one wonder what the big problem was to begin with . Malick uses his usual ruminating voice overs to draw us into the minds of Smith and Pocahontas , but this time around their thoughts don't communicate anything of much importance . Malick's version of the tale feels tidied up and sanitized , lacking in any dramatic conflict . When Smith meets Pocahontas again in England after a long absence , something about their exchange brings closure for her , and she is able to forget Smith and commit herself to her husband and child - - - but what that something is remains a mystery , for neither the screenplay nor the performances convey it . And Pocahontas's death feels rushed through ; surely Malick could have trimmed one or two meandering scenes of tree and sky earlier in the film to give it a better sense of symmetry . The performances really disappoint too , but I'm not so sure that's the fault of the actors as much as it is the writing . They're not really given robust characters to play , so no one registers all that much , not even Q'orianka Kilcher , who's supposed to be a lifeforce to which everyone is drawn . " The New World " probably warrants a second look , and I suspect I may come away admiring it more after I see it again . Malick's films aren't easy , and that's what I like about them . It's just that he's been on such firmer ground before that this movie fell way below my expectations . Immediately after leaving the theatre after seeing " The Thin Red Line , " I knew that I had just witnessed a masterpiece in real time . Leaving the theatre after " The New World , " I knew that I was just leaving .
So Long , and Thanks for All the Fish	I had the exact same feeling watching this film version of Douglas Adams ' cult classic novel as I had reading it , so I guess in that regard you can say the movie is a very faithful adaptation of the book . I thought much of it was clever , and I laughed at individual lines , images and concepts , but overall I felt my attention drifting . Anyone who's read the book knows that its plot is an afterthought , and that utter absurdity is the flavor of the day . You're not supposed to really get involved in the story as much as you are supposed to bask in Adams ' absurdity ; in that way , reading " Hitchhiker " is like watching a Monty Python skit . The movie is at a disadvantage , because that kind of storytelling doesn't come as easily when you have to work in images rather than words , so the film makers do their best to create a linear story that makes basic sense . But they're fighting a losing battle , and as a result , the movie turns into a furious assemblage of one-liners , special effects and booming sound that comes rushing at you but never really engages you . All of the actors are decent , and some of them , notably Sam Rockwell , even have some inspired moments of comic kookiness . But by and large the performances are lost amid the frenzy . The film does have a splendid opening sequence , during which a catchy song , " So Long and Thanks for All the Fish , " plays while dolphins cavort , and this , more than anything else , is what I came away from the movie remembering . If there's any justice in the world , the tune will get a Best Song Academy Award nomination , and maybe at the actual ceremony , they can have a big pool of dolphins on hand to perform it . Take that Beyonce . This movie's o . k . , takes absolutely no brain power to enjoy , and looks great , so you could do worse . However , it's not at all memorable and isn't one I would recommend you go out of your way to see .
Harold and Kumar Come Close to Making a Classic Comedy Team ( But Just Fall Short )	Perfectly enjoyable and appropriately stupid , " Harold and Kumar . . . " isn't good enough to be a comedy classic , but it's much better than the average boys-behaving-badly flick . It aims for smart satire rather than easy gross out jokes , which made me appreciate its efforts even if it doesn't always succeed . The filmmakers try to be clever , but they're not quite up to the task . Neither are the two actors who play Harold and Kumar , who are passable , and come close to displaying the kind of chemistry that buddy comedies like this need to completely score , but don't quite make it . I found myself laughing at situations and the minor characters that come in and out of the film , but rarely at Harold and Kumar themselves . I'd recommend this , though , if you're looking for something you don't have to think about .
Some of These Times Are Better Than Others	The three times mentioned in this film's title are " A Time for Love , " " A Time for Freedom " and " A Time for Youth , " each a separate segment set in a different time period ( 1966 , 1911 and 2005 ) in Taiwan , but featuring the same two actors . In " A Time for Love , " the best and sweetest segment , a soldier and a pool hall hostess strike up a timid and shy romance ; in " A Time for Freedom , " a brothel madame yearns for a political activist for whom she's not allowed to articulate her feelings ; and in " A Time for Youth " angst-filled 20 somethings navigate the tricky waters of both same-sex and opposite-sex relationships . All of the segments focus more on the female characters than they do the males , especially the second and third . The director uses clever devices to tie the three segments together , like the use of letters as the primary method of communication in the first and second segments , which morphs into cell phones and e-mails in the third . The whole movie has a languorous feel , as if the director is in no hurry to tell his story . However , this makes the movie feel unnecessarily long , especially given the slight plots that the three segments anchor themselves around . Indeed , the first segment is so touching and poignant , that the final two left me somewhat cold . An interesting Taiwanese film that's worth a look , but not an unequivocal success .
Kinda Creepy	In " Lost Horizon , " a change of pace for director Frank Capra , a charter plane carrying a group of character actors crashes somewhere over Asia , and they stumble their way into the forgotten city of Shangri-La , tucked cosily away amid the snowy mountains , where the cadaverous H . B . Warner prowls around in bare feet and a kimono . Shangri-La seems like an ideal place to while away one's hours , not the least because of its groovy art-deco production design , but before long everyone starts to get bored with how nice and bland the inhabitants are , and creeped out by Warner's ability to materialize out of nowhere at the most inopportune moments ( he's definitely what " Seinfeld's " Elaine would call a sidler ) . " Lost Horizon " is actually sort of poky and dull , and I was fairly disinterested in what happened to the characters by the time the movie was over . There's a love story between Ronald Colman and a pretty young thing who gets a hankering to leave the peaceful place - - her storyline contributes to the movie's overall creepiness - - is she being held there against her will ? But ultimately this love story is same old , same old , all melodramatic swooning and fuzzy closeups . My favorite performance came from Thomas Mitchell , who excelled at playing loud-mouthed obnoxious Americans , and does the same honors here . Kudos to Capra for trying something a little different ; too bad the result was a rather hum-drum movie .
Fine Looking Production Wasted on an Incoherent Script	Christopher Nolan's latest puzzle movie is like a big heaping plate of spaghetti : when taken together , it looks like a complete and satisfying meal , but if you pick up any one noodle individually , you find that it's not connected to any of the others and just trails into nothing . I felt like a complete moron walking out of this movie , because I completely missed the big surprise twist at the end . My wife had to explain it to me on the way home . But in thinking back on the movie , I decided that the fault did not lie with me ( or so I'd like to believe ) . Christopher and Jonathan Nolan have written a muddled and confusing screenplay , in which every single plot detail ( and there are many ) gets equal weight and nothing takes central focus . The ending doesn't feel so much like a creative twist as it does a cheap trick . The performances are fine , though none of the characters ever comes alive . There's so much intricate plot to race through that no one has time to develop any nuance into their roles , and all of the characters serve as ciphers for the plot rather than as psychologically believable and consistent individuals . Christian Bale comes off best ; Hugh Jackman is as bland as ever ; Michael Caine is just kind of there ; and Scarlett Johannsen may as well not even be in the movie for the importance placed upon her . Movies like " The Prestige " bug me . They spend all of their time trying so hard to trick and mislead that they never get around to telling a compelling story that I care anything about . Five minutes after you walk out of the theatre , the plot starts unraveling like wet Kleenex , because the film doesn't build its plot from the character level up ( which the other magician film from this year , " The Illusionist , " did and which is why that's a better movie ) . " The Prestige " is a magic trick that leaves you wanting your money back .
Whodunit ? Who Cares ?	What the creators of the original " Thin Man " film didn't seem to realize is that the appeal of the series was in watching the witty banter between Powell and Loy , not the murder mystery plots themselves . " Another Thin Man " has an elaborate plot and drops a boatload of hints along the way , summarized neatly by Nick in the film's last scene as he exposes the killer . But all these plot machinations serve to do is get in the way of giving us what we really paid to see : Powell and Loy . Is it any wonder that the most memorable scenes in this film are those in which the charismatic pair take time out from sleuthing to trade a sarcastic insult , or a smile , or a kiss ? When Powell approaches a table in a nightclub surrounded by a group of men , and then realizes as the men pull away that the object of their attention is his wife , the smile Loy flashes him as she sits there looking adorable is alone worth sitting through the movie for . But this sequel , like " After the Thin Man " three years before it , isn't able to recapture that quality that made the first " Thin Man " film a totally unique cinematic experience .
Well-Acted Drama Carries the Faint Aroma of After School Special	Solid if unremarkable screen version of the Broadway play , starring Marlee Matlin before anyone knew who she was and William Hurt at the height of his mid-1980s popularity . The film is sensitive and well-acted , but it never completely sheds its stage origins , and it has that faint whiff of school assembly lecture that many movies preaching tolerance for minority groups have . Matlin delivers a brave performance in her screen debut as a deaf student who falls in love with a professor ; Hurt is said professor and delivers what he's asked to . Also with Piper Laurie as Matlin's over-protective mother .
Original Ideas Stranded by Chaotic Script	" Hancock " may be many things , but it's certainly not a traditional superhero movie . That's either a good thing or a bad thing depending on your point of view . I appreciated the many original ideas swirling around the perimeter of this movie , but it's a shame that no one idea ever fully takes hold . The script feels like the product of a brainstorming session before anyone has had a chance to make sense of the notes . And not only is the script somewhat of a mess , but the tone veers all over the place as well . The movie gives the impression of having been directed by several different people . About an hour into " Hancock , " the script throws in a surprise twist that director Peter Berg handles deftly , and the movie , that had already been ticking along pretty enjoyably , gets an extra jolt of energy and fun . But that sense of fun drains immediately from the film as the entire tone turns nasty , unpleasant and extremely violent . Bad guys come from nowhere , plot developments don't make a lot of sense and back story is apparently made up as the film moves along . The movie itself is only 90 minutes , so I don't know why the filmmakers felt compelled to rush through to an ending without tying things together in a way that made sense , but on the other hand , I'm glad it wasn't any longer because I was tired of the arbitrariness of the whole thing . It's hard to talk about what could have been without revealing the plot twist , but let's just say that the film could have gone in any number of interesting directions that it chooses to ignore . Due to what it reveals about one of the major characters , the script could have given Hancock either an ally or a compelling villain , but it does neither , and all of the actors - - charismatic as they are - - feel somewhat stranded . Jason Bateman alone keeps things buoyant for as long as he can on the strengths of his goofy charm and comic timing .
Stiff Upper Lip , Old Man - - It's Only the Olympics	Very British , very proper and very dull movie about two English athletes competing in the 1924 Olympics . It's one of those inspirational stories that undoubtedly had audiences on their feet cheering at its end , but now the only thing memorable about it is its theme song . " Chariots of Fire " came out at a time when Hollywood was beginning to fall in love with British films , and for a while there in the 1980s and early 1990s , everyone equated tasteful film-making with good film-making . If movies perfectly recreated an historical period and did it with reserve , they won awards , no matter how embalmed the final product might have been . I'll be generous because it does have good music .
Necessary But Inert Installment in the " Star Wars " Series	George Lucas , what hath thou done to " Star Wars ? " Alas , only die-hard " Star Wars " fans will be able to enjoy this first prequel , and even they may be hard pressed to muster up an ounce of interest in this inert story about trade disputes and underhanded politics that doesn't make an ounce of sense until you've seen episodes II and III . Admittedly , " The Phantom Menace " gets better after you've seen the rest of the series , but on its own merits it's a pretty shaky effort . Lucas proves that he has virtually no skill in directing actors , as normally good performers like Liam Neeson and Natalie Portman sink like lead weights under terrible dialogue that no one could do anything with . ( And don't even get me started on Samuel L . Jackson , who looks like he would rather be doing his laundry than appearing in this film ) . Lucas gives his actors no help either , as " Menace , " and indeed the entire second trilogy , may as well be animated , and more often than not an actor is stranded in a sea of computer-generated graphics with nothing to react to . This computer-generated world looks nothing like the world created in the first trilogy , and that inconsistency is one of the most distracting things about the prequels . There are things about this movie I do like , though . I like the scenes with Anakin and his mom ; I like Darth Maul ; and I liked the pod race scene . Everything else feels like what it is - - necessary but unengaging set up for the REAL story that doesn't pick up steam until parts II and III .
Don't Be a Back Seat Driver , Miss Daisy	" Driving Miss Daisy " is so quiet and genteel that it threatens to evaporate right off the screen . The source material is well written and carries with it a certain poignancy and power , but one suspects that it carried even more power on stage . The impression left by the film is that director Bruce Beresford had trouble filling out the screen . He does get nice performances from his actors , though , especially Jessica Tandy as the title character , a privileged white woman through whose unique perspective we see the gradual changes wrought by the civil rights movement . Morgan Freeman is her chauffeur , and he does the gentle sage routine that seemed fresh at the time because we hadn't yet realized that that's all he would do for the next twenty years . And Dan Aykroyd takes an uncharacteristic stroll through more dramatic terrain as Miss Daisy's son . " Driving Miss Daisy " is a pleasant enough movie , but the fact that it won the 1989 Academy Award for Best Picture , more than emphasizing the quality of this particular film , points out the lack of quality of everything else that year .
A Holiday Soufflé	" The Holiday " ( as the name implies ) is that unique animal : the holiday film . You know , the one that comes out a few weeks before Christmas , intended to counter program against all of the serious ( read " depressing " ) Oscar contenders . The one that takes not an ounce of concentration to follow , that goes down as smoothly as a cup of hot chocolate , and is as quickly forgotten . Well , there's a time and place for movies like that , and if December isn't exactly that time and place , I don't know where or when is . All I know is that my wife and I ended up at this on opening weekend because our other two choices for new movies were " Apocalypto " and " Blood Diamond . " ' Nuf said . As for the movie ? Oh , what's the point . It's too long , the pacing is all over the place , it has some good moments and a lot of flat ones . But the cast is gorgeous , the settings are fun , the conclusion is warm and fuzzy . I could be a Scrooge and say " bah humbug " to the whole thing , or I could just sit back and enjoy it for what it is , which is what I did . And let's face it - - no movie with Kate Winslet , a superb actress who makes anything she's in better by virtue of her sheer talent alone - - can be entirely bad ( well , except for maybe " Titanic . " )
The Movie's So-So , But Veronica Lake Is Va-Va-Voom	A fairly minor entry in the noir canon , " The Glass Key " doesn't have the striking visual daring of some of its noir contemporaries , like " The Maltese Falcon , " " Murder , My Sweet " or " Double Indemnity . " Also , since it came out early in the noir cycle , it doesn't have that sense of rotting cynicism that pervaded the late 40s and 50s noirs . What the film does have , though , is Veronica Lake , who , even if she wasn't much of an actress , was certainly fascinating to look at ; and Alan Ladd , who looks like he wants to strip her clothes off of her and throw her down on the coffee table in the scene when their two characters first meet . The film also boasts Brian Donlevy , in yet one more of the thuggish clod roles he always played , and the hulking William Bendix as a sadistic henchman who enjoys beating Ladd up while calling him pet names like sweetheart . Much has been made of the homoerotic subtext centering around this part of the film ( homoeroticism is frequently a calling card of film noir ) but I just didn't see it in this one . Ladd's loyalty to Donlevy felt more like that of a buddy rather than that of a lover , and he certainly is willing to take off with Lake the moment Donlevy gives him his blessing . I know I'd certainly do the same .
So-So Dramatic Vehicle for Aniston	" The Good Girl " was heavily touted as the film that would help Jennifer Aniston break from her Rachel persona and make the leap to dramatic film actress . There was even talk ( however brief ) about an Academy Award nomination for her when this film came out . Surprise , surprise , but that didn't happen . And where has Aniston's film career been since ? " The Good Girl " is leaps and bounds better than any of Aniston's other ventures into film - - bland crap like " Picture Perfect " and that other movie whose name I can't even remember - - but it's not a great movie in and of itself . Aniston does a pretty good job , but you still can't escape the suspicion that she's just playing Jennifer Aniston , albeit a drabbed down version of herself . This movie's greatest asset is its supporting cast , particularly Zooey Deschanel in a very funny , dead pan role as a fellow worker at the Wal-Mart-esquire store Aniston's character works in , and Jake Gyllenhaal , who had begun his trek to stardom the year before in " Donnie Darko . " The gods were being kind to Gyllenhaal in 2002 , as he got to make out with both Aniston and Catherine Keener ( " Lovely and Amazing " ) in the same year . " The Good Girl " is certainly worth watching . It captures that nowheresville feeling of small-town America perfectly , the antithesis of every Frank Capra movie on the same subject . Instead of a cosy town where everyone knows your name , these towns are instead full of bored , restless people sitting around waiting for something , anything , to happen .
Another Forgettable Entry in the Iraq War Movie Mill	Kimberly Peirce becomes one of the latest directors to try and only marginally succeed in making a compelling film about the Iraq conflict . Peirce takes on as her subject the military's stop-loss clause , essentially a back door draft by which the military can use fine print in recruits ' contracts to prevent them from getting out once their time is up . Peirce obviously feels strongly about the policy , but what should be a hard-hitting drama feels instead like a rather preachy after-school special . She coaxes a nice performance out of Ryan Phillipe , as the soldier who goes AWOL when his stop-loss clause is activated , but she doesn't fare as well with the rest of the cast . The film suffers from confusing editing , that doesn't always make it clear where characters are or how events are related to one another , and the writing at times is weak as well , with character motivations not coming across as clearly as they should . I don't know what it is about the Iraq conflict that makes it so hard for filmmakers to make good movies about it . Maybe it will have to be over for a while before anyone can begin to approach it with any success .
Only Reviewing First Half , Because I Have No Intention of Watching Part II	I'm sorry to be doing this , and I won't blame you if you disregard my review because of it , but I'm basing my comments only on the first half of this six-hour film . Expecting much from this acclaimed and obviously beloved made-for-Italian-television miniseries , I instead finished the first half absolutely mystified at what people are responding to . The movie follows the stories of two very different but very close brothers whose lives take quite different directions : at the end of part I , one was a doctor dedicating himself to psychiatric institutional reform while the other was a military police officer . The film absolutely races through its plot ; I'm not exaggerating when I say that if you leave the room for a minute without pausing the film you may come back to find that years have passed while you were gone . The storytelling is completely one-note ; all incidents and events are told with the same uniform tone , so that the drama has no peaks and valleys , and none of it is compelling . Sure , a lot happens in terms of story , but I wasn't remotely engaged in any of it or in these characters . I'm sending the second half back unwatched , because there are too many other movies out there I want to see to muster up the energy or time to watch three more hours of this . I will give " The Best of Youth " the benefit of the doubt that it views better in its original format , as installments on T . V . Maybe the story would seem like it was taking its time a bit more if it were coming at you across a longer period of time , and maybe the static and boring film-making would come across better if you were watching it as a T . V . movie and not as a feature film . But that still doesn't make me like it any better .
Life's Not Always So Wonderful	My apologies to all of you " It's a Wonderful Life " - ers out there . Please believe me when I say that I've tried multiple times to develop warm feelings for this movie . But it's just not meant to be . I've seen this film a couple of times , and I never want to see it again . I want to beat James Stewart's George Bailey about the head and shoulders every time I watch the movie . Perhaps the most passive-aggressive hero in motion picture history , George Bailey spends half of his time sacrificing his own happiness for the sake of others , and the other half whining about his hard luck . No , George , it's not hard luck . . . it's the result of your own decision making skills . Either be selfless and stop complaining , or be a bastard and screw everyone else . But make up your mind , and don't take two hours to do it . Ahhh , perhaps I now live in too cynical and jaded a world to tolerate George's namby-pamby indecision . But maybe that's a reason better than any other to keep this film around . Character aside , however , the one thing I can unequivocally praise about this film is the performance of Stewart . He provides a welcome bitter edge to combat Capra's sugary-sweet corn . His breakdown scene in a bar , where he desperately prays to God to help him keep himself together , is a tour-de-force . Drag it out every Christmas and enjoy . . . I won't begrudge you that small pleasure . Just don't expect me to join along .
An Awkward Attempt By Altman to Tackle the Psychological Thriller	Robert Altman applies the same widescreen canvas he had previously used to capture the chaotic communities of a Korean War MASH unit and a primitive Pacific Northwest mining town to the quieter but no less chaotic internal workings of a troubled woman's psyche in this unsettling and uneven psychological thriller . Susannah York plays Cathryn , wife of a distracted husband ( Rene Auberjonois ) , whose affairs with two men ( one a family friend ) and her inability to have children become obsessive memories that haunt her and drive her over the brink of insanity during a stay at a quiet country home ( the country is never identified , though the movie was filmed in Ireland ) . She begins the film as a wounded and hunted animal , jumping at every sound and image she hears or sees . One of her past lovers appears as a ghost , the other arrives at the country home with his daughter and gropes Cathryn when her husband's back is turned . The two lovers are vaguely threatening and abusive ; her husband is dismissive and treats her like a child . Cathryn realizes that she can take control and kill off her unpleasant memories - - but at the same time she loses the ability to distinguish between reality and her own feverish imaginings . On a first viewing , " Images " is absorbing and oddly fascinating , but it doesn't hold up well . For one , Cathryn isn't a compelling character , and that dooms the project from the start , since there's barely a scene in the film that doesn't revolve around her . She begins the film unhinged and really has nowhere to go from there except more unhinged . We don't learn much about her , and her illness isn't placed in any context . Susannah York delivers a shrill performance , all screeches and irrational outbursts ; the male characters all come across as asses . Altman seems to be trying his hand at a feminist text , but he goes about it in the clichéd way that male artists too often address " female " issues . I think he's making some point about the way movies objectify women , turning them into " images " for the consumption of male viewers . After all , Cathryn is little more than something for the men in the film to enjoy , and cameras figure prominently in the film's mise-en-scene ( Cathryn's husband is an amateur photographer ) . At one point , she fires one of her husband's guns ( that universal symbol of male sexual power ) at the ghost of her dead lover , and finds that she has instead destroyed her husband's camera . Nice try Altman , but awfully heavy handed if you ask me . I'm a champion of Robert Altman's films , and he's never failed to fascinate me with any of his experiments , but such is the nature of experimenting that some are going to succeed more than others . " Images " came on the heels of a marvelous trio of films ( " MASH , " " Brewster McCloud " and " McCabe & Mrs . Miller " ) with which Altman announced his arrival as an important figure in American cinema , and he would follow it with four more ( " The Long Goodbye , " " Thieves Like Us , " " California Split " and " Nashville " ) that would reinforce that claim , but " Images " itself is a weak link in the chain . The stars of " Images " are the mesmerizing production design and the sterling cinematography by Vilmos Zsigmond .
Nobody Puts Baby in a Corner	Welcome to a more innocent time , also knows as 1987 , when movies about kids grinding their hips together in their parents ' basements qualified as scandalous subject matter . " Dirty Dancing " is the film that kick-started Patrick Swayze's brief time as a major star , though all these years later , it's Jennifer Grey's failure to go on to anything after this movie that I regret the most , as she is the most appealing thing about it . As with so many films released during that decade , the soundtrack is the real star .
Tries for Whimsy , Settles for a Great Soundtrack	With " Breakfast on Pluto , " Neil Jordan attempts a whimsical picaresque tale but creates instead a pale and glaringly underdeveloped movie . Cillian Murphy tries with all of his might to inject some vitality into the character of Patrick Braden , an effeminate boy who grows up to be a cross-dressing gamine , a sort of modern-day Scarlett O'Hara who wants to prance through life without getting his feet dirty in any of the world's messiness . Instead of the Civil War , the backdrop here is 1970s Ireland and the constant threat of violence posed by the IRA . Patrick leaves his home to search for his mother , who abandoned him when he was a babe , and inadvertently finds himself mixed up with the terrorist group . From there he flees to London and has all sorts of what we're supposed to think are nutty adventures , until a happy ending finds Patrick at peace and all right with the world . None of this really works . Neil Jordan , a filmmaker whose repertoire suggests political preoccupations , does not seem at any moment convinced by the fantasy or optimism of his own film , so everything rings false . Nothing that happens to Patrick , good or bad , seems to have any significant consequences , and we don't ever really learn much about him or about what he himself has learned on his journey . I believe Jordan intends for us to believe that Patrick has grown as a person over the course of the film , but I only believe that because of the conventions of picaresque stories , not because I saw any growth in Patrick's character . The screenplay works double time to race through all of the plot points - - it feels as if the screenwriter were adapting an 800-page novel to the screen but didn't want to leave anything out . The story introduces a character in one scene only to send him packing two scenes later without having made any tangible impact on the story . " Breakfast on Pluto " is not a bad movie , and despite its flaws still offers a moderately enjoyable ride . The awesome pulsing soundtrack helps greatly , and often does much of the work that should have fallen to either Jordan or his actors . I found myself at times responding to nothing but the music , which does not make for a whole-hearted recommendation of the film , but I'll take what I can get .
Checkmate , Ms . Dunaway	One of those harmless caper films where the only point is how good-looking the two leads are . But with Faye Dunaway as one of those leads , somehow that's enough . Only a year after her luminous performance in " Bonnie and Clyde , " she had already begun to lose that gauzy feminine glamour ( or maybe she was just lit extremely well in that film ) and acquire that sharper , diamond-jawed and intimidating haughtiness that would make her such a great ball-buster in later films ( and which made her kind of scary as well ) , but she was still knock-out enough to make this film easy enough to sit through . And the ladies get Steve McQueen , not too hard on the eyes himself . I wasn't even born when McQueen was at the peak of his stardom , but I have a feeling that if I had been old enough to care about such things , I would have wanted to BE McQueen , because he got to get it on with actresses like Dunaway and Natalie Wood in his films . Otherwise , this film doesn't have much to make it memorable , except for an erotic chess match ( ! ) and its famous theme song , " The Windmills of Your Mind , " that plays over and over and over and over again . They had a budget big enough to pay two superstar salaries but not enough to write a couple of additional songs for the soundtrack ?
A Disappointing Adaptation of a Nearly Perfect Musical	I saw the 1992 revival of " Guys and Dolls " on Broadway when Nathan Lane and Faith Prince were playing the roles of Nathan Detroit and Miss Adelaide . That show was so colorful , vibrant and pulsing with energy , that it made Joseph L . Mankiewicz's screen version pale greatly in comparison . Mankiewicz replaces Damon Runyon's cartoon world of stylized sets and goofy gangsters with what passed for realism in the 1950s . Much of the original musical's score is gone ( even the well-known " A Bushel and a Peck " ) , in some cases replaced by forgettable tunes written expressly for the film . The stunt casting of Marlon Brando in the role of Sky Masterson works better than you might expect ; Brando displays a humorous and charming side to his personality that he hadn't yet shown on screen . Frank Sinatra is too smooth and collected for the addled Nathan Detroit ; Jean Simmons is bland as missionary worker Sarah Brown . Vivian Blaine nails the role of Adelaide - - every ditzy blonde role since owes at least a trifle to her performance . The film never comes alive . You would think Mankiewicz would be a perfect choice for directing screen adaptations of stage material ; his films always felt more like plays anyway , and his strength lay in directing actors through long passages of witty dialogue . But he's not up to the task of directing a musical - - the numbers just sit on the screen ; there's no snap to them . A worthy effort , but one that doesn't meet its potential .
Wanted to Like It More Than I Actually Did	Marx Brothers movies are hard to review , because you can't apply the same criteria to them as you can to other movies . The Marx Brothers created an entire method for delivering screen comedy ; they created the rules and the logic , and you either accept that logic or you don't . I have to base my opinion on " A Night at the Opera , " therefore , on whether or not I laughed , and I didn't , much . I smiled and chuckled here and there , but I just didn't think this movie was that funny . I had a phalanx of film scholars on one of the DVD's special features telling me how funny certain classic bits in this movie are : the " sanity clause " routine , the stateroom scene , etc . But as actually played out , these scenes are moderately amusing but not much more . They have the feel of those Saturday Night Live skits that would be funnier if they were only about 5 minutes shorter . Supposedly , " A Night at the Opera " was the first of a new kind of Marx Brothers movie , more structured and with more dramatic conflict . The only other movie I've seen by them to compare this to is " Duck Soup , " and I say give me the anarchic Brothers any day and dramatic structure be damned . There is one sequence in this movie that I loved , and that's when Chico and Harpo step out of character and display their skill on the piano and harp , respectively . These musical interludes are a much-needed respite from the atrocious , warbly songs performed by the film's male and female love interests . I would recommend any Marx Brothers movie for the same reason I would recommend Charlie Chaplin , Buster Keaton or Astaire / Rogers films . They're part of cinematic history , and they played a large role in defining the art form at a specific point in its development . But that's not to say you will necessarily enjoy them as much as audiences at the time did .
Not Indiana Jones , But a Pretty Good Runner Up	A terrific action adventure film obviously modeled after the Indiana Jones films . Michael Douglas and Kathleen Turner have boatloads of chemistry together as a cocky diamond hunter and a pampered New York writer , respectively , trekking through the jungles of Colombia in search of treasure . The film has all of the requisite battle of the sexes scrapping between Douglas and Turner - - they hate each other at first , but then of course fall in love . In between , there are quite a few memorable set pieces , including mudslides , a car chase that ends up in a raging river , and a climactic showdown that takes place over a pit of hungry alligators . Followed by a not nearly as good sequel , " Jewel of the Nile . "
Second Best of the Series	It still doesn't beat Tim Burton's first film , but " Batman Begins " is better than the rest of the Batman movies to date . Christian Bale makes a terrific Bruce Wayne - - he may be the best actor to have played him so far . And top-tier actors like Liam Neeson , Morgan Freeman and Michael Caine , while maybe not greatly challenged by the material given them , still make the most of smaller roles . My biggest problem with this film was its structure . The first 20-25 minutes of the movie are actually quite boring ; there's so much plot exposition and back story to work through that the film grinds to a halt trying to slog through it . However , once Bruce Wayne begins his actual transformation to Batman , it's as if someone flicked the power switch on and the movie takes flight . From that point forward , it's a lot of fun , dark and brooding , as Batman should be , but also full of that cheeky brand of humour common to comic books . There are many times when I wish the fight scenes had been more visible ; director Chrisotpher Nolan shoots everything so close and edits everything so fast that you can't really see what's going on , a shame since there are plenty of opportunities for sensational fight choreography . But there's enough in this movie to like to make criticisms like this seem like afterthoughts .
Good Vehicle for Burstyn and Alda	This two-person play is transferred to the screen without being able to escape its stage origins , but it offers a great opportunity to see two fine actors give two fine performances . Ellen Burstyn and Alan Alda play lovers who meet once a year at the same time and place for a weekend together . In between , they live their separate lives with their respective families , and they spend as much time catching each other up about the goings on in their individual worlds as they do fooling around during their yearly trysts . Burstyn and Alda are a joy to watch , and they handle the evolution of their characters well . The movie itself gets better as the two principals age - - the early scenes don't come off as well ( the worst segment is one in which Burstyn's simple housewife experiments with hippie-dom while Alda's uptight Republican struggles with the death of a son in Vietnam ) , but the later scenes are simply wonderful , full of a poignancy that resists sentimentality . And I love the theme song to this movie . My wife and I had it played at our wedding .
See for the Lovely Performances of McDonnell and Woodard	Mary McDonnell had a brief spate of success in films in the early 1990s before disappearing from the scene and reemerging recently on the television series " Battlestar Galactica . " First she came to major attention in " Dances with Wolves , " for which she received an Oscar nomination for Best Supporting Actress , and then she graduated to the lead category in 1992 for her performance in " Passion Fish . " McDonnell gives a lovely performance as a bratty soap opera actress who's confined to a wheelchair after an accident , and who must rely on a no-nonsense nurse ( Alfre Woodard , lovely as well ) for help . The film follows all of the requisite trajectories you'd expect from a movie like this , and the fish that give the film its name serve a heavy-handed symbolic purpose that seemed too much for me even at the time ( and I was only seventeen ) . But the film does have a relaxed indie vibe to it , and I can see why people like it .
Ending Is Uncharacteristically Flawed for a Herzog Film	Director Werner Herzog revisits his favorite theme - - Man going mad in the wilderness - - in " Rescue Dawn , " the fictional remake of his own documentary , " Little Dieter Needs to Fly . " Christian Bale plays Dieter Dengler , an American pilot shot down while on a covert bombing mission in Laos in 1965 . He's tucked away in a prison camp but plans and executes an escape with the other inmates . Most of the movie is utterly gripping ( much of it is also extremely grueling ) , and Herzog tells the story with his customary lack of editorializing . What I always like about Herzog's films is that he never tries to tell us how we should feel , but rather approaches his stories , whether fictional or no , with an almost journalistic objectivity . However , his instincts fail him in the film's final scenes , and he falls prey to a bombastic Hollywood ending that's at complete odds with the rest of the film or anything else he's ever done , for that matter . For that reason , my mostly positive review of the movie has to come with qualifications . Bale is remarkable , as usual , as Dengler . He's incapable of giving an ordinary performance , and no matter how good or bad the movie he's in is , you can always count on him to give you something interesting to watch . Steve Zahn plays a hollowed out fellow prisoner who escapes with Dengler and accompanies him on his frantic and nightmarish journey through the jungle , only to meet a shocking end . And an unrecognizable Jeremy Davies gives an off-the-wall performance as a prisoner resistant to Dengler's plan and convinced that they will all be saved by the Americans at any moment . The jungle settings look stunning . As usual in a Herzog film , the environment is as much a character as any of the actual people on screen , and as Zahn's character says at one point , represents more of a prison to these men than the actual walls and buildings of the prison they're in .
Amusing , But Not Much More Than That	A fairly humorous documentary about the world's dirtiest joke . This isn't a very meaty film , and there was a lot of potential untapped by its creators . This could have been an interesting investigation into what makes comedy funny , and how the exact same material presented in different ways can be either hilarious or horrifying . But the directors weren't interested in doing that , and so they simply fill 90 minutes with a huge ensemble of some of the most famous comedians working today either telling the joke or talking about the joke . Actually , the biggest problem with this film is that there's too much of people TALKING about the joke and not enough of people TELLING it . Much is made of the fact that this particular joke almost more than any other depends so much on the style of the comedian telling it , yet we rarely see someone tell it from beginning to end uninterrupted . The funniest versions of the joke are , not surprisingly , those that bring some off-the-wall creativity and don't rely merely on scatological humour . Whoopi Goldberg does a hilarious version in which foreskins figure heavily , and Mario Cantone made me laugh out loud when he did his as delivered by either a very good Carol Channing or a very bad Judy Garland ( I'm still not sure which ) . Kevin Pollack does a dead-on impersonation of Christopher Walken that is priceless , and even the Smothers Brothers tell the joke memorably . Others , like Bob Saget , see only how disgusting they can be , and can't stop laughing at their own outrageousness . And still others , like Steven Wright and Sarah Silverman , deliver disturbingly dead-pan versions that don't end up being jokes at all . " The Aristocrats " is an entertaining diversion at best . I imagine it loses a lot not being seen with a large audience , yet at the same time I'm glad I didn't spend $10 on it .
" Prince Caspian " Lands with a Slight Thud	This disappointing follow up to " The Lion , the Witch and the Wardrobe " had the unfortunate disadvantage of being based on a book that just doesn't tell as good a story as its predecessor , but even with that it could have been a better movie . I liked the intensity Andrew Adamson brought to the previous Narnia story , and I thought it nicely matched the tone of the book . Though " The Chronicles of Narnia " series was written for children , they were dark and adult in their themes ; they were about kids who were being forced to deal with adult complexities before they themselves were of an adult age . However , in this second installment , Adamson ratchets up the intensity a bit too much . The result is a movie that thunders and pounds along when it should be bewitching us with its fantasy . There's a feeling of sameness to the whole movie - - with the exception of a couple of excellently executed moments ( the appearance of Reepicheep , for example , or the initial infiltration of King Miraz's castle ) , there are few images I remember . I don't remember the book " Prince Caspian " that well , so I'm not sure how closely the film adheres to it . I know it gets the basics right . But I don't remember the book spending quite so much time with the evil Telmarines and their political intrigues . I think the back story of Prince Caspian is told as one long flashback , with the rest of the narrative sticking closely to the four Pevensie children and the Narnians . Here , Adamson moves back and forth between the stories , I guess under the impression that this approach works better cinematically ; but because of this , the film never takes focus . Is this the continuing story of Peter , Susan , Edmund and Lucy ? Is this movie about Prince Caspian ? Is this movie about the Narnians ? Edmund is practically nonexistent ; the actor who portrays Peter isn't likable enough to root for ; again , it falls to little Georgie Henley as Lucy to carry the film , and she does so ably . " Prince Caspian " is well put together , no doubt . Adamson knows how to make an action film . But the story loses some of its magic and its steam in this installment . Let's hope that the next two films ( if they get made ) , which are based on two of the strongest installments in the series , get both that magic and that steam back .
A Father / Daughter Con Team Played by a Father and Daughter	A charmer . Ryan O'Neal stars with his real-life daughter Tatum in this story about a father and daughter con team scraping together an existence in Depression-era America . Along the way , the dad picks up a brassy floozy , played by the expert comedienne Madeline Kahn , which doesn't go down well with the precocious kid . The entire success of " Paper Moon " relied upon the performance of the child actor , and Peter Bogdanovich did well to cast Tatum , as she plays the role without any of the self-conscious cutesiness that makes other child actors unbearable . Ryan was never more relaxed or likable in a role , maybe because he was working with his daughter . And Kahn of course is a delight , though one wishes she had a bigger role . As with " The Last Picture Show , " Bogdanovich shoots in nostalgic black and white , but this project is much more light-hearted than the other .
A Whole Lot of Heart and a Whole Lot of Ham	If your knowledge of " 42nd Street " comes from seeing the stage musical , you'll be surprised to find how much less of a musical the film actually is , and how much darker it is than its stage counterpart . The spectre of the Great Depression pervades every frame of the film . These Broadway hoofers never once look like they're enjoying themselves ; instead , they look like any other group of factory or assembly workers , desperately holding on to the job they have no matter how miserable it may be . Busby Berkeley's groundbreaking choreography bursts on to the screen late in the film in a couple of dazzling production numbers . Though actually there is something disturbing about his obsession ( and the entire film's obsession ) with objectifying women until they are nearly indistinguishable from one another . To the producers of the musical within the film , the women are nothing more than pairs of legs . In the audition scene we are privy to , they select the chorus by asking them to hike up their skirts so that their legs will be more easily visible ! ! If there are any auditions to actually find out if the women can sing or dance , we don't see them . And again , in Berkeley's dance numbers , the women become little more than individual body parts , swirling around in kaleidoscopic images that blur one into the next . These early Depression-era musicals are known for launching the career of Ruby Keeler , but I was quite taken aback by how awful she is . She can't act , and her dancing is atrocious . She clomps around and flails her arms like a chimpanzee impersonating a human . Of the actors , Ginger Rogers makes an impression in a small role as the acerbic Anytime Annie ( and get a load of the scene where she insists that Ruby Keeler take on the lead role in the musical , because she can dance rings around poor Ginger . . . . yeah , right ) . Bebe Daniels and George Brent do well with their parts , and Warner Baxter serves up the ham and gets to deliver the film's most famous line . I know this review sounds more critical than positive , but I actually enjoyed this film very much . It's corny , silly and melodramatic to be sure , but it's also earnest and well crafted . It's a fascinating slice of film history and one that any serious film buff should see .
Norma Shearer Plays a Daddy's Girl	A Norma Shearer soap opera about a free-spirited woman and her alcoholic attorney father ( Lionel Barrymore ) who stand together against the disapproving snobbery of their family . Shearer falls in love with a thug who her father defended in court ( Clark Gable ) , and finds that her father's talk about the second chances due to troubled souls does not extend to them when they're dating his daughter . The pair enter into an agreement : she'll stop seeing the thug if he'll stop drinking . Things take appropriately outlandish and melodramatic turns when Shearer's former fiancée ( Leslie Howard ) gets involved , kills Gable , and finds himself being defended in court by who ? . . . . . you guessed it , good old Barrymore , who just has time to finish an impassioned plea for the man's life before dropping dead . Whew , that's a lot to pack into a 90 minute film . There's not much of note about this movie except for the good performances of Shearer and Barrymore ( though she was better in the previous year's melodrama , " The Divorcée " ) and its frank treatment of alcoholism . Had this come out a few years later , after the Production Code was firmly in place , the film would not have even been able to admit that alcoholism existed .
Fascinating But Uneven	" On Dangerous Ground " is a strange , schizophrenic film that straddles the fence between film noir and romantic melodrama , managing to be both and neither at the same time . It has the same otherworldly quality that director Nicholas Ray frequently brought to his films , but ultimately I'm not sure whether it's successful or not . The first half of the film finds brutal cop Robert Ryan stomping around the mean streets of a dark , brooding city , his abusive approach to meting out punishment keeping him only one small step from becoming the kind of criminal he spends his time tracking down . These early scenes are the most fascinating ones in the film , though ( or maybe because ) they have really nothing to do with the film's main plot and are all about developing the character of Ryan . He cruises around dark streets , the camera placed in the back seat of his car , filming the passing street as he is seeing it , his eyes reflected in the rearview mirror ( Martin Scorses borrowed this kind of shot for " Taxi Driver " perhaps ? ) What emerges is the portrait of an isolated and lonely man barely maintaining a grip on his sanity in the midst of an insane world . But the second half of the film dissipates the claustrophobic tension of the city environment by sending Ryan out into the country to investigate the murder of a young girl . He stumbles into the home of a blind woman ( played by Ida Lupino looking like Loretta Young ) and strikes up a timid romance with her , her gentleness and trustworthy nature providing just the antidote his jaded sensibilities need . Will their romance work , or are the two worlds they're from too different ? There's much of interest about the portion of the film set in the country . The idea that the kind of crime traditionally reserved for the back alleys of city slums could be working its way into the great nowhere had to have been an uncomfortable idea for post-war America . And the crazed , vengeful father of the murdered girl is a far cry from the simple , kind souls we like to think people the American heartland . And Ray creates a visual interest in the country scenes as well . The harsh , barren landscape looks like the surface of the moon , no more inviting than the sinister , shadowy city streets to which it's juxtaposed . But I got bored with the romantic plot line , and felt it was out of place in a film like this . And the ending especially didn't sit well with me . It seemed much more likely that Ryan would return to the streets he knows so well and continue his lonely existence , rather than come back to the love of a good woman in a cozy cottage in the middle of nowhere . I felt cheated , and wished that the ending could have had the guts that the rest of the film did . A fascinating film in its own right , but a flawed one . You can't watch it and not think of the opportunities missed .
A Noir with a Sense of Humour	Actor Barry Sullivan kicks things off in " Tension " with a pre-credits monologue spoken directly into the camera , in which his police detective character explains his method for getting criminals to trip up and give their crimes away - - he applies pressure to them slowly and steadily until they have no choice but to snap , just like the rubber band he plays with as he speaks . The self-awareness of this opening sequence carries over into the entire film , making this one of the more humorous entries in the film noir cycle . Richard Basehart plays a man tromped on by his floozy wife ( Audrey Totter ) , who gets so fed up with his inability to stand up for himself that he decides to create an alternate identity and use it to create the perfect murder , killing his wife's new lover . At the last minute , he can't do it , but the guy turns up dead anyway , shot by Totter , and now Basehart's in a fix . How can he explain to the police that he had planned to murder this guy , and had gone through all of these deliberate preparations for doing so , but didn't actually do the deed ? Basehart plays his role well , nimbly managing the leap back and forth between the nerdy drug store manager and the mysterious cosmetics salesman that comprise his two identities . But the film is hijacked right from under his feet by Sullivan , who gets most of the film's funniest lines , and Totter , who plays Basehart's wife as the quintessential femme fatale . She's so appealingly sexy , sharp and lurid , especially when compared to the wholesome , bland Cyd Charisse , who plays Basehart's new love interest , that you almost end up rooting for her to come out on top . This film noir is no big deal , but it's an awful lot of fun .
Sci-Fi with a Heart	It's impossible to recreate the feeling audiences at the time of this film's release likely had watching it . Special effects and movies about alien visitors have become so commonplace as to make this one quaint . But one of the things I admire most about " Close Encounters " is its hypothesis that aliens could possibly be friendly , and that a visit from them could be an occasion for awe and delight . Up to then , most alien visitor movies ( and really alien visitor movies still today , for that matter ) positioned aliens as beings to fear and kill as quickly as possible , before they had a chance to strike at us . As for the rest of " Close Encounters , " I have to admit that I don't remember it that well , as I've only seen it once a long time ago , but what I do remember is finding it ever so slightly dull , whatever else its other merits .
Psychedelic Trip Through the Arabian Nights	A colorful and downright trippy version of the Arabian nights tale about a street urchin who stumbles upon a magic lamp and is granted three wishes by an all-powerful genie . Actually , that's only part of the story as presented here , but it's the part of the film that provides the craziest and most spectacular special effects . The rest of the film concerns a king who seeks revenge on the evil sorcerer who steals his throne , in the process taking back his true love . This is a fun and engaging film , awfully cheesy but in a good way . Disney ransacked bits and pieces of it for their animated hit " Aladdin . "
Entertaining , But Not as Scathing as It Could Have Been	Kirby Dick's expose of the MPAA's ratings process only confirms the suspicion that motion picture ratings are virtually worthless , arbitrarily assigned by an elite panel who purport to have our country's children's best interests at heart , but who seem to think that an exposed breast is more harmful to them than seeing a gunshot to the head . It's absolutely infuriating that the country's churches have a seat on the ratings boards and a say in what content is or is not suitable for consumption . It's infuriating that an NC-17 rating exists at all ( the board is essentially usurping the judgement and decision-making abilities of parents ) , but doubly infuriating that it's used as a punishment to " encourage " filmmakers to alter their films so that they're more palatable for mainstream film goers . For a while I was kind of sad that home video and the Internet seems to be supplanting movie theatres as the preferred venue for watching films , but now I appreciate the democratizing effect of companies like Netflix and Blockbuster , who have made great filmmakers less reliant on corporate theatre chains to get their films distributed and seen . As a documentary , " This Film Is Not Yet Rated " is rather disorganized . Dick has good points to make , but their impact is blunted by tangents and off-topic tirades . Dick hires a private detective to track down the identities of the ratings board , and spends far too much of his 96 minutes following the details of that investigation . On the plus side , it's great to see directors and actors like Kimberly Peirce , Maria Bello and John Waters given a venue to vent their frustrations at the ratings practice . One of the main points Dick makes , and one I heartily agree with , is that the ratings board focuses far more energy on censoring sex in films than they do violence , a point that is unintentionally driven home by none other than the ratings board chairman herself towards the film's climax . Dick asks why his documentary received an NC-17 rating and she cites the sexual content that appears in some of the clips of films that have received NC-17 ratings sprinkled throughout the documentary . She seems to have no problem with some of the very violent content included in clips from some of those very same movies . What an idiot .
Peter Lorre Puts His Unique Mark on This Story of International Intrigue	Peter Lorre and Sydney Greenstreet star in this atmospheric noir from 1944 . Lorre plays a writer who becomes fascinated with a criminal known as Dimitrios , who's cut a path of thievery and murder across the Mediterranean . He's approached by Greenstreet , a mysterious stranger , about hatching a scheme to blackmail Dimitrios with information each has separately and that would be highly incriminating if put together . These shady dealings take Lorre , and the audience , to all manner of exotic locales , from Istanbul to Austria . " The Mask of Dimitrios " isn't that different from any number of international intrigue stories from the same time period , but what does give it a touch of the unique is the relationship between Lorre and Greenstreet , two men who form a kind of tentative friendship even though neither much trusts the other . Lorre in particular gives a wonderfully engaging performance , full of character and wit . He's fascinating just to watch and listen to - - it doesn't ' much matter what he's even doing or saying .
Good Acting Makes Up for a Cop-Out Ending	This well-acted screen version of the Tennessee Williams play makes for entertaining viewing , but it's hopelessly marred by an overly-censored ending that dilutes the story of much of its power . I've never seen or read the original stage version , and I didn't know how the film's ending differed from the original until after I'd watched it ( I only knew that it had a happier ending imposed on it ) , but even I could tell that the film didn't end the way Williams had originally intended . Paul Newman plays Chance Wayne ( how's that for a subtle choice of name ? ) , a small-time loser who has dreams of making it big in Hollywood . He's returned to his home town with a zonked out famous actress in tow ( played by Geraldine Page ) . His plan is to blackmail the actress into giving him a movie contract , and then take off for Hollywood with his long-lost love , Heavenly ( more subtlety ) , played by Shirley Knight . Heavenly's father , however , the monstrous political boss Tom Finley ( Ed Begley , repulsive ) , wants better things for his daughter and will stop at nothing to prevent Chance from having his way . This is Tennessee Williams , not exactly the go-to playwright for happy endings , so we know all of these personalities have to be heading toward some sort of tragic conclusion , with a few skeletons jumping out of closets along the way , except that in this version , nothing really all that bad happens : Chance gets to run off with Heavenly , and Begley is told off in the film's final scene by one of the film's minor characters . Oh well . . . . I shouldn't have been surprised . Other than Elia Kazan's " A Streetcar Named Desire , " I haven't yet seen a filmed version of a Tennessee Williams play made at the time Williams was actually writing that comes close to doing his work justice , making me wonder why Hollywood wanted to make movies out of his plays at all . This film's not a total wash though . To compensate for its cowardice , it does offer a number of superb performances , many of the actors recreating the roles they originated on stage . Page is probably the standout , no surprise given the juiciness of her role . Her turnaround near the film's end , when this helpless , wasted actress transforms into a more than capable beast of the Hollywood jungle , is one of the movie's highlights . Newman is very good too as Chance . I always respected Newman for his willingness to play unflattering characters and not take the easy route of the glamorous pretty boy . Shirley Knight and Ed Begley are serviceable . Begley , as usual , is nearly unwatchable , but that's appropriate for such a gross character . Rip Torn , Madeleine Sherwood and Mildred Dunnock appear in smaller roles . Richard Brooks provides the capable if undistinguished direction .
As Usual , the Protesters Got It Wrong	As is typical with religious-themed movies , the broo-ha that greeted Martin Scorsese's " The Last Temptation of Christ " was completely unnecessary . The controversy all stemmed around the film's last 30 minutes or so , when Jesus imagines what it would be like to skip out on the crucifixion scene and live the life of a normal man . I don't know what everyone got so hot and bothered about - - though I'm no Bible expert , wasn't the whole point of Christ's story that he suffered the same pains and was tempted by the same sins as mankind so that his sacrifice meant something ? Well , whatever . As a movie , " The Last Temptation of Christ " is pretty good , and yet further evidence that though Scorsese is known for gangster movies , he's a quite versatile director . It's probably a little too long , and a tad sluggish , but it's well acted and directed , and well worth watching , whether you're religious or not .
A Thinking Man's Action Thriller	Harrison Ford runs and Tommy Lee Jones chases after him in this big-budget film adaptation of the popular television series . This is a Hollywood action movie for the thinking man , where you can tell that at least as much thought went into characterizations as into the numerous technical stunts . One of the film's strongest ingredients is the chemistry between Ford and Jones , all the more remarkable since the two actors don't actually appear physically together on screen very often . Jones , especially , steals the show , and I remember sitting in the movie theater at the time of this movie's release thinking that he would at least be nominated for an Oscar ( which he was , and which he won ) . So , good movie for its genre . . . . but an Academy Award nomination for Best Picture ? I don't know about that . . . .
All Hail Queen Blanchett	A history lesson dumbed down so much that 7-year-olds could understand what's going on , " Elizabeth : The Golden Age " is nevertheless a wholeheartedly entertaining film . It reminded me of the fluffy , goofy historical epics Hollywood used to make back in the 1930s , when the emphasis was on romantic swooning rather than historical accuracy . Cate Blanchett could play a milk pail and keep me riveted , and she's dynamite once again as Elizabeth I , leading her country against the onslaught of the invading Spanish , who are intent on bringing the Inquisition to England . Blanchett is too good for material like this , but she gives it her all like a pro , and no amount of production design ( and believe me , there's plenty to spare in this movie ) , could induce me to take my eyes off of her . Geoffrey Rush reprises his role as Francis Walsingham , Elizabeth's right-hand man , but he's mostly relegated to the sidelines . Stepping up to front and center this time around is Clive Owen , who plays either explorer Walter Raleigh or Errol Flynn , I'm still not sure which . All I know is that by the end he's swinging on ropes like Douglas Fairbanks , carefully groomed chest hair blowing in the breeze , as the English navy takes its stand against the Spanish armada . Actually , the silent film reference could apply to the Spaniards as well - - they're so deliciously evil that you half expect them to start twirling their villainous mustaches . I hope all the Catholics out there have a good sense of humour . By the end , all attempts at realism have been swept aside , and the movie has descended into pure camp , Elizabeth practically calling down God's wrath to defeat the Spanish . And you know , Blanchett is such a good actress , I almost believe she COULD call down God's wrath if she wanted to . All I know is that when she shouts out the film's best line , " My bitches wear my collars ! " I sure as hell sat up and took notice .
Hitchcock Light	This Hitchcock film , made soon after he burst into prominence in America with films like " Rebecca " and " Suspicion , " is a lot of fun , but it's ultimately more of a technical experiment than it is a satisfying narrative film , much like " Rope " would be 4 years later . The suspense here comes more from wondering how Hitchcock is going to sustain interest in a film shot entirely within the confines of a small boat rather than through any dramatic tension . Still , any Hitchcock fan should see it , and Hitch works in his trademark cameo in a particularly clever way . Tallulah Bankhead is sexy and vampy in the lead role . She has the glamour and acerbic wit of a Bette Davis , and it's a shame she didn't do more film .
Of Tornadoes and the Ku Klux Klan	A solid dust bowl soap opera that stars Sally Field as a weary widow struggling single-handedly to keep her cotton farm running . Director Robert Benton's ( " Kramer vs . Kramer " ) strengths are his ability to get great performances out of his actors ; stylistically , there's nothing distinguished about his films . The same is true here . He's assembled a good cast , and he stands back and just lets them act . The movie is a like a checklist of every bad thing that could possibly happen to people living on a cotton farm in the 1930s , so we get a big tornado that wipes out the town and a special appearance by the Ku Klux Klan . It's probably authentic but it's also rather grueling . The movie is anchored by Field's fierce performance , and it's her that keeps the potential runaway melodrama in check . The fine cast of at the time mostly unknowns includes John Malkovich as a blind drifter ; Danny Glover as a slave ; Lindsay Crouse and Ed Harris as Field's sister and brother-in-law . I should hate the sentimental ending , but instead I'll be damned if it doesn't work .
Solid If Uninvolving Davis Vehicle	Bette Davis won her fourth Best Actress Academy Award nomination for this moody William Wyler melodrama , made previously in 1929 as a vehicle for stage actress Jeanne Eagels ( who also won an Oscar nomination for the same role ) . The movie gets a high ranking at IMDb , but it's not one of my favorite Davis films . There's nothing exactly wrong with it , but it just left me a bit cold and uninvolved . The story begins with Davis gunning down a man outside her plantation home in a sweaty tropical country . From there , the film unravels the mystery of what led up to that moment . Is Davis's character a victimized heroine who was acting in self-defense , or is she a lethal femme fatale and a great faker to boot ? I'll leave it to you to find out for yourself . The film has all the stylistic panache one would expect from a William Wyler movie ; it has the look of a film noir before film noir was even a recognized genre . It put me in mind a little bit of something Graham Greene would write , given its tropical setting and moral ambiguity . And however indifferent I may be toward the movie as a whole , I do have to admit that it has a remarkable ending , and if Gale Sondergaard doesn't give you the creeps , you're a better man than I .
These Cowboys Sure Know How to Use Their Guns	Robert Aldrich's smart-ass take on the western stars Gary Cooper and Burt Lancaster as white hat / black hat cowboys , respectively , who sign on with Emperor Maxmillian in post-Civil War Mexico to escort a countess to the port of Vera Cruz . Unknown to the cowboys , at least at first , is the fact that what they're really doing is helping to protect $3 , 000 , 000 in gold , and that the countess is just a front . All of the requisite dirty dealings you would expect from such a situation follow , with everybody double crossing everybody else in an effort to get his hands on the money . " Vera Cruz " is refreshingly funny and cynical , with none of the trading in mythical heroes that had characterized screen westerns up to that point . Indeed , Aldrich is credited with inspiring a new kind of western , populated by mercenaries , where the good guy / bad guy dichotomy no longer exists , mostly because there aren't any good guys . We're used to thinking of Gary Cooper as a benevolent hero , but though his character here is quieter and more reserved than Burt Lancaster's hot head , and the final scene does suggest some redemption for him , he's a far cry from John Wayne's lily white saviors . Lancaster is quite good , flashing his megawatt smile and exuding a dangerous sexuality . The movie is full of unsubtle sexual context , mostly having to do with mens ' guns and how good they are at using them .
Has Much More to Say Than Hype Would Have You Believe	There are about 15 minutes of " Audition " that everyone remembers and talks about , and about 95 minutes of movie that you'd think didn't even exist if you listened to others ' comments . But this is the director's fault ; when you set out to shock your audience as much as Takashi Miike does in this film , you can't blame the audience if all they remember about your film is the shocking part . Which is a shame , because " Audition " is quite a bit more than a mere horror movie . It's really more of a feverish psychological drama along the lines of a David Lynch film . In fact , in structure and tone , this film reminded me of Lynch's " Mulholland Drive , " and if Lynch didn't have his own unique style and brand of film-making , I might wonder if he was inspired in part by this film when he made his own . What other comments here have done nicely is summarize what " Audition " is " about . " A man ( Shigeharu Aoyama ) mourning the loss of his wife looks to find the perfect woman to replace her , and he holds bogus auditions for an ostensible film role in order to find her . But the girl who catches his interest ( Asami Yamazaki ) turns out to be a much better actress than he bargained for . What other comments DON'T necessarily convey , however , is how much of this film takes place in the world of dreams , and how blurred the line between reality and fantasy is . This dilutes the violence of the film's final moments , because there is a strong suggestion that this violence is taking place in the protagonist's nightmares . Is " Audition " a critique of the confined roles women are forced to inhabit in Japanese society ? Is it about Aoyama's guilt in feeling the need for a woman to replace his dead wife ? Is it about his fear of finding a girl that actually can replace her , thereby diminishing what he had with her ? Is the film about the extent to which all relationships are " auditions , " where each person involved makes him / herself vulnerable and exposes him / herself to acceptance or rejection at the whims of another ? A case can be made for its being about all of these things . When the violence comes at the end , it's not as graphic as the hype would lead you to believe . Even so , I wish Miike hadn't pushed the envelope quite so far . One has to wonder if the emotional impact of the film would have been any less just because the violence was less graphic , and I suspect the answer to that is no . The violence feels gratuitous and cheapens slightly everything that comes before it . It mars the film , but fortunately it doesn't ruin it . This is far more of a thinking man's film that its reputation would lead you to believe . Those who come to it for the titillating shock of its gore are bound to be disappointed .
Ghosts of Mothers Past	With " Volver , " Pedro Almodovar gives us a sweet and warm film about the ways in which women can be care givers for one another , and the responsibilities that go along with that . He also examines the impact that the actions of parents have on their children , while at the same time cautioning children about making hasty assumptions about those actions . As is typical in an Almodovar film , there's a lot to chew on , but unlike some of his most recent efforts ( like the superb " Talk to Her " and " Bad Education " ) I didn't find myself that affected by " Volver " or even thinking much about it after I left the theatre . It goes down easily while you're watching it , but it doesn't linger . Penelope Cruz has been receiving raves for her performance , but I suspect that's more because people are comparing this to other performances she's given and less on the merits of this performance alone . She's completely serviceable as Raimunda , the struggling mom saddled with a lump of a husband who must decide what to do when he dies in an unexpected and shocking way , but Raimunda never came fully alive on screen for me , and I blame that on Cruz's limitations as an actress . She looks ravishing , and she's good at being saucy , but she's less at home with the emotional depths of the script . I had much more fun with Lola Duenas , who plays Sole , Raimunda's sister , who takes in their dead mother ( Carmen Maura ) when she returns from the grave and then hides her from Raimunda . And I was somewhat disappointed that Marua herself gets little to do , and that the movie comes to a close just as her character begins to take shape . There's a lot of back story to all of these characters and their stories that Almodovar handles with an uncustomary lack of grace . One regrets that important details informing these womens ' patterns of behavior has to be communicated to us through scenes of clunky plot exposition . And Cruz's big scene , in which she sings a song at a party and is supposed to be exorcising some of her demons in an emotionally intense moment , is silly , partly due to Cruz's poor job of lip synching . So " Volver " is a qualified success . I don't know that Pedro Almodovar is capable of making a bad movie , and he certainly seems incapable of making a film that isn't at least interesting , but this isn't one of his best efforts .
A Hit for the Coen Brothers	The Coen brothers are a very hit-or-miss film-making team . Either I love their movies ( " Fargo , " " Blood Simple , " " The Man Who Wasn't There " ) or I hate them ( " The Big Lebowski , " O Brother , Where Art Thou ? " ) . O . k . , so I didn't necessarily love " Intolerable Cruelty , " but it does qualify as a hit for me . It's a refreshingly unpredictable comedy , sort of a dark homage to the screwball comedies of the 30's and 40's . I could see Cary Grant and Irene Dunne doing this film , or William Powell and Myrna Loy . I think George Clooney is a pretty bland actor , but I can admit that he's got charm , which is all this role really calls for . Catherine Zeta-Jones will probably reveal herself to be a fairly limited actress by the time all is said and done , but she's sexy as hell , which is all HER role really calls for . So , these two work together just fine . The only quibbles I have with the movie are the one or two instances where it falls back on that slapstick humour that the Coen brothers tend to overdo , but these are minor quibbles . Overall , this one is a winner .
Good for a Hollywood Film ; Ehh for a Kubrick Film	Far , FAR better than " Ben-Hur , " which came out the year before , " Spartacus " still doesn't quite shake some of the same epic movie shackles that made William Wyler's film such a dismal bore . The point of this film is the sets and costumes ; the studios denied Kubrick the freedom to direct this movie in his instantly recognizable style , so while it's certainly solidly enough crafted and easy to sit through , it also feels anonymous , which wouldn't be so bad if you didn't know that someone as distinctly NON-anonymous as Kubrick helmed it . Can you imagine how much better " Spartacus " would have been if Kubrick had been able to direct it in the same style as that other piece of eye candy he created , " Barry Lyndon ? " Best not to think about such things that can never be .
One of the Best Bad Movies Ever	Pour yourself out a nice big boatload of gravy to go with this gigantic slice of holiday ham . . . . I love this movie , and I'm not ashamed to admit it . I don't even feel like doing a critical analysis of it , or talking about the acting , or anything of the kind . It's not even a good movie , really , and it suffers from that ugly 50s look from which so many movies from the decade suffered , when they thought the way to compete with television was to build enormous screens and cram them full of saturated color . . . Michael Curtiz and company make only the barest attempt at adhering to anything resembling a plot , and what plot there is could hardly be called coherent . This film was one of the last gasps of the " Let's put on a show ! " genre , as well as one of the last shameless attempts to tearjerk a WWII recovering audience into submission . This movie contains more corn than Nebraska , and God love it for that .
A Consummate Ron Howard Film , Which Means It's Not Remotely Artistic	Frank Langella is getting heaps of praise for his performance as Richard Nixon in this Ron Howard film , but it's Michael Sheen , who delivers a spunky performance as David Frost , the lightweight British talk-show host , who deserves the most acclaim . The film chronicles the famous Frost / Nixon interview that occurred a few years after Nixon's resignation . Both sides went into the interview like it was a boxing match , the Nixon camp seeing a chance to exonerate the infamous political figure in the public's eye , the Frost camp seeing an opportunity to get Nixon to admit publicly that he broke the law . The showdown should have been exciting ( and by all accounts was , though I was far too young at the time to know about any of it ) , but events in the film only reach a moderate simmer when they should boil . Both Langella and Sheen give excellent performances , and they're backed by able actors ( like Oliver Platt , Sam Rockwell and Kevin Bacon ) , but the film remains staunchly unexciting . The film could have gone in any number of interesting directions . Frost , an Englishman , clearly doesn't understand the passion with which his American aides want retribution from the encounter with Nixon , and I was interested in the role this difference in cultural perspective played . Also , the screenplay early on mentions the impact of television on the proceedings , positing that Frost ultimately won because he knew the medium while Nixon didn't . But this is just told to us , not shown . Rather than develop either of these engaging ideas , director Ron Howard instead decides , typically , to charge straight down the middle and deliver a consummate Ron Howard film . Therefore , it's solid , professional , slick and not remotely artistic .
Under the Sea with Disney	" The Little Mermaid " revitalized Disney's animation department and would make it a force to be reckoned with over the next several years , before Pixar came along and picked up the mantle . " Mermaid " isn't one of my favorites ( I prefer " Beauty and the Beast , " " Aladdin " and " The Lion King " over it ) , but it is a beautiful and now nostalgic throw back to hand-drawn animation , and it does boast one of the best scores written for a Disney film . It kicked off the trend of show-stopping production numbers that every Disney musical must have ; in this one it's " Under the Sea . "
Burton and Taylor Don the Boxing Gloves Once Again	Richard Burton and Elizabeth Taylor apparently hadn't had enough of each other the previous year in " Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf ? " so they re-teamed in 1967 in this Shakespeare comedy for round two . Once again , Taylor gives as good as she gets , and claims a decided victory . There's not much to say about this film . If you like filmed Shakespeare , you'll probably like this , because it's a fairly strong adaptation . I'm not a huge fan of Shakespeare films , so you won't get any sort of ringing endorsement from me , but that's not necessarily because of anything wrong with the way this material is presented . So watch and enjoy .
Inheriting the Sins of Our Fathers	" City of Men " is a companion piece to Fernando Meirelles ' 2002 film " City of God , " but it's a much different animal from the earlier film . Both are set in the slums of Rio de Janeiro , and both are about young men fashioning lives for themselves out of the only resources available to them . But whereas " City of God " was kinetic , angry and immediate , " City of Men " is more reflective and conventional , and it comes to a much more hopeful conclusion than the earlier film . " City of Men " is by far the weaker of the two . The carefully crafted screenplay was full of the heavy themes and plot twists of a Shakesperean tragedy , but I found myself missing the unscripted , documentary-like feel of Meirelles ' film . " City of Men " is about the absence of fathers , and about two friends who find themselves fighting on opposite sides because of deeds committed by their own dads - - sons literally inheriting the sins of their fathers . But the script is too often heavy handed , and the director , Paulo Morelli , chooses to communicate too much about the lives of these people through blunt exposition . We don't learn about them from what the actors playing them do or how they act , but rather through the lines they read , and we're almost always aware that they're reading lines . Nevertheless , the acting is strong enough that I found myself caring for the two leads and fairly engrossed in how their stories turned out . Morelli isn't as accomplished a director as Meirelles , but the film is still well directed on its own more modest terms . If I didn't already have " City of God " to compare it to , I might have liked it even more .
A Piece of Candy	Those who want to learn the history of Marie Antoinette will not find it in Sofia Coppola's film . This movie raised more questions than it answered for me . I didn't know much of anything about this famous French monarch , other than that she was eventually beheaded ( which is not shown in the film ) and that Norma Shearer starred in a 1938 version of her story . I did a little bit of reading about Marie Antoinette after seeing Coppola's movie and decided that Coppola took much too frivolous an approach to the material . Many of the details about Marie Antoinette's life as first wife of the dauphin and then queen are present , but if you don't know her story before watching the film , they may slide right past you without notice , even some quite significant ones . Coppola doesn't provide an historical context in which to place the film's action ; therefore , we understand that certain things are important without understanding why . Why , for example , do the French end up hating her and Louis XVI so much ? What mistakes do they make as leaders that drives their country to such a desperate point ? The film ends with the king and queen fleeing the palace of Versailles - - there's a heck of a lot of story left to tell after that event , but it's not recorded here . I suspect Coppola was trying to put us in the queen's place - - she was a young , immature girl who was thrust into a position for which she was not emotionally ready . In the film , politics bore her , and she would much rather buy clothes and gossip . The job of running a country remains a vague nuisance pushed into the background . But this point of view approach backfires . We don't learn enough about what's at stake to ever feel especially concerned about Marie Antoinette or what happens to her , and the character itself isn't vivid . So why am I ultimately recommending the film ? Because it's lively , colorful and extremely well directed . It reminded me of Kubrick's " Barry Lyndon " : there's no substance to the movie , but it's so meticulously detailed in its production design , and it so faithfully recreates the rituals of 18th Century France , that it's absolutely fascinating on those terms alone . I enjoyed the anachronisms Coppola brings to the film : Kirsten Dunst , playing the title role , and Jason Schwartzman , as Louis XVI , speak in a slangy American dialect that doesn't even attempt to convince us that either of them is European ; in one scene , during a flashy montage showing Antoinette and her female cohorts enjoying the frivolity and excess for which she was so notorious , we get a glimpse of Converse sneakers discarded in the background ; and most notably , most of the soundtrack consists of contemporary pop tunes that comment on the action , and if they frequently take the burden of telling the story away from Coppola and her actors , they're also a lot of fun . Ultimately , " Marie Antoinette " resembles one of the many gooey , decadent candies that the queen consumes throughout the film - - completely lacking in substance , but lovely to look at and perfectly suited to satisfy a craving for something sweet .
There's a Lot to Be Said for Movies Like This	" The Lookout " is the kind of film there needs to be more of . It's a pleasant , simple genre piece , unambitious , but solidly crafted with strong writing and good acting . That's a formula that is hard to find in current Hollywood movies , and it's woefully under-appreciated . Gordon Joseph-Levitt has proved himself as a very good young actor , and on the strengths of this movie and last year's " Brick " has shown a flair for picking original projects . In this movie , he plays Chris Pratt , former king of his rural Kansas high school , now a janitor and night watchman in a dead end job at a bank after a car accident leaves his brain addled . A group of small-time hoods convince him to join their plan to rob the bank at which Chris works , preying on his need for friends and his feeling that control of his own life has been taken away . But things go badly , Chris finds out he's been used as little more than a dupe , and he gets a chance to take control when he ends up with all of the stolen money that the hoods desperately want back . This movie belongs to that genre of films about the kinds of hopeless crime that occur out in the wide open spaces of Nowheresville , U . S . A . It's a movie whose impact relies on good plotting , pacing and suspense rather than graphic violence , and unlike so many of the films Hollywood has been producing lately , it doesn't leave you feeling awful and gloomy . Jeff Daniels , who in recent years has become one of my favorite actors , does more fine work as Chris's blind friend Lewis , who , despite his handicap , sees more than anybody else in the movie .
High Camp , Low Art	A kitsch lover's wet dream . Bette Davis prances around wearing pancake makeup and Little-Bo-Peep dresses while her invalid sister , Joan Crawford , quakes and cowers upstairs . Jane is mad , you see , that her sister is ( or was , before an " accident " ) the more popular actress of the two , and Jane's mission in life is to torment her sister by serving her dead rats for lunch . Better than live rats , I guess . So began the period of Davis's and Crawford's careers when they appeared in one schlock-fest after another , the juicy legitimate roles for actresses their ages having disappeared ( or never existed ) . Crawford was always better in these star vehicles than Davis was ; one could sense that Davis couldn't ever quite get over the knowledge that the roles were beneath her , while Crawford committed herself to her's wholesale . " Baby Jane " would have been an eerie case of life somewhat imitating art ( if the feud between Davis and Crawford indeed existed ) except for the fact that in real life Davis was by far the more successful of the two , and by most accounts would be considered to have had the more acclaimed career .
Feast for the Eyes and Ears	Roland Joffe's period film is breathtaking to look at and listen to , but it's directed with a heavier hand than his breakout film from two years earlier , " The Killing Fields . " I had trouble with the casting too . Jeremy Irons feels right for his role , but it's tough to accept Robert DeNiro in period films - - he's such a remarkable contemporary actor , and he's created such iconic representations of modern urban life , that he feels out of place in something like this . The film is a feast for the eyes and ears though , with Chris Menges , who had won an Oscar for photographing " The Killing Fields " , adding a second trophy to his mantle for his work here ; and Ennio Morricone providing an instantly classic score .
Winning Pair in a Slight Neil Simon Effort	There's nothing really to dislike about " The Odd Couple , " and it's no surprise that Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau make a hugely winning comedic team . But there's something so underdeveloped about Neil Simon's adaptation of his hit stage play as to make it seem more like a skit on a sketch comedy show than a full-bodied film . I have not seen the play , but have to assume that the screen version is fairly faithful , since Simon wrote it , so the defects cannot be blamed on a stage-to-screen adaptation . There are some interesting ideas in this story - - two recently divorced men who fall immediately into traditional married roles when they become roommates because neither knows any differently - - that Simon never fully fleshes out . Still , there are many worse ways to kill a couple of hours .
Fun for Film Buffs	This short film purports to be about the intricacies of sound technology , but it's really more of an excuse to showcase a batch of big-name MGM stars and some coming attractions . But either way it's fascinating . We go behind the scenes for the filming of a scene featuring Jeannette McDonald and Nelson Eddy , and get a glimpse of the massive technicolor camera being used . There is also a scene featuring Clark Gable and Hedy Lamarr , in which we see their voices represented as sound waves . But this is all surface-level stuff and a prelude to an extended preview of coming attractions . And what a preview it is ! Clark Gable , Greer Garson , Myrna Loy , William Powell , Judy Garland , Joan Crawford , Lionel Barrymore , James Stewart , Katharine Hepburn , one right after the next . There's a nostalgic thrill in seeing a preview for " The Philadelphia Story " before anyone knew that that movie would become one of the most beloved of all time . Fun stuff .
Still Very Frightening	Wes Craven's horror classic holds up remarkably well , and remains a truly scary movie . Freddy was always a more chilling villain than Michael Myers or Jason Voorhees . Whereas the other two went about their ritualistic killings like zoned-out zombies , Freddy delights in his , and enjoys the fear his victims feel as he toys with them before he murders them as much as he enjoys the murders themselves . And he's just physically scarier as well : he runs , darts around , can pop up anywhere as anything . Wes Craven's genius in this entire series was the plot hook that has Freddy only able to murder in his victims ' dreams . This allows Craven fantastic , surreal set pieces , that really do manage to capture the feelings that nightmares have in actuality . One of the best in the horror genre .
Santa Claus as Che Guavera	Just watched this on T . V . last night - - I didn't remember this one all that well from my childhood years . So basically Santa became Santa because he was a revolutionary leader who had to go into hiding . O . k . who knew ? He gets kudos from me for bagging Mrs . Claus though , who was exceptionally hot when younger , like a cross between Marian the Librarian and a brothel madame . I probably enjoyed the character of Meisterburger Burgermeister the most , who declares a moratorium on toys and jails any offenders . Keenan Wynn also does nice work as the voice of the Winter Warlock , who requests that people just call him Winter after he gives up his warlock ways . The nostalgia attached to these films are always going to make them special in a way that today's state-of-the-art animation will never match . Do you think any kids today have the patience for these creaky movies ? I hope so . . . .
I Expected the Worst , But I Liked This One	Perhaps it's because I came in with bottom-of-the-barrel expectations for a movie I've heard absolutely nothing good about , but I found myself enjoying " O . C . and Stiggs " quite a lot . I know from experience how bad bad Altman can be , so I expected the worst . But if you share Altman's smart-ass sense of humor , as I do , I can't help but think that you'll find this movie pretty funny . The very nominal plot has something to do with two adolescents ( the O . C . and Stiggs of the title ) spending one summer terrorizing an affluent , middle class family because the patriarch ( played with just the right amount of buffoonery by Paul Dooley ) , head of an insurance company , has denied insurance for O . C . ' s grandfather ( played uproariously by Ray Walston ) . But let me stress the word " nominal . " This narrative loosely holds together what can otherwise only be described as controlled chaos . In typical Altman fashion , the film is an assemblage of barely choreographed scenes in which actors wander around ad-libbing to their hearts ' content . This is not an insult . This style has resulted in some dreadful bombs for Altman , but it's also been responsible for some of his inspired classics . " O . C . and Stiggs " is nowhere near the latter , but it's certainly not the former either . Altman said in interviews that he intended " O . C . and Stiggs " as a satire of all of those naughty " boys behaving badly " comedies popular in the 1980s . I don't know that it's so much a satire of those films as it is on people in general . It's full of a sneering disdain for a sort of vapid , bourgeois lifestyle that rears its head in much of Altman's work . Scottsdale , Arizona is depicted as a bland land of lawn ornaments , plastic furniture and man-made nature . We don't learn much about O . C . and Stiggs , and they're not even necessarily that likable , but neither are the Schwabbs , the family they torment , and anyway Altman doesn't really ask us to root for anyone but rather just enjoy the silliness . The funniest thing about the film is that the Schwabbs seem to be completely unaware that they're being tormented and instead wander around in a self-absorbed daze . The rest of the cast includes Jane Curtin , as the boozy matriarch ; Martin Mull , as a designer of African fashions ; Cynthia Nixon , as a love interest ; Jon Cryer , as a dweeb ; and best of all , Dennis Hopper , reprising his role from " Apocalypse Now , " and who features significantly in the film's climax , a shootout in the Schwabbs ' bomb shelter . It would appear that time has been kind to this utterly dismissed film from the mid-1980s , and you could do much worse from Robert Altman's canon alone , let alone from other films in the same genre .
Suffers from Comparison to Other Lean Epics	I credit David Lean with introducing to film audiences epics that could think as well as dazzle . " The Bridge on the River Kwai " and " Lawrence of Arabia " are as fascinating to watch as intimate character studies as they are big historical panoramas . With " Doctor Zhivago , " Lean lost that intellectual edge and made a fabulously entertaining soap opera that , no matter how easily it goes down , still leaves me longing for the challenge of his earlier pictures . " Zhivago " creates a fascinating and sprawling portrait of turn-of-the - ( 20th ) - century Russia and the lives of a few characters as they navigate the tricky waters of political and socio-economic turmoil . But the central story , revolving around Omar Sharif's doctor , is not as compelling as that of T . E . Lawrence or the British military commander created by Alec Guinness in " Kwai , " and Sharif himself is rather a bland presence here , as is his love interest , played by the gorgeous but somewhat vapid Julie Christie . Without these two generating any heat , it's somewhat difficult to warm to them . I found myself more often paying attention to the sets and costumes than I did the actors . Other members of the cast do better by their roles , and make much more of an impression with much less screen time : Rod Steiger , Geraldine Chaplin and Tom Courtenay in particular . But " Doctor Zhivago " can only be as good as its doctor , which is why this film , despite all of its merits , must remain a more minor work in Lean's canon .
Unnecessary Remake , But Enjoyable on Its Own Terms	This affable film is a musical remake of Ernst Lubitsch's 1940 classic " The Shop Around the Corner . " Though actually it's not so much a musical as it is a movie with some songs added , nearly all of them performed by Judy Garland , who happens to be the best reason for seeing this movie at all . Lubitsch's film is , of course , perfect in every way and needed no remaking , but if someone had to remake it , they could have done a worse job than this . Garland is delightful in the role originated by Margaret Sullavan , and Van Johnson makes a surprisingly strong stand-in for James Stewart ( and even sounds remarkably like him at times ) . Instead of a curio shop , the action takes place in a music store , which provides more opportunities for spontaneous singing . This film is nowhere near as dark as the original , and one of the best parts of the Lubitsch version , the subplot involving the store's owner , is pretty much written right out of this version . The title doesn't make a lick of sense , since nearly the entire film is set during Christmas . I guess " In the Good Old Wintertime " didn't have the same ring to it .
Stylish and Thrilling	" Rififi " is a terrific heist movie , and one from which subsequent heist films have drawn ever since . Jules Dassin had a feel for the seedy underworld in which these thieves live - - - you will not find here the Hollywood glamour of " Ocean's Eleven . " The robbers in " Rififi " don't rob for the thrill , and they're not playing a game . They rob to survive , to pay for their children's upbringing , to prove to themselves and others that they still have something to offer the world . The much-lauded heist scene is a nail biter , filmed in virtual silence . I did have the feeling that the plot went on a bit longer than it needed to , but the high-speed race to deliver the child to his mother that ends the film is classic . Be warned - - - this movie is very bleak . But it's also very good .
I've Finally Gotten Around to Jason Bourne	I was slow in coming around to the Bourne movies , and now I'm squeezing in " Identity " and " Supremacy " so that I can see " The Bourne Ultimatum , " which is getting raves . " The Bourne Identity " is about what I expected . It's a slick action thriller that will satisfy the craving for dumb stunts , car chases and fistfights , but which also has a brain in its head . You'll have to suspend a whole bunch of disbelief , and there were a couple of instances that went so far as to make that quite a challenge indeed . Like many films of its ilk , this one doesn't know what in the world to do with female characters , so our main one screams and acts helpless , while the only other one ( played by Julia Stiles ) plays really no part at all in the proceedings . I only suspect that her importance increases later , as I see that Stiles is in the later movies as well . The men , meanwhile , do what men in these movies do , which is survive blows and falls that no mortal could actually survive , and bark out macho orders while strutting around with their hands on their hips . I recently took a trip to Paris and Barcelona , so I very much enjoyed the location filming in Paris , and got quite excited when even some shots of Barcelona made it into the film during one montage .
Not as Incredible as " The Incredibles "	Wow . Number 51 on IMDb's top 250 , huh ? I thought " Ratatouille " was cute , but I didn't like it THAT much . Pixar's latest boasts beautiful animation , perhaps the most accomplished yet , but the film as a whole never reached the inspired and dizzy heights attained by " The Incredibles , " to my mind a small masterpiece . " Ratatouille " straddles an awkward and ambiguous line : a little too cartoony to be a completely adult film , but a little too sophisticated to be dismissed as a film for kids . It tells a warm and touching story about accepting differences and overcoming our preconceived prejudices , but I kept waiting for that unique brand of Pixar humour that never ( or at least rarely ) surfaced . The best thing about this film is Peter O'Toole , who plays Anton Ego , a fearsome food critic who delivers a beautiful soliloquy at the film's climax that encourages people to embrace things that are new while still retaining the ability to discriminate between things that are quality and things that are not . The soliloquy also happens to sound beautiful as delivered in O'Toole's mellifluous voice . In a food culture dominated by total crap like McDonald's , Kentucky Fried Chicken and Taco Bell ( among others ) I appreciated " Ratatouille " ' s reminder that good , well-prepared food is a way to treat your body while so many people are poisoning theirs ' . But I just didn't see the masterpiece here that so many others seem to .
Love Them Misers	I find this holiday made-for-T . V . movie to be one of the more charming of its kind , maybe because it's not as well known as " Rudolph " and " Frosty " and other holiday perennials . In this one , Santa ( voiced by Mickey Rooney , who also did Santa honors in " Santa Claus Is Comin ' to Town " ) decides he's had enough of Christmas and those who don't appreciate him and cancels the holiday . Mrs . Claus ( voiced by Shirley Booth ) decides it's up to her to prove to Santa how much everyone still loves and admires him , so she sends off two elves on an around-the-world fact-finding mission to compile evidence of a belief in Santa and what he stands for . From there , the plot goes all over the place and nothing makes a whole lot of sense , but it's all harmless enough . The film's biggest selling point , of course , are the miser brothers , Heat and Snow , who each get a showstopping burlesque number complete with mini back up singers . I wish these two had been given a Christmas movie of their own .
Americans Love Baseball , Even When the Players Are Dead	A surprise hit from 1989 , and one of a few late 1980s movies that launched Kevin Costner into super-stardom for a period of time during the next decade . This magical realist fable finds Costner's farm owner building a baseball diamond in one of his fields as a place for him to commune with baseball players dead and gone . The film feeds off of Americans ' nostalgic and sentimental attitudes about the sport , and it boasts a shamelessly manipulative ending custom made to wring tears from its audience , but damned if it doesn't work .
Funny But Overrated	There are many humorous moments in this film , and kudos to the creators of it for making an adult movie for adults , but I think the praise heaped on it has made it out to be a much better movie than it is . Given the desultory crop of summer movies we've been subjected to in 2005 , it's no wonder that a film that's even remotely original and fresh gets critics frothing at the mouth . This film suffers from what so many screen comedies do : some jokes and scenes just fall flat , and when they do , the whole pace of the movie is thrown off . It's not riotously funny , but there's enough to keep you chuckling through the dead parts . Probably not the stuff of a comedy classic , but there are worse ways to pass the time .
Hated It as a Kid ; Think I Would Like It as an Adult	I've only seen " Never Cry Wolf " once , during its original theatrical run . I was eight years old then and was completely bored by this film . I have a feeling that I would love it now for all of the reasons that I hated it then . Those reasons are the fact that it takes place in the Alaskan wilderness and is full of stunning visuals of the terrain and wildlife . And , it's a movie told largely without dialogue and spends large parts of its running time with one lone character . I'm fascinated by movies like that now , and so think it's worth giving " Never Cry Wolf " another try .
What Goes Around Comes Around	A priest is shot point blank in the head in the middle of a dark street . The killer gets away , despite the presence of several witnesses . A public outcry ensues when the police department can't make any headway in the case , while a rival administration that wants control of city hall milks the situation for all it's worth to make the current administration look bad . To appease the public , the police latch on to a suspect who happened to be in the wrong place at the wrong time and force a confession from him . But the district attorney has twinges of conscience and can't bring himself to prosecute a man he doesn't believe is guilty . Such is " Boomerang ! " , Elia Kazan's quick and dirty docu-drama from the late 1940s , a period rife with films like this . The interest in " Boomerang ! " lies not so much in the drama swirling around the accused man ( played by a young-looking Arthur Kennedy ) or the sleazy politics or even the personal crisis faced by the D . A . ( played by a stoic Dana Andrews ) , but rather in the procedural details surrounding Andrews ' attempts to persuade a courtroom that the evidence massed against Kennedy is flimsy . In this way , the film is a premonition of a bigger and more famous movie , " Anatomy of a Murder , " in which the outcome of the case doesn't matter but the gritty details of poring over grisly evidence does . The film's weakest link is a superfluous storyline featuring Ed Begley that ends in an implausible dramatic twist that has not much of anything to do with the movie . The film would be dramatic enough without it . Also with Lee J . Cobb , for once tolerable as the good-guy chief of police , and Jane Wyatt , window dressing as Andrews ' wife .
Claire Trevor Is the Reason to Watch ( And What More Reason Do You Need ? )	When this film first starts , one might think the title refers to the character played by Lawrence Tierney , a killer who hitches himself to the affluent sister of a woman ( Claire Trevor ) who happened to stumble across the scene of one of his crimes . But by the time the film reaches its conclusion , it's clear that there's more than one person who has the potential for murder . Trevor is perfectly cast as this been-around-the-block woman with a heart of ice . I think Trevor is sexy and gorgeous , and any movie with her in it is pretty much worth watching for her alone . " Born to Kill " is enjoyable , but I'm not sure I would have been as interested in it if it weren't for Trevor's presence . It's more of a melodrama than it is a noir , and I can't help but think there were all sorts of delicious opportunities missed by director Robert Wise , given the film's setting ( San Francisco , that most atmospheric of noir cities ) and its lurid subject matter . But nevertheless I would recommend that lovers of the genre give it a try .
Huffman Better Than the Movie	A surprisingly vanilla film given its subject matter , " Transamerica " would be as at home in a TV movie-of-the-week line up as it is on the big screen at your local multiplex ( o . k . so maybe a made-for-television movie on HBO - - I don't think CBS is quite ready for this ) . Duncan Tucker has taken a unique premise and turned it into a standard formula road-trip picture , tricked out with all of the obligatory touchy-feely heart-warming moments that such a film requires . The results are generally entertaining , though the film does teeter once or twice on the brink of out-and-out awfulness . THE reason to see this movie , no surprise , is Felicity Huffman's performance as Bree , the pre-op transsexual who finds out a week before her sexual reassignment surgery that she has a son . The movie wastes no time in setting up its premise , and the whole thing breezes along amiably , only hinting at the true stark and confused emotions people put in the situations these people are put into would actually have . Tucker opts for comedy instead of seriousness whenever possible , which certainly makes the film more palatable but also gives it a feeling of insignificance . Huffman , though , rises above any limitations in the script or direction to deliver a bravura performance in a role I never in a million years would have thought she'd be well cast in . Huffman is a pretty , feminine actress , so the fact that she is able to pull off this strange-looking , masculine hybrid is a testament to her acting abilities . Of course , her performance wouldn't be nearly as effective if it was focused on superficialities alone , and it's Huffman's ability to breathe full life into Bree , creating a three-dimensional , lovable , caring , yet flawed character rather than a symbol or caricature , that most impresses . " Transamerica " is a case of the material not being up to the standard of the actress delivering it .
Admirable , But Suffers the Fate of Book to Screen Translations	" The Namesake " is an admirable film , and it offers an interesting glimpse into Indian culture , but it feels too much like what it is - - an adaptation from a novel . I haven't even read the book version , but even I could tell that the movie was racing to touch on all the major plot points , and sacrificing along the way all the nuances and subtleties that I have no doubt were in the written version . The film tells the story of the only son of an immigrant Indian couple who grows up American and doesn't learn to appreciate his heritage until a momentous life event teaches him a valuable lesson . In the hands of Mira Nair , who has made some lovely films ( " Monsoon Wedding " ) , it's a never less than sensitive and thoughtful movie , but by the film's end , I felt that everyone was racing through the plot in order to squeeze everything in , as if they knew they were running out of time and wanted to hit all the high notes . I also think the movie would have benefited from a less linear approach to its narrative . It's broken into roughly two halves , one showing the immigrant experience of the parents and the other the upbringing of the son . But blending the two stories more fluidly together would have had a greater cinematic impact , regardless of how it was told in the novel . One thing this movie definitely has in its favor , though , is the beautiful Indian actress Tabu , who gives a wonderful performance as Ashima , the mother who endures through hardship and anchors the film . She's the heart and soul of the movie , and imbues it with a tremendous amount of warmth .
Bob Dylan Film Is a Ship Without a Sail	I felt about " I'm Not There , " Todd Haynes ' tribute to the spirit of Bob Dylan , much about the way I feel about Bob Dylan himself . I like the IDEA of Dylan more than I enjoy sitting down and actually listening to him , and that's how this movie was for me . " I'm Not There " is not a biography of Bob Dylan , and for that I'm grateful . The last thing the world needs is another film like " Ray " or " Walk the Line , " bland paint-by-numbers biopics . Rather , Haynes ' film is more of a tribute to the many feelings Dylan songs can inspire , and the various personas Dylan the artist took on in the eyes of the public . Therefore , we get six actors playing different Dylanesque characters , or the kind of people Dylan might have written songs about , or characters meant simply to represent a distinct time and place in America . The first we meet is a young black boy named Woody Guthrie and played by Marcus Carl Franklin , who rides the rails with guitar in tow and sings songs that sound like they should be coming from someone much older . Ben Whishaw plays a poet named Arthur Rimbaud who appears to be testifying or defending himself in court for reasons we never learn . Christian Bale is Jack Rollins , an icon of the folk music craze who becomes a born-again Christian in later life ; Heath Ledger is an actor who made a name for himself playing Rollins on screen and whose personal life is slowly disintegrating . Richard Gere is Billy the Kid , hiding out in the old West . And in the film's most memorable performance , Cate Blanchett plays Jude , the character most modeled on Dylan himself , who struggles with success and fame in the face of a public growing increasingly frustrated with him for not playing the part they expect . " I'm Not There " is full of ideas about art and artists , and I applaud Haynes for attempting to bring something fresh and original to the screen . But I never once connected with the film on any level . The movie never stops experimenting , so it doesn't give you much to get involved with . Everything is representative and symbolic , so none of the characters feel like living breathing people . It's far too long - - I especially felt my patience beginning to snap by the time Gere made his appearance late in the film . The movie feels like it's comprised of a hundred different strands of thought that never cohere . In some ways , this is fitting , since the film is in large part about the enigmatic nature of artists , and the general public's indifference to who an artist really is in the face of who it wants him to be . But even a film about an enigma needs something to anchor it .
Animation as an Art Form	Only the second feature length animated film to be released by Disney , " Pinocchio " is not as accomplished as " Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs , " but it still exists as a high-water mark of screen animation . The story and songs will probably be very familiar to you , but what this movie , and really all early Disney movies , is good for is a document of traditional hand-drawn animation when it was at its most artistic . There are moments in this film that are nearly breathtaking in their visual beauty , the most memorable of all the one when Gepetto is lovingly crafting his wooden puppet and making him dance to a wonderful film score . These early animated films seem surprisingly dark and trippy now , much more so now that Disney movies exist primarily to drive money-spinning product franchises . I have to believe that Steven Spielberg's " A . I . Articifial Intelligence " owes much to this film .
John Garfield Runs All the Way	This strange entry in the noir canon features John Garfield delivering a sweaty , paranoid performance as a small-time crook who shoots a cop during a heist gone bad and then holes up with the family of a girl he meets and desperately latches himself on to ( Shelley Winters ) . He virtually takes the family hostage , threatening to kill whichever member he has with him at the time if any of the other members try to seek help . Meanwhile , a game of patriarchal dominance begins between Garfield and the father , whose sense of masculinity is threatened by his inability to help his family . It all leads to a showdown in the street as Garfield attempts to run away with Winters , who may or may not have genuine feelings for him . " He Ran All the Way " is more about the dynamics of family than anything else . In the first scene , we see what kind of home life Garfield's character comes from . His blowsy mom ( played divinely by Gladys George , who has far too little screen time ) verbally and physically abuses him , and then refuses to come to his aid later on when he's in trouble . As a result , Garfield tries to make a sort of surrogate family of the one he's taken hostage , attempting to establish a twisted kind of domestic tranquility , with himself as father figure . The most unsettling scene transpires at a family dinner , when Garfield forces the family at gunpoint to eat the meal he's prepared for them . Throughout the film , Garfield acts with a desperate intensity you can practically smell . Unlike all of those cooler than cool crooks who populate the worlds of other noir films , Garfield is lousy as a criminal ; his own paranoia and panic give him away at moments when he otherwise wouldn't be in any danger . Shelley Winters plays his love interest as a dowdy mope , the second time that year ( see " A Place in the Sun " ) she played a frump who meets a good-looking lad and then regrets it . Wallace Ford and Selena Royle do the honors as mom and dad . " He Ran All the Way " is not one of the more ambitious entries in the noir cycle , but like so many of the lurid , low-budget films that came out around this fertile period in cinema history , it has fascinating undertones that belie its simple plot . With crisp photography by James Wong Howe and a propulsive , sensational score by that old pro Franz Waxman .
Sailors on the Prowl	An energetic and fun screen adaptation of the Broadway musical , outfitted in the grand MGM style . This acts as a kind of bridge in the career of Gene Kelly between his lightweight emerging efforts of the early to mid-40's ( " Anchors Aweigh , " " Cover Girl " ) and the artistic dance spectaculars he's most known for now ( " An American in Paris , " " Singing ' in the Rain " ) . " On the Town " is better than " American " but not as good as " Singin ' . " It feels more structured than many musical offerings of the era , maybe because it's based on source material rather than an original story . The dance and songs feel more integrated into the plot , a la a stage musical , rather than just there to dazzle . And there's a fantastic score by Leonard Bernstein to help things along . Kelly is ably abetted by Frank Sinatra and the ever-intriguing Vera-Ellen as Miss Turnstiles - - - she in particular is one of the most amazing dancers I've ever seen on screen , and it's a shame she didn't do more .
Fantastic May Be Stretching It ( Get It ? ) But These Films Are a Lot of Fun	I'm used to being in the minority when it comes to movies . But usually , I hate movies that everyone else seems to love . It's much rarer that there will be a movie almost universally disliked , but which I actually enjoyed . " Fantastic Four " is one of those . Maybe by the time I saw this I was just sick of all the brooding , psychologically complex superheroes out there and found a good old-fashioned cheesy comic book movie refreshing . What I like about this story is that the Fantastic Four have their superpowers foisted on them , and then have to figure out how to use them . They have a regular Joe quality to them that makes them easier to relate to . They don't have sinister back stories full of murdered parents , ugly childhoods , seething feelings of revenge . They're just geeky scientists who can do pretty cool things . People seem to be responding to the second installment , " Rise of the Silver Surfer , " marginally better than they did the first , but I like both of them . After the overblown mess that was the " Pirates of the Caribbean " trilogy and all of the dithery angst that filled Sam Raimi's " Spiderman " series , it's nice to sit back and let 90 minutes of fun , worry free action adventure cleanse the palate .
Here Come the Griswolds	One of those movies you always remember as being better than it actually is . " Vacation " tells the story of Clark Griswold ( Chevy Chase ) leading his family across country on one of those most dreaded of dreaded events - - the Family Vacation ! It's episodic in nature , moving briskly from one disaster to another , some of them very funny ( the death of a miserable aunt played by Imogen Coca is a highlight ) to the downright disturbing ( a brief stay with some incestuous hillbilly relatives ) . Some scenes deliver bigger laughs than others , but none of them sticks around for very long , so even the dead parts move by fairly quickly . Having been on a cross-country drive myself with my family when I was a kid ( from Illinios to California ) to go to Disneyland , let's just say I could easily relate to this film . Beverly D'Angelo is smokin ' hot as Chase's wife , and a young Anthony Michael Hall is hilarious as his adolescent son .
Keaton and Garr in a Battle of the Sexes	Aw , come on folks , why the low rating at IMDb ? OK , so " Mr . Mom " ain't exactly " Masterpiece Theatre , " but it's a very good , solid comedy that holds up surprisingly well today . Michael Keaton is one of those actors who I've always found to be intensely likable , no matter how good or bad the movie he happens to be in . The material in " Mr . Mom " is mostly played for laughs , but it's not without some serious truths about the roles men and women play ( or at least played ) and the challenges each faces when he / she enters the sphere traditionally reserved for the " other . " This film nails perfectly that depressing funk it's so easy to fall into when your day consists of household chores and daytime television . And conversely , it also understands the difficulty in balancing a challenging career with home responsibilities . Teri Garr is her usual adorable self as Keaton's wife , and Martin Mull is a little too good as her smarmy boss .
A Tad Gloomier Than " Star Wars "	George Lucas's striking dystopian fantasy belongs to the same cluster of gloomy futuristic parables that includes Orwell's " 1984 " and Huxley's " Brave New World , " and that in recent years has found expression in films like " Gattaca " and " Children of Men . " " THX 1138 " feels much more like an experiment than a fully fleshed-out feature film , and that's because it is , really . Lucas cut his teeth on this film , before deciding to switch gears and make his name with a much more light-hearted treatment of the sci-fi genre with his " Star Wars " series . Featuring Robert Duvall , before anyone really knew who he was , and Donald Pleasance , in what for me is one of his most memorable screen performances .
Look Out Tara , Bette's on the Loose	Bette Davis sashays her way through the role of a Southern spitfire belle , proving that maybe she wouldn't have been such a bad choice for Scarlett O'Hara after all . Actually , though " Jezebel " is compared frequently to " Gone with the Wind " ( understandably , since the latter came out just a year later ) , it doesn't have much in common other than its Civil War-era setting and an unconventional woman as the main character . In any other comparison of the two , " Jezebel " will inevitably lose , because if " Wind " occasionally stumbles into bad day-time drama territory , " Jezebel " plunges right in and never emerges . This is no fault of Bette's though . She can only do so much with the character given her to play , but what she does with it is a lot . The moment she bursts on to the screen wearing riding gear and brandishing a riding crop ( ! ) , she takes command of the screen and refuses to let go , putting those enormous eyes to swooning effect . The crux of the story rests on whether or not this little frivolous tart will stay true to her limp noodle suitor ( Henry Fonda ) , who drags every party down with all of his talk about politics , or whether she'll dump him . When he contracts scarlet fever during an epidemic sweeping the area , will she stay with him as he's moved to a quarantine camp , putting herself at risk , or will she instead go off cavorting in a meadow with the first beefy country boy who comes along ? What do you think happens ? Ah well , movies like this are fun even if they're silly and not very good . Old pro William Wyler does a fine job , and one suspects that the movie could have been much worse if directed by someone with less skill . Watch for Bette Davis , if for no other reason . And really , what other reason do you need ?
Before the Little Mermaid , There Was This	Fascinating as an experiment in film animation , but you're forgiven if you find yourself fidgeting after half an hour or so . The most famous segment of this film is not surprisingly the one that bears the most striking resemblance to other Disney animated films , the " Sorcerer's Apprentice " portion that finds Mickey Mouse trying to corral an army of mischievous broomsticks . That segment is the most satisfying for audiences who want a narrative to follow , but many of the other segments - - particularly a very Gothic , sort of scary segment set to " Night on Bald Mountain " - - are more visually interesting . Not the most engaging Disney film , but remember that we probably wouldn't have " Beauty and the Beast " or " Aladdin " now if we hadn't had " Fantasia " first .
Renowned Hitchcock Film Is a Bit of Bore	I was expecting big things from " Rebecca , " Alfred Hitchcock's Best Picture Academy Award winner from 1940 , and I was disappointed . Give me " Foreign Correspondent , " Hitchcock's other 1940 release and fellow Best Picture nominee , any day . " Rebecca " starts out promisingly enough , as a Gothic ghost story about a naive young woman ( Joan Fontaine ) recently married to a wealthy aristocrat ( Laurence Olivier ) who finds herself competing with his dead wife , a woman whom Fontaine mentally builds into an image of female perfection until the memory of her almost becomes a physical presence in the house . But the mystery departs the film around the three-quarters mark , and the enigmatic spell of the movie goes with it . Fontaine and Olivier are two limp noodles at the film's center , and it falls to Judith Anderson , playing the mysterious and creepy housekeeper who fostered an irrational love of her former mistress , to keep things alive . The production design and black and white cinematography look stylish , but the film doesn't give Hitchcock the opportunity to impose any of his playful directorial signatures on it . As a result , it's a bit of a bore .
Take That , Boris Karloff	Brendan Fraser and Rachel Weisz save the world from the undead in this special effects extravaganza . Though reputedly based on the 1932 Universal Pictures classic of the same name that starred Boris Karloff , this movie shares almost nothing in common with the original except for the fact that it features , well , a mummy . Actually , this is much better than the original . It doesn't attempt to be remotely scary , opting instead for a goofy , wise-cracking tone reminiscent of the Indiana Jones movies . Of course , it's nowhere near as good as those - - it's not as light on its feet and it's burdened by a hefty load of not very impressive digital effects . But it's not a bad way to spend an evening .
Earnest WWII Drama Falls Just Short	A WWII yarn about a German prisoner ( Oskar Werner ) who volunteers himself for spy work in the front lines during the waning days of the European conflict . He's sent off on a mission that also involves another German spy and an American radio man ( Richard Basehart ) . While carrying it out , he suffers a crisis of conscience , torn between his allegiance to his home country and his belief that the best way to help his people is to help the Americans wipe out Hitler's regime . " Decision Before Dawn " is an entertaining spy thriller that benefits from its authentic , on location shooting amid bombed out European villages . But it could have been a much more interesting film had its moral conflicts been given more air time . It then would have been like something from Graham Greene . Unfortunately , Werner's crisis isn't shown to us as much as it's told to us in a few moments of voice over . Werner himself gives a good performance with the material he's given to work with , but it's tough to shake off the feeling of missed opportunity that surrounds the role . Speaking of Graham Greene , the film's finale is a chase through the rubble of a German town , and it's reminiscent of " The Third Man , " but this one feels slightly dogged when compared to that other film's sense of funhouse excitement . Also starring Gary Merrill as the leader of the American mission , and Hildegard Knef in a brief but memorable role as a possible romantic complication for Werner .
No Big Deal , But Utterly Enjoyable	" Bend It Like Beckham " reminds me of the best of those 80's teeny-bopper movies directed by John Hughes . Everything takes place in a bubble-gum colored world where everyone is attractive , there are some easily-resolved conflicts that occasionally take away from the mostly happy proceedings , and vast amounts of plot are summarized by montages set to bouncy pop tunes . Nothing wrong with this , however . " Bend It Like Beckham " is an absolute treat from beginning to end . My wife and I found ourselves totally won over by the cornball cheesiness even as we were making fun of it , and at the end , as embarrassing as this is to admit , we applauded ( and we saw this , by the way , in our living room , not in a theatre ) . Watch this movie and enjoy .
Hokier Than " Raiders , " But Still a Good Time	Hokier and jokier than its predecessor , " Raiders of the Lost Ark , " " Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom " gives us a pretty good idea of what Steven Spielberg would be like if he were hopped up on amphetamines . " Raiders " felt like it was full of non-stop action until you see this movie , which barely pauses to catch its breath . It's not as good as " Raiders , " but I always enjoy it . Kate Capshaw is the film's biggest liability - - in the scene where she's being lowered into a fiery pit and Indiana is trying to save her , I always root for the fire . But the film has dazzling set pieces , some of them , like a breakneck race through a mine shaft , that rival or even outdo those in " Raiders . "
Don't Remember Very Well , But Remember Liking It	I barely feel qualified to write a comment on this forgotten Disney live-action film from the mid-1980s , since I've only seen it once , and that was back when it first came out . But I do remember liking it , and it's probably worth a re-watch for those who saw it back in the day , and a first watch for those who've never seen it . It's notable for featuring a very young John Cusack , before anyone knew who he was . It seems to me that Disney had a pretty good track record of live action films during that decade ( " Never Cry Wolf " is another forgotten one ) but that few of them have had any staying power .
An Oddly Appealing Sci-Fi Horror Film	What is it about this sci-fi horror film that's so appealing ? All I know is that every time I come across it on cable , I almost have to stop what I'm doing and watch it . Governor Arnold leads a platoon of commandos into the jungle to face off against a malicious alien . There's your plot . It's an even more uber-macho version of the previous year's " Aliens " , the only difference being the location and the particular characteristics of the alien . This one has dred locks and can make itself invisible - - all you can see is a sort of ripple in the air when it wants to make itself unseen . It picks off the platoon members one by one in increasingly grisly fashion , until Arnie flexes his pecs and nukes the place . To be followed by numerous sequels , none of which I've seen , and all of which I'm sure were unnecessary .
Entertaining Prison Movie Isn't Nearly as Good as Its Rabid Fan Base Would Lead You to Believe	I'm utterly mystified at the cult of idolatry that has developed around this solid but not overly memorable prison film based on a Stephen King short story . " The Shawshank Redemption " came out of nowhere in 1994 to be nominated for 7 Academy Awards , and I have to believe that it's the film's underdog story that has helped it to develop such a following over the years as much as it is the quality of the film itself . There's nothing egregiously wrong with it , but it's overly-sentimental and obvious film-making from a director who has done nothing but make too serious film adaptations of Stephen King novels . I think it's become apparent over the years that Morgan Freeman is a one-trick pony when it comes to acting , but at the time he wasn't quite as well known , so the wise sage role he plays here seemed good enough to get him an Oscar nomination . However , it's Tim Robbins who really deserves the most praise as the man wrongly imprisoned . The less said about the actors who play the various prison personnel , the better - - they're all played as horrorshow goons . The original Stephen King story was an entertaining bit of pulp , but Frank Darabont tries to turn it into something that the story just isn't - - namely , an epic story about one man's struggle to free his soul . As a result , where the story felt sleek and satisfying , the film feels sanctimonious and bloated .
It's a Good Movie If You Can Stay Awake Through It	I'm pretty sure I've seen " A Room with a View " from beginning to end , but I can't say with any certainty that I've done so sequentially . See , my wife loves this movie , but every time she puts it in it lulls me instantly to sleep . It's like an adult version of a " Mr . Rogers " episode . This Merchant / Ivory production is typically polished and oh-so-tasteful , but like all of their movies it feels like the cinematic equivalent of one of those museum dioramas . It's not very lively , even if it is painstakingly accurate in its period detail . Maggie Smith and Denholm Elliott were awarded Oscar nominations , but the standout actors are Daniel Day-Lewis , playing a hopelessly uptight and ridiculous suitor , and Judi Dench , who plays an adventurous novelist who's far more exciting than any other character in the film .
Landmark Film for the Art of Visual Effects	Steven Spielberg's " what if " movie set in a theme park where dinosaurs have come back to life holds up remarkably well today . This is Spielberg at his best , taking us on a fun house ride and making us feel like we're eight years old again . The visual effects in this movie were absolutely AMAZING at the time , and still look great today . " Jurassic Park " is one of those landmark films - - there were visual effects before it and there are visual effects after it , and it's clear that this film changed the course of the art form forever . " Jurassic Park " is also the movie that inspired a short-lived crush on Laura Dern for me . I think it was watching her run around in those cargo shorts .
Bogie Heads to the Hills	The majority of this Raoul Walsh crime thriller is standard issue , but it does boast a knockout finale set in the gorges of the Sierra Nevada mountains . Bogart plays a brooding thug " rushin ' toward death , " who's hitched himself to one last scheme - - knocking off a ritzy hotel - - that will allow him to rest easy for a while . But this is a film noir , and the life of relative normalcy that Bogie's character chases remains just outside of his grasp , and fate has other plans for him . One circumstance after another intervenes to prevent his having a happy ending , and he meets his tragic fate in a climactic shoot out while his girlfriend ( Ida Lupino ) looks on . A good part of the film's narrative concerns a rural family who Bogart befriends , and in particular the young woman ( an annoying Joan Leslie ) who Bogie sees as a path to domestic happiness . I understand the significance of this plot line , but it slows the film down considerably , and makes it feel longer than it even is . On the other hand , there's an inventive and memorable subplot about a dog who may be a harbinger of doom . The mountains themselves are used to tremendous effect , representing both figuratively and literally the insurmountable environmental factors that will always hold Bogie down .
A Buddy Comedy with a Healthy Dose of Estrogen	Tina Fey and Amy Poehler prove that buddy comedies need not be the exclusive domain of naughty boys . " Baby Mama " is no comic masterpiece , but it's at least as good as any number of formulaic comedies churned out by Hollywood and much better than many others . Fey is the uptight career woman who hears her biological clock ticking at 37 and wants to have a baby before it's too late . Poehler is the low-class , free-wheeling blonde who agrees to be her surrogate mother for a hefty fee . The usual odd-couple conflicts ensue , maternal instincts kick in , and in traditional sitcom style , everyone gets what they want in the end . The movie is mostly an excuse to give Fey and Poehler the chance to riff off of one another , and they do it well . Poehler especially displays the ability to carry a movie , something most SNL veterans aren't able to do . She's funny , but she's also able to embody an actual character rather than simply do skit-T . V . schtick . Just watch her horrified face the first time she tastes water ; or the hilarious scene when Fey wrestles her into the shower and begins to scrub the hair dye off of her head in a scene that spoofs " Silkwood . " Also starring Greg Kinnear as a smoothie store owner , and a whacked out Steve Martin as Fey's new age boss .
The Sum Is Better Than the Parts	I came out of " Rendition " with a list of flaws a mile long , so how is it that my overall impression is that it was a pretty decent movie ? It's definitely a film whose sum is better than its parts . Those parts include a cast of big name stars , not one of them giving a memorable performance ( Omar Metwally , a relative unknown , is the one you'll remember ) ; serviceable if undistinguished direction ; and a screenplay that's both too complicated and too simplistic at the same time . Metwally is an Egyptian-born American citizen who gets kidnapped by the U . S . government's rendition program , otherwise known as the process by which America tortures suspected terrorists into confessing information whether or not it's remotely true . Reese Witherspoon plays his pregnant wife , who calls in the favor of an old college friend ( Peter Saarsgard ) , who works for a senator ( Alan Arkin ) and helps to track her husband down . Meryl Streep plays the head of the rendition program ; Jake Gyllenhaal is a young agent assigned to the interrogation and whose conscience gets in the way . Meanwhile , a whole parallel storyline follows the daughter of a top Egyptian official who is allied to the American rendition program and her boyfriend , who's in training to become a suicide bomber . Ay-yi-yi that's a lot of plot to pack into a two-hour movie , and I was about to wash my hands of the whole thing , especially the Egyptian Romeo and Juliet subplot that felt like nothing more than a distraction . But then near the film's finale , a twist of chronology brings all of the plot strands together in a way that makes you want to reassess everything you thought you knew about the motivations of the various characters , and makes " Rendition " a much more interesting movie than it seems like it's going to be . Witherspoon , Gyllenhaal and Sarsgaard all look like high school students playing adults twenty years older than they actually are - - Gyllenhaal in particular , usually a fine actor , looks so bored that you wonder if he's going to muster the energy to deliver his lines . And the screenwriter should be arrested for having an actress as good as Meryl Streep at his disposal and giving her nothing more to work with than this one-dimensional dragon lady . The movie of course strives for relevancy , but instead of addressing the tangled web of arguments surrounding the national security issue , it charges right down the middle of the debate in a predictable fashion . There are moments when you think maybe the film will veer off in an interesting direction - - what if Witherspoon did actually begin to doubt her husband's past , for instance ? What if Metwally actually had been in contact with terrorists , as his interrogators accuse ? But no , the movie takes the path of least resistance . But , like I said upfront , I recommend this movie . I know I've done nothing but list a bunch of its faults , but it's got its head in the right place , and it is entertaining , or at least as as entertaining as a movie about torture and interrogation can be .
Frothy and Enjoyable Minor R & H Musical	Popular consensus holds that " Flower Drum Song " is a weak link in the Rodgers and Hammerstein canon , and that's mostly true . It doesn't have as important a story to tell , and since it's not a period piece it's the most badly dated . And certainly , in cinematic terms alone , the film version is one of the worst of the stage-to-screen R & H adaptations . But all of that aside , there's something about this film that utterly charms me . A great deal of that charm resides in Nancy Kwan , who looks sexy and gorgeous in this and played a large role in many an adolescent fantasy as a result of her appearance in this film . But beyond her , there's much to like about the movie . It tells a sweet , simple story that may not be profound , but is certainly harmless enough . The score , while not R & H's best , is still full of enjoyable and hummable tunes . And there are a couple of truly memorable production numbers , like the " Sunday " sequence , or the lengthy and trippy ballet in the middle of the film , that stops the show even if it feels somewhat out of place . All in all , you could do much worse .
A Fine Character Study	Jack Nicholson delivers a wonderful performance - - back when he was still playing characters other than Jack Nicholson - - in this well done but awfully gloomy film from Bob Rafelson . Nicholson plays Bobby Dupea , a worker on an oil rig with decidedly anti-social tendencies , who returns home to make peace with his dying father . Once there , he's confronted with the cushy , privileged life he left behind , and we learn that he turned away from a promising career as a concert pianist . What I like most about " Five Easy Pieces " is its ambivalence toward its main character . The film does not try to turn Bobby into some sort of noble hero , who shuns the establishment in order to uphold his own principles . He seems much more like a spoiled rich kid who can afford to be a slacker because he's never lived without a safety net . He fails to pursue a musical career , but more because he's lazy than because of anything that career would represent for him . And his treatment of his girlfriend , played heart breakingly by Karen Black in one of her many fascinating performances , is unnecessarily cruel . She's so dumbly loyal that mistreating her is the equivalent of mistreating a dog . But still , Nicholson is able to make us like Bobby , and to understand at some level where his anti-social behavior comes from . He is unable to tolerate the arbitrary rules and restrictions of bourgeois life , and a famous scene in a diner when he tries to order a tuna fish sandwich with toasted bread and ends up in a complicated argument with the waitress provides just one illustration of how Bobby perceives the world from which he is running .
Smoke ' Em If You Got ' Em	" Thank You for Smoking " isn't especially meaty , and it likely won't give you much to chew on after viewing it , but as a funny , clever 90-minute diversion , you could do much worse . The chameleon actor Aaron Eckhart is perfect casting as a gifted spin doctor working on behalf of big tobacco companies . The film is effective in that it makes the motives of every other faction in the smoking debate ( awareness groups , liberal campaigners , Hollywood , journalists ) so questionable that you have no choice but to root for Eckhart's character , however morally repugnant you may find him to be . There is some validity in his arguments for speaking out for cigarette companies ; after all , at some point American consumers have to take responsibility and conclude on their own that smoking is an awful habit . We can't allow brow-beating consumer awareness groups or agenda-pushing Democrats or scary labels stuck on cigarette packages to make up peoples ' minds for them . If people , knowing everything they know about the dangers of smoking , are going to be stupid enough to continue supporting the cigarette industry , then why shouldn't corporations try to take advantage of that ? After all , that's the American way ; every company and politician does the same thing . This film is reminiscent of " Election " in its satirical tone and its style . If you liked that film , you'll probably like this one . A fine supporting cast is assembled , including Maria Bello , Katie Holmes , William H . Macy and an underused Robert Duvall . But the movie sticks pretty closely to Eckhart and doesn't give anyone else much to do . It's glib and superficial , but enjoyable .
Has a Cult Following That Doesn't Include Me	This movie just didn't click with me . I very much like Hal Ashby's films , and I like this one as well , but the love it has received as a cult classic gives me that uncomfortable feeling I sometimes get about movies that I've missed something obvious everyone else can see . Ashby's tone for the film is quiet , gentle and whimsical - - much like the main character played by Peter Sellers - - but that's the problem : it's all TOO quiet , gentle and whimsical , and I found myself fighting drooping eyelids . But I have the nagging suspicion that this is a film I should revisit and would probably build an appreciation for on subsequent viewings .
One Bus That Doesn't Make Any of Its Stops	Keanu Reeves has the uncanny ability to pop up in a legitimately good movie just often enough to keep people convinced that he may not be a completely worthless actor after all . " Speed " became a big hit in 1994 against all expectations . It was meant to be a disposable genre film and instead became a blockbuster . It's the ultimate high-concept movie : a bus will blow up if it's not kept moving above a certain speed . You can imagine the results . Reeves is fine , as is Dennis Hopper , hamming it up as the villain , but the reason for the film's success is mostly due to Sandra Bullock ( this may have been her debut ? ) as the plucky bus driver . Bullock is such a pleasing presence on film that even if the movie around her sucks , you keep watching just for her . Fortunately for us , the movie around her is pretty good too .
Again with the Meaning of Life Thing - - Enough Already	" The Seventh Seal " would strike me as a better film today had Ingmar Bergman not gone on to remake virtually the same film countless times over the rest of his career . In " Seal , " Max von Sydow sits down to a game of chess with the Grim Reaper and seeks answers to the meaning of life , existence of God , and so on and so forth . If you've seen one Bergman film , you've seen them all . The poor man put a lot of effort into exploring life's BIG issues but never seemed to get any closer to an answer about any of them . As I've become a more sophisticated movie watcher , I find Bergman's style nearly intolerable . His films are airless and stifling , and hopelessly pretentious . It's been a long time since I've seen " The Seventh Seal , " and maybe I would have a better opinion of it on a second viewing , but frankly , I would rather watch " Snakes on a Plane " than watch this film again . One of the famous images in this film is the shot of the Reaper leading a dance of death across a stark hillside . Woody Allen aped it in his 1975 film " Love and Death . "
Scared the Hell Out of Me	" The Descent " is like " Steel Magnolias " crossed with " Deliverance , " with a healthy dash of " Alien " and " The Blair Witch Project " thrown in for good measure . What a truly creepy , scary movie this is , and what a nice surprise to find that good horror movies are still being made . This movie isn't for those with a weak stomach , as it's pretty gory . Yet it doesn't rely on gore for its scares . The director creates a claustrophobic atmosphere that would have been scary enough had the party of female cave explorers had nothing out of the ordinary to contend with . But throw in a batch of icky psycho tunnel dwellers and this movie becomes a nice blend of psychological and visceral horror . It's also a movie that stuck with me for a long time after seeing it . It made me feel really bad , but in kind of a good way if that makes any sense . I felt after seeing it much like I felt after " The Blair Witch Project . " This is one definitely worth hunting down ( pun intended ) .
Not One of My Favorite Hitchcock Films	I've found this admittedly classic Hitchcock entry a bit tough to warm up to on multiple viewings . I enjoyed it very much the first time I saw it , but I don't want to revisit it the way I like revisiting " Rear Window , " " Psycho " or " The Birds . " Almost every Hitchcock film has at least one classic set piece that everyone remembers , and this film has at least two : the crop duster sequence , in which Cary Grant is pursued across an empty field by a sinister plane ( very creepy ) and the breathtaking climax on Mt . Rushmore . Eva Marie Saint plays the Hitchcock blonde in this one , but you'll be hard pressed to even remember that she's in the movie .
In the Garden of the Elite	Director Vittorio De Sica eschews the neo-realism that defined his earliest work and takes a more poetic approach with this story about a wealthy , privileged family who shut themselves away from the encroaching threat of fascism in the early days of WWII Italy . They ultimately find that their elite status does not protect them from the fascist threat , and the quietly devastating ending shows the family being separated , perhaps forever , as they are rounded up and herded into lines like so much cattle . The ending makes this film memorable , but everything proceeding it struck me as rather lightweight , given the subject matter . This isn't a movie I think back on as a masterpiece , and I think its reputation rests somewhat on the fact that De Sica , a respected master , directed it .
Cronenberg's Latest Feels Less Important Than " A History of Violence "	I have a love / hate relationship with David Cronenberg , or maybe more aptly a like / hate relationship with him . I liked " Naked Lunch " and " The Fly . " I hated " Crash . " I loved " A History of Violence , " and on the strength of that film , and the fact that he was re-teaming with Viggo Mortensen , came into " Eastern Promises " with high hopes . So did I like " Eastern Promises ? " Yes . Did I love it ? No . It's the kind of movie that feels haunting while you're watching it , but it left me surprisingly unmoved after it was finished , and nothing about it really lingered in my head , which was not the case with " Violence . " I think maybe the difference is that " A History of Violence " felt completely of a piece with the current cultural climate ; it felt resonant . " Eastern Promises " tells a much more contained and , in my mind , contrived story that doesn't have much to say about anything outside of the world of the film . That's not to say that the film itself doesn't tell an interesting story , but I'm not sure it tells a very important one . Mortensen plays the driver of a Russian mafia crime boss ( Armin Mueller-Stahl in a sinister , mesmerizing performance ) who crosses paths with a young and pretty nurse ( Naomi Watts ) when she gains possession of a diary left behind by an immigrant prostitute who dies giving birth . Watts becomes the protector of the young girl's baby , for reasons of her own , and becomes obsessed with discovering the truth about the girl's death and holding those responsible for it accountable ( " those " happen to be the very Russian mafia that Mortensen works for ) . Stahl's attempts to " deal " with the situation are foiled unbeknownst to him by Mortensen , for reasons that we don't fully understand until the film's final moments . All of this sounds juicy enough , and at times the film is quite an effective little thriller , but on screen the whole story is just a little too scripted to ever be believable . I also thought Cronenberg resorted to cheap tricks at the end , when he puts a baby in danger to create a race-against-time finale ; it felt desperate , like the product of a screenwriter who didn't know how else to end the movie . Watts is wasted in her role ; her character's not especially vivid . Mortensen gives a very good performance , but his character's not as interesting as he first appears . The more we learn about him , the more we realize that any complexity given to his character is a result more of plot twists than of psychological motivation . Cronenberg brings a highly homoerotic charge to the film - - much of the film's action is driven by the fact that Stahl is embarrassed by his gay son , who isn't man enough for the role he needs to fill . And in the film's most memorable scene , a completely nude Mortensen fights savagely to the death in a Turkish bath . I commend Cronenberg for this scene - - in our movie culture , it's been completely acceptable for ages to juxtapose naked female flesh to violence , but when the same is done with a male body , people sit up and take notice . My biggest complaint with the film is Cronenberg's use of shock violence . Like so many violent films , this one makes us ask the question : at what point does graphic violence stop making a point and merely become a fetish of the director ? Would the scene in the bath have been any less effective had it not ended with a close-up of Mortensen stabbing a man in the eye with his blade ? Unfortunately , that appeared to the be the film's money shot , if the young college boys next to me whooping it up at that point were any indication . I just felt that moments like that cheapened the overall effect of the movie . So , Cronenberg didn't knock this one out of the park for me . It's definitely a movie I'm glad I saw , and it's bound to be a conversation starter , but I don't think it's a movie I'll remember as one of this year's best .
Statham Strips and Kicks Ass ( Sometimes at the Same Time )	More fast and furious action from Jason Statham , directed in this outing by Olivier Megaton ( is that name for real ? ) The " Transporter " series is the bargain bin version of the James Bond films , but I enjoyed this film way more than the latest Bond , " Quantum of Solace . " This installment exists as nothing more than a Jason Statham fetish movie . We see him kicking ass shirtless while the female in peril this time around ogles him . She later makes him perform a striptease much to her delight and - - let's be honest - - the audience's . You don't have to be female or gay to admit that Statham is a fine specimen of a man ; most guys would kill to look like him . And as someone who's follicly challenged myself , it's nice to see someone bringing sexy back to bald .
The Screen Comedy Goes Epic	Hollywood insulted our brains and our backsides with any number of " serious " epics in the 1950s and 60s , like " Ben-Hur , " " Cleopatra " and " How the West Was Won . " It also gave us the not-so-serious but no less boring " cameo " pseudo-adventure pics like " Around the World in 80 Days , " which existed mainly as celebrity-spotting exercises for the movie audiences , and which I guess were supposed to tickle people silly by giving them a chance to recognize obsolete and creaky film stars popping up in bit roles as chauffeurs , doormen , organ grinders , etc . So it was only a matter of time before Hollywood would give us a new mutation of the formula : the epic " cameo " comedy . " It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World " is of course ridiculously long , grotesquely overblown and as overstuffed as a Thanksgiving turkey , but it also happens to work a sort of charm on its audience . Anyone who was anyone in the world of film comedy appears in the picture , either in a lead or cameo role , and the results are nearly frightening : any single member of the cast could ( and did ) carry films on their own , so when you throw them all together , it's like a shark feeding frenzy , with each actor trying his or her damnedest to shout down the others in an attempt to steal the scene . Some , like Ethel Merman for example , are better suited for this than others , and they're the ones that you'll remember later . If watched in a certain frame of mind , " . . . Mad World " is grim and grueling , working over time to wring laughs out of its high-concept premise . But if you sit back and ease into the ride , it's almost impossible not to be won over , mostly because it would take superhuman stamina to hold out against this cast of Tasmanian devils , and it's just plain easier to give in .
A Deeply Unnerving Film with Two Tremendous Lead Performances	Kim Stanley delivers a tremendously affecting performance as a sad English suburban housewife who desperately wants to prove her validity as a medium and will go to criminal means to do so in this chilly and chilling drama . Critics heaped praise upon Stanley , always known as more of a stage actress than a movie actress , and the Academy awarded her a best actress nomination for her work in this film , and rightly so . At a time when movie acting could still be superficial , when Hollywood starlets were cast in ill-fitting roles because they looked better and would sell more tickets , Stanley gave a performance that distinguished itself in sheer commitment to character . It was rare then and still rare now to see a performance in which the actress creates a living , breathing human being before your very eyes . But in the interest of fairness , one must also mention the equally strong work of Richard Attenborough , who gets a less showy but as important role as Stanley's beleaguered husband , who will do anything to keep his wife happy , even after he begins to suspect that she may be ill . Attenborough creates the image of a middle-aged man who suspects that he was lucky to get the wife he has , and who wants more than anything to live a normal , family-oriented life that seems to always remain just beyond his grasp . " Seance on a Wet Afternoon " is not a masterpiece , but it is a subtly and intensely disquieting film , the kind that lingers in your head long after you've seen it .
Individual Parts Greater Than the Whole	One of this movie's most famous images - - Chaplin sliding around inside the gears and cogs of a monstrous machine - - provides a handy visual to go along with my opinion of the film in general : there are individual cogs that I remember as being brilliant , but when put together they don't make a totally satisfying machine . Unlike " City Lights " or " The Gold Rush " before , or " The Great Dictator " after , I didn't get caught up in the narrative of " Modern Times , " and I felt there were longer gaps between the funny bits . However , some of the set pieces in this are hilarious , most notably the scene where Chaplin finds himself strapped into an automatic feeding machine that goes berserk ; and a nimble scene on roller skates that showcases his athleticism . Sadly , " Modern Times " was an all too applicable metaphor for Chaplin's place in the film industry . New technologies were beginning to make his artistry obsolete , and the sadness of that is palpable in the film's final shot . I'm recommending " Modern Times " because it's a very good movie . I just didn't think it was as good as some of Chaplin's other well-known projects .
Road Trippin ' with Hoffman and Cruise	Barry Levinson mostly resists the urge to give in to the rampant sentimentality that this story begs for , but the end result is still rather treacly and weepy . Tom Cruise plays a selfish hot head who ends up having to care for his autistic brother ( Dustin Hoffman ) . It's a road trip movie , the kind where you just know Cruise is going to discover all sorts of goodness about himself before it's all over ; meanwhile , Hoffman acts up a storm , delivering the kind of performance that wins awards left and right ( which is what happened ) . I don't mind this movie , but something about it just feels soft and gauzy , like all of Levinson's films . It's got no TEETH .
Harold Lloyd , Middle-Weight Boxing Champ of the World	In this very solid Harold Lloyd screwball comedy , Lloyd plays an unassuming milk delivery man who finds himself on the front pages when he's credited with knocking out the world middle-weight boxing champion , Speed McFarland , in a street brawl . The negative publicity this news generates for McFarland comes much to the dismay of McFarland's manager , the slick Adolphe Menjou , who instantly plans a damage-control scheme . Lloyd will go up against a number of other boxers and win in fixed fights , building anticipation for a rematch against McFarland , in which McFarland will clobber him in the first round , since Lloyd doesn't really know how to fight . Of course , nothing plays out as simply as it should , and all manner of hijinks and supporting characters find themselves mixed up in this zany plot . I was impressed by the tight screenplay for " The Milky Way . " It's classic 30s screwball , which means the script doesn't have to make a lot of sense , but even so the scriptwriters flesh out little details in the action - - like a thug who can't read , or Lloyd's affection for his milk cart horse , Agnes - - that play a role later in the plot . And the film is filled with all manner of sight gags and one-liners . Some of my favorite set pieces are the ones in which Menjou's sardonic girlfriend , played like a champ by Verree Teasdale , an actress I've never heard of , teaches Lloyd how to box by turning his training into a dance lesson ; and a hilarious bit that finds Lloyd racing to his big match with McFarland while lugging around a colt , offspring of the beloved Agnes . Director Leo McCarey knows how to stage physical comedy , and the frame at any given time is stuffed with all manner of characters doing or saying something completely separate from what everybody else is doing or saying , so that the reigning visual style of the film is controlled chaos . " The Milky Way " may not be in the same league as some of its screwball contemporaries , like " My Man Godfrey " or " Bringing Up Baby , " but I guarantee it will put a smile on your face .
Well Acted Soap Opera	The material in " Steel Magnolias " teeters dangerously on the brink of " Terms of Endearment " territory - - maudlin , gloopy and shamelessly tearjerky . But it's saved by its cast , who are able to keep things palatable . The most praise must go to Sally Field , who's perfectly suited to play the tough-as-nails Southern mom who must face losing her daughter , and her breakdown scene in the cemetery after they bury her is a small tour-de-force . Field refuses to let the sentimentality of the script overshadow her performance - - it's a terrific piece of acting . The film also features that tireless work horse , Tom Skerritt , hopelessly under-appreciated as an actor , along with a female cast that includes Shirley MacLaine , Olympia Dukakis , Dolly Parton , Daryl Hannah and Julia Roberts , Oscar-nominated for her performance as Field's sick daughter .
Dress Rehearsal for " Mr . Smith Goes to Washington "	It's funny how common it was for directors in the 30s to remake their own movies , sometimes no more than a few years after they made the original . " Mr . Smith Goes to Washington " isn't exactly a remake of " Mr . Deeds , " but it sure bears more than a merely striking resemblance to Capra's earlier film . The idea of an idealistic everyman standing up to a bullying bureaucracy is central to both films , but " Mr . Smith " is the darker and more bitter of the two . As a result , " Mr . Deeds " is sunnier and more fun , but also feels less substantial . Nothing wrong with the actors though . Jean Arthur is one of my favorite actresses from this time period . She was cute and flirty , but never in a self-conscious or cloying way . And Gary Cooper , despite his towering presence and good looks , excels at playing an everyday Joe who doesn't want a life of complicated wealth thrust on him when a rich relative dies and leaves him his inheritance . Frank Capra wasn't a very versatile director , and he was rather obsessed with one theme that he revisited time and again , but what he chose to do he did very well .
Uncle Sam Wants You ( to See This Movie )	I was actually slightly motion sick after leaving this film , so my final impression of it is somewhat marred by that , but overall this was dumb summer fun at its best . I was the right age for the transformer toys , but I never really got into them . However , having played with them is not a prerequisite for enjoying the film . These kind of movies crack me up . They are so obvious in their intentions to traffic in the gut emotions of an audience not used to thinking very critically about what they are watching . This film , like most of Michael Bay's films , is a gussied up military recruitment ad , the kind where all of the soldiers in it are muscled and oily , and where they do a lot of walking toward the camera in emphatic slow motion . There are girls in the film ( two of them , to be exact ) , but they're basically just guys with breasts and nice legs . The government is to be feared and distrusted , because they keep secrets from the American people ( like the fact that the Hoover Dam was really built as a facade to hide alien robots and their belongings ) , while the military is heroic and manly . To make itself feel relevant , the film even throws in some action scenes set in the Middle East . It was refreshing , though , that for once all of the chest-thumping is not reserved solely for the United States , but rather for the human race in general . The message in " Transformers , " other than that geeky teenagers have the stuff soldiers are made of , is that the human race isn't so bad after all , even if we have a lot to learn .
A Creative and New Examination of Old Questions	Harold Crick lives a boring life of dull routine and never seems to entertain the notion that any other kind of life is a possibility . He quietly gets up every morning , catches the same bus to work , spends his day auditing people who hate him ( he's an IRS agent ) , comes home , goes to bed and repeats everything the next day . His life is carefully synchronized by his trusty wristwatch , possibly and sadly Harold's best friend . His daily comings and goings are narrated to us by the pleasant , British accented voice of God , or at least of Emma Thompson . But one day , a seemingly ordinary Wednesday , Harold begins to hear the same narration that we hear , including a passing mention of his impending death . Harold's the main character in a novel , you see , and Emma Thompson is not an omniscient god , but rather the author of the novel . Though , as the movie hints , perhaps they're the same thing . I went into " Stranger Than Fiction " with significant reservations . The movie belongs to the same genre as films like " Adaptation , " " Being John Malkovich " and " The Truman Show , " metaphysical musings on subjects like free will , the act of creation and such , all films which I found to be a bit too clever for their own good and which ultimately could not deliver on the promise of their imaginative concepts . But " Stranger Than Fiction " handles its topic quite well , and it's a very good movie . Once Harold realizes that his creator intends for him to die , he sets out to change the course of events of his life , not sure whether or not such a thing is even possible . He's helped by the fact that he's found something worth living for , that something being a feisty baker played by Maggie Gyllenhaal , who brings a tremendous amount to the film through her nimble performance and engaging screen presence , and he enlists the help of a university literature professor cum therapist played by Dustin Hoffman , who helps Harold unravel the mystery of who's writing the book about him . Meanwhile , Thompson enters into a crisis of her own . She can't figure out how to kill off Harold Crick , and just as she comes up with a perfect and poetic way for him to die , she discovers that Harold knows who she is and that she's in control , and suddenly the act of killing him off becomes infinitely complicated by the fact that a real human life is in her hands . There's much about this film that doesn't make a whole lot of sense if you think about it for too long . For example , if Harold is a fictional character living in a fictional universe created by an author , then why isn't everyone else he interacts with fictional too ? Also , the death Thompson devises for Harold isn't that original , so one wonders why exactly she had so much trouble coming up with it in the first place . But the questions about the moral responsibility of creators for their creations , and the reverse questions about the freedom of creations to determine their own fate , though not exactly new , are at least given a fresh coating of paint here , and the slick direction by Marc Forster helps the film and its ideas go down easily . It's not as intellectually ambitious as movies like " Adaptation " or " Being John Malkovich , " but in spite of that , or maybe because of it , I enjoyed this film more .
A Hepburn / Tracy Debut	Watching this first pairing of Spencer Tracy and Katharine Hepburn , it's easy to see why the two became a legendary screen couple ( and real-life couple for that matter ) . They seem perfectly suited for one another , and you can't imagine either of them with anyone else . But it's hard from a 21st Century sensibility not to be appalled at this WWII-era George Stevens dramedy . Tracy is a sports writer and Hepburn an international reporter for the same newspaper . They meet , marry and fight when she won't abandon her career to settle down into dutiful motherhood . In the end , she gets her comeuppance and realizes that what she wants more than anything is to learn how to separate eggs and make coffee . Try to forgive it its decidedly un-feminist message though . This came out at a time when the culture was particularly threatened by the idea of women supplanting men in areas traditionally reserved for men , and it wouldn't have been good for soldier morale for men to think women back at home could carry on just fine without them . And at the very end , Tracy does come around and tell Hepburn that he doesn't necessarily want a barefoot and pregnant version of a wife any more than he wants a career-oriented wife who will put her work before her home , but rather wishes she could be something in between . As things play out in the film , this comes as too little too late , but it's a sophisticated attitude for the time and makes the movie much more relevant today , when women are being forced to juggle multiple roles . Overall I enjoyed this movie , but I thought it was strangely directed by Stevens . I usually enjoy his 40s comedies , but his instincts feel off here . The way he chooses to shoot scenes many times seem in tone to be at odds with what's actually happening in them , so I wasn't always sure what was supposed to be light-hearted and funny and what wasn't . A striking example of this comes in the scene in which Tracy comes back to Hepburn's apartment after their first date . It's supposed to be an erotic and sexually charged scene , but it's shot like a film noir , with Hepburn silhouetted against brightly lit windows and the room in sinister shadow . There's a ponderousness to Stevens ' direction that serves as a sneak preview of his prevailing style in the 50s , when he started to make socially " important " movies . A solidly made but uneven film . If you're expecting a frothy comedy you will be disappointed .
Legs , Legs and More Legs	" Gold Diggers of 1933 " is lighter and funnier than " 42nd Street , " released earlier in the same year and the product of much of the same production team . Though at the same time , the Depression is more constantly present in " Gold Diggers " than it was in " 42nd Street , " and the film culminates ( and ends rather abruptly ) with a dark and critical social comment . Present again are the elaborate and bizarre choreographic creations of Busby Berkeley , designed to showcase lots of female skin . Particularly nonsensical is the " Pettin ' in the Park " number that ends ( I'm not kidding ) with Dick Powell using a can opener on Ruby Keeler . And get a load of those costumes in the " We're in the Money " number ; those strategically placed quarters would never have gotten past the censors had this been released post-code . Overall , it's obvious that the filmmakers were still more used to vaudeville than musical comedy , as the film pretty much stops to allow time for some disjointed musical numbers rather than incorporating them into the action . The aforementioned Powell and Keeler are about as bland as they were in " 42nd Street , " though Keeler is much more palatable without the saccharine , cavity-inducing personality she was asked to don in the earlier movie . And thank God she isn't given more than a few minutes to dance , since she's got the grace of a truck driver . The biggest assets to this film are Joan Blondell , spicy and sexy , and Aline MacMahon , who plays the role Rosalind Russell would be playing if she were in this movie . Ginger Rogers , tremendous screen presence aside , has only a couple of scenes and is pretty much wasted again , though she inexplicably gets to sing some bars of " We're in the Money " in Pig Latin and extreme close-up . A film center in my home city of Chicago is having a Busby Berkeley retrospective , so I've been able to see these two early thirties movies in sequence and note how the art form of musical comedy evolved from one film to the next . " 42nd Street " was like musical comedy without the music or the comedy . " Gold Diggers of 1933 " adds the comedy , but still struggles with what to do with the music . " Gold Diggers of 1935 " is up next , and we'll see what Berkeley and company have learned along the way .
The Man of Steel Is Also a Dork	Some mighty big names lined up to be in this still-most-famous screen version of the comic book series , but a relatively unknown actress , Margot Kidder , manages to steal the show out from everyone in her performance as the spunky Lois Lane , and it's her that I remember most now . Richard Donner's direction is as square and dorky as Christopher Reeves , who plays the man of steel and looks like a plastic action figure of himself . Gene Hackman and Ned Beatty yuck it up as Lex Luthor and his right-hand man ; Valerie Perrine , an Oscar-nominated actress for God's sake , lends nothing really more than her boobs to the picture as Luthor's girlfriend . The movie climaxes with a spectacular earthquake that decimates Southern California and offered what were for the time some pretty dazzling special effects . In this age of dark , angst-ridden superhero flicks , " Superman's " cheezy aw-shucksness is rather refreshing . It's much more " Fantastic Four " than it is Tim Burton's " Batman . "
A Good Old-Fashioned Ghost Story	Robert Wise was never an especially artistic director . You never sensed that he was really trying to push the limits of film as an art form with the movies he made . Yet he had a knack for creating especially well-made films . They weren't fancy , but they were far beyond merely competent . With " The Haunting , " Wise gives us a truly creepy ghost story , about four characters spending time in a notorious haunted house , trying to uncover its secrets . It's reminiscent of Jack Clayton's " The Innocents " ( 1961 ) - - though it's inferior to that film - - in that the movie revolves around one emotionally unstable female , played by Julie Harris here . Because our perspective of what's happening is filtered through her mind , we can never be totally sure that we're receiving a reliable version of events . Julie Harris does well with a role that Sandy Dennis would have been cast in had this movie been made ten years later . Voice over narration giving us a constant stream of her thoughts seems overused and silly at first , but becomes more and more effective as her mental stability begins to reach its breaking point . There are overt lesbian overtones between her and the other female character ( played by Claire Bloom ) , and Russ Tamblyn , who played Riff in Wise's 1961 film version of " West Side Story , " makes an appearance as the lone skeptic of the bunch . " The Haunting " is yet one more example of how bad today's horror movies are . Any director now would have filled this film with any number of cheesy CGI effects ( and probably did - - I haven't seen the 1999 remake ) , but Wise creates an incredibly scary film using some sound effects and fancy camera angles . Tension builds so effectively that the only true " effect " in the film ( a breathing door ) becomes more frightening than any CGI effect could have been . The film is marred by a clunky , ham-fisted ending , but the rest of the film is so exquisitely creepy that by the time it comes the movie has had its effect on you , regardless of how it ends . A great film to watch during the Halloween season . This and " The Innocents " would actually make a terrific double feature .
Tremendous Fun for Fans of Karen Black or Barbara Harris	" Family Plot , " Hitchcock's last film , is about as zany as the legendary director would ever get . It's a very fun if lightweight entry in his canon . It holds a special place for me , because it stars two of my favorite actresses , Karen Black and Barbara Harris . I think both of them were underused by Hollywood , maybe because both were just a little too quirky to ever land mainstream roles . Here , Hitchcock doesn't ask them to be mainstream , and they're both delightful , especially Harris in her scenes as a histrionic medium . Good fun .
She Was All Woman . . . And Knew It	And so with those words begins this wacked out slasher film / murder mystery that shows Joan Crawford lopping off the heads of her husband and his girlfriend while they lie in post-coital repose - - and that's before the opening credits have even started ! " Strait-Jacket " has the look and feel of " What Ever Happened to Baby Jane ? " and all of those other exploitative films from the 1960s that put once-great declining actresses in campy schlock and let audiences howl at them . But somehow , this movie doesn't feel exploitative . If Joan Crawford had delivered a bad performance , it would have . But she tackles the role with such seriousness and commitment that she single-handedly ends up selling the film to you , and making you genuinely care about her character and what happens to her . Joan Crawford may have been hell to live and work with in her personal life , but it takes an actress with a unique skill to make a film like this not only competent , but almost fascinating . As for the movie itself , it's laughably predictable . I called the " surprise " ending about fifteen minutes into the film , and then talked myself out of it because I thought it would be too obvious . Well , I should have stuck to my guns , but it didn't much matter - - by the end I was no longer watching the film for the ending - - I was watching it for Joan , which is the only reason ( albeit a damn good one ) for watching this film at all .
Edward James Olmos Delivers as a Tough Teacher Taking on the System	The " Blackboard Jungle " of its generation , " Stand and Deliver " kicked off a revival of the tough teacher taking on a troubled class genre , but this remains the best of them . Edward James Olmos delivers a wonderful performance as this film's tough teacher , and the film resists the maudlin sentimentality that the genre falls prey to . There's no scene of the students standing on their desks , cheering for their teacher . It's an uplifting , hopeful film , but it manages to be uplifting and hopeful in a realistic way . Olmos received an Academy Award nomination for his performance ; I can't think of another major role he's had since .
Don't Let Gloria Grahame Make the Coffee	Since I love film noir , I enjoyed " The Big Heat , " but I didn't feel that it distinguished itself from any number of other similar films from the same time period . This surprised me somewhat , as I don't think of Fritz Lang as an anonymous director , and he's usually able to imprint a strong visual style on his films . Not so for this story about a good and honest cop ( Glenn Ford ) who's dragged into the seedy underworld after his wife dies in a booby trap meant for him . Many of the themes common to this genre are present here : the blurred lines between the criminals and the law , the insidious encroachment of the scary city on the peaceful idyll of the wholesome suburb . It also picked up a main theme from " The Asphalt Jungle " : cops and robbers alike have families and lives separate from their work , and this fact makes them more like one another than they might want to admit . This film is most notable for a feisty performance from Gloria Grahame , who plays a gangster's moll who gets tired of being used and abused by her thug of a boyfriend ( a repulsive Lee Marvin ) and gets her scalding revenge . I've always felt that Grahame was never really used to her fullest potential by any film director , but she has such a strong screen presence that she's able to make this film all about her .
Refreshingly Nasty	A deliciously nasty black comedy about a middle-aged schlub ( Danny DeVito ) who wants to bump off his mother and hatches a plan to do so with a bitter divorcée , who wants to bump off HIS ex-wife . The movie is completely unapologetic in its cynicism , and gives us no one to like , but for once that works in the movie's favor rather than as a turn off . Anne Ramsey , as DeVito's battle axe mom , steals the show in a grotesquely funny performance . Even though she's a horror , you end up rooting for her , because it seems like she could kick both DeVito's and Crystal's asses at the same time with both hands tied behind her back .
Daniel Day-Lewis Is Why This Movie's Remembered	At the time , " My Left Foot " was the little movie that could . It was hugely popular , and everyone applauded the fact that such a small , independent film could make it all the way to the Oscars . Since then , movies like " My Left Foot " are a dime a dozen , so it might be hard in retrospect to understand what all the fuss was about . It's certainly a well made and competent film , but it's clear that the bulk of its success rests on the shoulders of Daniel Day-Lewis , who immerses himself in the role of Cristy Brown , a man living with cerebral palsy . Day-Lewis pulls off the same bit of stunt acting that had won Dustin Hoffman an Oscar the year before for playing a man with autism in " Rain Man , " and the Academy followed suit by giving Day-Lewis the same honor . The only thing really separating this film from a big budget Hollywood production is just that - - its budget . In every other way it's just as formulaic as any standard product . That's not to say it isn't a good movie , but it's not a masterpiece .
Many Flaws , But Enjoyable Anyway	Not so much a film as a taped version of the stage play , " My Fair Lady " is about as cinematic as a community theatre production , yet it has much to recommend it anyway . For one , the Lerner and Loewe score is timeless , and it sounds great in the film . It's also nice that it's captured in its entirety - - - no songs from the stage version were dropped , not even superfluous numbers like Freddie's reprise of " On the Street Where You Live . " The film also captures the performance of Rex Harrison in the role of Henry Higgins , a role he created on stage . Like Yul Brynner in " The King and I , " Rex Harrison so perfectly embodied Higgins that any actor who's ever attempted to play him since has to pretty much impersonate Harrison or risk the disappointed wrath of audiences . And there are also some colorful character actors who do much with smaller roles , notably Wilfred Hyde-White as Col . Pickering , Stanley Holloway , who gets a couple of showstoppers as Alfred Dolittle , and Gladys Cooper , with maybe five minutes of screen time and no songs , but who nevertheless runs away with a couple of scenes of her own as Higgins ' acerbic mother . The weakest link in this cast , it pains me to say , is Audrey Hepburn . As much as I've liked her in other things , she simply isn't convincing as Eliza Dolittle . And her lip synching is atrocious - - I've never seen such a bad job of pretending to sing in a movie musical . But no one could show off Cecil Beaton's outrageous fashion concoctions to better effect , especially the scene-stealing dress and towering hat Hepburn wears in the Ascot sequence . There are actually many problems with the material itself . It's dramatically inert , for one . The plot is paper thin yet the movie continues on and on for three hours long past the point where the main conflict has been resolved . Everything feels padded ; scenes seem longer than they need to be . The character of Eliza's father , which seems like a very important one on paper , could actually , when you think about it , be excised from the film entirely without in the least affecting the plot . And the musical numbers are lacking a certain vitality - - the blocking consists of people just sort of walking around on sets singing or talking their way through songs , and one craves a rollicking production number here and there . George Cukor doesn't show much imagination in his directing ; however , true to form , the Academy gave Cukor his sole Oscar for this , one of his most anonymous directorial efforts . But despite all of these faults , I still very much like this movie . It's fun , it's mindless , it puts me in mind of spring . It appeals to the Anglophile in me . It's a never less than respectable adaptation of one of the greatest stage musicals of all time .
Sally Bowles Anyone ?	Liza Minelli's character in " Cabaret " ( 1972 ) looks so much like Louise Brooks that you have to wonder if Minelli didn't model her look after the famous silent film star . " Diary of Lost Girl " puts the drama in melodrama . Brooks stars as a young innocent thing who's life goes a bad direction when she's introduced to every vice the world has to offer . Name a vice and it's in here : sex , booze , dance , gambling . It's like a public service message as broadcast by the Christian Coalition . It's a cautionary tale about the evils awaiting innocent souls , and it's pretty hard to take by the time the film has neared the two-hour mark . However , it's redeemed by a finale in which Brooks decides to devote her energies to helping other " lost " girls by truly understanding their plight , rather than cow them with moral fire and brimstone . Brooks is beautiful , but she's not much of an actress , at least not as evidenced by this film . Her Thymian ( what a name ! ) is a blank slate , and Brooks's reaction shots more often than not catch her staring at the camera with little or no expression on her face . Thymian is a girl who just lets things happen to her , so it's hard to muster up the requisite sympathy to really care about her plight . What's more interesting is the peripheral action always going on around her . The middle section of the film , which takes place in a home for wayward girls , captures some of the most entertainingly bizarre moments I've seen in a movie for a long time . The home is run by a butch dominatrix who leers lecherously at the girls while they eat soup and works herself into what appears to be a sexual frenzy when she forces them to perform nightly calisthenics ( which consist of the girls flopping over at the waist and then standing up again quickly , over and over , like fish gasping for oxygen ) . There's also a looming tall bald man who looks like he could have auditioned for the role of Lurch , who we see playing the piano one minute and gripping young girls by the backs of their necks the next . The best scene in the film comes when the girls turn on these two and begin pounding on them to the beat of a drum , making one wonder why the girls didn't do this much sooner , since there are about twenty of them and only two of the caretakers . People not familiar with pre-Code cinema ( and European pre-Code cinema to boot ) may be surprised at the adult subject matter in this film : nudie postcards , lesbian overtones , pre-marital sex , even a shot of a pregnant woman ( gasp ! ) . It's always a reminder of just how straight-laced movies became in the years shortly following the advent of sound . " Diary of a Lost Girl " is longer than it needs to be and doesn't exactly take the subtlest approach in its storytelling , but then what silent film ever did ? If you like silent films you will probably at least enjoy this one . If nothing else , it provides a nice introduction to Louise Brooks and the on-screen charisma that made her a star .
Postcards from Carrie Fisher and Debbie Rey . . . . . er . . . . Merly Streep and Shirley MacLaine	Carrie Fisher adapted her own book about the contentious relationship between a Hollywood mother and daughter - - hmmmm , wonder who this film is about ? " Postcards from the Edge " isn't going to be remembered as a significant contribution to film history , but I do remember enjoying it well enough . It would have to be a terrible movie for Meryl Streep and Shirley MacLaine not to be able to do SOMETHING with it , and both actresses are in fine form . Mike Nichols directs with his customary light touch . He's never been one to force his hand as a director , but rather lets his actors do the jobs they were hired to do .
Diverting , But Something Must Have Gotten Lost in the Translation	The phenomenally successful and award-winning stage play has been given a modestly entertaining screen treatment , and those of us who didn't see the theatrical version may fail to see why it was so beloved . " The History Boys " features stellar acting and some juicy ideas , but it left me far from overwhelmed by its brilliance . Richard Griffiths does indeed give a marvelous performance , and creates , along with playwright and screenwriter Alan Bennett , a truly original character with great reserves of complexity , but I was disappointed at how small a role he actually had , given his Best Actor Tony win for the same role . His Hector , teacher of " general studies " at an English prep school , whose love of knowledge for knowledge's sake is woefully ill-equipped to ready the boys for the rigors of the qualifying exams at the elite universities , dominates the film , and his character is always a presence even when off screen , but Griffiths himself has very little screen time . However , he does deliver the film's most beautiful moment , a soliloquy in which he explains to Posner ( one of Hector's students who , as a result of being Jewish , small and gay , is , in his own words , fed ) the unique experience of reading a work of literature and feeling that the author is speaking directly to you . Anyone who has a love for reading will understand what he's talking about , and understand the glow on his face as he describes it . Stephen Campbell Moore delivers a strong performance as well as Hector's rival , the younger , hipper teacher whose job it is to ready the boys for Oxford , Cambridge , et al . The debate between learning in order to pass a test and learning for learning's sake never becomes as didactic as I thought it might , but neither does it ever become as engrossing as it could . Frances de la Tour , who also received a Tony Award for her performance as a droll , acerbic history teacher , has a wonderful way with comic one-liners , and Bennett uses her lone female perspective to make some points that these men and boys bathing in the glow of their own brilliance in this male dominated world desperately need to hear . As for the boys themselves , they all do terrific work . They're obnoxious whenever they're in a group , which somehow feels right for a group of privileged academics to whom the school itself has handed an intellectual crown . Individually , though , they all do much with the material given them , and even if they fall somewhat into those generalized types that all such movies are prone to - - the jock , the sensitive one , the stud , the fat one - - they do so only on a surface level , and not one of them can be easily categorized . Clive Merrison alone of the actors hits a sour note . His interpretation of the school's headmaster is a fussy , unfunny caricature . Much of what I didn't like about " The History Boys " results from Alan Bennett's preoccupation with homosexual subplots . I know Bennett is a homosexual and that he's entitled to address an issue important to him , and I know everyone will immediately label me a homophobe for criticizing this element of the film , so there's no sense in putting forth the obligatory defense of myself . But in this particular case , I thought the emphasis on homosexuality distracted from the bigger , and more interesting , issues under discussion , and felt like details shoe-horned in by a playwright with an agenda rather than details that felt necessary to the movie's theme . I also didn't like the maudlin ending , which felt tacked on and unnecessary . So , in summary , I would certainly recommend " The History Boys , " but when I think back on the memorable movies of 2006 ( though God knows there haven't been many ) , this movie won't be among them .
Something Wicked This Way Comes . . . .	Just in time for Thanksgiving comes the feel-bad movie of the year . Man , I thought after " Gone Baby Gone " that I'd seen the year's biggest downer ; I shouldn't have jumped the gun . " The Mist " is based on a Stephen King short story and is written and directed by Frank Darabont ( " The Shawshank Redemption , " " The Green Mile " ) , who has created a cottage industry out of adapting Stephen King stories to the screen . This one contains considerably less philosophical babble than the other two films , both of them bloated and self-important in my humble opinion , and is more of an exercise in visceral , grab-at-your-guts horror . The movie focuses on a group of townsfolk in a small Maine community who wind up battling for their lives in a grocery store when a giant fog descends on the town after a night of raging storms . It's not long before all sorts of mighty fake looking creepy crawlies come slithering their way out of the mist , and before the people themselves begin going a bit buggy ( excuse the pun ) . None of them is buggier than a crazy religious fanatic played entirely too well by Marcia Gay Harden , who whips the more susceptible into a terrified frenzy with her doomsday babble and becomes a bigger threat than the giant gnats and spiders buzzing around outside . Another group of more rational folk ally themselves with the square-jawed , perfectly stubbled Thomas Jane , who plays a loving dad whose primary concern is his young son . This is the group I'd want to belong to , and it also includes Frances Sternhagen , who starts chucking cans of peas at Harden , to the applause of the audience I saw this with , and the terrific actor Toby Jones , SPOILERS AHEAD who finally shoots the demented lunatic in the head , again to enthusiastic applause . This wasn't as gratifying to me as seeing her head getting ripped off by a giant octopus would have been , but I guess it's the next best thing . The movie flirts with greater themes , such as the nature of humanity , the existence of God , etc . , but it wisely doesn't veer too far onto any of these paths . Stephen King , despite what Darabont seems to think from his previous films , is not the person to go to for intellectual musings . Darabont makes his film fairly streamlined and sticks to the point , which is to see how and if our merry band of survivors will escape with their lives . I won't ruin the ending for you , but I give the film credit for having the balls to stick with a majorly downbeat ending , even if it did leave me wanting to kill myself . And please heed this movie's R rating - - this is NOT a movie for kids , unless you want your children to be psychologically damaged , in which case go and enjoy . The film's special effects team can't resist the urge to show us the monsters in all of their tentacled and slimy glory , but I couldn't help but think how much more effective the movie would have been had we never actually seen any of the creatures , and instead had let our imaginations do the work for us .
Very Good Biopic	" American Splendor " is a terrific film , and easily one of the best of 2003 ( though that's not saying much ) . It tells the story of Harvey Pekar , famous in comic book circles for starting the American Splendor series . I didn't know anything about him or the series before I saw this movie , so it might be even more enjoyable for those who do . Or , as so often happens with biopics , an educated viewer might find that the story plays too loosely with facts . I can't answer for that , but I can say that I enjoyed this film very much . Paul Giamatti seems to be born to play Pekar . He's got the perfect hang-dog , born-loser aura about him . Hope Davis is also very good as Pekar's equally strange wife . This film got a lot of attention for its unconventional approach to story telling , using animation and documentary-like clips of the real Harvey Pekar to highlight the fictional portion of the film . For that reason , I was actually expecting this film to be more indie than it feels . As is , it's good , but it's fairly conventional . That's the only thing about it that disappointed me slightly . But still , even if slightly more conventional than I would have wished , it's more intelligent than 95 % of the other conventional films floating around out there .
Herzog Heads to the South Pole	Werner Herzog travels to Antarctica to film a colony of scientists going about their work with seals , penguins , volcanoes and the breathtaking sea life of this lesser known part of the world . This film is not the warning about global warming that you might expect , though the topic of global warming and man's future on this planet does come up . Nor do we , the audience , learn much about the scientists ' findings . Herzog traveled to this unpopulated part of the world where people drift when they want to get away from civilization , but the film seems more interested in these recluses than it does the environment to which they devote their time . This isn't that surprising , really . Herzog has always been interested in the human psyche and the motives that drive eccentrics to do the things they do . There's the sense in this film that Herzog has found himself among a batch of kindred spirits , and by learning what makes them tick may learn a little something about himself . The funniest part of the film is Herzog's interview of the taciturn penguin scientist . Watching the man's face as he tries to formulate answers to questions like " Can penguins be gay ? " and " Can penguins go insane ? " is worth the price of admission .
Another Tracy / Hepburn Boxing Match	Another in the long line of him vs . her domestic feuds that made Tracy and Hepburn a famous screen pair . " Adam's Rib " isn't as good as their first pairing , " Woman of the Year , " though its attitudes about women may be a good deal more palatable to a modern day audience . But it's still a fun movie - - it probably wouldn't be much if Tracy and Hepburn weren't in it , but they ARE in it , and they display their usual chemistry . With a small role for Judy Holliday , who would win that year's Best Acress Oscar for a much bigger role , that of Billie Dawn in " Born Yesterday . "
A Fun Experiment That Parodies Film Noir	" Brick " is a lot of fun if you are familiar with the genre it is parodying . It takes a 1940s film noir - - the kind that would have starred Humphrey Bogart - - and transplants it to an unnamed suburban California high school . A murder takes place , and our anti-hero , who was in love with the murdered girl , sets out to solve the crime , untangling a web of corruption and deceit as he moves along . Rian Johnson has created a visually unique film with a great sense of humour about it . Instead of the sleazy underworld of an American big city , we see instead the sleazy underworld of an American high school , where all the kids talk in the kind of clipped dialogue you would normally find in pulp detective novels , and where they meet for major drug deals in their parents ' basements while the parents themselves serve them apple juice upstairs in the kitchen . If I can't wholeheartedly recommend " Brick , " it's because Johnson sacrifices clarity in his efforts to be clever . The plot is very hard to follow , and much of the time , important information is mumbled so quickly by the actors that you can't understand what they're saying . Therefore , it was hard to get engrossed in the story , and it's hard to completely love any movie when you feel lost while watching it . I greatly appreciated what Johnson was trying to do , but the whole thing felt like more of a stunt than a film . However , it's certainly worth a look , especially for lovers of film noir .
Big Dumb Action Film with Tongue Planted Firmly in Cheek	" True Lies " is a big action movie extravaganza that falls prey to many of the weaknesses common to James Cameron films : it's bloated , too big , too loud , too long . But what I do like about it is that it doesn't take itself overly seriously , and it spends as much time poking fun of big dumb action films as it does trying to be one . Much of the film's appeal comes from the comic performances of Tom Arnold and Jamie Lee Curtis . The film's enormous action sequences won it a Best Visual Effects Oscar nomination , but it lost out to " Forrest Gump . "
Racial Tolerance , Sirk Style	That most shameless of directors Douglas Sirk stops at nothing to wring tears from your eyes in this candy-coloured weepy . Actually , true to form , he manages to deliver a film that's both hopelessly dated and trailblazing at the same time . Here he takes on racial prejudice , told through a story about a young black woman who passes for white , even to the extent of denying dear ol ' ma , only to realize how selfish she's been when dear ol ' ma ( of course ) kicks the bucket in the film's final moments . This is given the 1950s glossy soap opera treatment , as is the film's other central story , in which Lana Turner gets it on with the cleft-chinned and stiff-backed John Gavin ( whose hair is so Brill Cremed that it's actually BLUE ) . As he did with " All That Heaven Allows , " Sirk manages to play up to his audience at the same time that he's lecturing them . Unlike now , when those who most need to see a movie about racial tolerance wouldn't go near one , Sirk's audiences were precisely those whose viewpoints he was trying to influence .
A Society in Microcosm	As every film buff by now surely knows , John Ford's " Stagecoach " is credited with reinventing the western genre . It presents the society in microcosm , as a stagecoach full of traditional types ( the hero , the whore , the puritan , etc . ) travels across the untamed West . What maybe felt vibrant and different at the time now seems obviously schematic , but that's not really the movie's fault - - it's the fault of countless film classes that have turned this film into more of a blueprint than a movie . And of course it no longer feels especially fresh , but that's because it set the pattern for nearly every western that came after . What does stand out now about Ford's film are two things : 1 . ) On a cerebral level , this western feels much more fraught with subtext than other movies of its era ; there's a cloud of anarchy that develops over this group as they get further and further away from the civilization they know , and as their cultural judgements and labels begin to mean less and less ; and 2 . ) On a purely cinematic level , the extended action sequence in which the stagecoach is beset by Indians is a stunner for its time , and it's terrifically exciting . This movie is also credited with making a star out of John Wayne , a crime for which I can never forgive it , no matter what its other redeeming factors are . I'm not a huge fan of westerns , so by extension I'm not a huge fan of this film . But I did enjoy it , and it's one of those movies that's fun to watch from a historical standpoint if for no other reason .
Fun , If Missing the Mel Brooks Touch	I thought the stage musical adapted from Mel Brooks ' classic 1968 film was terrific and if anything even more outrageous than the movie . So it's strange that this movie based on the musical should feel so tame by comparison . It doesn't have that bawdy , let's offend everyone sense of fun that Brooks projects usually have , and it all feels a little lacklustre . Still , if you like the stage version , you'll probably have fun with this movie , as it's a virtual recreation , and the music sounds great . What I appreciate most about this movie is its willingness to be an old-fashioned movie musical . Unlike " Chicago , " which felt the need to justify all of its musical numbers as fantasy sequences taking place in the mind of a principal character , " The Producers " has people just breaking spontaneously into song , no apologies . If you're going to watch it , you have to accept that people are going to sing and dance and get on with it . And since most of the people in the film performed in the original Broadway cast , the songs are sung and danced well . Will Ferrell is new to the material , but he equips himself nicely as neo-Nazi Franz Liebkind and brings a lot of energy to his scenes . I would love to report that Uma Thurman stops the show as Ulla , the Swedish bombshell , but she doesn't . Uma , God love her , doesn't have the chops or the dancing skills to put over Ulla's big number , though the film makers do use her height to humorous advantage . I love the original film , but I don't worship it like some others , so I'm not as averse to playing with the material , and I didn't feel the need to compare Nathan Lane's and Matthew Broderick's performances to those of Zero Mostel and Gene Wilder . They don't really reinterpret the material as much as recreate it , but that's o . k . We're not talking about doing a Eugene O'Neill revival here , and Brooks's material has only so much depth to mine . This movie is a fun way to pass a couple of hours . It's never boring , and it was wringing plenty of laughs from the audience I saw it with .
Well Made But Dismally Depressing	This biopic about shock comedian Lenny Bruce was Bob Fosse's followup to his well-received 1972 film " Cabaret . " I'm pretty sure that " Lenny " was a financial bomb , and I'm not surprised . It's a relentlessly depressing and ugly film , despite the stylish polish Fosse gives it . Anyone who has seen Fosse's last film , " Star 80 , " knows just how nihilistic this director could be , and " Lenny " shows evidence of that . It is a fascinating film though , in its own way . Fosse uses a documentary-like approach , complete with black and white photography and a narrative device in which we see Bruce's long-suffering love ( played heartbreakingly by Valerie Perrine , Lex Luthor's bikini-clad girlfriend in " Superman " [ 1978 ] ) telling Bruce's story to a filmmaker while the actual events themselves are played out as flashbacks . Fosse was fond of this confessional type of storytelling and would use it again in " All That Jazz " ( 1979 ) . Dustin Hoffman is simply sensational as Bruce ; he utterly disappears into this caustic character until no trace of Hoffman the actor is left . Technically , everything about the film is highly accomplished , but it's so desolately grim as to be off putting .
Natalie Wood's Best Vehicle	This refreshingly bitter and raw-edged relationship dramedy showcases Natalie Wood in her best screen performance ( and at her most gorgeous , to boot ) . She and Steve McQueen play antagonistic lovers who get pregnant before they know each other very well , and proceed to make a life together , becoming acquainted along the way . Director Robert Mulligan gives the film a gritty and realistic patina - - this is no idealized studio image of New York . It's strong and unique stuff for 1963 , a time of transition in American film from Hollywood gloss to art-house realism .
One Third of " Atonement " Is Brilliant	The first third of " Atonement " is superb . We are introduced to a group of affluent English aristocrats whiling away their summer hours at a massive estate . One of them , Cecilia ( Keira Knightley ) , is nursing a raging case of sexual attraction to her childhood friend and now family gardener , Robbie Turner ( James McAvoy ) , while another , Cecilia's young sister Briony ( Saoirse Ronan ) , spends her day writing a play which she plans to perform for a family gathering later that evening . Everyone is bored and listless in the summer heat . Briony , prey to an overactive imagination , keeps witnessing a series of increasingly serious moments of intimacy between Cecilia and Robbie that she isn't old enough to fully understand , and finally a false accusation by her is responsible for sending Robbie away from the estate in handcuffs . Everything about this part of the film is brilliant . The director Joe Wright ratchets the sexual tension to an almost unbearable pitch , and I was on the edge of my seat waiting to see what would happen . But then the story and movie switched gears , and it lost some of that narrative momentum it had been so wonderfully building . The second and third acts of the film , while accomplished , do not deliver on the promise set up in the film's first part , and the movie never really succeeded in sucking me back in . When we next see Robbie , he's wandering through the desolate battlefields of WWII France , pining for Cecilia and nursing a chest wound . Wright shows off mightily in this part of the film ; there's an astounding ten-minute tracking shot that depicts the allied forces on the beach of Dunkirk that will have cineastes slobbering . But like Robbie's mind , this part of the film starts to wander aimlessly , and even while I was admiring the sheer planning that went into this amazing shot , I couldn't help but wish that Wright would just get on with it already . Finally , the film circles back to Briony , four years older and working as a nurse tending to the wounded . She's suffering a tremendous amount of guilt for the wrongs she's only now beginning to understand and wants to reach out to Cecilia ( from whom she's now estranged ) and Robbie to offer her apologies . I've not read the Iam McEwan novel on which this film is based , but even I could tell that this is where the screenwriter , Christopher Hampton , had the most trouble adapting the novel to the screen . Much of what " Atonement " is about becomes clear in this last act , as Briony ages into Vanessa Redgrave , a successful novelist who has finally written a novel that works as an outlet for her devastating feelings of guilt . We begin to realize here that " Atonement " isn't as much about the love affair between Cecilia and Robbie as it is about the act of writing and the power of words . Briony learns as a little girl how difficult words are to take back once they've been said ; as an adult , she learns the ability of words to help us deal with regret . One particular scene that takes place between Cecilia , Robbie and Briony is a fiction inserted into their story by Briony the novelist ; it's the story as she wishes it had been rather than as it actually was . Briony the woman can't change the past , but Briony the novelist can . This is a wonderful idea , but unfortunately the screenplay doesn't quite know how to communicate this in cinematic terms , so it's told directly to the audience by Redgrave in a monologue at the film's conclusion . Redgrave is a luminous actress , but her soliloquy feels awkwardly inserted into the film . As for the other actors , they all do fine work . The young actress Saoirse Ronan is especially good , and James McAvoy proves further that he's becoming one of the finest young actors working today . But the screenplay sort of abandons him and Knightley after its first half hour or so to a warmed over version of " The English Patient , " and the strong impact they both make early on dissipates gradually . I admired " Atonement " for how it looked and the ideas it had to express , but I think it's an uneven film that doesn't entirely work .
Professional But Unnecessary	So many films based on historical events take place either before I was born or before I was old enough to comprehend those events that watching " W . " carried a certain fascinating appeal . It's interesting to see something you've just lived through and have strong opinions about given shape in the fictitious world of a movie set . You want to see how much they " got right , " how like their real-world counterparts the various actors are . However , while those factors got me through the film , they didn't prevent me from being confused by Oliver Stone's intentions in making it . This is not the vitriolic diatribe against a largely reviled leader that you might expect . If anything , Stone's film treats George W . gently , portraying him as a naive do-gooder , whose heart's in the right place , but who is not equipped for leadership . The film's also not a satire , though it does contain many satiric moments . It doesn't even do what many Stone films do , which is make conjectures about key historical episodes and toy around with suppositions and " what if " scenarios . No , " W . " simply shows us the version of the Bush administration that we all saw playing out on our television sets every night . Every single character in the film comes across exactly as he / she came across in actuality . The only attempt at fleshing out a fuller and richer version of events comes from the relationship George W . has with George senior , that suggests George W . ' s inadequacies as a president were due to rigid paternal expectations . Whether this is based on truth or is a Stone fabrication I have no idea ; either way , it drags down the film . Josh Brolin does quite a good job at playing George W . He doesn't do an imitation , which would feel awkward stretched out over the length of a feature film , but he does nail some of Bush's mannerisms and turns of phrase . Richard Dreyfuss plays Dick Cheney like the devil incarnate , which is exactly how he came across during the entire duration of the Bush administration . Thandie Newton does an SNL-skit spoof of Condoleeza Rice , dead on and funny but rather distracting . Scott Glenn and Jeffrey Wright round out Bush's cabinet as Rumsfeld and Colin Powell , respectively . James Cromwell is seriously miscast as George senior , while Ellen Burstyn plays Barbara Bush as a battle axe - - probably not far from the truth . My ultimate verdict : professional but unnecessary .
Beautifully Shot 40's Corn	" Leave Her to Heaven " came out during a period when Hollywood was totally jazzed about psychological illness , its effects and its treatment . Two of the Academy Award best picture nominees from 1945 ( the year of " Heaven's " release ) were " The Lost Weekend " and " Spellbound , " both dealing with some sort of mental psychosis . Of course , those movies focused on the ability of their respective protagonists to get better ; " Leave Her to Heaven " includes the looniness , but leaves out the treatment part . Gene Tierney as Ellen comes about as close to serious acting as she ever would during her career , which isn't very close but is passable enough . She has a couple of effective scenes , namely the one in which she coldly watches her brother-in-law drown , but mostly the impact of her character is minimized by her obligation to always be beautiful . The plot is one of those corny , melodramatic 40's concoctions , in which the film goes around the world and back again to provide a happy ending that seems completely out of place . There are some hintings of psycho-babble about Ellen's too close attachment to her father and her tendency to destroy what she loves , but the film knows its limitations enough not to stray too far away from good old-fashioned sordid melodrama . Its ' an enjoyable enough movie if you don't take it too seriously , with absolutely gorgeous cinematography that won the film its lone Oscar . The other actors are negligible : Cornel Wilde looks plastic-y and Jeanne Crain does her pert , wholesome American gal thing . No one else really registers . The score is over-used and makes several scenes unintentionally silly . But , I repeat , an entertaining film if you approach it with the right expectations - - - in other words , don't expect a masterpiece and you'll do just fine .
Unfocused Satire , But Has a Lot of Funny Moments to Recommend It	In " Ghost World , " Terry Zwigoff's wonderful rumination on the awkwardness of adolescence , the main character felt like she didn't belong in a world that cherishes conformity . Her hostility toward others and general unpleasantness was a defense ; she was going to reject others before they had a chance to reject her . You might say that " Art School Confidential " addresses the next phase of life , when the pettinesses of high school are left behind and young adults have a sort of second chance at creating new identities for themselves . But what happens if you don't know what that identity should be ? Meet Jerome ( played with just the right blend of idealism and frustration by the young actor Max Minghella ) , who's determined to become a great artist and enrolls at a dingy New York art school . Like many young and immature artists , he thinks he's the only one who has anything truly original to say , and can't understand why others aren't as impressed with his work as he is himself . He struggles to ease into a comfortable artistic style , something everyone around him seems able to do without a problem . Meanwhile , he pursues a figure model who he thinks is the most beautiful girl in the school and who reminds him of a Picasso painting ; seeks advice from his art teacher ( John Malkovich ) and receives a thinly veiled sexual proposition in return ; and becomes fascinated by a misanthropic recluse ( Jim Broadbent in a wonderfully bizarre and off-kilter performance ) who just may be a serial strangler . As with " Ghost World , " Zwigoff approaches his material with a very funny but very black sense of humour of the slightly queasy variety . But unlike " Ghost World , " he doesn't pull it off as well . " Art School Confidential " remains abstract and glib ; its satire never takes focus . I wasn't sure what Zwigoff's point is ; is he poking fun at the pretensions of modern art ? Is he making a comment about the pretensions of young artists ? Toward the end , he seems to be addressing the arbitrariness of artistic success . But everything comes off as somewhat muddled . There are really good moments , like the aforementioned ones with Jim Broadbent , but then there are other characters and plot lines that do nothing but diffuse the film , like several scenes involving Jerome's roommates and a couple of moments with Anjelica Huston , who plays another art teacher and must have appeared in this film as a favor to someone , given the minuscule amount of screen time she's given . The early parts of the film are the best and funniest ; but Zwigoff gets ambitious with his ending , and it tanks terribly . Still , I enjoyed " Art School Confidential , " and I imagine other liberal arts majors will too . It really captures that feeling of being surrounded by young artist wannabes , all trying to impress and all terrified of being labeled conventional . Ah , days I can look back fondly on but don't think I'd ever want to revisit . . . . .
As Glossy as a Magazine , and About as Substantive	A slick entertainment with a plot someone phoned in and a fairy tale ending in which every conceivable loose end is tied up as neatly and happily as your average network sitcom . I had a lot of fun with the movie , but my expectations were low and would have been sorely disappointed if they'd been any higher . The key to any movie like this is : " Know what you're getting . " Meryl Streep of course gets all of the praise for this film , and indeed she is a riot . She resists the temptation to play the role of Miranda Priestley as a gross caricature , and instead decides to play her as a real person , which gives the movie dimensions it wouldn't have had otherwise . The character of Miranda would have been too unbearable to be fun if someone else had played her , but Streep knows how to deliver a nasty line while letting us know she's in on the joke , and her character is by far the best thing about the movie . Stanley Tucci , that unsung character actor , is also terrific as Nigel , Anne Hathaway's Henry Higgins . Is there anything this guy can't do ? " The Devil Wears Prada " sends an obligatory message about staying true to yourself and your priorities in life , a message the film itself undermines by making the world within the fashion magazine office seem more interesting and glamorous than anything going on outside of it .
When Worlds Collide	This solid thriller stars Harrison Ford , given his first chance to truly act , as a detective who must infiltrate an Amish community in order to protect a little boy who accidentally witnessed a murder . Director Peter Weir and his screenwriter use the story as an opportunity to examine the culture clash between the modern world and the peaceful , insular world of the Amish . Ford's detective brings with him the violence and aggression of the outside world , but he also brings an understanding to the Amish , and especially to the mother of the little boy ( played by Kelly McGillis ) , that at heart he's not much different than they are , even if their cultures are . It's a good if unremarkable film , hampered somewhat by an obligatory and unnecessary love story that merely serves to slow things down .
Hell Has Officially Frozen Over - - A Joel Schumacher Film I Don't Hate	No one wanted to hate " Phone Booth " more than me , since I absolutely despise Joel Schumacher and almost every movie he's ever made . I've actually taken the trouble to think about who my least favorite director of all time is , and Schumacher won the booby prize . So blame it on my incredibly low expectations , but I really liked this movie . I agree with the other people here that the script is weak . No effort is made to develop characters - - it seems as if the screenwriter began to add dimension to Forest Whitaker's cop and then thought better of it . But do you really want a lot of script in a movie like this ? The film makers were wise to keep the running time to a swift 80 minutes , and while I didn't think they were especially clever in the set up or execution , it was competent enough to hold my interest . I was pleasantly surprised by Colin Farrell's performance . He's great , and does much more with what he's given than the material probably warrants . I watched this by myself , but was still slightly embarrassed to find myself moved by his speech in which he confesses all of his sins to the assembled crowd . Even as I'm writing this review , I can't believe I didn't find this display hokier , but I guess I was in the right mood at the time . This movie reminded me of the kind of " B " thriller they might have made in the 40's - - slick , quick and not especially intended to impress . Frequently , because those films aimed low , they scored high , as does " Phone Booth " for me .
Terrific Widmark Performance in Atmospheric Thriller	Jules Dassin takes to the grimy streets of London for this crime thriller about small-time American shyster Harry Fabian ( Richard Widmark ) and his attempts to join the ranks of the criminal elite . Harry is small fry , relegated to using his con man finesse to drive business to a local nightclub run by a man with whose wife Harry had a past fling . But he yearns for something bigger and works out a scheme that will enable him to corner the market on the London wrestling syndicate . Trouble is , there are a lot of interested parties who for one reason or another don't want Harry's plans to succeed . The character of Harry reminded me a lot of my ex-brother-in-law . He was always looking out for that next big deal , the one that was going to strike gold . To everyone else , it was obvious that if he put as much effort into plain old honest work as he did into trying to outsmart his way to the top , he would have the comfortable life he wanted . Harry is like that , and Richard Widmark plays him perfectly . There are a couple of interesting interviews with Jules Dassin on the Criterion Collection DVD release of this movie , and in one of them he says that he always thought Widmark was a terrific actor , but that audiences never really got to see that , partly because Widmark was content within the stereotyped confines he was placed in by Hollywood . Maybe the fact that he wasn't a huge star worked to his benefit here . He gets every nuance of Harry just right . It's a performance that expertly balances Harry's cockiness and belief that he truly is smarter than everyone else if he could just get the break , and the pathetic hopelesness of a born loser who's not as clever as he thinks he is and will never know it . Widmark really gets Harry , and is able to play him as a villain and a hero at the same time . As long as Dassin sticks to the male-dominated world of London's underbelly , he's on firm ground . His movies are always dripping in atmosphere , and this one is no exception . London lends itself very well to Dassin's stark black & white compositions . And all of the testosterone comes to a boil in a shockingly violent scene in which two arch rival wrestlers go at each other like two dogs intent on tearing each other's throats out . But it's when Dassin turns his attention ( or lack of it ) to his female characters that the movie flounders . Googie Withers , playing Harry's old flame , threatens to walk away with the movie until her story comes to an abrupt end just when you think it's going to provide the movie with a juicy twist . She has all the trimmings of a true femme fatale , but Dassin does nothing with her . And one suspects that Gene Tierney is only in the film so that her name could appear on the movie posters . So overall Dassin gives us a clever story but one that feels oddly underdeveloped . One thing I really did appreciate about this movie was its downbeat ending . Any other movie from this time period would have tacked on some completely unrealistic redemption for Widmark in the last seconds , but Dassin refrains from doing that . The violence and pessimism serve to set this movie slightly apart from other Hollywood studio fare of the time , and make " Night and the City " a closer companion to the new wave films beginning to emerge from Europe , and to which Dassin himself would contribute " Rififi " five years later . Solidly crafted and well paced if not necessarily a masterpiece .
Pretty Fun	" The Transporter " is a not bad action flick that , true to the genre , is heavy on the action and not much else . Don't look here for a plot you can sink your teeth into . The focus is on outrageous and at times downright dazzling set pieces designed to show off the athleticism of star Jason Statham . He's a relaxed and easy to watch action hero , and as long as he's engaged in kicking butt he easily carries the film , but he doesn't have the charm of , say , a Jackie Chan , and he doesn't do as well with the scenes where he's actually required to speak . But fortunately , he's not required to speak frequently , and when he is , he's only asked to deliver a few words at a time . Wise decision by the screenwriters . You're not going to add any points to your I . Q . , but you just might have a good time .
Depressing Story Left Me Wanting More	Meet Sonia and Bruno , brand-new and very young parents to baby Jimmy , who have nowhere to live and no way to provide for their newborn son . Bruno is a petty thief , who uses the money he illegally makes to buy jackets and rent convertibles rather than supplying his wife and son with food and clothing . Sonia is basking in the glow of motherhood , and wanders through her days happily and naively assuming that everything will be fine . Until Bruno sells their baby through an illegal adoption ring . . . . The biggest surprise to me in watching this film is that it's not really about the baby at all . The effect Bruno's sale of Jimmy has on Sonia is so drastic that he becomes panic-stricken and immediately gets Jimmy back . After that , the film sticks with Bruno , and we see him fall deeper and deeper into a hole he has created for himself . The child of the film's title is not Jimmy but Bruno , and Sonia as well . These are kids trying to raise a kid , and to watch them try to do so is painful , heartbreaking and depressing . I was completely distracted by the fact that the baby not once cries , despite being dragged around on buses , left in cars and abandoned sheds , passed around from stranger to stranger . I couldn't believe how unrealistic the filmmakers had treated this part of the film when they bring an almost documentary-like approach to everything else . But then the ending came along , and I realized that the absence of tears throughout the film was a dramatic device . For at the end , the tears come , but not from Jimmy . No , they come from Sonia and Bruno , who crumble into one another's arms and cry like babies out of the fear and desperation at the overwhelming responsibility of life . I thought " L'Enfant " was well done , but at the same time it left me cold . We're not given much reason to care about Bruno , so watching him make one stupid decision after another gets tiresome after a while . The film highlights a problem , but it's one we already know exists , and it doesn't do anything in the way of offering a solution , so I'm not entirely sure what I was supposed to take away from it .
One of the First Mainstream Attempts to Discuss AIDS	People really look down on " Philadelphia " now for being a heavy-handed liberal Hollywood attempt to deal with a " gay " issue . But I think it deserves a break . It is heavy handed to be sure , but this is one of the first big mainstream movies with popular mainstream actors I can think of to deal with a topic most of mainstream America wasn't remotely interested in hearing about . It was a pretty big risk for Tom Hanks to " play gay , " as that's something that's been known to ruin the careers of others . And say what you will about the movie , it's hard to find fault with Hanks ' performance . Though much of the material he was given to work with is sentimental , he navigates it ably and manages to give an affecting performance regardless .
The Better of Two Gloomy Woody Allen Dramas from the Same Time Period	Woody Allen was in a bad mood in 1988 , for he made two of his most sombre films : " September " and " Another Woman . " " September " is dreadful , but " Another Woman " is quite good . Gena Rowlands plays a troubled woman who overhears the therapy sessions of an anonymous younger woman ( Mia Farrow ) through the vents in her apartment , and whose life begins to be impacted by what she hears . The film is a character study that gives Rowlands freedom to act up a storm , which she does , well , and it gives an ensemble cast of recognizable faces juicy little parts as the people who come in and out of Rowlands ' life . The biggest problem with Allen's dramas is that they're oppressive . He seems to think that a serious-themed film must be completely devoid of humour in order to be effective . " Another Woman " doesn't entirely escape that trap , but strong writing and acting carry it through and make it feel like more than a Bergman rip-off , which is exactly what " September " does feel like .
Murder on the Chicago to L . A . Express	The novelty of this Richard Fleischer-directed crime thriller rests on the fact that nearly the entire film takes place on board a train . Fleischer , who was adept at slicking up pulpy B material and giving it style to spare , treats the cramped shooting spaces as an advantage rather than a liability - - he uses extreme closeups , packed compositions and clever reflections ( in train windows , mirrors , etc . ) to enhance the story's claustrophobic appeal . No where is this more apparent than in a wild fist fight that takes place in a tiny mens ' room . The story surrounds a hard-boiled detective's ( Charles McGraw , who looks like he was born to play leading men in B noirs ) efforts to escort a dead mobster's wife to L . A . so that she can testify in front of a grand jury . The bad guys want to bump her off before she gets there , but they don't know what she looks like . McGraw delivers the tough-guy patter with confidence , and Marie Windsor ( who reminded me a bit of the contemporary actress Illeana Douglas ) swaggers her way through the role of a gangster's moll with flair . When McGraw tells her at one point that her amorality makes him sick , she replies , " Use somebody else's sink . " A plot twist toward the film's end caught me completely off guard .
It's Like Shaft Meets 90210	The 1980s , while virtually worthless in every other regard when it came to film-making - - gave us a host of classic adult comedies , and " Beverly Hills Cop " is one of them . The film made a star of Eddie Murphy , and paved the way for the action buddy comedy that has persisted to this day , though rarely as successfully . This is also the film that introduced ( to me , at least ) Judge Reinhold , who would go on to appear memorably again in one of my favorite comedies from the decade , " Ruthless People . " Also featured in a bit part is Bronson Pinchot as a flamboyant clothing store manager .
A Godard Film I Don't Dislike	One of the least intolerable films Jean Luc Godard gave us , if that praise is faint enough for you . " Breathless " is easily one of the most accessible of Godard's films , and while it still features a great many of the French New Wave trappings that exist for the sole purpose of pulling you out of the world of the film , it still manages to tell a story peopled with characters that we care about . Godard owes much of his film's success to the tremendous screen presence of his two leads , the smoldering Jean-Paul Belmondo and the hipster gamine Jean Seberg . These two create a vision of spontaneous romance that feels loose and free , in contrast to the rigid romantic formulas imposed on Hollywood products of the time .
Small Time Movie , But Not Bad	I'm not one to challenge the argument that Woody Allen's films in the past decade ( " Match Point " excepted ) have been well below the standards of his work in the 1970s and 80s . I don't believe , however , that all of his films since , say , " Mighty Aphrodite " in 1995 , have been worthless . There was quite a bit I liked about " Celebrity " ( 1998 ) , even if I was the only one , and there's likewise much to enjoy in " Small Time Crooks . " This film was marketed as a throwback to Allen's zany , screwball comedies of the early 70s , like " Bananas " or " Sleeper . " But it actually may surprise you as a much more substantive film than you are expecting , thanks almost exclusively to Tracy Ullman's marvelous performance as Allen's brassy , rough-edged wife , who unexpectedly finds herself ensconced in a high-class ( or at least extremely wealthy ) lifestyle . She is hilarious when called upon to be , but she also brings a lot of depth and compassion to a role that could easily have been nothing more than a broad caricature . After years of making do without his best recurring leading lady , Diane Keaton , Allen has finally found a worthy successor .
Fine Kids ' Film for More Than Just Kids	For a long time , Disney made top-notch live-action films , and " 20 , 000 Leagues Under the Sea " stands as one of the best . I loved this film as a kid , and can remember even at the time being impressed that it didn't feel like it was necessarily dumbed down for a children's audience . Look at the stars here : Kirk Douglas and James Mason . Look at the production values and sterling ( for the time ) special effects . In the present day , Disney puts all of its oomph into its animated films , and its live action offerings many times emerge as barely competent - - and certainly not anything anyone with half a brain ( kid or adult ) would want to see . This is a terrific fantasy adventure film - - people who want to find quality family entertainment should stop complaining about the lack of family-friendly movies being produced now and pick up something like this instead .
A Movie About Popeye - - - No , Not THAT Popeye	A movie that's most remembered for a complex and dazzling car chase scene through the streets of New York City , " The French Connection " wowed audiences and critics at the time and set the mold for the gritty police crime drama that still exists today in our movie theatres and on our television screens . The jittery , documentary-style cinematography and the grungy production design are the elements still aped today by T . V . shows that want to consider themselves to be " realistic . " But the film is really nothing more than an exciting popcorn film ; there would be nothing wrong with that if cinephiles hadn't exalted it beyond its rightful place in film history and led many modern-day viewers coming to it for the first time to expect something extraordinary . Also notable for making a star out of Gene Hackman , who indeed is one of the film's biggest assets in the role of Popeye Doyle , tough-guy detective who's almost as bad as the bad guys he's out to protect the public from . But Roy Scheider , in the supporting role of Popeye's sidekick , is equally deserving of praise . " The Departed " owes much to " The French Connection , " as its screenplay explores the same kind of corruption that blurs the boundaries between upholding the law and breaking it . In Scorsese's film , as in " The French Connection , " you don't know whether it's better to be on the side of the law or opposed to it ; both positions seem equally scary .
Minor Work from a Cinema Great	" Panic in the Streets " is a pretty standard B-movie that is raised a notch above other standard B-movies by its direction . Elia Kazan could take just about any material and make it better than it would otherwise have been in the hands of many others , and this film is no exception . It's a high-concept film : a murdered man's body ends up at the New Orleans city morgue and an autopsy reveals that it was infected with bubonic plague . The race is on to find the man's murderer to stop an epidemic . You would think this would get fairly run-of-the-mill treatment , which it sort of does , but it's Kazan's version of run-of-the-mill , which means there are all sorts of little directorial touches that prevent the film's style from feeling anonymous . Kazan had a knack for atmosphere , and the New Orleans setting really comes alive , as it would a year later for his masterpiece " A Streetcar Named Desire . " Richard Widmark is the doctor from the health bureau whom no one will believe , and he gives a fine , tense performance . Jack Palance uses his unbelievably sharp cheekbones and jawline to good effect as Blackie , the murderer on the lam . Zero Mostel is assigned the thankless duty of playing Blackie's sap of a fall guy . And I really liked Paul Douglas in a droll performance as the New Orleans chief of police and Widmark's right-hand-man . The premise of this movie has become eerily relevant in today's climate , which actually makes it somewhat uncomfortable to watch . But it's actually got a surprising amount of humor in it too . Widmark and Barbara Bel Geddes , who plays his wife , have a lot of witty banter that sounds like the way married people really talk . Credit once again goes to Kazan for creating a female character that feels like a full-bodied person and not simply a collection of " feminine " traits . Widmark and Douglas are funny together too , and there's a laugh-out-loud scene when Douglas is interrogating some Asian boat workers who have only the barest grasp of the English language . The obligatory chase and fight scene at the end does not feel at all staged , which is refreshing . The fist fight looks clunky and clumsy , which is how fist fights in real life are , not the nicely choreographed things we are used to seeing in Hollywood movies . The whole movie has a refreshing realism to it , so while it may not be especially profound or one that you remember for years , it will probably entertain you for a couple of hours at least and may strike you as a cut above other movies of its type .
Strong Material , Beautiful Score and Wonderful Lead Performance Overcome Heavy Directorial Hand	Director Norman Jewison does all he can to pound the life right out of this screen adaptation of the phenomenally successful Broadway musical , but thanks to the strength of the original material , he doesn't succeed . There are many better screen musicals , but there are also many that are far worse . Suffice it to say that Hollywood , which had churned out one disastrous musical after another for the last decade , finally got back to producing a musical it could be proud of . This beautiful story about a simple milkman in turn-of-the-century Russia who must come to terms with the loss of the safe and only world he has ever known , succeeds on screen largely due to the performance of Topol , who breathes body and soul into Tevye the milkman and creates one of those characters that for ever after you instantly associate with the actor who played him . You can feel him working overtime to keep Jewison's lumbering physical production on its feet , and his efforts prove themselves to be nearly Herculean , since Jewison can't direct a musical number to save his life . " Fiddler on the Roof " is not a dance musical , but it does have some rousing dance numbers courtesy of Jerome Robbins ; however , you wouldn't know it from this movie , since Jewison almost unfailingly chooses the worst camera angle from which to shoot every single frame of the musical portions . What the movie does boast , however , is a glorious version of the musical's beautiful score , left nearly intact and memorably orchestrated by John Williams . It soars and leaps even when the production it's anchored to just sits like a lump .
Crawford Keeps Her Eyebrows in Check	" Mildred Pierce " is a strange mix of women's picture and film noir . In typical noir fashion , the film begins with a murder and flashes back to the events that led up to it . It also has the standard issue noir look ; veteran director Michael Curtiz knew his way around a movie set , and gives his film a moody , shadowy look perfectly at home among the " Maltese Falcon's " and " Double Indemnity's " of the decade . But the story is pure melodrama , full of motherly suffering and gauzy swoonings . If you crossed Douglas Sirk with Raymond Chandler , you might get something like this . Joan Crawford is wonderful in the title role , and the movie clearly exists to showcase the talents of its star . Ann Blyth is nearly demonic as Mildred's spoiled-brat daughter , Veda . And Eve Arden plays the only kind of character she was ever allowed to play , that of the acerbic , wise-cracking best friend . The men in the film are nearly an afterthought , interesting seeing as this movie came out during WWII . This is yet another of those films from the same time period that offered a hypothetical warning about what would happen to the homefront if women carried on in the roles traditionally reserved for men . Mildred enters the world of business but gets slapped down the moment she becomes successful . Feminist film theorists love this movie ; in fact , I saw it in a feminist film class .
Another Sturdy Hepburn / Tracy Film	By the time " Pat and Mike " appeared in 1952 , the Tracy / Hepburn formula had begun to feel somewhat mechanical , but there's still some pizazz to this film that makes it worth watching . Katharine Hepburn , particularly , needed films like this . She made one film after another in which she played a repressed spinster , and it was easy to forget she could be sexy and alluring . You can relax into these films , because there are no pretensions - - Hepburn and Tracy are playing themselves , and they know you're there to see them play themselves , and George Cukor doesn't try to get too fancy , and everyone has a good time .
Rudolph Saves the New Year , Too	This was included on the same DVD as " The Year Without a Santa Claus , " and I must say that I don't remember this one at all from my childhood . It picks up where the original " Rudolph " left off . Rudolph has successfully saved Christmas , so he's charged with saving the New Year as well , sent off into the night by Santa Claus ( who's really good at delegating , by the way ) , to find the New Year's baby , a bizarre little tyke with enormous ears who looks like Harpo Marx and wears a giant top hat . He's run away because everyone laughs at his ears ; who better to find him and teach him the value of not taking life so seriously than Rudolph , he of the drunkard's nose ? I liked this one , though it features the least memorable music yet of this kind of animated film . Rudolph is joined by a soldier who's part clock and speaks in rhymed couplets , and a knight whose face we never see and who could be a character out of Monty Python . There's also a gloomy camel and my favorite character , a great whale who gives the group rides around the ocean and helps them chase down the scary monster bird ( that's really its name ) who wants to kidnap baby New Year so he can stop time and prevent himself from turning into ice ( don't ask ) . Last but not least , Red Skelton fills narration duties as Father Time . Like all of these films , even if they're not that great , they provide a certain nostalgic satisfaction to those of us who remember a time before computer animation .
A Melodrama as Only 1930s Hollywood Could Present It	The same things that make " America's Next Top Model " entertaining make " Stage Door " a blast . " Stage Door " is even better , because we don't have to put up with Tyra Banks or her panel of hissy fashion " experts , " but we still get the house full of catty , superstar wannabes who throw insults at one another faster than the audience can keep up . Katharine Hepburn plays the rich daughter of a Midwestern business tycoon who takes a room in an all-female boarding house while she sets out to become a stage actress . The house is full of a bunch of been-there-done-that girls who all have their sights set on the stage , and have varying chances of ever seeing their dreams become reality . Ginger Rogers ends up as Hepburn's roommate , and their animosity for one another becomes a grudging affection over the course of the film . Rogers , because she's not being asked to play second fiddle to Fred Astaire , gets to show off her ample reserves of charm and comic ability , and she really steals the movie away from everyone else . I think the movie is supposed to be primarily about Hepburn , but you wouldn't know it , because Rogers so dominates the first half of the picture that it feels like the film's lost its way when she drops out of a good deal of its last half . Also in the house are Gail Patrick , playing a jaded beauty who's content to let sugar daddies provide her meals and entertainment ; Constance Collier , as an aging diva who takes the young actresses under her wing and tries to teach them their craft ; Andrea Leeds , in the film's most thankless role as a pathetic sad sack who has freak out scenes when she's not moping around and ends up hearing voices before throwing herself out of a window ; and Lucille Ball and Eve Arden serve as a kind of Greek chorus , charged mainly with providing sarcastic commentary on the action swirling around them . Adolphe Menjou rounds out the cast as a smarmy producer who lands Hepburn a choice part . The problem is , Hepburn's character is a terrible actress , and we're sure that her opening will be a total disaster , but she finds out that little ol ' Andrea Leeds took a swan dive just before she goes on , and the emotion it arouses in Hepburn causes her to give the performance of her life and become an overnight sensation . Only in 1930s Hollywood , folks . Don't even try to see the story as anything but the most ridiculous melodrama , and just enjoy the performances and the zingy dialogue . The movie is often very funny , both intentionally and unintentionally so . And as a sidenote , nearly every actress in this film reminded me of a contemporary actress . If I was casting this film now , Nicole Kidman would get the Ginger Rogers role ( I know , I know , I never would have thought Ginger Rogers looks like Nicole Kidman , but at times she does ) , Chloe Sevigny would get Eve Arden's , Debra Messing would DEFINITELY get Lucille Ball's ( they're dead ringers ) and Olivia de Havilland ( o . k . so I know she's not a contemporary actress , but the resemblance is striking ) would get Andrea Leeds ' .
God Help Us All When Spielberg Feels Guilty About Something	Well zip-a-dee-doo-dah , I kept expecting Uncle Remus to come bounding out of the bushes while watching Steven Spielberg's screen adaptation of the Alice Walker novel . In retrospect , Spielberg shouldn't have been let near this story with a ten-foot pole . His maudlin , well-intentioned approach to liberal message movies is completely at odds with Walker's spare , unsentimental storytelling . But , all in all , the results could have been much worse . Yes , Spielberg paints a painfully one-dimensional picture of poor blacks in the 1930s South . Yes , his way of exorcising his white guilt is to make the sole white character in the movie ( played by Dana Ivey ) a dithery twit , and his way of dealing with Walker's feminist elements is to make all of the male characters idiot buffoons . But the movie does have its good points , like a luminous performance from Whoopi Goldberg in the role of Celie , the ugly young woman who finds the beauty within herself , and an equally lovely performance from Margaret Avery , the sultry nightclub singer who helps Celie with her awakening . Oprah Winfrey huffs and puffs her way through a caricature of a performance as Sofia , the big black woman who goes around telling people what's what . Mr . Money Bags Spielberg ensures that the film has top-notch production values , and indeed it does look beautiful , and Quincy Jones provides a warm , pleasant score . Not the stunning film that could have been made from such good source material , but not a disaster either .
Good , But Not One of the Greatest Comedies of All Time	My wife loves this movie , mostly on the strength of Jack Lemmon's wild performance , but I have to admit that I've remained resistant to its charms . I don't DISLIKE it , but I always have trouble understanding how it pops up again and again on various lists as one of the funniest comedies ever produced . Of course , much of my lack of appreciation probably has to do with the fact that cross dressing comedies have become a dime a dozen now , but were virtually unheard of at the time this film was released . And even more notable , Jack Lemmon's character actually kind of LIKES pretending to be a woman , so this film manages to work in some fairly ahead of its time gender politics into its mostly escapist comedy trappings . But the film is hampered by too much Marilyn Monroe , who was just a terrible actress , like it or not . The woman could not act , and no amount of sex appeal ( though I think she had very little of that as well ) could change that fact . Still , my reservations aside , the strengths in this film mostly outweigh the weaknesses . Billy Wilder delivers a sharp script even if his direction seems to be at cross purposes with the movie's comedic elements , and Tony Curtis gives a hilarious and dead-on impersonation of Cary Grant that rivals Lemmon's manic antics in its pricelessness .
The Dawn of Man	A strange and compelling film about prehistoric man , filmed nearly entirely without dialogue . It's so lacking in any of the traditional elements that would normally make a film a commercial success that you have to admire its chutzpah if you admire nothing else about it . Fortunately , it's also excellently made , and feels incredibly authentic , thanks to expert camera-work and production design , and quite amazing makeup effects . The only recognizable actor in the film is Rae-Dawn Chong , but under all that makeup , even she's hard to spot ( just look for the woman ) .
Solid Film Marred by an Ending That Felt False	The illegal immigrant dispute between the U . S . and Mexico has been such a hot-button topic lately that I never think about illegal immigration being a problem between the U . S . and Canada . " Frozen River " uses that very issue as a backdrop for its story about a desperate single mother ( Melissa Leo ) in upstate New York who turns to illegal smuggling as a means for making money to buy her and her two sons a new home . It's a sombre , indie-vibe film , one of those movies where the color scheme is predominantly gray and brown and the action is set in some location you can't ever quite believe summer visits . Just in case we didn't understand the significance of the film's title , director Courtney Hunt inserts shots of a literally frozen river periodically throughout the movie . The whole thing is probably authentic but it's also pretty depressing . I'm thrilled that Melissa Leo received a Best Actress Academy Award nomination , because she's a hard-working actress who's appeared in a number of striking roles that have gone without recognition . But while I thought she was very good , I wasn't wowed by her . The film's final moments , in which Leo's character finds redemption , felt false to me . I guess the movie needed something uplifting to balance out its bleakness , but I didn't buy that this mother , whose actions throughout the entire movie were motivated by the instinct to provide for her children , would then agree to leave them in the hands of someone she barely knows while she goes off to spend four months in jail . Misty Upham , who plays Leo's partner in crime , gives a quietly remarkable performance .
Bergman Cracks a Smile	Ingmar Bergman lightens up considerably to deliver this romantic comedy of manners set in a magisterial country estate . The film contains all of the elements you would expect from a bedroom farce : young foolish lovers ; older , wiser ones ; arch rivals ; a duel . It's by far Bergman's most accessible film and it makes one wish the super-sober director had let his hair down more frequently . Woody Allen aped " Smiles of a Summer Night " in " A Midsummer Night's Sex Comedy , " but that film does not do justice to the original material . Stephen Sondheim , on the other hand , improved greatly on Bergman's original film in his Broadway musical " A Little Night Music . " It's more magical , more wistful and much funnier than Bergman's version .
Not " The Princess Bride , " But Then Few Fantasy Films Are	Fantasy adventure is a genre I very much enjoy , and it's a genre too neglected by Hollywood . " Stardust " is a fun and enjoyable addition to it , even if it won't go down as the cult classic it so obviously wants to be . The film's biggest flaw is that there's simply too much going on , too many plot strands , and the film itself is too long . You can feel it working overtime to create the same kind of whimsy that infused a movie that IS a cult classic , " The Princess Bride . " But that movie was small , charming and simple . It didn't stuff itself to the brim with digital effects and thunderous action the way " Stardust " does , and the latter film doesn't come close to the former . But I did appreciate the humour in " Stardust " and its refusal to take itself seriously . Charlie Cox and Claire Danes are likable enough as an impetuous English lad and the fallen star he falls in love with , respectively . Michelle Pfeiffer looks gorgeous ( at least at first ) as a witch intent on regaining her former beauty , even if she's not at home with the film's comic elements . Unfortunately , Robert De Niro is miscast as a swishy pirate with a penchant for corsets and boas , and his big comic scene just feels uncomfortable . But Ricky Gervais adds some fine comedy in a couple of brief scenes , and Peter O'Toole lends the whole thing some credentials by virtue of his mere presence . Even if it has its faults , I liked " Stardust " and hope to see more films like it .
A Worthy If Not Ideal Screen Adaptation	Director Walter Lang does his best to ruin what may be Rodgers & Hammerstein's strongest stage musical , but he's no match for the stellar material . He directs with a stodgy , anonymous style - - why actually move your camera around a set when you can root it to the floor as if it's a potted plant ? With the exception of Yul Bryner and Deborah Kerr , he elicits performances from his cast that would be at home in a cheesy sword-and-sandal Biblical epic . And the film has that overblown , garish visual design too common to big films from this time period , that manages to look both cheap and expensive at the same time , as if all the sets are made out of brightly colored plexiglass . But , and this is a big " but , " this musical tells a beautiful story about cultural tolerance that remains intact in the film , and the movie offers the strong performances of Bryner and Kerr , both perfectly cast in their roles . " Carousel " may have given audiences the most sophisticated R & H score , but for me , the music in " The King and I " remains the most glorious . Too bad the adapted film score severely truncates its stage counterpart : many songs are missing entirely , and almost all of those left are shortened versions . Happily , the " Small House of Uncle Thomas " ballet sequence remains in the film and retains the original Jerome Robbins choreography as it appeared on stage . It may just be the most memorable musical number ever conceived for stage or screen . This film isn't the best possible screen adaptation of a nearly perfect stage show , but thanks to Bryner and Kerr , and of course R & H , it'll do .
Fonda and Sutherland Better Than the Movie They're In	Jane Fonda plays Bree Daniels , lonely New York City call girl , who becomes one of the key informants in the investigation surrounding the murder of one of her tricks . Detective John Klute , played by Donald Sutherland , who leads the investigation and gradually wins Bree's trust , ends up as her lover and protector when her life becomes endangered . " Klute " has a deeply unsettling quality in that hard to define way that characterizes so much of the best film-making from the 1970s . It's a portrait of urban isolation , a popular theme for the time , and it plays like a kind of female version of " Midnight Cowboy . " It's worth seeing for the performances of Fonda and Sutherland , who do terrific work as this unlikely romantic pair . But the screenplay leaves something to be desired . Fonda's performance is subtle , but the script too often is more obvious than it needs to be ( like a scene with Bree and her therapist where Bree tells her doctor that she continues to trick because she's hooked on the feeling of being in charge . . . . well , duh ! ) And the ending is especially disappointing , collapsing into a conventional pot-boiler climax that doesn't deliver on the fine character study that preceded it . Still , a worthwhile viewing experience and yet one more example of why the 70s are considered to be a golden age for challenging cinema .
A Mostly Effective Erotic Thriller	Makers of erotic thrillers need to be careful , as that is a genre that , if not handled carefully , can quickly fall prey to silliness and excess ( think " Fatal Attraction " ) . " Swimming Pool " is a thriller in the style of " The Deep End , " and more than once I was struck by similarities between the two in their respective tones and reliance on water as a recurring visual motif . Also , both films have a middle-aged female as the protagonist who becomes involved in covering up for the actions of a child ( in " The Deep End " a literal child , in " Swimming Pool " a figurative one ) . Also , both films are completely unpredictable . Neither goes the direction in which the viewer thinks it's going to . However , " Swimming Pool " is much more abstract , and its ending leaves you wanting to watch the whole thing over immediately with an entirely different perspective on the action . This gimmick always makes for a memorable ending in movies that employ it , but too often it makes the rest of the movie seem somewhat pale in comparison , and this is the case here . " Swimming Pool " plays tricks with your perceptions , but the finale to which the film builds seems somewhat anti-climactic when it finally comes . It's a leisurely paced film , and you'll need to have patience with it . You'll also need to have patience with the main character , played by Charlotte Rampling . Rampling gives a fine performance , but her character is really unlikable ( intentionally so ) , and it's always a liability for any story that focuses almost solely on one person to make that person unlikable , or at least sympathetic . " Swimming Pool , " though billed as an erotic thriller , is really about the creative process ( I think ) , and I won't say anymore about that because to do so will give away the ending . It's an interesting idea , imperfectly executed .
Perfectly Watchable , But Astaire and Rogers Would Make Better	I don't know that I've ever seen a film that has less plot than " The Gay Divorcée . " It's like one of those " Three's Company " episodes where everything revolves around a misunderstanding , except with even less substance . I don't know why I'm surprised though , given the other Astaire / Rogers films I've seen . This one set the mold for a formula that needed no revision , since audiences ate it up again and again . If anything , this one feels more like a trial run - - the dancing duo would make better films later in the decade . But they have their usual kinetic chemistry ; Rogers especially looks adorable in this . Character actress Alice Brady plays the dotty matron role that Helen Broderick would assume in " Top Hat " and " Swing Time . " Astaire / Rogers regulars Edward Everett Horton and ( my favorite ) Eric Blore are also on-hand and do what they're asked to do . Every one of these films has a big production number that serves as the film's centerpiece . Here it's " The Continental , " and it seems to go on forever . Also with Erik Rhodes , who plays a silly and outrageous Latin lover .
Overwrought Story Told with Typical Hitchcockian Flair	The style is pure Hitchcock , but the story is utterly ridiculous in this psychological drama . Gregory Peck plays a psychiatric patient tormented by something in his past that he's buried in his subconscious ; Ingrid Bergman plays the noble suffering love interest who stands by him . It's all very over-heated and over-done , filled with psychobabble so obvious and simplified that a third grader could understand it . Ah well . . . . this came out in a year when Hollywood seemed to discover the science of psychiatry , and it unleashed a slew of movies that dealt with the neuroses plaguing their protagonists . " Spellbound " is silly to be sure , but it has some of those priceless Hitchcockian moments that make his films memorable when the same movie by any other director would have long since been forgotten . The highlight in this one is a long and surreal dream sequence that had production design by Salvador Dali . It's a stunner .
The French Riviera Is the Star Here	This movie is certainly gorgeous to look at , as are the stars in it , but Hitchcock fans looking for that bit of macabre tomfoolery the master nearly always includes in his films may just be disappointed . In fact , if you don't think Grace Kelly was God's gift to mankind , you'll probably be disappointed , as this movie exists almost entirely as a tribute to her allure , as imagined by Hitchcock . His obsessive nature roams free as he frames her in scene after scene in high-key Technicolor wearing one glamorous gown after another . But I always thought Kelly lacked sex appeal , though to give him credit , Hitchcock was the only director able to coax a sexy performance from her , in " Rear Window , " released a year before this film . You know that Hitchcock wants us to find her as bewitching here as she was in that , but it doesn't happen , at least not for me . And at a time when directors were putting as much emphasis on making exotic locations look gorgeous on film as they were on plot or actors , the French Riviera as filmed here looks ravishing .
Beware the Gorgon	Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing star in this surprisingly atmospheric horror film . Cushing is the villain , a doctor who holds the key to a series of unsolved murders plaguing a European village . Lee is the hero , a professor who comes to investigate at the behest of the son and brother of two of the murder victims . At the center of the mystery is the legend of the mysterious Gorgon , who can turn men and women to stone with one look from her evil eyes . This is all standard B horror movie stuff , but there are a couple of scenes that manage a fair level of creepiness , and the British cast are able to make the material sound better than it actually is . It's a pretty good-looking film too - - the copy I saw had vibrant color and a picture quality I wasn't expecting from such a low-budget offering .
Will Do as the Werewolf Movie Against Which to Judge Other Werewolf Movies	Probably the definitive werewolf movie . When looked at as a whole , " The Howling " isn't one of the scariest films ever made , but there are individual moments in the film that certainly rank among some of the scariest from other films . Most notably is a scene in which a reporter is just on the verge of uncovering the mystery surrounding a werewolf colony and is attacked by one of the wolves in a deserted office . The creature design is spooky , even if many of the makeup effects owe their look to " An American Werewolf in London , " released the same year ( big year for werewolves , apparently ) . Dee Wallace , who was the go-to actress for playing ordinary heroines in 1980s horror and fantasy films , makes an especially cute werewolf . She looks more like an Ewok .
Flame On , Guys ! ( Wasn't That a Song by the Village People ? )	I'm used to being in the minority when it comes to movies . But usually , I hate movies that everyone else seems to love . It's much rarer that there will be a movie almost universally disliked , but which I actually enjoyed . " Fantastic Four " is one of those . Maybe by the time I saw this I was just sick of all the brooding , psychologically complex superheroes out there and found a good old-fashioned cheesy comic book movie refreshing . What I like about this story is that the Fantastic Four have their superpowers foisted on them , and then have to figure out how to use them . They have a regular Joe quality to them that makes them easier to relate to . They don't have sinister back stories full of murdered parents , ugly childhoods , seething feelings of revenge . They're just geeky scientists who can do pretty cool things . People seem to be responding to the second installment , " Rise of the Silver Surfer , " marginally better than they did the first , but I like both of them . After the overblown mess that was the " Pirates of the Caribbean " trilogy and all of the dithery angst that filled Sam Raimi's " Spiderman " series , it's nice to sit back and let 90 minutes of fun , worry free action adventure cleanse the palate .
Dutiful Film Adaptation Never Really Takes Off	This all-star screen adaptation of the Herman Wouk novel is forcefully acted , but it has a by-the-numbers feeling to it , and the drama never really takes hold . I can aim much the same criticism at the book , which I thought plodded along rather dully and went on for far too long . The movie is actually a pretty decent adaptation , considering the screenwriters had to reduce an 800-page novel to a two-hour film . They picked the right parts to jettison , deciding wisely to stick closely with the events involving Queeg and the Caine , and eliminating much of the narrative surrounding Willie Keith , our guide through the story . There's still too much of him , though , and not enough of Humphrey Bogart , who stepped out of character to play a possibly crazy and possibly dangerous naval captain . Van Johnson and Jose Ferrer should be singled out for their performances , Johnson playing the Caine's executive officer who instigates the mutiny and Ferrer playing the naval lawyer hired to defend the mutineers . The film trips along speedily enough , and it hits all of the high points , but it never really comes alive as a movie and instead feels like what it is - - a fairly faithful but rather uninspired adaptation . And the less said about Max Steiner's blaring and woefully inappropriate score , the better .
Gregory Peck , What Hath Thou Wrought ?	I usually prefer my horror to be of the psychological , creepy variety , but even though the approach taken in " The Omen " is to bludgeon you with shock effects , it's still one damn scary movie . Gregory Peck classes up this movie mightily just by being in it , and he does tremendous work as Roger Thornhill , a U . S . senator who becomes the unwitting father to Damien , aka the AntiChrist . Most of the movie is focused on Thornhill's reluctance to accept the overwhelming case laid out against his son , and then the hair-raising finale finds him dragging Damien to a church to do away with him before the authorities , who of course don't know the true nature of the circumstances , can stop him . " The Omen " is staged as a series of outrageous scare scenes , many of them revolving around the death of someone it's more convenient to Damien not to have around . Thus his nanny hangs herself at his birthday party , leaving the door open for a mysterious and much more sinister nanny to appear and take care of him . A priest who's on to some of what's going on gets skewered by a church steeple . Damien's own mother ( Lee Remick ) takes a tumble , first off a second story balcony and then out of a hospital window . And in the film's most famous scene , a photographer who has been unraveling the mystery of who Damien is is beheaded by a sheet of glass . But the film's not all schlock effects . It's well written and paced , and the screenwriters take a wise approach to the material - - it's as much mystery as it is horror film . And there's something hugely creepy about the fact that Damien isn't directly responsible for any of the film's black magic . He's too young yet to know what he is or what power he has , and there are demonic forces around him that are making sure he stays protected , but which we the audience never see . In this way , " The Omen " is far scarier to me than " The Exorcist , " which treats the subject of demonic possession so literally . I'd put this in my list of top ten scariest films .
Will Exercise Your Eyes But Not Your Brain	Zhang Yimou's latest is a glorious freak-out of a movie . You can cut the melodrama with a knife ; the whole thing is hopelessly over-emphatic , like a parody of Shakespeare . But it works a kind of spell , and it won me over , lingering in my head for a few days after I'd seen it . Those who have become used to Yimou's brand of gloriously choreographed fight scenes may be disappointed by this film , as it's short on the action and long on the plot . Unfortunately , Yimou's strengths lie neither in creating challenging plots nor compelling characters , so much of this film is given over to long and ever-so-slightly-boring character scenes . Chow Yun-Fat and Gong Li play the Emperor and Empress of China , engaged in a family squabble from hell , along with the Emperor's son from a previous marriage and the two sons they have had together . Family members declare their loyalty to one or the other of the parents and everything ends tragically and bloodily . Most of this is ridiculous stuff , like " Macbeth " crossed with Douglas Sirk . But there's enough dazzling color , histrionic feuding and swooping action segments to carry the film through its dull moments . I especially liked the swarm of ninjas that fly around on cables like a batch of giant black spiders and act as the Emperor's personal bodyguards ; and the film's climactic battle , that reminded me very much of Kurosawa's " Throne of Blood . " A gorgeous looking piece of eye and brain candy .
Typical Bergman , Meaning Nihilistically Depressing	This Biblically named Bergman film falls into the category of those that make you want to jump off of a bridge after watching them , but of those , it's one of the best . In typical cheery Bergman fashion , all of the action takes place on a desolate sea coast , all craggy rocks and biting winds . The whole thing is about the search for God and coming to terms with the realization that he doesn't exist . . . but wait . . . this is a Bergman film , so what else would it be about ? Like many of his films , interesting enough once but almost nothing would compel me to watch it again .
Gish Suffers Nobly	" Way Down East " will probably be a hard pill for many filmgoers to swallow , as it's a silent and very long , but I would recommend you give it a try , as it's also pretty entertaining . Lillian Gish gets put through her melodramatic paces by the granddaddy of modern cinema , D . W . Griffith . Griffith was a master at building his movies up to intolerably exciting finales , and this film is no exception . A classic set piece puts Gish trying to escape across a frozen river , jumping from one drifting block of ice to the next . And consider that this was in the day before special effects , and it's even quite possible that Gish did all of the stunts herself . A slice of early cinema that goes down easily if you give it the chance .
Stand Up , Mr . Cruise . . . . Jack Nicholson's Passin '	Square military courtroom drama from that squarest of square directors , Rob Reiner . Tom Cruise and Jack Nicholson challenge each other to a yelling match , with Nicholson squeaking by for the win . Demi Moore practices her ability to look pensive and concerned . Kevin Bacon pops up and proves that there's life after " Footloose , " while Keifer Sutherland ( ick ) is also on hand , proving that there's life after . . . what ? . . . . " The Lost Boys ? " Still , for the kind of movie this is , it's pretty entertaining . Was clearly the space filler at the 1992 Academy Awards , as it managed to get nominated for Best Picture without nominations for either directing or writing .
Fine Precursor to " Bonnie and Clyde "	The original title of " Gun Crazy " was " Deadly Is the Female , " and they ain't kidding . If you thought Faye Dunaway's Bonnie Parker was the more ruthless member of the crime duo that gave Arthur Penn's 1967 film its name , wait till you get a load of Peggy Cummins's Annie in this little known cheapie from 1949 . I wouldn't want to get on this woman's bad side ; she can shoot cigarettes out of people's mouths , for God's sake . " Gun Crazy " is such an obvious influence on Penn's " Bonnie and Clyde " that I can't believe the later film doesn't credit it directly . Though the 1949 film is based on a short story that appeared in the " Saturday Evening Post " and the 1967 film worked with an original screenplay , both films could have been adapted from the same source . They portray the Annie / Bonnie character as bored and restless , turned on by the thought of crime and by a manly man who can really use his " gun . " The Bart / Clyde character is tickled by the idea of being a virile stud in the eyes of his lover , but is ultimately too sensitive for the life they choose . And both films do a good job of portraying the desperation that plagues both couples , the isolation and loneliness they create for themselves and can never break out of , and the ultimate futility of their actions , since the " law " is going to catch up with them sooner or later . Peggy Cummins is really good in this . I don't know what else she's been in , but her baby-doll voice creates an effective contrast to her colder-than-ice attitude . She's crooning into her lover's ear one minute and itching to kill someone the next . And you have to dig those French-inspired fashions that would cause a sensation nearly 20 years later when Dunaway donned them again for Penn's film . I thought John Dall was at first odd casting for the role of Bart . Annie is supposed to think of him as a man's man , and Dall , with his willowy physique and gentle mannerisms is far from that . But then when we realize that he's at heart really too gentle for the life he and Annie have chosen for themselves , his casting makes sense . There are some small touches to this film that really add to its immediacy and realism . I loved the scenes of Annie and Bart driving to and from their heist jobs , shot from the back seat of the car as if we are a member of their gang . They have really funny and natural banter back and forth about where to park , etc . which I have to believe was improvised to some extent . The ending of the film , a face off in a creepy swamp , is eerie , and there's a small twist in the last seconds of the film that might be easy to miss but may give you some things to think about if you catch it . It's interesting , and rather depressing , that one of the main themes of this film is the obsession with guns and violence that pervaded the country nearly 60 years ago , and here we are a handful of wars later , still dragging around the same old obsessions . Michael Moore's recent documentary " Bowling for Columbine " could have just as easily been called " Gun Crazy , " if that title weren't already taken by this forgotten little blast of a movie .
Birth of a Genre	It probably didn't know it at the time , but when " The Maltese Falcon " debuted in 1941 , it was inventing a new film genre , one of my personal favorites : the film noir . Films noir got better later in the decade and throughout the 1950's ; they got seedier , starker and more psychologically twisted . And if you can follow the plot of " Falcon , " you're either smarter or paying more attention than I . But I don't know that anyone watches movies like this for the plot , and while I didn't see the " Great Film " in this that others seem to see , I still appreciate its place in screen history for kick-starting two things : film noir and the career of Humphrey Bogart . As long as Bogie's on screen , no one else really even matters , not even Mary Astor in a sizzling role . Though one can't overlook the presence of Peter Lorre , who makes any movie a bit creepier on the strength of his weird looks alone .
Notable for the Early Bette Davis Performance	When I saw that this film was only 80 minutes long , I thought we were in trouble . Condensing the gigantic W . Somerset Maugham novel down to a movie that clocks in at under an hour and a half seemed like a disaster waiting to happen . But you know , the movie's not half bad , and it even manages to retain much of what makes the book resonate so much with its readers . I've heard many film buffs complain that Leslie Howard was a wet noodle of an actor , and he was , but I can't think of anyone more suited to play the role of Philip Carey than a wet noodle , for that's certainly what Carey is . Howard plays him well , which means you want to shake him and slap him upside the head repeatedly , then finally take him out and buy him a spine . Ah , and then there's Bette , as the girl with whom Carey is obsessed and who brings his world crashing down around him . I didn't know what on earth the appeal of Mildred was in the book , and the movie stays true to that detail . But as played by Davis , she does become the most fascinating character in the story , and if she's nasty and unlikable , she's at least the most dynamic person on screen at any given time . Davis's performance here is credited with changing the course of screen acting , much as Brando's would do nearly 20 years later when he screamed out " Stella ! ! " in that little-known Tennesee Williams play , and it's not hard to see why . Davis is intense to the point of scary . She makes no effort to wring any sympathy from the audience , and she allows herself to look ugly and most unglamorous . Her appearance when Carey walks in on her late in the film to find her dead or nearly dead of an unnamed disease ( though not much care is taken to hide the fact that it's an STD ) is shocking . Of course , it helps that this movie squeaked out just before the Production Code went into effect ; if it had been made a year later , you can bet things would have been a bit different . Yes , much of the novel , and many of its most interesting parts , are left on the cutting room floor , and the story really does become about Carey and Mildred and not much else . I found that to be the least interesting and most tedious part of Maugham's novel , but it is the part that gives the novel its title and seems to be the part that readers are still drawn to now , so it strikes me as a wise decision on the part of the film makers that they chose to adapt the novel the way they did .
It's Nice to See That Disney Can Make Fun of Itself	A cute and diverting Disney film that pokes fun at other Disney films . Amy Adams does fine work as a cartoon princess named Giselle who is banished to that frightening , sinister world otherwise known as New York City by an evil queen ( Susan Sarandon ) who doesn't want her marrying her dashing stepson , Prince Edward ( James Marsden ) , and stealing her crown away from her . Giselle winds up in the care of Patrick Dempsey ( who's come a long way since his days as a gigolo pizza delivery guy in " Loverboy " ) , an uptight divorce attorney who doesn't believe in true love . Giselle of course , in true Disney princess fashion , believes in nothing else , and the two fall predictably in love , much to the dismay of Edward , who has followed Giselle to New York . Much of the humor in " Enchanted " revolves around contrasting fairytale mannerisms and beliefs to the , shall we say slightly more jaded , attitudes of modern-day New York . Giselle and Edward are both completely lacking in irony or sarcasm , and don't understand feelings like anger or scorn . They both also have a habit of breaking out into big production numbers at the most inopportune times , which provides the film with its highlights . When Giselle wants to clean up a messy apartment , she enlists the help of God's creatures , just like Snow White did so many years ago , but the ones that show up here are pigeons , rats , roaches and an army of flies . It would be easy to dismiss Adams ' performance as unchallenging , but I think it would take a lot of skill to carry a movie like this , and she does it well . Marsden is also quite funny as the pompous prince with gleaming white teeth . Demspey is kind of droopy , while Susan Sarandon hams things up as the wicked stepmother . The film grows rather tiresome by its conclusion ; the filmmakers can't resist a CGI showdown between the queen ( in the guise of a giant purple dragon ) and our lovers . But overall it left me entertained .
Laughton and Lanchester Make This One Worth Watching	It's no surprise that Billy Wilder , the man who gave us the ghoulishly funny " Sunset Boulevard , " would be drawn to this macabre but witty Agatha Christie play . " Witness for the Prosecution " is very minor Wilder , and would probably go unremembered today if not for the wonderful performances of husband and wife team Charles Laughton and Elsa Lanchester . Both seem to understand better than the stiff-backed and Brill-creme-haired Tyrone Power that the material is not to be taken too seriously , and it's a ball to watch them trade barbs back and forth ( she plays nurse to his ailing prosecutor ) with twinkles in their eyes . The story itself is shamelessly manipulative - - Laughton's character suffers from a heart condition that threatens to kill him in the middle of the trial , for God's sake ! - - yet it worked at keeping me in suspense despite myself . And may I just say that Marlene Dietrich appears in one of the most bizarre performances I've ever seen on film . Won't tax your intellect , but will probably tickle your funny bone .
If You Want to Ensure Your Film Won't Be a Masterpiece , Cast Either Half of Brangelina	Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt are perfectly matched , as both boast beautiful faces and a painful lack of serious acting ability . However , in an acting face off , I'd put my money on Jolie . She did much better with her 2008 Oscar-bait outing , " Changeling , " than Pitt did with his , " The Curiously Boring and Pointless Case of the Blank-Faced Benjamin Button . " Jolie plays Christine Collins , a single mother in 1928 Los Angeles whose son goes missing . When the corrupt police department return the wrong boy to her and she tries to raise a stink about it , they have her committed to a mental institution rather than admit their embarrassing mistake . But eventually , a grisly discovery becomes too large a story to ignore , and the LAPD is brought to task for its dirty dealings . " Changeling " is a solid accomplishment from director Clint Eastwood . It's not anywhere nearly as good as his other 2008 film , " Gran Torino , " but it's not nearly as bad as its critical reception had led me to expect . But the film succeeds largely in spite of Jolie's performance rather than because of it . Jolie is simply not able to make sense of this character . Maybe the fault is with the casting in the first place . We have to believe that Christine Collins is timid and mousy enough to allow herself , even for a moment , to believe that the boy returned to her is in fact her son , even though she's convinced he's not . But there's not a timid bone in Jolie's body , and that part of the film never makes an ounce of sense . The Christine Collins we see humbly bowing to the whims of the police doesn't match up with the Christine Collins we see in the workplace , barking orders in her role as a manager , or the flirty , glamour puss Collins that emerges toward the film's end . Pick a character , any character . There are some quite disturbing scenes involving violence toward children ( violence seems almost too mild a term for what's actually done to them ) , scenes that are only slightly less disturbing than the ones in which John Malkovich appears , playing a pastor who aids Collins in her fight against corruption . Malkovich , by simply appearing in a film , brings it a healthy dose of " ick " factor , but I liked him here probably more than I ever have , just because he's one of the only characters in the movie who's not a slimeball . Jeffrey Donovan , of " Burn Notice " fame , plays the chief of police and decides for some reason to use an Irish accent that never quite materializes completely . Amy Ryan also appears as a fellow inmate in the institution , and looks and sounds like she should be starring in a women's prison film set in 1987 . However , the film itself looks good , and though it meanders a bit , it's always engaging . Because Eastwood chooses to give it an old-time Hollywood movie feeling , some of the more histrionic and heavy-handed elements go down smoother than they might otherwise . Let's face it , the man knows his way around a movie set , and he's probably incapable of making an outright bad movie . But next time , I might suggest that he check to see if Julianne Moore is available .
Film Editing 101	" High Noon " is a text book on how to edit a film brilliantly , but it's awfully cold and impersonal as a movie . It creates a tremendous amount of suspense , but the whole movie is gimmick , and the suspense is empty . As most people know , it takes place in " real time , " so there are lots of cut aways to clocks underscored with thumping music , and montages of reaction shots of all the principal characters looking pensive . But stripped of its novelty after a first viewing and the fact that its gimmicks have been ransacked countless times by other movies over the years , there isn't much to revisit . I suspect Gary Cooper's acclaim in this role came from people who were tickled to see an iconic movie actor playing an iconic movie type , rather than because he created a flesh-and-blood human being that anybody really cared about . He's not required to do much but look resigned and stoic , which to his credit he does well . But I don't know how much of a PERFORMANCE it is . It's cool to like " High Noon " because it's been interpreted as an attack on McCarthyism , but that's not enough to make the film relevant today . It's certainly not a bad movie , and I get why it's viewed as an important one . Movies like " High Noon " are necessary , because they introduce new ways of doing things and add new phrases to film language . It's just that , with some historical perspective , it's obvious that it wears its schematics on its sleeve .
A Not Completely Successful Thriller	Thinking back on " The Constant Gardener " the day or two after having seen it , I found much about the film to admire ; however , my primary feeling while actually watching it was one of exasperation . This film is all rush , rush , rush from one scene to the next , barely giving the viewer time to catch his breath , let alone catch up to the plot . This is another one of those thrillers that thinks if it just moves fast enough , it will keep the audience members on the edges of their seats . It fails to realize that no amount of momentum can make a movie interesting if it doesn't make clear what everyone is rushing around for . Fernando Meirelles is certainly an intelligent director , and his earlier " City of God " is sensational and by far one of the best films of the decade so far . He employed a similar frenetic style to that film , but it felt more in tune with the subject matter . In " The Constant Gardener , " that style too often merely distracts . But like I said at the beginning of my review , and despite all of the negatives I just summarized , there's much to admire here . The acting , for one , is top notch . Ralph Fiennes is always reliable and doesn't disappoint , but I was most impressed with Rachel Weisz ; she in particular is so good that I wish she had been given more screen time . The relationship between their two characters is what sets this film apart from any other standard , run-of-the-mill political thriller , but at the same time it feels awkward . It's almost as if Meirelles has two different films going at the same time and isn't completely successful in merging them . The script , again , is intelligent , but more confusing than it needs to be . And the confusion factor isn't helped by Meirelles's jittery , busy camera , that at times induces headaches with its refusal to slow down . I can acknowledge that this film is good in many ways , but I still came away slightly disappointed with it , especially given all the hype it's received . I already feel like I need to see it again before I completely form my opinion , but only because I thought it was confusing and distracting the first time through , not because I feel like a second viewing will reveal it to be a richer film . I doubt a second viewing is going to improve my opinion of the film's clunky , preachy ending .
Altman's Warm Up to " Nashville "	Robert Altman returns to one of his favorite subjects - - men behaving badly - - in this rather slight 1974 effort . George Segal and Elliott Gould play chronic gamblers who meet by chance in a gaming room and embark upon a friendship founded entirely on each man's desire to seek out the next sure thing . They head to Reno , where Segal falls into an amazing streak of luck and wins hundreds of thousands of dollars . . . . . and then the movie just sort of ends , not because the story itself reaches any sort of natural conclusion , but more because Altman runs out of things to say about it . Like many of Altman's films , " California Split " isn't as interested in telling a story as it is in establishing a tone , and that it does wonderfully . The ending does feel anti-climactic and abrupt , but then again , this is the tale of a gambling addict , whose whole existence consists of looking for and finding opportunities to feed his addiction . That Segal falls into a tired stupor after winning big , and experiences a glum letdown instead of the euphoria any normal person would feel from winning that much money , feels right for someone with an addiction . The obsession isn't with the catch , but with the chase . I think Segal is the weaker of the two lead actors , though he's got the larger role . He plays up the comic elements in the film too broadly , whereas Gould feels more at home with Altman's sarcastic , off-the-cuff sense of humour . The first time I saw this , I thought there were distinct homoerotic undertones , and I felt that again after a second viewing . Segal obviously has feelings of inadequacy that his gambling helps him overcome , or at least forget . From where does that sense of inadequacy spring ? Several moments in the film - - mention of a failed marriage , his reaction to someone calling him a " faggot , " an aborted attempt at lovemaking with a ditzy hooker - - suggest that Segal's character has homosexual tendencies that he's trying to suppress , or at the very least that his shaky sense of his own manhood suggests to HIM that he has homosexual tendencies . This isn't really fleshed out in the movie , but then nothing else is either . " California Split " feels like a warm up to Altman's masterpiece , " Nashville , " released a year later , but it doesn't have that movie's sense of scope or amazing cast of characters , so it feels underdeveloped and lightweight . Still , it kept me interested for 105 minutes , and it is a fascinating look into the chronic gambler's mind , if nothing else .
Danny Kaye Jests and Jousts	A supremely wacky and delightful Danny Kaye comedy . Kaye plays a court jester impostor who infiltrates a king's court in order to put in motion a plan hatched by a scrappy band of Robin Hoodesque rebels who want to depose the tyrant and put the rightful heir on the throne . Unfortunately for Kaye , but fortunately for us , the plot is not as simple as it sounds , not when a traitor in the king's court ( Basil Rathbone ) has formulated his own plan to have the jester assassinate the king , and especially not when the king's saucy daughter ( Angela Lansbury ) has set her sights on marrying the jester as a way to avoid having to marry a rival king with whom her father wants to forge an alliance . Kaye is absolutely hysterical , whether he's singing and dancing a big production number with a band of midgets or jousting with a rival knight while wearing a magnetized suit of armor . Glynis Johns plays a member of Kaye's merry band with whom Kaye has fallen in love , and Mildred Natwick plays the witch Griselda , who at one point tries to help Kaye poison a rival by explaining that the pellet with the poison is in the vessel with the pestle while the chalice with the palace has the brew that is true .
Good But Not Great Crime Picture	I saw a coming attraction for this movie one day on TCM . I'd never heard of it , but the clips they used for the preview made it look like a terrific noir , and I couldn't wait to see it . It didn't live up to the expectations . It's a good movie , but it's not even one of the more memorable noirs from the 40s . In fact , it's not really much of a noir once you get past the moody black and white photography ( which is one of the film's greatest assets by the way ) and its cynical tone . It's much more of a standard crime picture with a gritty documentary-like sheen , the kind the studios were churning out left and right in the late 40s and early 50s , but it didn't leave as much of an impression on me as , say , " The Naked City , " " Night and the City , " or " Panic in the Streets . " John Garfield , however , is extremely good in the lead role . I haven't seen him in that many things , but he's a kindred spirit of Marlon Brando's : the brooding tough guy whose sneering mug hides a warm and very human streak . He never seemed to get his full due as an actor - - if I'm not mistaken , he made his last film not long after this one , sometime in the early to mid 1950s . " Force of Evil " is definitely worth a look .
Jane as a Red Head , Douglas with a Beard , and Lemmon as a Man Who's Off His Rocker	" The China Syndrome " launched a whole string of films about the potentially devastating effects of misused nuclear power , a black cloud of paranoia that would hang over America for much of the Reagan years . It's a well-made and effective drama , given an extra punch by its high-power stars , notably Jack Lemmon who plays a senior official of the nuclear power plant who suffers a crisis of conscience . But one can't help but think that it was the serendipitous timing of the Three Mile Island nuclear accident that occurred just a couple of weeks after this film's release that has given it its lasting appeal as a classic from the 70s . As watchable as it is , it's certainly no classic . With a red-headed Jane Fonda as a news reporter and a bearded Michael Douglas as her camera man ( and the film's producer , by the way ) .
Strengths Mostly Outweigh Weaknesses	This hit and miss comedy has an inherent poignancy because of the fact that its writer and director , Adrienne Shelley , was murdered before the film was released . Not knowing all of the details about her life or death , I can't help but wonder if this story about an insecure waitress who dreams of a life away from her loutish husband and dull existence was in some ways the fantasy of Shelley herself . This makes me want to be lenient on the movie's faults , of which there are many . The biggest is the casting of Keri Russell in the lead role . She's a fine actress , but she doesn't fit the part . She's far too pretty and self-assured , and too much of a firecracker for so much of the movie , to understand why she's let herself settle for a husband and life that's way beneath her . And the film's resolution is too glib , and bordering on irresponsible . Obviously , Shelley , in her screenplay , was responding to the empowering act of becoming a mother that she no doubt felt in her own life ( the daughter of Keri Russell's character in the movie is Shelley's real-life daughter ) , but to suggest that Russell's character could simply tell her husband to get out of her life without any ramifications rings completely false . But I am a fan of Nathan Fillion , who plays a doctor with whom Russell strikes up a heated affair , and he brings a lot of charm and charisma to the film . Cheryl Hines , who I can't stand on HBO's " Curb Your Enthusiasm , " is a breath of fresh air as one of Russell's fellow waitress friends ( she's reminiscent of Flo from the film " Alice Doesn't Live Here Anymore " ) , and Shelley herself plays another , mousier , colleague . Andy Griffith also makes an appearance as a cranky but lovable old man . An honest effort whose strengths mostly outweigh its weaknesses .
Solid Action Thriller Set Against the War on Terror	The war on terror has provided seemingly endless fodder for all manner of movies . Most of them have been earnest and thoughtful and have felt the need to say something important about the issue ; unfortunately , most of them have also been dull and plodding and have quickly faded from memory . Ridley Scott's " Body of Lies " will not linger in my mind as one of the most memorable movies I've ever seen , but it was refreshing in that it doesn't pretend to be anything more than a good old fashioned action thriller that happens to use the war on terror as a backdrop . Scott keeps his film free of preachiness and editorializing - - this is action film served straight up . Russell Crowe and especially Leonardo DiCaprio acquit themselves well as two members of American intelligence working together , and sometimes opposed to one another , to infiltrate a terror ring , but this is not a film that relies on strong performances . Rather , it relies on a director who knows how to assemble an exciting movie , and Ridley Scott is that guy . He can be somewhat hit-and-miss for me , but this film following closely on the heels of " American Gangster " have put me in the pro camp for the time being .
A Criminally Neglected Film Musical	This not very well known and dismissed musical surprised me with how good it was . Under the glossy production design and snappy musical numbers , there's a very dark center to the film , as its characters struggle through the Great Depression and their own desperation . It put me in mind of the depression-era musicals like " 42nd Street , " in which landing a part in a chorus line could mean the difference between eating and starving , and people put on a show more out of grim determination than through the true desire to burst into song . Maybe it's this quality that resulted in the film being a box office bomb upon its release . Steve Martin , Bernadette Peters and especially Christopher Walken do smashing work in this movie . Walken shows that pizazz and attitude can go a long way toward overcoming limitations as a singer and dancer .
Found Me Liking Vin Diesel	Sidney Lumet aside , I never thought in a million years I would like a movie created almost exclusively as a star project for Vin Diesel . So the fact that I not only liked the movie , but thought its greatest asset was Diesel himself , left me floored . In " Find Me Guilty , " Diesel plays real-life gangster hood Jackie DiNorscio , who , along with about twenty other members of an organized crime family , is put on trial by the city of Los Angeles . Jackie's already in prison for an unrelated charge , and blames his inadequate lawyer for landing him there , so he decides to represent himself , even though he has no legal training . Nearly the entire film is taken up with the court proceedings , terrain Lumet has visited before . Nothing about the film is especially remarkable or fancy , but it's extremely solid and provides evidence that Vin Diesel may have a career playing something other than growling action heroes . The movie's somewhat dubious conclusion is that we should admire Jackie for his loyalty to his friends , even if ratting his friends out would mean that murderers , thieves and drug dealers would be removed from the streets .
The Ultimate American Success Story . . . . Just in Time for America's 100th Birthday	" Rocky " is one of those quintessential " right place / right time " movies . Movie-going America , beleaguered by bleak and cynical tales of everything their country was doing wrong , were ready for this underdog success story , which illustrates that living in America ain't so bad after all . But come on . If people were being honest , they would admit that " Rocky " just doesn't hold up very well now . Director John G . Avildsen's only notable film since this one was " The Karate Kid " in 1984 , so that tells you something right there . There's nothing wrong with loving " Rocky " for the inspirational fairy tale that it is , but the fact that it looks gritty and real like all of the other serious socially-themed films from the same time period has allowed it to join them on the list of important cinematic achievements so abundant in the 1970s , and it's just not an important film . With , of course , Sylvester Stallone in a star-making performance , one that he's been trying to recapture ever since , and Talia Shire , fresh off the " Godfather " movies and ready to have a leading part of her own . But the scene stealer in this film is Burgess Meredith , who plays Rocky's coach and agent like a cranky pirate .
Who Knew Witches Could Be This Hot ?	I might watch this film now and think that it's terrible , but my memory of it is that is was pretty decent . Cher , Susan Sarandon and Michelle Pfeiffer play three smokin ' witches , and they gang up in tormenting Jack Nicholson . I saw this when I was fairly young , so there's no doubt a lot of adult humor that went right over my head . I do remember a scene in which the three witches make Nicholson start coughing up chicken feathers - - that kind of freaked out my young brain . Obviously , I'm not the person to go to for a thorough summary of this film , so you're forgiven if you ignore my comments entirely .
Melodrama with a Bite	Melodramatic , yes , but this movie has some meat to it that I wasn't expecting . Clark Gable and William Powell play childhood friends who grow up to be a hood and a respected judge , respectively . Both have a thing for Myrna Loy , but the expected rivalry for which this plot would seem to be tailor made never comes . Instead , there's a refreshingly serious story about the boundaries of loyalty and friendship . When Gable is accused of murder and sentenced to the death penalty , it is Powell's duty to decide whether or not to let his personal feelings for Gable interfere with his practice of legal justice . Loy pops up throughout , but , unfortunately , she's window dressing . ( Side note : My wife and I decided to have a Myrna Loy theme to our New Year's movie night , and rented this and " The Bachelor and the Bobby-Soxer . " We couldn't have picked two Myrna Loy movies that do a worse job of showing off Myrna Loy ) . No , this movie belongs to the men , and the whole affair is better than I expected it to be .
Down But Never Out	In this enjoyable Harold Lloyd comedy , our boy Harold ( playing a down-and-outer whose acquaintances include a scrappy little beggar girl and her lame dog ) finds himself coming to the aid of a pretty heiress whose inheritance is in danger of being weasled away by a shyster lawyer in cahoots with a gang of thugs . Every Lloyd film has a rollicking climax full of visual stunts , and the one to this movie shows Harold verbally or physically assaulting every police officer in the city in an attempt to lead them to the gang's lair . Everything comes right in the end , as Harold , heiress , beggar girl and dog get to sit down to a mighty dinner and we get to turn off the T . V . with a smile on our faces .
Mike Leigh Misfire Is Still Worth Watching for David Thewlis	Mike Leigh movies are never exactly laugh riots , but even with that " Naked " is one of the most dismal and surly films I've ever seen from him . Actually , the whole movie was a bit too one note for me , that one note being nihilistic . Leigh only diffuses his relentless tone of gloom in the film's last few moments , when it lurches unexpectedly and not entirely successfully into a kind of screwball comedy . It's a film that basically says men are brutes and pigs , and women are spineless victims - - it's not a flattering picture of either gender , and it doesn't have anything profound or even productive to say . However , and this is a big " However , " the film does have one huge asset to recommend it , and that is David Thewlis . He gives a fascinating and completely unique performance as Johnny , a sort of vagabond philosopher who wanders from stranger to stranger over the course of a long London night , pontificating about the meaning of existence and brutalizing just about every woman he comes across . Leigh presents London as a city full of lost souls , vulnerable to the opportunists who may come along to take advantage . One of those opportunists is the enigmatic Jeremy , a well-dressed affluent monster who glories in raping women and treating them like dogs . If Thewlis and his character is the film's strongest selling point , the character of Jeremy is its weakest . The two men exist separately for most of the movie , only to come together at the end . I'm not sure what purpose Jeremy's existence in the film serves , unless he's simply there to make Johnny look better . Certainly by the film's end , we've seen Johnny behave miserably , but we've also seen him treat his on-again-off-again girlfriend with something approaching affection , and Thewlis is so good that he's able to let us glimpse enough of Johnny's charm to make us understand why any woman would be remotely interested in him in the first place . This film reminded me of a Martin Amis novel . It has a slightly surrealistic , nightmare quality to it , and it's so caustic as to be off putting . But I would recommend it if for no other reason than to see Thewlis's remarkable performance .
A Genial Film Carried by Moore's Marvelous Performance	Julianne Moore is a wonderful actress . In " The Prize Winner of Defiance , Ohio , " she gets no big showy scenes , no moments where she acknowledges her own talent by ACTING . There are no breakdowns , crack ups , manias or histrionics . The movie goes down easy and , once the DVD player has been turned off , is just as easy to forget . But I woke up the morning after having watched this movie thinking about Julianne Moore ( and no , not in THAT way ) . I realized that this disarmingly unshowy performance had a powerful impact on me ; through an accumulation of small , quiet moments and carefully crafted acting choices , Moore creates a full-bodied , rich and entirely satisfying character out of material that threatens at every step to descend into irretrievable schmaltz . It's a small miracle of acting . Unfortunately , Woody Harrelson does not fare as well . His blustery , childish and pathetic father is believable only about 50 % of the time . The movie is almost ridiculously one sided , and it's only Moore's expert and disciplined handling of her role that prevents the mother from coming across as too good to be true . The material is gooey and sentimental , but it's surprisingly less sentimental than I feared it would be . And anyway , sentiment like this I can forgive , since I'm bound to be a slobbery sentimental mess about my own parents some day too .
2003 : The Year of Revenge	With the 2003 movie year behind us , it's clear to me that a major theme film makers explored in that year's releases ( most certainly - induced ) is that of revenge and , more importantly , the inability of revenge to right committed wrongs . " 21 Grams " is a bleak , sober story about a grief-crazed woman seeking revenge out of desperation , the man who volunteers to help her carry out her desires and the ex-con who serves as the object of her revenge . The story has all the simplistic sadness of a tragedy , but that's not to say the movie itself is simplistic . Thematically , it's actually quite complex . In addition to the idea of revenge , the movie explores the ideas of fate and how one's own fate can be tied up in the fates of others ; the value of life and the existence of the soul ; and the fragility of physical and mental states . The acting is uniformly solid . People have seemed to single out Naomi Watts for praise , but that seems unfair to Sean Penn and Benicio Del Toro . Indeed , the movie is so evenly divided into thirds , each third belonging to one of the principal characters , that it takes on an ensemble feel , with no one actor shining above the others . The film was criticized somewhat for its unnecessarily complicated structure , but that didn't bother me . Once you get through the first disorienting ten minutes or so , the pieces begin to fall into place , and loose ends are tied up deftly . It may be a bit pretentious - - the fragmented narrative reflecting the fragmented souls of the characters - - but it could have been handled much worse . Finally , kudos to the editor , who had the daunting task of assembling this film into coherency , and especially because of the fragmented approach .
Gasp ! A Documentary with a Point of View	This is one of those fascinating documentaries that came out during WWII that made no attempt to be anything other than war propaganda . It's so funny now to see people get all hot and bothered by films like " Fahrenheit " and crucify Michael Moore for pushing such a blatant agenda . They act like before Moore came on to the scene , no documentarian ever had a point of view or tried to manipulate audiences to think a certain way about an issue . Obviously , these people have never seen any of the propaganda films that came out around this time in world history , or for that matter any films by Frederick Wiseman , Leni Riefenstahl , Robert Flaherty or a hundred other documentary film makers who have been making movies for the last 80 years . " Target for Tonight " is actually kind of laughable now , because it's SO heavy handed . But don't lost sight of its historical context and forget that this movie and others like it were deadly serious in their intentions .
I'm Not a Big Fan of the Series , But This One Is Harmless Enough	The kind of comedy / adventure / sci-fi hybrid that the 1980s did very well , and which you just don't see anymore . " Back to the Future " solidified Michael J . Fox as a bona fide movie star , and featured a deliriously wacky Christopher Lloyd playing a scientist who invents a time travel machine . Robert Zemeckis keeps things light and playful - - he's one of many directors ( like Ron Howard , Steven Spielberg , etc . ) who started out making enjoyable romps until he felt the need to become " serious " and started making movie crap like " Forrest Gump . " I didn't fall in love with the " Back to the Future " series , but I see its appeal .
Blows " Phantom Menace " Out of the Water - - Though That's Pretty Faint Praise	This second installment in the " Star Wars " prequel trilogy is leaps and bounds better than " The Phantom Menace , " and there are moments in the film , unlike " Phantom , " when it begins to FEEL like a " Star Wars " movie . The little kid Disneyland quality that figured heavily in the first film for the most part gives way to a darker and more adult sensibility as Anakin grows into a young man . It doesn't help matters that Hayden Christiansen delivers a God-awful performance as Anakin , and that he plays a gradual descent into the dark side of the force like a petulant teenager who's been denied use of the family car . But more pieces of the puzzle that factor into the original trilogy click into place here , which makes it much more fun for " Star Wars " fans than " The Phantom Menace . " I have to admit that the end of this film , when we first see what will become the Imperial army amassed as the Darth Vader theme blasts away on the soundtrack , sends chills down this " Star Wars " nerd's spine .
Gay Paree	1982 was a gender-bending year for Hollywood . Dustin Hoffman dressed up as a woman ; Julie Andrews dressed up as a man . How fitting that the very next year Linda Hunt would win the first Oscar ever given for playing a member of the opposite sex . " Victor Victoria " is a solidly-crafted , old-fashioned musical that finds Andrews pretending to be a male female impersonator ( got that ? ) so that she can hold a job in a nightclub in Depression-era Paris . James Garner is the man's man who begins to doubt his manliness when he finds himself having some strange feelings for this " guy . " It's a very gay-friendly movie that's really squeaky clean , though it might have been racy at the time when homosexuality wasn't as accepted as it is now ( if you want to call it " accepted " even now ) . There are lots of production numbers , but this doesn't feel like a musical , as all of the numbers are presented in context of a show and they don't propel the plot or develop characters . Lesley Ann Warren is fairly obnoxious as a bawdy American , but Robert Preston steals the show as a fellow drag performer . As far as Blake Edwards projects go , this is one of the strongest .
Takes the Swing Out of Swinging London	Michael Caine plays Alfie , a hipster swinger in 1960s London whose attitudes and actions we abhor even as we warm to the twinkle in his eye . Caine plays the role just right . The movie would go nowhere if he wasn't able to make us understand what about Alfie attracts women despite his treatment of them . The film has noble ambitions , and explores some pretty dark ( and for the time , edgy ) terrain , when Alfie's antics catch up with him and he leaves one of his conquests ( played quietly by Vivien Merchant ) in the hands of a sleazy abortionist . The look on Caine's face when he returns to his apartment and sees the aborted fetus , visual confirmation of his callous disregard , was enough on its own to earn him the Oscar nomination he received for this film . Much of the marketing for " Alfie " positions it as a gay romp through the swinging 60s , but it's actually quite a bitter little pill to swallow , and it leaves a bad taste in the mouth . With Shelley Winters as a blowsy American who's as good at playing Alfie as he is her .
Cinematic Ennui	I have to change my opinion about " L'Avventura , " and post a revised comment here . I had posted before based on a single viewing of this film on video years ago . I just saw a screening of it again at the Gene Siskel Film Center in Chicago as part of its summer retrospective of Antonioni , and had a different enough experience from the first time that I felt a second posting was needed . I almost feel guilty at my reaction to films like " L'Avventura , " and I'm hoping that others who have studied film will understand . On my first viewing , I wanted so much to see the masterpiece that film scholars told me existed , and felt obligated to worship Antonioni's brilliance . But what impressed me most about this film on a second viewing was how little I enjoyed watching it . What interest it has for me is purely academic . I appreciate its place in film history , but I have no desire now to ever revisit it , like I do other classics that were important but also entertaining . Watching other people try to decide whether or not life has any meaning is tiresome when you've reached an age where you've decided the answer to that question yourself . But I will say that what Antonioni has to say here he says very well . The male and female protagonists of the movie , who go searching for their lover and friend when she goes missing on a yachting party , battle an overwhelming sense of indifference that the movie conveys brilliantly , almost too well . They have to struggle to continue caring whether or not they find the missing woman , and to some extent realize that their lives would be better off if she weren't found at all . The pervading mood of their scenes together and of the movie in general is ennui , but the feeling of ennui extends to the viewer as well . Just as the characters slowly begin to lose their interest in the missing person , we lose our interest too , in her , them and the movie in general . So how do you rate a movie that you know is well made , is culturally significant and changed the landscape of international cinema , but which you would rather do almost anything to avoid having to ever watch again ?
Downey , Jr . Creates an Inspired Superhero	In much the same way that Ron Perlman's inspired performance made " Hellboy " better than it would otherwise have been , Robert Downey , Jr . helps " Iron Man " be something beyond the standard superhero junk fests that become popular every year around this time . Downey is perfectly cast , though I never would have thought of him for the character he plays here , tycoon of a weapons manufacturing company who suffers pangs of conscience after seeing what his terrible weapons can do , and turns himself into the ultimate weapon so that he can stop others from using them . Gwyneth Paltrow is Downey's assistant and love interest , and it's a bit of a shame to see such a smart actress stuck with such a dud role as this . She stands around in heels and looks worried while Downey tries to save her . Jeff Bridges , shaved bald and sporting a bushy beard , is the movie's villain , and if the movie has a major failing , it's him . Bridges is fine in the role , but the villain himself isn't particularly menacing , and the final showdown is anticlimactic . Be sure to sit through the end credits for a brief scene that promises a sequel .
Solid Romantic Drama	I've not read the Hemingway novel on which this film is based , nor will I spend any time summarizing the plot , as others here have already done a fine job of that . Let me just add my voice to those who have praised this film as a very good romantic adventure of its time . It of course has one foot obviously placed squarely in WWII propaganda ( Gary Cooper as the iconic romantic American hero ) , but it's also highly entertaining . It's longer than it needs to be , and it's a bit talky , but it nevertheless doesn't drag . The highest praise must go to the art directors , who fashion an impressive set perched among some rocky mountains that feels extremely authentic . The color photography isn't as vibrant as other Technicolor products of the time , but that may be due to age . And there's a terrific lush score to go along with the action . I've never been a huge fan of Ingrid Bergman , but she's not bad here . Gary Cooper is perfectly cast and is required to do little more than just be Gary Cooper , but it works . The most colorful performances come from Akim Tamiroff and , especially , Katina Paxinou as two members of the Spanish revolutionary group . Paxinou is a firecracker , giving an intense performance that dominates the screen whenever she's present . A highly enjoyable Hollywood product from the war years .
A Well-Done Coming of Age Film	I saw this movie in the same weekend I watched " Bend It Like Beckham , " and the two movies are very similar in theme . " Real Women " is somewhat darker ( but not much ) and takes itself a little more seriously , but it's still a very good movie about a girl coming to terms with her family and herself in working-class L . A . It's a leisurely paced film and makes many good points about the stifling effects parents can have when they refuse to see the potential in their own children , and about the need for children to sometimes ignore the guilt they feel when they defy their parents in order to meet that potential . The young lady who stars does a mostly fine job with the role , but I never felt she was completely invested in what her family thought in the first place , so didn't fully appreciate the conflicts she was supposed to be having with herself over deserting them . The scene in which the group of female dress-shop workers strip down to compare cellulite and then proceed to work in the semi-nude is hilarious , and one of the film's highlights . Thoroughly enjoyable .
Ed Harris Sticks to Tradition with This Modest Western	Pretty much the definition of a solid " B " effort . " Appaloosa " was clearly Ed Harris's baby , as he directed , co-produced , co-wrote , and starred in it , as well as sang the song that plays over the end credits ! Given that , I'd love to report that I thought the film was a masterpiece , but it's far from that . It's a competent , standard western , feet planted squarely within the conventions of the genre . Ed Harris and Viggo Mortensen play Virgil Cole and Everett Hitch , the sheriff and deputy , respectively , of a wild west town , hired to protect its citizens from the deadly bullying of a band of outlaws , led by Randall Bragg ( a miscast Jeremy Irons , who can't quite successfully lose his British accent ) . Like many westerns , the principal theme of the film revolves around male solidarity ; Virgil and Everett are so good at what they do because each is closer to the other than either is to anyone else . That " anyone else " includes Allison French , played by Renee Zellweger , looking even more pinched than usual , a lone woman who arrives in the town and hooks up with Virgil . For a while after her arrival , the screenplay flirts around with a love triangle , but it wisely drops that idea and avoids the predictable . It instead stays focused on Virgil and Everett and their quest to bring Bragg to justice , even after he's become a wealthy businessman and won the town's admiration . My biggest problem with " Appaloosa " was its lack of a point of view . Everett begins the film with a voice over narration explaining how he came to know Virgil and hitch his saddle to him , and the film's climax circles back to focus on him again , but throughout the middle part of the film he's treated like a secondary character and I forgot that the film started with his point of view . Mortensen does give the film's best performance , however , followed closely by Harris . Harris's performance might have resonated more if the character of Virgil had been better written . I thought the screenplay was going in an interesting direction with him at one point , in a scene where he abuses his authority , and suggested that the film might examine the fine line that separates Virgil from being as bad as the villains from whom he's protecting the town , but nothing comes of it . And Zellweger's character exists for plot purposes only . I couldn't really make sense of Ally French at all . An admirable effort that continues the mini western revival Hollywood has been enjoying lately that began last year with " The Assassination of Jesse James " and " 3 : 10 to Yuma , " but " Appaloosa " isn't anywhere nearly as fascinating as the first film or as wildly entertaining as the second .
Woody Allen's Mockumentary	After scoring big with " Annie Hall " and " Manhattan , " Woody Allen had a bit of a dry run in the early 1980s with the forgettable " Stardust Memories " and " A Midsummer Night's Sex Comedy . " " Zelig " found him back on track , and feels like a return to the screwball hijinks of his early 1970s films . Allen films " Zelig " as a documentary , and takes as his subject the life of a man who is able to blend in with his surroundings . Allen himself plays Zelig , and keeps everything - - both his performance and the film's tone - - utterly deadpan . There are a ton of funny one-liners and sight gags , but they're played completely straight . " Zelig " isn't one of Allen's most ambitious films , but it's very funny and is many times better than most of the movies he's making today .
Serviceable Rather Than Inspired	Actor turned director Richard Attenborough helmed this biopic about the famed pacifist and , as frequently happens with biopics , especially when they're about noble and revered figures , turned it into something perfectly respectable and ever so slightly dull . The film won just about every Academy Award it was nominated for , so that should tell you something right there . Ben Kingsley does deserve praise for carrying this three-hour epic on his slim shoulders , and the film looks meticulous . But it's serviceable rather than inspired , and if anyone's story deserves an inspired telling , Gandhi's is it .
Sally Field Wants You	One of those rousing films in which a blue-collar normal Joe ( or in this case perhaps we should say normal Joan ) stands up against the big boys in the corporate office for what is right and just . Movies like " Erin Brockovich " wouldn't exist today if movies like " Norma Rae " hadn't existed first . And " Norma Rae " is a lot easier to swallow , because it's done without all the Hollywood ritz and glamour . Director Martin Ritt specialized in making movies about blue-collar folks that looked like blue collar movies , and Sally Field , playing the factory worker who's sympathetic to an invading union organizer from the north and becomes his ace card in rallying the other workers , is a much better actress than Julia Roberts , and we're actually able to believe her in the role . The image of Field standing up on a table silently holding up a placard that says " Union " has become indelible .
Enjoyable If Not Memorable	A fairly effective little thriller that one can't help but feel would be far more effective if it wasn't quite so glossy . I don't particularly like the leads ; I've remained immune to the charms of Ingrid Bergman and Charles Boyer hits me like a toothache . But Angela Lansbury is a riot as the cheeky maid and Joseph Cotten gives yet one more terrific performance in a career of terrific and underrated performances . The spooky atmosphere of Victorian London is brought to life nicely through the lighting and production design . Not a bad way to spend a couple of hours , but I wouldn't go out of your way to see it .
" Godzilla " for the YouTube Generation	This monster movie tries hard to be " Godzilla " for Generation Y , but it doesn't quite make it . It's a terrific looking film and it's capably acted - - when you watch the special features on the DVD and realize that most of the time actors were interacting with nothing but green screens , it makes both the acting and the effects that much more impressive . But it's one of those gimmick movies that's pinned down by the very element that makes it unique ( I use the word " unique " loosely , since " The Blair Witch Project " has already covered this ground , to an extent ) . The hook in this film is that the destruction of New York and the attempts of a small band of twenty-somethings to stay alive is captured on a camcorder by one of the kids . But the technical necessities required to pull off this stunt result in too many logical flaws , not the least of which is how long would it take someone running for his life from a giant monster ravaging downtown Manhattan to ditch the camera ? But of all the holes the screenplay creates , the one most perplexing was this : how the hell do all of these young kids afford spacious apartments in Manhattan ?
They Make Melodramas in Egypt Too	" The Yaboubian Building " reminded me of those over-heated Spanish soap operas that air nightly on Telemundo . The sweep and size of the film ( not to mention its length ) may fool people into thinking it's a more important picture than it actually is , when really it's not much more than one big soapy melodrama that manages to stay mostly entertaining over the course of its three hours . There's a lot going on in this film , and you may find you have your work cut for you just following the basics of the plot . I suspect much more of the film would have made sense to me had I known more about Egyptian culture . As it is , there are a lot of terms and situations in the film that probably didn't have their full desired effect . Of course , it's tough as an American , and therefore one used to experiencing art that throws critical darts at my country's beliefs and institutions , to fully understand how controversial this film ( and the book on which it is based ) has been in Egypt . By all accounts , the frank candour about corrupt government , homosexuality and the prostitution of Egyptian citizens ( of all types and at all levels of society ) have been greeted with quite an uproar in this film's country of origin . It's a noble effort on the part of the film-makers , and I can understand them wanting to pack in as much punch as they can , but the film tries to do too much , and the plot feels like several different agendas unsuccessfully unified into a coherent whole . Much of " The Yacoubian Building " is no less ham-fisted than your typical Hollywood film , not the least of which are the scenes that explain outright the film's central metaphor ( the Yacoubian building itself as a representation of Egyptian society ) . But much of it works quite well too , especially the acting , which is pretty good across the board , the crisp pacing and the driving musical score . A big bold movie that bites off more than it can chew but provides a solid few hours of entertainment nonetheless .
Farmiga Shines in a Solid Drama	Vera Farmiga plays an affluent woman whose life and marriage is unraveling . She and her Korean husband have been trying without success to get pregnant . Her suicidal husband has given up on the idea , but it's become an obsession with her , the one thing that will fix everything that's broken . She makes a proposition to a young Korean immigrant - - she will pay him $300 in cash every time they have sex , with an additional $30 , 000 in cash if she conceives . I had my doubts before watching this film that the screenplay would be able to make this premise plausible , but it does . It sets things up in such a way that they play out honestly , without feeling overly manipulated by the hands of a screenwriter or director . It helps tremendously that Farmiga gives such a good performance - - you have to really understand her character if the movie is going to make any sense , and we do , thanks to Farmiga's commitment to the role . Though ambiguous , the ending suggests a happy ending that DID feel implausible to me . But the rest of the movie is such a downer that I actually didn't mind it , because I just wanted something positive to happen to this poor woman .
Fun and Charming	A fun movie that doesn't try to be anything more than what it is - - an amiable comedy . Mel Gibson can actually manage to be tolerable when he's playing charming , which he does here . James Garner is perfectly cast for quite obvious reasons . And it's nice to see Jodie Foster lighten up and play a feminine character for once - - up to that point , her resume had been quite serious . For some strange reason , I distinctly remember Siskel and Ebert being infuriated that this film won an Academy Award nomination for Best Costume Design . Ah , to live such a charmed life that something like that constitutes a major gripe . . . . .
A Glance at the Second Golden Age of Cinema	" Easy Riders , Raging Bulls " is an orgy for movie lovers . How can anyone who loves film not be in heaven at the constant parade of landmark films and key industry figures that charges across the screen in this fast-paced documentary ? If you've read the book , the movie will feel cursory , and one will find himself wishing for more detail , more insider stories . There are curious omissions here , and wonders if Bowser structured his content based on who he could get to agree to interviews . Altman is hardly mentioned , Scorsese ( who shows up everywhere talking about movies ) is not interviewed , and Kubrick isn't mentioned at all ( save for one shot of the " 2001 " poster ) . Still , what's there is great , and if you're like me , you'll be left with a twinge of sadness that such a rich time in film artistry seems to be gone forever .
One of Jim Carrey's Better Comedies	Combining Jim Carrey with a bunch of giddy special effects seems like a redundancy , since Carrey himself IS a special effect . But that's just what this film does , with mostly entertaining results . Carrey plays a nerd who finds a mask that transforms him into a superhero when he wears it . Cue lots of intentionally cartoonish effects reminiscent of " Who Framed Roger Rabbit ? " The film features an early role for Cameron Diaz as a love interest for Carrey . The film was Academy Award nominated for its visual effects , but it lost the award to the much subtler and more impressive effects of " Forrest Gump . "
A Comedy Classic ? Not Quite . . . .	As with " The 40-Year-Old Virgin , " I thought " Knocked Up " was funny and a I had a good time with it , but it didn't warrant the rapturous response it has received from critics , or the inexplicably high rating it has received here at IMDb . Frankly , the joke about adult men refusing to grow up has worn thin , and not much more comic mileage can be squeezed from it . Also , it's a shame that a movie people are congratulating for its frankness and candidness doesn't have the balls to treat pregnancy the way it really is . It would have been nice in a movie about the beautiful act of bringing a child into the world for the filmmakers to extend that idea of beauty to the woman's body in pregnancy , but instead we have a gorgeous actress who never once convincingly looks , moves or acts like a pregnant woman , and who even looks gorgeous while she's in the middle of delivery no less . But , when you consider the typical Hollywood comedy being churned out these days , many of which I saw previews for when I went to see this film , you can understand why a movie like this , that has sharp acting and writing , and whose laughs come from well-delivered lines and good timing rather than juvenile pratfalls and fart jokes , is blowing like a fresh breeze through our summer movie theatres .
So I'll Admit It - - The Latest from Baz Luhrmann Is Pretty Good	After inflicting the tortuous " Romeo+Juliet " and " Moulin Rouge ! " on an unsuspecting America ( a crime for which I've never and never will be able to forgive him ) , Baz Luhrmann takes us down under in this shameless yet pretty damn entertaining epic . Chalk it up to expectations that couldn't have been lower , but I found myself enjoying this action adventurer quite a bit . It's film-making of the good old-fashioned Hollywood variety that carries within it a love of movies , as evidenced by the fact that it references everything from " Gone with the Wind " to " Lawrence of Arabia , " and magically ties in a " Wizard of Oz " theme that I very much liked . Nicole Kidman is the spunky Englishwoman who travels to Australia to save her recently-murdered husband's ranch . Hugh Jackman is the drover who assists her in leading the ranch's cattle to the port town of Darwin and selling them to the war effort , thereby eliminating the cattle monopoly enjoyed by the area's business tycoon . That's part one . Part two follows these same characters ' stories as WWII comes to Australia . The film is narrated by Nullah , a half-white / half-aboriginal boy adopted by Kidman , and used by the film's screenplay as a symbol of the cultural clash between the affluent , aristocratic and European-influenced Australia and its more primitive , mystical roots . " Australia " isn't the kind of movie that can stand up to much critical questioning , but I'm also not sure that it ever makes any claims that it can . It's a little too long , and there's a ridiculously one-dimensional villain who overstays his welcome . The special effects are also pretty poor , and for a film that's so much about the beauty of Australia , much of it looks like it was filmed against green screens rather than authentic Aussie backdrops . But in other ways it's a visually beautiful film , and many parts of it succeed in capturing the thrill of really well-done storytelling . It hearkens back to a time when films could be hugely popular and entertaining without sacrificing quality , a combination today's Hollywood has somehow lost the ability to produce .
Did I Accidentally Change the Channel to PBS ?	Solid if uninspired adaptation of the Jane Austen novel . There's absolutely nothing wrong with this film , but it's all a bit dull , a Masterpiece Theatre version of the story that would be as at home on PBS as on a big movie screen . Emma Thompson and Kate Winslet play the two sisters , one with sense and the other with sensibility , while Hugh Grant and Alan Rickman play the love interests . There's some nice footage of the English countryside , and it all goes down ever so pleasantly , but you're forgiven if you find yourself nodding off now and then . Directed by ( of all people ) Ang Lee .
A Charming , Sad Examination of the Inadequacy of Dreams	Michel Gondry wrote and directed this melancholy little film about a young man , Stephane , who , unwilling to cope with the realities of grief and loneliness , would rather escape into a vivid dream world over which he maintains much more control than he does in real life . He has never completely dealt with the death of his father , to whom he was very close , and is on friendly if awkward terms with his mother , who he comes to live with in Paris . He falls for his next door neighbor , Stephanie ( played by Charlotte Gainsbourg ) , but has trouble communicating his feelings to her . He likes her because , as he tells her at one point , she's the only person he knows who is " different , " but he approaches personal relationships like a child , throwing tantrums and lashing out in cruelty when he becomes frustrated by his inability to communicate what he feels . Gondry fills his movie with dream images and sequences , keeping us slightly off balance so that we feel somewhat like Stephane himself , never sure whether a conversation or episode is the product of a real-life encounter or of Stephane's vivid but troubled mind . I like Gael Garcia Bernal very much as an actor . He has the charm and looks to fall back on easy heartthrob roles , but he instead has chosen challenging , and many times unglamorous , parts for himself . There's much to like about Stephane , but there's also much about him that is unpleasant . Charlotte Gainsbourg gives a lovely performance as Stephanie , especially in the film's final moments , when Stephane says some hurtful things to her before crumbling into her embrace like a baby . There's a great deal of whimsical humour sprinkled throughout the film , provided mostly by Stephane's co-workers at a graphic design office , but the overall tone of the film is quite sad and poignant , and the open-ended conclusion leaves us wondering just how o . k . Stephane is going to be . We admire his imagination , but understand how inadequate his dreams and fantasies have been in preparing him for the harsh realities of life . In English , French and Spanish .
Capra Lite	So it's not like Frank Capra was known for making especially gritty films , but even at that this film is light stuff for him . It's entertaining enough but not very memorable . And the chunk of plot that was added for the movie version - - the lengthy courtroom scene - - attempts to open the movie up and give us some of that traditional Capra aw-shucksness , but it feels like exactly what it is - - tacked on material that was never meant to exist in the first place and only succeeds in making the film feel longer than it should be . It's got a good cast though . Jean Arthur is always adorable , and I'll watch a movie just because she's in it . Spring Byington plays the dotty family matriarch , a stock role in 30's movies , very well . The best performance probably comes from Lionel Barrymore : he seems beleaguered by a world that just won't let him and his family be , and your heart goes out to him . Not a bad way to spend a couple of hours , but you'd do better to watch " It Happened One Night " if you have a taste for screwball Capra .
The Paranoia of Adolescence	In Gus Van Sant's quietly disturbing " Paranoid Park , " teenagers look , sound and act like teenagers , with all of the awkward inarticulateness that comes with the age . I mention this because it places this film in bold relief against other current movies about teenagers , where teens are self-assured , beautiful and far more mature than any of their real-life counterparts ever actually are . For this I applaud Van Sant , and it's largely what makes " Paranoid Park " such a compelling viewing experience . The awkward teen at the center of Van Sant's film is Alex , a lonely kid trying to articulate feelings and emotions he doesn't yet have the adult vocabulary for . The general misery of being a teenager , the pressure of having sex with a girlfriend who drives him nuts and parents in the middle of a divorce would be bad enough to deal with , but Alex inadvertently causes the grisly death of a rail yard security guard , and the guilt that haunts him sends him fleeing to an interior world he already knows too well . Van Sant does a good job of constructing his film to resemble the inner workings of a distracted teenage mind . Alex , at the advice of a friend , decides to write down the secret haunting him , and his attempts to get it down in words are what we see play out on screen . Therefore , there are tangents , interruptions and moments told out of chronology that only make sense after moments that come later . People accuse Van Sant of trying too hard , sacrificing narrative for artistic tricks , etc . But however true that may be of his other efforts , I don't see that here . Van Sant shows a tremendous amount of compassion for this poor kid who doesn't know how to deal with something much bigger than him , and there's a strong emotional core to the film that Van Sant's distinct style serves rather than competes with .
Grand Kurosawa Film Still Falls Short of " Seven Samurai " and " Throne of Blood "	Director Akira Kurosawa takes Shakespeare's " King Lear " and sets it in feudal Japan . What I love about Kurosawa films is true about " Ran " as well : he was capable of making popcorn entertainments that were infused with an art-house intellectualism . He made thinking man's action movies . " Ran " is right up there with some of his best work , but to me it falls short of what remains my favorite Kurosawa film , " Seven Samurai , " and even as his Shakespeare adaptations go , I was more wowed by " Throne of Blood , " his visceral re-telling of " Macbeth . " Incidentally , " Ran " brought Kurosawa his only Academy Award nomination for Best Director , and as it has done with so many tremendous film artists , the Academy had to admit that they'd botched things and handed him an honorary award as a consolation prize a few years later .
A Glorious Royal Feud	After " A Man for All Seasons , " " The Lion in Winter " is perhaps the best costume drama that came out of the 1960s , a decade rife with them . Peter O'Toole dons the garb of King Henry II for the second time in four years ( see " Becket " ) and commands the screen as ably as he always did . It's not a command he's allowed to take for granted though , because he has the life force of Katharine Hepburn playing his strong-willed wife , Eleanor of Aquitaine . Henry summons her from prison , and calls together also his sons , to decide the fate of his throne . The battle of wills and words that follows is juicy stuff , and you can tell O'Toole and Hepburn are having a divine time trading barbs and playing this eccentric couple , who hate each other even as they adore one another . It's a very unique treatment of material that would otherwise just be one more story about royal intrigue and dirty dealings . With a very young Anthony Hopkins as Richard III , providing us with a preview of the very fine actor he would become in his own right .
One of Woody Allen's Five Best	A splendid ensemble dramedy from Woody Allen's mid-1980s period , at the time easily the best film he had made since Manhattan in 1979 . This is Allen when he's at his best - - he assembles a sharp team of actors , puts them in situations he knows like the back of his hand ( i . e . intellectual New York society ) , and , most importantly , directs the film like it's a Woody Allen movie , not a Fellini or Bergman ripoff . " Hannah and Her Sisters " blends comedy and drama in a way that is unique to Allen , and which he doesn't pull off very often ( " Annie Hall " and " Crimes and Misdemeanors " are two other examples that immediately spring to mind ) . Though Michael Caine and Dianne Wiest were singled out with Academy Awards , Barbara Hershey , Mia Farrow and Max von Sydow also do strong work . And fortunately Allen finds a role for himself as . . . . what else ? . . . . a neurotic hypochondriac .
So Much for the American Dream	Richard Conte plays a hot head recently returned from the Navy , who jumps in on a business deal out of personal vengeance when he finds out that a crooked produce dealer ( played in a characteristically tiresome performance by Lee J . Cobb ) not only cheated his father , but also caused him to lose use of his legs in an auto accident . He teams up with Millard Mitchell ( giving a wonderfully gruff performance ) to deliver a load of apples to Cobb in San Francisco . But Conte finds out that the dirty dealings surrounding the produce market in the big city are plentiful , and he and Cobb begin a cat and mouse game to see who can swindle who . And just to complicate matters , an enigmatic gamine ( played by Valentina Cortese ) shows up and takes a hankering to Conte . Is she playing him straight , or is she part of the whole corrupt mess ? Director Jules Dassin uses the rather mundane premise - - delivering a load of apples to a fruit market - - to frame a haunting and striking chronicle of one man's nightmare journey from the cosy confines of small-town America to the jangling , sinister and shadowy worlds of its urban jungles . POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD Though Dassin gives us a happy ending , it's a qualified one . After all , Conte turns his back on his devoted girl and his family to join the denizens of the city , and chooses the allure of the " worldy " vamp over that of the pristine virgin . In an America shaken up by WWII and desperately wanting to believe in the white picket American dream , this bitter pill of a film suggests that that dream isn't for everyone . With Jack Oakie and Joseph Pevney as a pair of rival apple sellers , who bring some nice shading to their supporting plot line .
Solidly Crafted and Smart WWII Drama	A fairly rousing WWII film that boasts a tremendous performance from George C . Scott in the title role . The movie begins famously with Scott addressing a troop of soldiers while standing in front of a massive American flag . It's a daring way to open a movie , and Scott makes it riveting . He's so good in the first few minutes that you might think the rest of the film loses some steam afterwards . It doesn't . Scott carries this film for its entire 170 minutes , and there's hardly a scene that he's not in . " Patton " isn't so much a biopic about one man as it is a document of one leader's decisions during wartime . It's smart and sensitive enough that it doesn't pander to easy sentiment or mindless patriotism , yet it's not exactly an indictment of war either . It seems to take the point of view that WWII was horrible but necessary , and that leaders like Patton were necessary if we were going to win - - people who seem custom made to exist during wartime and whom you can't imagine existing in any other context .
There's Nothing Not to Like	Unless you're just determined not to have a good time , I can't imagine how you could watch " Bride & Prejudice " and not come out of it with a smile on your face . Colorful , splashy , cheesy , and starring a bunch of gorgeous actors , both male and female , it updates Jane Austen's classic tale and tells it in the style of a Bollywood musical . Like most Bollywood musicals , the music in this is catchy while it's playing , but you won't remember any of it afterwards , since there are no strong discernible melodies . And the dance numbers aren't necessarily dance numbers so much as they are choreographed movement . But everything is sold so energetically that the festive mood is infectious . Aishwarya Rai just may be the most beautiful woman on the face of the earth , but women viewers will have plenty of eye candy to keep them happy as well . And fans of Marsha Mason will be pleased , as she makes an unexpected cameo late in the film . A treat .
Moody Mystery with Stunning Cinematography	" Laura " works in just about every way : acting , writing , production values . It's not an especially ambitious movie , and I was hoping it would explore the idea of obsession more thoroughly . One could have a field day reading subtext into " Laura " : the fetishizing of Laura herself as mere object ( emphasized by the portrait of her that hangs constantly in the background , and the valuable trinkets that fill Waldo Lydecker's apartment ) , the implied latent homosexuality of Lydecker as a motivation for his actions , etc . But ultimately I think " Laura " is a fairly superficial mystery / romance with not a whole lot to say , and Otto Preminger , the film's director , seems to be content with giving us an 88-minute movie that clips nicely if insignificantly along rather than a two-hour movie weighted down with psychological complexity . In this particular case , I don't mind , because what he's given us is one damn fine movie . The film of course revolves around Gene Tierney and its credibility relies on our belief that man after man would be infatuated with her . Overall I can buy this . She's certainly stunning and never too hard on the eyes . But she's also not a great actress , so anything compelling about her comes strictly from her looks and not from her performance . This seems to be true with many Hollywood beauties of the 40's ( and really even today when you think about it ) . Clifton Webb gets the lion's share of praise for this film , and rightly so . You can see him having a field day with the prissy , fastidious Lydecker , and whether or not the homosexual subtext is implied , one can't get away from the odd sexual tension that permeates his first scene with Dana Andrews ( whom he greets while sitting naked in a bathtub ) . Andrews himself uses his good looks and macho demeanor to good effect , but he's not required to do much beyond this . Vincent Price and Judith Anderson likewise don't have much to do , and Price especially seems like strange casting , given his high-pitched , fruity voice is at odds with the imposing physical presence his character is supposed to display ( and which Price has , voice aside ) . This is a slick , great-looking film shot in crisp black and white . Preminger directs fairly straight-forwardly , with only an occasional directorial flourish to distinguish this from the average studio fair . However , on the plus side , his unfussy direction lets the strong story and good cast speak for themselves .
Davis and Rains Work Wonders Together	Bette Davis is given a role she can really sink her teeth into in this " women's picture " from 1944 . Davis plays Fanny Trellis , a spoiled young woman who marries the boring but very wealthy Job Skeffington ( Claude Rains ) as a way to save her wayward brother from bankruptcy . When the brother dies , she finds herself trapped in ( to her mind ) a loveless marriage and divorces . But when diphtheria leaves her physically ravaged , she sees how superficial her platoon of socialite friends and suitors really are , and it's old Job , who comes hobbling back from a Nazi concentration camp , who loves her for who she is and not what she looks like . My goodness , these 1940s melodramas could really cover a lot of territory . Some of them were duds and some of them were marvelous , and Davis starred in her fair share of both . " Mr . Skeffington " is definitely one of the latter . Davis was always so much better when she was playing a brat than when she was forced to do noble suffering , and she plays Fanny expertly and without an ounce of vanity . Rains is terrific too , and the real-life friendship that he and Davis shared off screen shows in the chemistry they have together on . Director Vincent Sherman keeps things moving briskly along , and it's not until the very end of the film that I began to feel its 145 minute running time .
The Melodrama to End All Melodramas	" Now , Voyager " is THE ultimate Bette Davis melodrama . She plays a frumpy , dowdy spinster ( they basically put some glasses on her and mess up her hair a little ) who blossoms into a strong beauty and ends the film swooning into Paul Henreid's arms as she delivers the famous line , " Let's not ask for the moon , we already have the stars . " It's actually a ridiculous movie , but who the hell cares ! The plot makes no sense , but the film seems to know its plot makes no sense and charges forward anyway . Of her noble sufferer roles , this was Davis's best , and she never disappoints . She has tremendous chemistry with Claude Rains , and the funniest moment in the film comes when he , as her doctor , talking to her about her time in a mental institution , says , " I thought you came here to have a breakdown , " ( or something to that effect ) , and she replies , " I did , but I changed my mind . " Gladys Cooper plays Davis's stifling , overbearing battle-axe of a mother , a role Cooper cornered the market on . And director Irving Pichel throws in some nice directorial flourishes to distinguish his film , such as the shot of Cooper , very disapproving of Davis's emergence from her shell , looming in the foreground with her back to the camera , forbiddingly drumming her fingernails against the wall while Davis busies herself in the background . No composition could more clearly communicate the relationship these two women have to each other , and it's all the more satisfying , therefore , SPOILER ALERT when Davis inadvertently sends the old biddy flying down the stairs to her death . But all that messy business is forgotten by the film's end , Davis triumphs ( as if anyone doubted she would ) , and all's right with the world . Ahhhhhh . . . . . .
A Dynamite Political Thriller	This feisty political thriller from director Costa-Gavras should feel eerily prescient to American audiences of today , whose government is trying to convince them that anyone critical of our country's military actions is an unpatriotic subversive . " Z " was filmed in Algeria with a largely French cast , but it's clearly about Greece and the enforced police state its people lived under from the end of WWII into the 1960s . This film made me feel incredibly ignorant about Greek history , and somewhat naive as well for not realizing that a country that I've always thought to be a cradle for democracy could have so recently harbored a totalitarian regime . The action of the film centers around the assassination of a Greek official who is leading a ground swell of support for a democratic , peaceful government , and the subsequent investigation of his death that leads to the indictment of the military leaders behind it . Costa-Gavras sets a breathless pace , and the screenplay doesn't so much follow one central storyline as it does many strands of different stories that converge at one single point . The style of the movie mimics the restless sense of injustice and anger that pervades its narrative ; the camera never seems content to sit in one place for too long , and it chases after one character only to become distracted and take off after another one . But the film is never confusing or convoluted . It's a firecracker of a movie that manages to both enrage and entertain .
Good But Rather Mainstream	Practically custom made to win Academy Awards , " The Last Emperor " did just that in 1987 , winning every single award for which it was nominated . Bernardo Bertolucci's sprawling historical epic is beautiful to look at , but it also has a brain in its head , something rare for the usual Best Picture winner . Still , it's one of the most accessible films Bertolucci has ever made , and one has to wonder if it would have received the acceptance it did had it not been so mainstream . After all , Bertolucci's masterpiece , " The Conformist " , a far better film than " The Last Emperor " in almost every way , was almost completely ignored by the stuffy Academy back in 1971 .
One of My Favorite Disney Cartoons	I LOVED this cartoon as a kid . I was and am an animal lover anyway , so the idea of Sherwood Forest being populated by a bunch of talking animals delighted me . My favorite characters were Prince John , the hapless lion with his crooked crown , and his right-hand man ( or snake ) , Sir Hiss . I especially enjoyed Prince John's unique way of robbing ladies of their rings , which was to suck them off their fingers while he was pretending to kiss their hands . The highlight of the film is the famous archery contest that turns into a wild and crazy football game . All these years later , I wonder if that section of the film was tipping its hat to the equally delirious football game in " MASH . "
Husband and Wife Can't Hate Each Other , No Matter How Hard They Try	" The Palm Beach Story " is a lopsided comedy ( part of it's funny and part of it's not ) , but the movie is back-ended with all of the funniest bits , so it allows you to forget the slower parts and it sends you out on a high . After a sensationally bizarre opening credits sequence , the movie settles down into a slightly less zingy version of " The Awful Truth . " Claudette Colbert thinks her marriage to Joel McCrea isn't working , even though he doesn't think likewise . She thinks she's not a capable enough wife ; he thinks he's a failure as a man and husband . She takes off for Palm Beach to get a divorce despite all of his attempts to stop her . On the train to Florida , she meets a wealthy tycoon who wants to marry her and give her everything she could possibly want , but she realizes that what she really wants is her husband . This is all told with a lot of wit and flair . The early scenes with Colbert and McCrea drag , and an extended bit of nonsense on the train involving the Ale and Quail Hunting Club is superfluous and not very funny . But once everyone shows up in Palm Beach , the film becomes a delight , and a bonus is added in the person of Mary Astor , who plows on to the screen about half way through the film and decimates everyone in her path with her quick-tongued and hilarious performance as a rich society lady with a lot of time on her hands and her sights set on Colbert's husband . What I liked about this film was that Colbert and McCrea don't seem to have a lot of chemistry in their early scenes together ; he seems so stiff and bland , and you don't really blame her for wanting to get away . But after you've seen both of them with other people , they seem so much more right for each other when they get back together , and there's all this chemistry you didn't initially realize was there . I don't know if that's due to their performances , the writing , the directing , or whether it was just a happy accident , but it works beautifully .
Thelma Ritter Film Is Sitcom Light , But a Treat	An absolutely charming film from 1951 that finds working class John Lund marrying well-to-do Gene Tierney and then spending the first weeks of their marriage trying to hide his blue collar past . Things get complicated when Lund's mom ( played beautifully by Thelma Ritter ) is hired to be their live-in cook without Tierney knowing she's her mother-in-law ( long story ) , and even more complicated when Tierney's snobbish horror of a mother ( Miriam Hopkins ) stays for a long visit . Though lightweight and sitcom tidy , the film does make some sharp jabs at the corporate drive mentality that mistakes material possessions and social standing for success . It's no surprise that the most convincing argument for watching the film is Ritter herself , who I simply adore . Every time I see her in a movie I wish I knew her for real , so that she could come to my house and take care of me in that supremely capable way in which she was always taking care of the other characters in her films .
An Extremely Likable Screen Version of an Extremely Likable Stage Musical	The last good old-fashioned musical of the 1960s , " Oliver ! " is of course a musicalized version of Charles Dickens ' classic novel " Oliver Twist . " If the bouncy-jouncy treatment eliminates much of what is dark about the book ( and which the 1948 David Lean version nicely captures ) , it makes up for it in colorful and splashy production numbers . At this time in Hollywood , studios were trying to make big musicals but in an arty way , copping trendy cinematic conventions to tell hopelessly stage-bound stories - - thus it gave us " Camelot " and " Funny Girl " and other gangly products . So it's refreshing that no effort was made to make " Oliver ! " the least bit cinematic . It looks and moves like a stage production ; the sets look like stage sets . Therefore , the movie retains everything that made the musical good in the first place . Luckily , and smartly , the film also decided to retain Ron Moody in the central role of Fagin , recreating his Broadway performance , rather than wedge some big-shot movie star into the film who would look ridiculous mouthing the words to someone else's singing voice . The score , one of my favorites , sounds terrific , and most of the songs are kept intact , with the addition of one written specifically for the film , " As Long As He Needs Me , " which has subsequently been integrated into stage productions . Some of the show-stopping highlights include the " Consider Yourself " number , Fagin's " You've Got to Pick a Pocket or Two , " in which he teaches Oliver how to be a crack petty thief , the " Who Will Buy ? " dance sequence , and Nancy's boozy song , " Oom-Pah-Pah , " which serves a different and more effective purpose in the film than it did in the stage version . Carol Reed , known for his stylish Graham Greene screen adaptations " The Fallen Idol " and " The Third Man , " does directing honors here , and he won the Best Director Oscar for his efforts , most likely because the Academy felt guilty for not awarding him for much worthier efforts ( the exact same reasoning landed George Cukor an Oscar for " My Fair Lady " four years earlier ) .
A Nifty Bit of Satire	" Saved ! " includes some pretty witty satire , but none of its points will be heard , because audiences will be too busy jumping on to one bandwagon or another instead of thinking about what the movie has to say . Liberals will love " Saved ! " for its attack on religious hypocrisy and the annoying tendency of the conservative Right to want to shove their way of thinking down everyone's throats . Conservatives will hate this movie because they will see in it an attack on religion in general , and will probably call for public bans of it in their communities . When really " Saved ! " , like so many misunderstood movies with a left-leaning agenda , is about tolerance , about not passing quick judgements , and about allowing everyone a voice in the cultural debate rather than trying to railroad everyone into his / her individual opinion . But alas , most movie audiences aren't interested in debate ; they're just interested in railroading .
Jack Black Scores	Jack Black is like Jim Carrey - - he works so hard at his comedy that the strain at first overshadows the humour . But like Jim Carrey , he keeps so insistently at his viewers that they can't help but be won over totally by his zaniness . I didn't think Black was very funny when this movie started , but he plays the role so earnestly and with so much personality that I was a Jack Black fan by the time it was over . There seems to be a generation of film makers now ( Richard Linklater , Cameron Crowe ) that are redefining the qualities that can make someone " cool , " and their movies are full of welcome messages . Cool isn't about how you look or dress or act . Cool's a state of mind , man . Peace out .
Into the Jungle Again with Werner Herzog	Director Werner Herzog returns once more to the wilds of the jungle and yet one more protagonist who finds there the atmosphere to feed his frenzied obsessions . In this one , Klaus Kinski plays an opera lover who is determined to build an opera house in the middle of the Amazon rain forest . In order to achieve his dream , though , he must first make a fortune in the area's biggest industry : rubber . The scheme he conjures up involves sailing a boat down one branch of the Amazon , carrying it over a mountain , and sailing up the other side . This feat comprises a large bulk of the film , and was shot without the aid of any special effects . One wonders why Herzog ever bothers to make fiction films at all , since even the ones he does make feel like documentaries . This isn't the first film of his in which the actual narrative storytelling feels obligatory , and is almost lost amid Herzog's detached observation . This marred my enjoyment of " Fitzcarraldo " somewhat , as Kinski's objective and the developments of the plot are somewhat difficult to follow . It's as if Herzog has to wrench himself away from simply filming unscripted action when someone on his crew reminds him that he's actually trying to tell a story . However , the viewer is compensated by beautiful , authentic location shooting in the Amazon and fascinating exposure to the native Peruvian tribes . If these were actors and not actual natives , Herzog does a hell of a good job of convincing us otherwise .
Good Movie from an On Again / Off Again Director	I can't think of an actor better suited to play the expressionless chronic bachelor Don at the heart of Jim Jarmusch's newest movie than Bill Murray . His mournful hound-dog face , which hides any trace of what's going on inside the head on which it sits , stares blankly at the T . V . , at other people , sometimes at nothing , betrays itself with the slightest movement of the mouth or twitch of the eyes . It's a characterization Murray has so down pat that I'm tempted to think he's not really acting all that much , but he's so perfectly cast that it doesn't much matter whether he's acting or not . If you're not familiar with the movies of Jim Jarmusch , " Broken Flowers " is a nice introduction , as it's the most accessible Jarmusch film I've seen . I'm not a huge fan , but I liked this movie quite a lot . Don receives an anonymous letter one day from a past girlfriend , telling him he has a 19-year-old son who may come looking for him . Murray's friend , Winston ( played amusingly by the chameleon Jeffrey Wright ) , convinces him to track down a handful of women who could have possibly been the mother and resolve the mystery . Don agrees to it , seemingly not so much because he has a need to know but because he has nothing better to do . What follows is a series of scenes with each past girlfriend , during which their interactions with Don tell us heaps about their relationship back when they were dating . Some are affectionate , some are distant , one is downright scarily angry , but all are played beautifully by a quartet of actresses : Sharon Stone , Frances Conroy , Jessica Lange and Tilda Swinton . This is Jarmusch , so there aren't necessarily any tidy answers , and I don't think I give anything away by saying that the mystery is never solved . Life is messy , and it doesn't always happily resolve itself just because we want it to . I liked how subtle the film was ; Don doesn't make any huge ground-breaking discoveries about himself , but nevertheless you sense that he's a slightly different person after his journey than he was before it . You'll have to be patient , as Jarmusch tells his story very slowly , and nearly all of Don's interaction with others is ponderously awkward . But the movie slowly begins to fascinate , and you find yourself watching the faces of the women he visits ( and examining the visible details of their lives ) much in the same way that Don is himself , looking for the slightest hint that she might be the one who sent that fateful letter . A very fine film , poignant and sad in a rather obscure way , and one that stays in your mind for a while after seeing it .
Human Interest Story or Hoax ? We May Never Know . . . .	Meet Marla Olmstead , a cute , seemingly normal 4-year-old girl . Then see the paintings Marla creates , hailed by the art world as the works of a prodigy abstract artist . Now meet Amir Bar-Lev , documentary filmmaker so fascinated by Marla's story that he decides to make a movie about it . Then along comes a " 60 Minutes " investigative report that throws into question the claim that Marla alone is responsible for her paintings , and Bar-Lev's film switches gears mid-stream . Suddenly , he's begging the parents of this little girl to prove to him that their story is legitimate , so that his film won't end up being one more expose declaiming the family as frauds . This ambiguous and disquieting film never answers the central question : are Marla's works her's alone , or did she receive " help " from her father or possibly , as some suggest , the bitter art gallery owner who takes credit for discovering her ? Bar-Lev tries his best to gather evidence to support the Olmsteads ' claims , but that evidence never materializes . The kind of painting Marla does when she's being filmed is the type that any four year old would do ; all of her paintings are " finished " off camera . And Marla herself just doesn't act like a prodigy in the way of other child prodigies . Bar-Lev can't even get her to talk about her paintings , and she seems detached not only from the artworks but from everything else around her . Only once do the Olmsteads themselves film Marla creating a painting from start to finish , and they use this painting to prove to the world that they're not making their story up . But virtually everyone but the Olmsteads themselves seem to think that this painting looks very different from the finished ones hanging in art galleries and selling for thousands of dollars . Whatever the true story is , the film leaves the distinct impression that something is amiss with this seemingly all-American family . The dad seems cagey ; the mom seems to be working overtime to convince herself that everything is normal . A telling interview with the two parents that closes the film suggests that the couple may not be completely happy with one another - - their body language and lack of eye contact with one another conveys that . One senses that the dad is seeing some of his own dreams for fame realized through his daughter ; the mom seems to be going against the maternal instincts that are telling her enough is enough . As objective as Bar-Lev tries to be , the evidence overwhelmingly suggests that the Olmsteads ( or at least Mark Olmstead , the father ) is bamboozling ( or at least trying to bamboozle ) everyone , possibly even his wife . " My Kid Could Paint That " is not the kind of documentary that pursues answers to the questions it raises . Bar-Lev seems almost too cautious not to offend anyone for his film to have any real bite . But the questions it does raise are interesting ones : what is the validity of abstract art ? Does the age of the artist have an impact on the art's quality ? Would Marla's paintings have received as much attention and acclaim if they were produced by an adult , or in buying Marla's paintings , are people really buying a piece of Marla ? I felt a little guilty watching this film , because I wanted the set up to be a fraud from the start . I don't know why that is , and I wonder if as I watched the film this attitude made me see the story I wanted to see rather than the story as it actually was . But if I can be accused of that , then so can Bar-Lev , and so can the Olmsteads themselves , who , whether their story is true or not , put it before the world and packaged it for maximum effect .
The Best Iraq-Themed Movie of 2007	In retrospect , I suppose 2007 will go down as the year in which filmmakers began addressing the problems in Iraq . The number of Iraq-themed films has piled up and disappeared at a breathtaking pace . Maybe it's not a surprise that the best of them so far is the one that doesn't try to turn the conflict into something fictional . All of the other Iraq movies have been well intentioned but limp ; you can tell they want to address what's wrong without truly enraging anyone . Well , Charles Ferguson , the writer and director of " No End in Sight , " has no such qualms , and his film enrages indeed . Meticulously crafted , " No End in Sight " proves what everyone has already known for a long time : the Iraq conflict is a complete disaster . The film is certainly biased ; anyone who wants to discount it based on that fact is welcome to . But anyone who wants to deny that America's handling of post-invasion Iraq has been anything but a complete " quagmire " ( to borrow a word from the film ) is hopelessly deluded . " No End in Sight " is not about whether or not the war in Iraq was justified ; in fact , the film goes out of its way to affirm that at first many Iraqis were happy that the U . S . had deposed Saddam Hussein . Rather , the film is about what went wrong after the invasion , about how groups that actually had a reconstruction plan were met with indifference at every step by an administration that really cared nothing for the Iraqi people even as they fed the American public a lot of hooey about bringing freedom and democracy to them . This film makes clear that for all of its recent talk about dangerous nations destabilizing the world's peace , the United States is one of the most dangerous countries currently in existence . It's terrifying that governments are run like this ; if this film is accurate , my office at work is better managed than the project for occupying post-war Iraq . Ferguson can't be blamed if his film seems one sided . None of the key decision makers managing Iraq policy - - Cheney , Rumsfeld , Rice , Bremer - - agreed to be interviewed for the film . The only consolation the film offers is that Cheney , Bush and Rumsfeld now look like complete fools . Either they thought they had a good plan for rebuilding Iraq and proved themselves to be ridiculously incompetent ; or ( and more likely ) they never really cared about what happened to Iraq in the first place and have proved themselves to be downright scary .
A Fine and Sad Documentary of Family Dysfunction	This compelling documentary about the Friedman family and a child sexual abuse court case that turned their lives upside down is a heartbreaking peek into the lives of one very dysfunctional family . Like most families who have painful secrets they want to suppress , the Friedmans ( except for the mother ) , act as if absolutely nothing is wrong , that the charges are silly and that everything will be cleared up as quickly as a parking ticket . On the evening before the family patriarch , Arnold Friedman , is to begin serving his prison sentence , the family is partying like it's New Year's Eve . And the same holds true for the day on which the son charged as an accomplice , Jesse Friedman , plans to plead guilty in court . The brothers are goofing off on the courthouse lawn ! ! Of course we , as objective viewers , realize that all of this behavior is a desperate attempt to avoid dealing with some serious tears in the family fabric . Arnold pleads innocent to molesting boys to whom he had been providing computer classes in his basement , but is it a coincidence that he seems to go to prison with a substantial sense of relief ? The boys paint their mother as a demon intent on destroying the family , but it's the mother who comes across as being the most grounded in reality and the only one ( besides Arnold himself ) who understands the gravity of the family's circumstances . No , these certainly are not the Waltons . The documentary does a very compelling job of casting doubt on the fact that Arnold and his son were guilty of molesting boys in that computer class . Our sympathies definitely lie with them , until we find out late in the film that they were probably lying to the authorities and , because we as viewers have become so vested in their story , to us . We probably will never know exactly what happened during those classes . Arnold asserts to his dying day that he never molested any of those students , but he does admit to molesting other boys . So how are we supposed to feel ? Glad that he receives punishment for past crimes , or angry at the judicial system for fabricating a crime where one didn't exist ? It's a complicated set of emotions the film maker leads his audience through , and it makes for a superb documentary .
To Doubt Is Human	" Doubt can be a bond as strong as fear . " If ever there was a time in our country's recent history where that line carried the force of relevance , it's now . And though it's set in the early 1960s ( roughly a year after the Kennedy assassination ) , there's no doubt that John Patrick Shanley's adaptation of his own Pulitzer-Prize winning stage play is a response to these dark times , when the only thing that seems to be uniting Americans is their collective insecurity and ever-weakening belief that things are going to get better . At the center of " Doubt " is the mystery of whether or not a priest ( played by Philip Seymour Hoffman ) is guilty of taking advantage of an altar boy . The priest's primary ( and really sole ) prosecutor is Sister Aloysius , the uber-stern and terrifying principal of the Catholic school that provides " Doubt " its setting . Watching Hoffman and Streep spar is like watching two professional tennis players at their best , and fans of expert movie acting should waste no time in seeing the sparks fly between these two . The movie purposely never clarifies the ambiguity of the charges - - is Hoffman's priest truly guilty of something , or is Sister Aloysius simply on a mad witch hunt ? Streep's character is the most fascinating . From one perspective , she's a nearly maniacal harpie , intent on ruining a man's life and career for no clear reason . However , if her accusations are legitimate , she's a sort of hero , demanding justice from a male-dominated world that's willing to look the other way . Streep's performance is something fascinating to behold - - she can convey more with an arched eyebrow than another actor can with his entire face . Amy Adams gets the pivotal role of a young , innocent nun who first brings her suspicions about the priest to her superior , and then sees them become Frankenstein's monster . In many ways , Adams ' character is us , the audience , placed in the position of having to come to a conclusion on our own when empirical evidence is lacking . Adams ' role is the least showy , but she does much with it . And then there's Viola Davis , who , in five minutes of screen time , decimates the audience with some shocking conclusions of her own as the altar boy's mother . The insulated , hushed world of the Catholic Church is blown wide open by this struggling mother , who's seen more of the world than any of the priests and nuns sheltered behind the church's walls , and who puts the film's running themes of racial and gender inequality into harsh perspective . The central conflict in " Doubt " in many ways comes down to each individual's view of the world and his or her ability to accept the ambiguity of day to day living . There's a lot about the world we will never know and much about our futures we'll never be able to control . So what's better - - anticipating the worst and therefore being prepared when it comes ; or believing in the best and running the risk of being disappointed when it fails to arise ? The movie just poses this question - - it doesn't try to answer it . " Doubt " is not a fancy movie and will win no awards for its cinematic audacity . But in looking back at the movies of 2008 , I imagine it will stand as one of the best-acted films of the year .
Almost a Masterpiece	After having seen many Bergman films , I finally got my hands on this , considered by many to be the master's masterpiece . Not really about the children Fanny and Alexander ( as the title would suggest ) so much as about the entire Ekdahl family , this film is meticulously detailed and highly autobiographical . It looks absolutely fabulous ; cinematographer and Bergman regular Sven Nykvist outdoes himself with his crystal clear compositions . Bergman's directorial style is at times a bit too static ; he lets his camera sit motionless far too frequently , fine when focused on a face or tableau , but uninteresting when simply filming a group or room from long shot . But overall , he is in complete mastery of the material . I saw the full-length , five-hour television version , and the first half of this is flawless . Documenting the Ekdahl family Christmas , the death of Oscar ( Fanny and Alexander's father ) and their subsequent move to the home of their stepfather and religious tyrant , this part of the film is compulsively watchable . The characters ( with the exception of little Fanny herself ) are painted with detailed strokes by the acting and writing , and Bergman uses his production design to great effect , juxtaposing the sumptuous interiors of the Ekdahl's home with the ascetic house of the stepfather . The movie floundered a bit for me , though , in the second half . Here Bergman indulges his preoccupation with many of the themes that he's visited so often before ; because of their familiarity , they came across this time as pretentious and tired . The existential longing , the fear of death , the blurring of personas : how many times can you explore these same themes and keep them interesting ? Perhaps if I had not already seen so many Bergman films I would have fared better here . As it was , I found myself checking my watch frequently in the film's final hour or so . But the overall impression I took away from this film was that I had seen an important work by an important film maker . I still think " Persona " and " Cries and Whispers " are better movies , but " Fanny and Alexander " is a must see for any Bergman fan , and really for any fan of cinema , period .
Redford's Fiendishly Entertaining Movie About Entertainment	Robert Redford reminded everyone what a good director he could be with this slick and supremely entertaining film about the quiz show scandals in the early days of television . The subject seems at first glance like rather feeble material for good drama - - after all , it all happened so long ago and it was just a silly T . V . game show we're talking about here . But Redford digs into something deeper , namely the power television ( or any medium , for that matter ) has over its audience and the responsibility of that audience to play an active role in processing the information that medium is feeding to it . With stellar performances from Ralph Fiennes , Rob Morrow , Paul Scofield and , yes , even John Turturro , an actor I generally resist .
A Gut Punch	" Thirteen " begins with literal punches being thrown - - best friends Tracy and Evie are slugging each other to prove how numb they are from the huffing they've been doing in Tracy's bedroom - - and continues with an unrelenting aggressiveness until its penultimate , quiet moment . I don't have any children myself , and my teenage years were nothing like what's depicted on screen here , but I have a cold feeling in the pit of my stomach that " Thirteen " is not as over the top as some would like to believe . I only hope parents are watching this film , though as is typical , movies like this preach to the choir , and those who should be seeing them aren't . This film is visceral in the same way " Requiem for a Dream " is , though Catherine Hardwicke keeps a tighter rein on her project than Darren Aronofsky did his . She indulges in some of the same stylistic excesses - - the frenzied camera work , the digitized color , the pounding soundtrack - - but they don't overwhelm her actors . And indeed , it's the actors who deserve the lion's share of praise for this film . Evan Rachel Wood absolutely astounds as Tracy . I know vaguely of the T . V . show she starred in , but I wouldn't have been able to pick her out of a crowd before seeing her here . Her performance is raw and scary - - I don't know what real-life resources this young actress is drawing from , but she convinced me that she was a teenager teetering on the brink of disaster . Nikki Reed , who co-wrote the screenplay , is very good as well , but has a decidedly more supporting , less involved role . And Holly Hunter , a reliable veteran , delivers the goods as well as Tracy's mom . Her final emotional show-down with Tracy is one of the most affecting coups de theatre I saw this year . Hardwicke's use of enhanced color is unnecessary and distracting - - - it's too obvious and stylized and blunts the effects of the film's realistic approach . Ditto the MTV editing style - - - at times this movie looks like a Noxzeema commercial from Hell . This is obviously intentional - - - we are meant to understand that these girls are only trying to live up to expectations places upon them by an all-pervading consumer culture that demands perfection . But I wouldn't have minded a more subtle approach to those conclusions - - I don't need them crammed down my throat . However , as I said , this quality might ruin a lesser film , but doesn't this one because of its phenomenal performances and genuine commitment to the tragic story it wants to tell .
Monkey Business	Charlton Heston dons a loincloth and impersonates a human in this cheezy cult classic about a future world where apes walk upright and speak in clipped British accents . What a fun movie this is , thanks mostly to Heston's inability to deliver a line in a manner that even remotely resembles the way an actual human being would deliver it ( " You bloody baboon ! ! " ) The film makes a nice companion piece with another 1968 release in which apes figure heavily , " 2001 : A Space Odyssey , " though neither film will leave you feeling especially rosy about the eventual fate of man ( we're apparently going to be either personal valets to gorillas or abstract fetuses floating through space ) . A host of classy actors appears in this , but you won't recognize any of them , thanks to the truly impressive makeup effects of John Chambers . And take note , M . Night Shyamalan - - THIS is the way to use a surprise ending .
Good vs . Evil in the American West	O . k . I know , I know . . . . books and films are two different art forms and little can be gained by comparing the telling of the same story in one vs . the other . I'm a firm advocate of that myself . However , let me just say that you cannot watch this film as a substitute of the Steinbeck novel ( though a film should never be used as a stand in for literature in my opinion ) . Kazan et al . very liberally adapt Steinbeck's story to the big screen and make a very impressive film ; however , it's not the same story Steinbeck himself was telling . That aside , " East of Eden " is a good ( not quite great , but close ) film from a very inconsistent period of American film making ( i . e . the mid-50's . ) Cinemascope and other widescreen processes were new , and many directors were content just to train their cameras on a pretty landscape and think that was enough to make their compositions interesting . However , Elia Kazan , completely at home in the stark b & w worlds of " On the Waterfront " and " A Streetcar Named Desire " obviously knew what to do with his widescreen compositions , and , as a result , " East of Eden " is far more dynamic than many films from the same time period . For example , in an early scene , Cal ( James Dean ) walks along a stand of trees beside his brother and his brother's soon-to-be fiancé . While they're talking , Cal walks deeper into the frame and follows the other two while hidden from us and them by the trees . This of course serves the purpose of communicating Cal's isolation , but it also seems like a perfectly natural thing for Cal's character to do and so doesn't feel obvious or heavy handed , and it's visually interesting , and so breaks up the frame . Kazan adds touches like that throughout the entire film . Even if they don't always work ( the skewed angles toward the end are somewhat corny ) , they're appreciated for their attempts to create a unique visual style . James Dean just wasn't a very good actor , but he was an interesting screen presence . He was always sulking around and looking uncomfortable in his own skin , which is probably why teenagers at the time related to him so much , and why he seems so right for the role of Cal . The women in this film deliver the best performances . Julie Harris does much with a somewhat thankless role through her naturalistic acting , and Jo Van Fleet is simply terrific in a role that amounts to one significant scene . I'm not sure she deserved an Oscar for her ( maybe ) ten minutes of screen time , but she does manage to make Kate into a memorable character in the blink of an eye . Indeed , the film's greatest disservice to the novel is in reducing Kate's character to nothing more than a plot device . Anyone who's read the book remembers what a vivid character Steinbeck creates of her , and it's a shame the film couldn't take more advantage of that . What the movie comes down to thematically is an investigation into the " good " vs . " bad " impulses that exist in everyone , and whether or not we are forced into one of these two polar opposites by fate or have the ability to decide for ourselves which one we'll choose . It's an absorbing film and one of the must sees from one of the most interesting decades for the art form .
Harold Goes West	This charming Harold Lloyd comedy short finds city boy Harold being sent by stern parents to the wild west to work on his uncle's ranch . He never makes it to the ranch - - instead , he gets into all sorts of comedic hijinks in a frontier town , becomes the target of a killer mob of bullies , and wins the hand of a sweet country charmer , all in about 15 minutes ! As usual , the visual gags come fast and furious , and the unflappable Harold carries everything off with utmost panache . Highlights include his impressive lasso routine , and his frantic escape from the gang of thugs , in which he employs just about every trick imaginable to outsmart them . Great fun .
Howling at the Moon	A low-key and charming family comedy about a spinsterish widow ( Cher ) , who is torn between marrying her stuffy fiancé ( Danny Aiello ) and his animalistic brother ( Nicolas Cage ) . Cher proves herself to be an immensely warm and likable screen presence , and the film is mostly a star vehicle for her . But she gets terrific support from Vincent Gardenia and Olympia Dukakis , playing her philandering father and world-weary mother , and from a very funny Nicolas Cage , who proves that he once had both charm and talent . The film makes terrific use of " Musetta's Waltz " from " La Boheme " .
A Bruising Portrait of Mental Illness	Eeesh , what a tough movie to sit through . This two and a half hour movie left me sweaty , exhausted and hollowed out . In its own way it's an extremely well done film , but I don't know that it's an experience I want to repeat . Director John Cassavetes follows a few months in the life of a family whose mother and wife ( Gena Rowlands ) is suffering from mental illness , and the movie consists of one long scene after another of her cracking up , or trying not to crack up , and the various family members ' reactions to her cracking up . Peter Falk plays the husband and father who thinks that mental illness is just some silly nonsense his wife should be able to stop if she just tried hard enough . Rowlands has the showier role , but Falk is the revelation here . His depiction of a husband who blusters and shouts to hide his overwhelming sense of helplessness and fear is superb . Cassavetes's camera is relentless . We watch Rowlands suffer again and again in long takes and intimate closeups . There are times when you simply want to look away from the screen to help this poor woman preserve a shred of dignity . The highlight of the film ( or low point , depending on your point of view ) comes when Rowlands's character returns home from a stay in an institution , and her family works overtime to convince themselves that everything's fine when the audience can see clearly that everything is not . Bruising is the best word I can think of to describe this film .
A Fine Screen Adaptation of a Beloved Book	" To Kill a Mockinbird " is one of those movies that is bound to fail on a first viewing , because it has to of course compete with the book on which it is based , which has captivated readers ever since it was written . But when you revisit the film after the initial " it's not as good as the book " reaction , you find that it's a wonderful piece of art in its own right , and if it sacrifices much of the texture and detail that makes the book so compelling , it keeps the tone and the book's humanist message intact . Gregory Peck was perhaps born to play Atticus Finch . I most admire him and the screenwriter and director for keeping the role of Atticus true to the book and not allowing a certain cloying brand of sentimentality typical of Hollywood films to creep into the performance . Atticus is a noble and good man , and a reliable father , but he's rather cold and formidable . Scout and Jem love him , but they're also slightly scared of him , and he keeps them at a distance . The very traits that count as deficiencies as a father are what make him a good lawyer . This aspect of Atticus's character always fascinated me , and Peck gets it just right . My biggest lament is that the filmmakers could not include the story of Jem and Mrs . Dubose , the mean old lady who lives in the Finches ' neighborhood , that provides perhaps the single most beautiful moment in the novel . As punishment for destroying her flowers , Jem must read to Mrs . Dubose every day after school , for increasingly longer periods of time . When she dies , Jem receives a box containing the petals of a flower , the kind that Jem destroyed . He thinks she's haunting him from the grave , but Atticus explains to him that Jem was unknowingly helping Mrs . Dubose kick a morphine addiction . Jem's reading distracted her through her periods of withdrawal , and enabled the proud woman to leave the earth without taking the shameful secret with her . Sending the flower to Jem was her way of thanking him . What a wonderful moment in 20th Century literature .
A Kung Fu Blast	" Kung Fu Hustle " is " Kill Bill " with a healthy dose of Looney Tunes thrown in for good measure . It's a rip off of about a hundred other films , but yet it never feels like a rip off . To Stephen Chow's credit , it feels totally original , and you find yourself as you're watching the movie eagerly waiting for the next bit of insane craziness he's going to throw on to the screen . This movie pokes fun at the earnestness of recent films in the genre , like " Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon , " " Hero , " and " House of Flying Daggers . " Nothing is taken seriously here , and thank God for that . This is one bit of nonsense after another , and it's enormously entertaining . Film buffs should have a blast ticking off the homages to other films . The Axe Gang brings to mind the Crazy 88's of " Kill Bill . " Chow tips his hat to the blood-spurting elevator scene from " The Shining . " A poster for " Top Hat " is prominently displayed in the background of one scene ( suggesting that Chow draws inspiration for his dazzling fight choreography from the fancy footwork of Fred and Ginger ) . And " The Matrix " gets its due as well . Chow gives himself a fun character to play , and he's also written a very clever screenplay . Pay careful attention to the early scenes , because clues that you might be tempted to shrug off as just being silly bits of embellishment actually become quite important later on . And lastly , this movie has an awesome soundtrack .
Before Bob Fosse , There Was This	I suspect that Mr . Rob Marshall watched this 1927 silent before making his recent screen adaptation of the smash-hit Broadway musical . The non-musical scenes in his version look an awful lot like this exceptional film . Phyllis Haver provides a marvelously witty and sexy characterization as Roxie Hart , that ultimate gold digger who shoots her lover for jilting her and then becomes a media sensation . Haver puts all sorts of unique touches on the role , and her scenes during the murder trial are small gems of comic acting . The handsome Victor Varconi , looking for all the world like Liam Neeson , has a much larger role as Amos , Roxie's long-suffering husband , than any subsequent version would give that character . He's still a bit of a sap , but he's a much sharper sap than later incarnations would allow . This original version focuses much more on the domestic relationship between these two - - the roles of Billy Flynn and Mama Morton , treated so colorfully in the musical , are much diminished here , and the character of Velma Kelly is absent altogether . The recent stage revival and movie have blunted the impact of this story's critique on the modern media and the public's responsibility in enabling our media to peddle trash . It's surprising that a film that came out nearly 80 years ago makes the same point just as candidly ; one can only imagine how forceful this message must have seemed at the time .
Madcap Comedy with a Serious Undertone	" The Awful Truth " is a wonderful screwball comedy from that most fertile period of screwball comedies - - the 1930s . Cary Grant and Irene Dunne are a terrific match as a dueling husband and wife , each determined to prove to the other that he / she can live without him / her . Until they discover " the awful truth " : they're made for each other . Grant and Dunne have tremendous chemistry together , and Ralph Bellamy received his sole Academy Award nomination as the film's straight man , a macho Western man's man , about as far away from Cary Grant as you can get , who has a hankering for Dunne . And not to be outdone by " The Thin Man , " there's even a cute dog thrown into the mix , given cute doggy things to do by director Leo McCarey . McCarey , who had some experience directing the Marx Brothers before helming this , shows his flair for physical comedy , but he keeps a pretty tight reign and doesn't let the movie get too carried away by its own zaniness . In fact , he's able to give the film a rather serious tone running constantly underneath its silly surface , and I think that's probably why we remember this film now when we've forgotten so many other throw-away comedies from the same time period . There's something rather sad in the feud between Grant and Dunne ; there's a very realistic bitterness that develops between the two , and their characters walk that very thin line between love and hate . They could have a beautiful , passionate partnership , but don't quite know how to pull it off . Of course the battle of the sexes is here plumbed for its comic potential , but it's not difficult to see how this movie could be played seriously , rather reminiscent of " Dodsworth " , in which case we'd be remembering it as a fine example of 30s drama rather than the comedy that it is .
This Is How the World Ends . . . . . . Watching Reality T . V .	Another invigorating mindfck from Richard Kelly , the indie darling who made an auspicious debut with cult fave " Donnie Darko . " Like the previous film , I walked out of this one not necessarily understanding everything I had just seen , but feeling certain that I liked it , whatever it was . The film reminded me of books by Kurt Vonnegut and Joseph Heller , and at times of Thomas Pynchon's " Gravity's Rainbow . " It's earned itself a lot of hatred from audiences and critics alike , and it's admittedly not for everyone . But I appreciate Kelly's attempts to make films in a different way , eschewing some of the more conventional devices , like linear narrative , for more filmic ones , like dynamic imagery . If sometimes his movie feels like more of a mess than a movie , well that's the price you pay for being bold . At the heart of " Southland Tales " is a simple and what to me felt like a very personal story about two friends who served together in Iraq , and the fact that this story is nearly buried by a melange of subplots involving political machinations , activist groups , doomsday prophecies , philosophizing porn stars and schizophrenic actors seemed to me to come scarily close to the way our world looks right now when you turn on the television set . The film is full of second-tier actors doing very good work , and the movie is awfully funny , but it has a palpably emotional center , just like " Donnie Darko . " If it didn't have that , I think it would have just come across as glib . I couldn't make sense of all of it , but I felt like those involved in making it could , and that makes all the difference in the world between a good movie and a bad one .
Revisiting " Scenes from a Marriage "	A sequel of sorts to his 1973 magnum opus " Scenes from a Marriage , " " Sarband " picks up in real time Ingmar Bergman's story of a fractured marriage and its aftermath . Marianne , beautifully played by Bergman's muse , Liv Ullmann , visits her ex-husband , Johan ( Erland Josephson ) , whom she hasn't seen in years , for reasons even she can't explain . She doesn't know what she hopes to get from the reunion , though the fact that Johan , twenty years older than Marianne and in his mid-80s , may not be long for this world likely has much to do with it . Marianne stumbles into the dysfunction plaguing Johan's " other " family , the son ( Henrik ) he had before marrying Marianne and his son's daughter ( Karin ) . Henrik's wife and Karin's mother , the enigmatic Anna , died two years ago , and Karin has become an inappropriate surrogate for her in Henrik's life ( just how inappropriate is never made completely clear , but an abruptly ended French kiss between father and daughter shockingly suggests that their relationship has crossed more than just emotional boundaries ) . Henrik is smothering Karin , trying to prevent her from ever leaving him ( she's a cellist , as is Henrik , and wants to attend a music conservatory ) and filling her mind with guilt at the thought of doing so . Johan dotes on Karin , also making her a surrogate for Anna , whom Johan obviously loved with more than the type of love traditionally reserved for a daughter-in-law . He also uses Karin against Henrik , who he despises with a vitriolic aggression , and who is despised back with no less passion by his son . This is the mess Marianne steps into , becoming a sort of warm mother figure to both Karin and Johan , and an enemy to Henrik . Welcome to Ingmar Bergman territory . However , it does please me to report that , serious as this movie is , it's actually one of the most heart-warming films I've ever seen Bergman do . For all the time devoted to the supporting characters , the movie is really about Marianne . She's the one who goes on her quest seeking some sense of peace , and she gets it . She's hurt that she couldn't fulfill the role in Johan's life that Anna apparently did , and the fact that he adores his granddaughter from Anna while ignoring the two daughters he has with Marianne strikes a bitter chord with her . But Marianne ultimately leaves bitterness behind , and the film's final moments illustrate that she is moving on with the life she has rather than continuing to lament the life she lost . The skill with which Bergman develops the relationship between Marianne and Johan over the course of his two films is astounding . Ullmann and Josephson are so expert in their roles , and they have so much chemistry together , that you're fooled into thinking you really are watching two people who have the history their characters have in the films . Josephson plays Johan as a monster , but for all that you still see what it was about him that Marianne loved , and what she can't let go of , no matter how poorly he treats her . He's different with her than he is with others ; he lets his guard down , admits vulnerability . In a touching scene in this movie , he appears at Marianne's door in the middle of the night , scared as a little boy , and crawls into bed with her . He strips down to nothing , as does she , but the sight of their nakedness , rather than suggesting anything erotic , suggests instead the nakedness of a mother with her newly born baby . And Ullmann gives a tour de force performance . In " Scenes from a Marriage , " we watched her Marianne go through stages of confusion , grief and anger over the unfair dissolution of her marriage . But the Marianne we get here is resigned ; she knows by now what she has the right to expect , and doesn't expect more than that . And finally , FINALLY , when she sees how riddled with contempt Johan has become , she begins to be able to distance herself from him , think of herself as having a life of her own away from him , and perhaps even understanding that breaking from him was the best thing that could have happened to their relationship . " Saraband " doesn't have the devastating quality of " Scenes from a Marriage . " It feels more rushed and less developed . It also feels strangely surreal , as if these people are acting on a stage ; Bergman makes almost no attempt to make his film feel cinematic , and these people seem to exist in a world of their own , making their actions and feelings seem of less consequence . But it's still an outstanding film , and if it's true that this is Bergman's last , it's a beautiful swan song .
Handsome and Fairly Faithful	I was expecting a film that only barely resembled the source material , but was surprised instead to find that this 1940 version of the Jane Austen tale is pretty faithful to the novel . Greer Garson and Laurence Olivier make an engaging Lizzie and Darcy . They're too old for the roles , but that turns out to be not as much of a liability as I thought it would , and both are as likable and spunky as I've ever seen them . This version is played much more lightly than the more recent Keira Knightley version - - the tone overall is comic . But it works here , because every actor adjusts his / her performance accordingly . Edmund Gwenn and Mary Boland play Mr . and Mrs . Bennett , both doing about what you'd expect with the parts . The other notable performances come from Edna May Oliver as Lady Catherine de Bourgh - - it's her storyline towards the film's conclusion with which the screenplay takes the greatest liberties - - and Frieda Inescort , who delivers one withering line after another as Caroline Bingley . The time period is updated to some time in the early 1800s , with the result that the movie looks more like " Gone with the Wind " than it does " Pride and Prejudice . " Indeed , I wonder if MGM chose to update the time period in order to capitalize on the success of David Selznick's blockbuster . Purists will undoubtedly howl at some of the departures , but everyone else will likely have a good time .
Film Editing Is Born	It's hard to assign " The Great Train Robbery " a rating , as it shouldn't really be watched as a film the way we watch films now . But from a historical perspective , it's fascinating , and is an excellent example of the use of film editing , an art form then in its infancy and now an award category recognized every year at the Oscars . Before this movie , it wasn't customary to tell multiple story lines simultaneously , but here , various activities going on in different locations are intercut to create suspense . D . W . Griffith would use this technique much more ambitiously ( and combine it with many other developing film techniques ) in " The Birth of a Nation " over ten years later , but credit must be given to " Train Robbery " for blazing a trail . Also , this is the movie famous for the shot of an outlaw shooting a gun directly at the camera . I can't imagine what effect this had on audiences at the time , who were probably diving behind their chairs for cover .
A Charmer	" The Bishop's Wife " is one of the better Christmas movies out there . I wouldn't place it as high as " Miracle on 34th Street , " but it's in that league , and certainly has a similar feel . Henry Koster does a fine job of giving the film a leisurely pace without letting it drag , and the performances are uniformly solid . It is somewhat of a shame to see David Niven stuck in a part that doesn't allow him much room for humour , as he can be so funny . And I do have to admit that Loretta Young's allure alludes me somewhat . She doesn't seem very dynamic for two men ( or should I say a man and an angel ) to be making such a fuss over . But she's certainly more than passable . One of my favorite performances came from Elsa Lanchester , in a minor role as the family maid . This movie becomes magical only once - - - during the ice skating scene between Cary Grant , Young and James Gleason . That could have gone on for hours and I would have been transfixed . But not every movie can be magical , and this film is a very good ( if non-magical ) one . Pop in on a snowy night , light the Christmas tree , make some hot chocolate , and enjoy .
A Stunning Cast in an Overheated Play	" Come Back to the 5 and Dime , Jimmy Dean , Jimmy Dean " was the first in a string of 1980s stage to screen adaptations directed by Robert Altman . Virtually every movie Altman made during this decade was completely outside of the Hollywood studio system . They were tiny films on tiny budgets with small casts , sometimes shot on only one set , and almost all of them feel more like filmed plays than movies . As a result , they are some of his least interesting films in cinematic terms , but that's not to say that they're not fascinating in their own way . " Come Back to the 5 and Dime " is southern Gothic claptrap that Altman is too good for , but he elevates it into something gripping and marvelous through virtue of his directing skills and his remarkable cast of actresses . It tells the story of a James Dean fan club who hold a reunion many years after the young actor's death , after each woman has been out in the world and has gathered some baggage along the way . During the course of their day together , buried secrets arise , conflicts boil over and morbid plot twists are revealed . It's pretty overheated and silly stuff , like a parody of Tennesse Williams , but it's so phenomenally acted that it's easy to overlook the flaws in the material . Sandy Dennis , Cher and Karen Black are the principal actresses , all of them doing some of the best work of their careers , and the supporting cast is filled out by Sudie Bond , Marta Heflin and Kathy Bates . The young actor Mark Patton , probably most known for his performance in " A Nightmare on Elm Stree Part 2 , " is the lone male . Altman's signature wandering camera never leaves the shabby 5 and dime store in which the film is set , but he keeps things visually interesting by lingering on different parts of the meticulously detailed set , and a wall of mirrors serves as both a symbolic and a physical barrier between past and present . Unfortunately , it looks like this film is very hard to find , especially on DVD , but it's more than worth a viewing if you want to put the effort into tracking it down .
Solidly Entertaining and Atypical Heist Film	This slick , no-nonsense thriller had me on the edge of my seat . The film is based on a true story , but take that for whatever it's worth . I don't know anything about the bank robbery portrayed in this film , so can't answer for its accuracy . But it's one hell of an entertaining movie . If you're going into it because you enjoy heist films , be warned : little attention is payed to the actual mechanics of this bank robbery . Instead , the film is much more about the people ( police , thugs and MI5 alike ) who become invested in seeing the bank robbers caught when it becomes known that the robbers targeted safety deposit boxes , and by extension the private information contained in them that could make or break the lives of many . Jason Statham heads up the cast of not especially well-known British actors , and aside from a rather out-of-place fight scene towards the film's climax , is asked to keep his action hero persona under wraps .
A Thrilling Movie About How Fun It Is to Be a Journalist	" All the President's Men " was one of two big releases in 1976 that examined the power of the American media ( " Network " being the other ) . " Network " took a cerebral , arty approach to its subject and created a blistering satire . " All the President's Men " is a much more straightforward thriller , along the lines of this year's " Zodiac . " It's perhaps less ambitious than " Network , " but having seen Sidney Lumet's film recently I think " President's Men " has aged better . Robert Redford and Dustin Hoffman play Woodward and Bernstein , the two reporters for the Washington Post who investigated and uncovered the secrets surrounding Watergate . This movie makes the job of a journalist look intolerably exciting , and indeed I've read reports that applications to journalism schools actually spiked after this movie hit theatres . There's not anything really stylistically distinguished about the movie , but it's smashingly entertaining , and director Alan J . Pakula proved once again how good he was at putting urban paranoia on screen ( as he had done with " Klute " five years earlier ) . An Oscar went to Jason Robards , playing Ben Bradlee , editor of the Post , as a craggy sage , and a nomination went out to Jane Alexander , in a small but effective role as a reluctant informant . Hal Holbrook received the dubious honor ( thank you Linda Lovelace ) of playing Deep Throat .
Woody Allen Has Found a New Muse	First with " Match Point " and now with " Cassandra's Dream , " Woody Allen has carved a new niche for himself as director of juicy little British thrillers , like something right out of Patricia Highsmith . " Cassandra's Dream " is not as good as " Match Point , " but that's not to say it isn't a good movie . It's quite well done ; the story bears remarkable resemblance to another film that came out last year , Sidney Lumet's " Before the Devil Knows You're Dead , " but it doesn't feel like a rip-off . Just as in " Match Point , " which was an updated version of " An American Tragedy , " Allen takes familiar material but makes it feel original . Ewan McGregor and Colin Farrell play brothers , one sharp and ambitious , the other dumber and nicer , who find themselves in need of financial help from their jet-setting uncle ( played by Tom Wilkinson in a couple of brief scenes ) , and agree to murder the chief witness in an upcoming investigation into the uncle's business practices in exchange for his assistance . The requisite pangs of guilt ensue , the brothers ' worlds start to unravel , and everything ends in a tragic but inevitable conclusion . The film is full of the same preoccupations of Greek tragedy - - fate , guilt and hubris - - that Allen frequently examines in his comedies , and that more than anything identify this as a Woody Allen movie . The acting is quite good , and even if the writing doesn't offer anything profound , Allen knows enough about the basics of dramatic narrative to ensure that everything is developed well and logically . I wasn't on the edge of my seat the way I was while watching " Match Point , " but I was pretty engrossed .
Surprised at the Low Rating	I thought " Anchorman " was hilarious , so I was surprised at the low rating it received here . Well written , well acted , and well directed , this is a very funny adult comedy with some classic scenes and lines . I will not soon forget the " West Side Story " rumble between five rival news teams , that includes a man on fire and another man being speared with a trident . Or the verbal abuse Will Ferrell and Christina Applegate throw back and forth at each other while the credits for their news show are rolling ( " I'm proud of my pubic mane " is one of my favorite lines , which Ferrell says in response to Applegate telling him he has too much pubic hair ) . Ferrell of course is funny , and Applegate makes a good straight man ( or woman ) . Steve Carell and Paul Rudd are also terrific as well . And I had a blast with the impressive list of cameos , my favorite being Tim Robbins as the lead anchor at the local public television station . This movie really satisfies the need for good comedy that you don't have to think very much about , but that still manages to be more clever than usual and doesn't rely on bathroom humour for all of its laughs . Watch and have a great time .
A Tough-Minded Film About the Terrible Toll of the Iraq War	It will be interesting once the current wretched Iraq war is a distant memory to go back and watch the movies about the war that came out while it was raging on . " In the Valley of Elah " joins a list of other films about the Iraqi conflict ( or conflicts in the Middle East , in general ) that have tanked at the box office . Audiences have sent a clear message : We do not want to see movies that remind us about a terrible , depressing war that we can't do anything about . In " In the Valley of Elah , " Tommy Lee Jones plays Hank Deerfield , retired sergeant in the U . S . Army , who sets out on an investigation into the whereabouts of his son , Mike , when Mike returns from duty in Iraq and then goes missing . It's not long into the movie before the charred , dismembered remains of Hank's son are found in a field not far from the military base . Hank runs up against first the infuriating , squabbling bureaucracy of the local police force and the military police , who argue over jurisdiction , and then the indifference of both when it's determined that the crime is a military matter : the local police are glad to wash their hands of yet another homicide that promises to go unsolved , and the military wants to sweep the case under the rug as quickly as possible to avoid bad publicity . Hank's only nominal ally is Detective Emily Sanders ( Charlize Theron ) . Her doggedness in sticking to the investigation into the murder of Hank's son arises partially from her first chance to work on an important case , partially from her desire to do the right thing , and partially because she feels for Hank - - she has a son of her own . " In the Valley of Elah " is part police procedural drama , part character study , part angry diatribe against America's military institution . As the investigation progresses , Hank discovers some unpleasant truths about his son and some of the atrocities he committed while in Iraq . Likewise , his fellow troop members become implicated in his death , despite Hank's firm belief that a man's Army buddies would never do something like that to one another . The movie argues that these young men who are being sent to Iraq to " preserve our freedom " are absorbing a devastating psychological toll that no one wants to admit is there , not their families , not their friends , and certainly not the military itself . Jones , as Hank , is extraordinary , and Hank is fascinating . He's the kind of life-long military man we instantly recognize . He's quietly chauvinistic to his wife , a wonderful Susan Sarandon , and doesn't even tell her about the truths he's uncovering about their boy . When he stays in hotel rooms he remakes the bed to his satisfaction . He's a man so rigidly in control of himself that one of the only signs we see of the distress he's in is that he nicks himself shaving . One of the things I liked best about the film was its suggestion that people like Hank share as much responsibility as anyone for the toll foolish military leadership takes on the American public . He's doggedly macho , patriotic and unquestioning , a deadly combination . His wife blames him for the death of both of their sons ( an older son , also military , died ten years earlier in a helicopter crash ) , claiming that neither would have ever found acceptance as a man had they not gone into the military . He has an unshakable illusion of the military as a place of duty , discipline and honor . That nick he receives while shaving is like the first minuscule crack in the foundation of his belief in an institution to which he's pledged his life . It's heartbreaking to watch this man lose everything in his life that up to that point has given it meaning . I give co-writer / director Paul Haggis a lot of credit for making such a tough-minded movie while we're smack in the middle of a conflict that is taking people's children away from them . We've become especially sensitive of late to criticizing the military for fear that we won't be supporting the troops who comprise it . Haggis sensitively keeps the distinction intact , but he's not afraid to admit that there are soldiers coming back from the war and doing terrible things because they don't know how to readjust to civilian life . They're not coming back heroes , no matter how much we want to believe they are - - they're coming back hollowed out husks of who they used to be . Stylistically , the film is rather drab . Haggis takes a quiet and somber approach , as if the slightest loud noise or quick movement will detract from the elegiac tone he creates . Even the color palette is drab , all washed out blues and institutional grays . We know he's a director capable of style ; " Crash " was , if nothing else , stylish . But unlike that film , which was so schematic and over scripted that the actors couldn't breathe in their roles , " In the Valle of Elah " feels much more organic and understated , as if the characters are finding out truths about themselves as they go along rather than truths imposed on them from the heavy hand of the writer . The film teeters on the brink of sentimentality only a couple of times , but mostly it stays lean and tough . I really didn't expect to like this film as much as I did . It's haunting , thought provoking and one of the best films I've seen yet this year .
A Winning Romantic Comedy from Neil Simon	1977 was apparently the year for neurotic romantic comedies featuring people who look like real people , if " The Goodbye Girl " and " Annie Hall " are anything to go by . Woody Allen's film is obviously the superior of the two , but I have a soft spot for Neil Simon's comedy , and I like it quite a lot . Richard Dreyfuss was on the cusp of stardom after his performance in " Jaws , " and his double score this year with " The Goodbye Girl " and " Close Encounters of the Third Kind " launched him into the big time . Marsha Mason was perfect at playing roles like this - - vulnerable softies looking for love while at the same time tough cookies who could make it on their own if forced to . In this film , the two meet cute when Dreyfuss shows up at Mason's apartment , having subletted it from Mason's boyfriend , who dumped her and took off without telling her that she and her ten-year-old daughter would be left with no place to live . Dreyfuss , a struggling actor , agrees to let the mom and daughter stay in the apartment with him , and of course after much bickering , the two fall in love . The movie is at its best when Dreyfuss and Mason are fighting . My favorite line is delivered by Mason after one of their many run-ins over Dreyfuss's bohemian living habits : " I don't know you well enough to truly dislike you , but you are just too weird to live with . " Quinn Cummings gives an adorable performance as Mason's daughter . She manages to be both precocious and cute ( think Tatum O'Neal in " Paper Moon " ) , a tough feat for a child actor . In one of the first scenes , while Mason is reading the dear john letter left by her louse of a boyfriend , who's left to star in a Bertolucci film , Cummings , instead of asking questions about what happened between her mom and boyfriend , or what they're going to do , or any other number of things it would make sense for a child to ask about , wants to know instead who Bertolucci is and what movies he's directed . A kid after my own heart .
Very Good , But Yikes , Let's Keep Things in Perspective	Whatever else it may be , " The Dark Knight , " Christopher Nolan's follow up to his " Batman Begins , " the film that resurrected the Batman franchise , is the most ambitious superhero film ever made . It's full of brooding ruminations about the inherent nature of humanity , obviously fueled by the troubled state of a post - world , and it packs an awful lot of plot into its two-and-a-half-hour running time . However , be cautioned , and don't let its # 1 rating at IMDb set up expectations that the film can't possibly meet . I doubt any experienced film goer is truly going to think that this is the best film ever made . The praise heaped on Heath Ledger for his performance as the Joker is well deserved . Indeed , the Joker becomes the focus of this movie , which may not be such a desirable thing , given that this is . . . you know . . . . a Batman movie . The caped crusader fades into the background in this installment , to the point where you might leave the movie and forget that he was in it . Ditto Maggie Gyllenhaal , who plays the love interest , and who , true to the superhero movie formula , gets practically nothing to do . But Ledger you WILL remember . He creates a fascinating character in the Joker , and it's through him that the movie poses all of its major moral questions . Is it human nature , as the Joker suggests , to devolve into chaos when the illusion of order is taken away ; or do humans have an inherent kindness that will cause them to look out for one another even when circumstances seem to call for self preservation ? One of the most fascinating things about Ledger's creation is that the Joker has no more motive as a criminal than to pose questions like this . He's not out for money or even power - - he just wants to create anarchy and see what happens . I was not prepared for the other villain the screenplay throws into the mix : Two Face , played well by Aaron Eckhart . The film is too long , and it's this storyline that makes it so . Chrisotpher Nolan and his brother , Jonathan , the co-writers of the film , would have done well to leave this plot line out . By the end of the film , there are too many characters doing too many things independently of one another , so that the film loses focus slightly . The movie looks fantastic though , and the production team does wonders with Chicago ( where I live by the way ) . In fact the look of the film is one of its major selling points , and I was pleased to finally see a superhero film that looks cinematic rather than cartoonish . So . . . an excellent addition to the superhero genre and a completely entertaining experience . . . . but it's still , after all , a Batman movie , and it's not the best film since " Citizen Kane . "
A " B " Movie with " Ideas	" The Day the Earth Stood Still " is a nifty little science fiction film from 1951 , low-budget and starkly designed , that I'm sure was not meant to be anything major when released , but has since become to be considered one of the greatest of its genre . Directed with a spare , documentary-like style by Robert Wise ( who would go on to direct such major motion pictures as " The Sound of Music " and " West Side Story " ) , the film tells the story of a lone visitor ( with his robot Gort ) to Earth , who comes to warn the inhabitants of this planet against the irresponsible use of atomic power . This movie should be required viewing today , especially by members of our own government , as U . S . policy seems to be shifting ever more toward doing whatever the hell we want and the effects of our actions on world relations be damned . Sadly , the earthlings in the film behave all too predictably ( and realistically ) , instantly assuming the visitors have come to inflict harm and dealing with the situation through excessive military force . Sound familiar ? It's a quick 90-minute film that smartly keeps its plot basic ; it knows not to overstretch its modest bounds . Michael Rennie is appropriately otherworldly as Klaatu , the humanoid alien , and Patricia Neal appears in an early role as one of the only level-headed people in Washington D . C . A terrific and thoughtful movie . Trivia : Patricia Neal's character is instructed late in the film to say the words " Klaatu , Barada , Nikto " to Gort to prevent him from going on a destructive rampage . George Lucas borrowed these three words and gave them as names to three of Jabba the Hutt's henchman in " Return of the Jedi . " A case of one sci-fi film offering homage to another .
Excellent Ron Howard Film ( If Such a Thing Is Possible )	Ron Howard has been directing such deadly bores for so long now that it's easy to forget he once showed promise . During the 1980s , he made his best films , because he wasn't trying to make them IMPORTANT . First came " Splash , " an utterly winning comedy that made a star out of Tom Hanks , and then " Parenthood , " a well-written ensemble dramedy about navigating the tricky waters of child rearing that features a fantastic cast . Steve Martin and Mary Steenburgen anchor the film as the grounded , reliable married couple at the film's center , with much of the comedy being supplied by Dianne Wiest , playing Martin's sister , and Rick Moranis , playing his type-A brother-in-law . Wiest especially steals the show as a divorcée at her wit's end trying desperately to keep her wild child daughter ( Martha Plimpton ) and recluse son ( a young Joaquin Phoenix ) in check . The film also features Tom Hulce , excellent as yet a fourth sibling with a gambling addiction , and the expert Jason Robards , as the tyrannical family patriarch . The film is episodic in nature , full of beautifully realized individual moments . The only thing I could have done without is Randy Newman's atrocious theme song .
MGM Near the Top of Its Musical Game	The heaps of scholarly criticism heaped on " Singing ' in the Rain " have done it a disservice by giving it the ball and chain reputation of an IMPORTANT picture in cinema history . Let's not forget why " Singin ' in the Rain " was made , which was to provide a form of escapist entertainment , nor why it's still so loved now , which is because it's great fun and everything clicks . It's not homework , and it's not medicine . I don't even think it's the best movie musical ever made ( I liked MGM's " Seven Brides for Seven Brothers " more ) , and it's not one I feel compelled to go back to again and again . I'm not a huge fan of Gene Kelly , and think he's squirrelly when he's trying to be dashing , and Donald O'Connor's manic energy is just as likely to be exhausting as it is funny . But there's no improving on Jean Hagen's pitch-perfect performance as the ditzy villainess , and Debbie Reynolds shows how sweet and charming she was early in her career , before she became a broad . The songs and dances aren't especially well integrated into the film - - you can practically hear the gears grinding whenever the film transitions from its book to its musical portions . But the numbers are so wildly entertaining in and of themselves that you don't much care . The " Singin ' in the Rain " sequence does what far too few films do - - it transports you to a place where what's happening on the screen in front of you is the only thing that matters .
A Haunting Film	Viggo Mortensen has been allowed to shed the silly , macho , grizzled locks and attitude he was forced to don for three long years in a row for the " Lord of the Rings " trilogy , and has finally been given the chance to play a real character , that of Tom Stall , steady-eddie dad and husband , who may or may not be hiding a shocking and violent past . Mortensen is terrific in this movie . It's one of those performances whose quality could be easily underestimated , because it's not a flashy role . No doubt at the end of the year , he will be overlooked for a bunch of actors who chew the scenery in phony Hollywood biopics , but such is the way of popular entertainment . Mortensen deserves accolades for this movie , and I hope other directors are paying attention to him . David Cronenberg's " A History of Violence " is a disturbing reflection on the pervasiveness of violence in our culture , the tendency to turn to violence first as a means of settling conflict , and the vicious cycle a reliance on violence can cause . In other words , violence breeds violence . I don't know that Cronenberg necessarily has anything new to say on the subject , but he has fashioned a haunting and memorable movie from the theme . Maria Bello was considered by many to be woefully overlooked for her performance in " The Cooler " from two years ago ; my hunch is the community will make that oversight up to her this year for her performance as Tom Stall's wife . It's refreshing to see a wife / mother character who is required to do more than suffer nobly . Bello creates a vivid , strong , three-dimensional picture of a wife who has her entire world pulled out from under her and the steps she takes to deal with it . It's also nice for a change to see a movie where the violence matters , and has consequences . When violence occurs in this movie , it is quick and startling - - there are moments when I wanted to look away from the screen . It just barely avoids being gratuitous , though , because it's not treated lightly . Part of the importance of the film's message is seeing what a bullet will do to a human face . Cronenberg approaches the material in a typically strange fashion ( though this is one of the more accessible Cronenberg films ) . It varies widely in tone : the tense , brooding atmosphere created whenever criminals are part of the scene ; the almost funny picture painted by Cronenberg of an idyllic American small town , complete with bouncy music and a quaint main street ; the action movie quality that takes over whenever Mortensen's character springs into action . I'm not sure Cronenberg is entirely successful at blending these disparate elements , but I can appreciate what he was trying to do , and I felt that he was always in total control of his movie and made the finished product he wanted to make . So far , the Oscar-bait season of 2005 has been an unusually ripe one for tough and relevant films . Maybe the industry is finally reacting to and the depressing , dispiriting hole American has fallen into since then at the hands of the Bush Administration . The last period of social and political unrest in America resulted in some of the best films ever made . Could we be on the verge of another period of greatness ? Here's hoping .
This Weird Movie Will Catch You in Its Web	A bizarre , evocative film which seems strange even now - - I can't imagine what audiences made of it in 1985 . William Hurt and Raul Julia play cell mates , one gay , the other straight , rotting away in a Latin American prison under the iron thumb of a tyrannical dictatorship . At first , Julia's Latin machismo makes him repelled by Hurt's flamboyant femininity , but the two gradually bond , thrown together as they are , and discover a kind of love that transcends conventions about love and sex and that can probably only exist between two people surviving in extreme conditions . Hurt , already known as a strapping leading man at the time , took quite a risk playing this fey character , especially at a time when movies still weren't comfortable with mainstream portrayals of gays , but his risk payed off - - he won that year's Best Actor Academy Award and became just about the hottest actor in town for a few years there in the mid-80s . Julia has a much less showy role , but the success of the film is dependent upon the strength of both male leads , and he delivers . Sonia Braga plays the eponymous spider woman , a dream figure cobbled together by both men from their imaginations and memories of old movies . This film is a big downer , but if you enjoy well-acted , well-written stories , then the depressing ending is worth it .
The Best Movie I Never Want to See Again	I used to think " 2001 : A Space Odyssey " was a Great Movie , but now I'm not so sure . Now that I've seen it a few times , I feel like I've gotten all there is to be gotten from it , and the thought of sitting down to watch it again triggers my brain to begin thinking of all the other things I could be doing with my time . Is that the sign of a great movie ? Shouldn't we be able to revisit great movies again and again and find something fresh about them years after they initially hit the screens ? I don't know . Anyway , " 2001 " is at least a terrific movie and an important one . No science fiction film made since can deny the influence of this movie's vision of space . Many of the special effects look more realistic than the computer generated effects of today . And while I defy anyone to truly explain the meaning of this film with confidence ( I wonder if even Kubrick could have ) , it certainly makes you feel something , even if you're not sure what that something is . On the first viewing , the pacing of the film seemed stately and fitting for a film about drifting through the cold depths of space ; now it just seems ponderous . It's even more pronounced now how little the human actors register in this film , and how HAL ( which is just a voice , really ) steals the show . And when I was younger and more eager to accept the opinions of film scholars and other purported know-it-alls , I thought the ending was profound and full of meaning ; now it seems pretty obtuse and vague . But when it comes right down to it , Kubrick's worst movie is anyone else's masterpiece . His movies never feel comfortable with human emotions , so the fact that this movie could almost exist without humans at all comes as little surprise . His style has always been slow , but it comes as a welcome change from all the frenetic , hyper crap being produced now . And at least this movie makes you think , even if it doesn't provide any answers , which again is more than I can say for most of the movies playing in theatres this weekend . So I may not rate " 2001 " as highly as I once would have , but I fully support its place as one of the most audacious and significant films of all time .
YO , HO , HO and a Mixed Bag of Fun	Midway through the third installment of Walt Disney's deliriously popular pirate franchise , a character says of Capt . Jack Sparrow ( played by Johnnny Depp in what now has to qualify as one of the weirdest characterizations in screen history ) , " Is he making this up as he goes along ? " Shiver me timbers , mateys , but one has to ask director Gore Verbinski and his team of wranglers , er , writers , the same question of the entire series . I did not fall in love like so many others with the first film in the trilogy , " The Curse of the Black Pearl , " but I saw its appeal . It was far too long and sloppy , criticisms that have been leveled at parts two and three but which apply to the first movie as well . I can't even really remember the plot . It has something to do with Sparrow's beloved ship , the Black Pearl , being stolen from him by the rival pirate captain Barbossa ( the marvelous Geoffrey Rush , bringing some obligatory British class to the proceedings ) and his army of undead , and Sparrow's efforts , along with that most boring pair of screen lovers , Keira Knightley and Orlando Bloom , to get it back . Depending on your perspective , that plot summary either wraps it up or barely scratches the surface , because " Pirates " is stuffed with more subplots than it can handle . Never has so much plot been shoe-horned into a movie ( or trilogy of movies ) and so much of it not mattered a bit . It turns out that Sparrow is actually undead himself , and some sort of curse need be broken if he is to regain his mortality . Well , it's not ruining anything to tell you that the curse is indeed broken , and loose ends are wrapped up while everything's left conveniently open for a sequel . That sequel , " Dead Man's Chest , " takes everything that is charming about the first episode and pushes it past the limits of the audience's endurance . What a gormless mess the second part is , all furious action and racing around with absolutely no attempt made at coherence . A tremendous amount of plot exposition occurs in this installment . Indeed , the whole film is really set up for part three , yet at the same time is paced as if the entire movie is one long climax . Our consolation is that Bill Nighy makes his first appearance as Davy Jones ( no , not the Monkey ) , looking like a serving of very angry calamari , and taking up the classy British slack that Rush left behind at the end of Part I . " Dead Man's Chest " makes no sense whatsoever , and it's not really even very fun . Even in a mindless action movie , one likes to have a vague idea of what all the fuss is about . So it pleases me to report that the third and ( maybe ? ) final entry , " At World's End , " gets more right than not , and provides a tremendous amount of fun . It doesn't even feel overly long , despite its run time of nearly three hours . The " Pirates " movies ' saving grace is the cast the filmmakers have assembled , and there are moments in this film , when the cast is all together at the same time , that rival " Star Wars " for sheer screen chemistry . Rush returns , so we get to enjoy both him and Nighy , and of course Johnny Depp is back , and returns to the inspired performance ( and surpasses the downright nuttiness ) that made the first installment so memorable . Chow-Yun Fat is this episode's most significant addition , but let's not dwell on him or the embarrassing Asian stereotype he hauls along behind him . There's a huge amount of jokey humour in this segment , perhaps the most in the series , which helps it succeed in becoming what one sensed it wanted to become all along - - a sort of Indiana Jones set on water . My prayers that the pre-pubescent Orlando Bloom would be killed off looked as if they might have a chance of being answered for a brief moment , until the writers cruelly resurrected him as a swarthy pirate captain and give him a dramatic entrance that gave me the biggest ( if most unintentional ) belly laugh of them all . Why is it that despite his swishing and mincing , Depp still gives the impression that he could kick Bloom's ass ? The " Pirates " trilogy will not go down as classics of the genre , but they'll be remembered for wedging themselves firmly in the consciousness of movie-going America . Grade : " Curse of the Black Pearl " : B " Dead Man's Chest " : " At World's End " :
More Obscure , But One of My Favorites	This is one of the lower-tier teen comedies from the 1980s , and it's not as well known as movies like " Sixteen Candles , " " Pretty in Pink " or other films about high-school angst , but it's one of my favorites . Terry Griffith , aspiring journalist , gets an early taste of sexism when an article she writes for an internship contest is passed over for an obviously inferior article written by boys , so she poses as Ralph Macchio and signs up at a rival high school , hoping to submit her article there and get it accepted . Things get complicated , as such things do , when she falls for a nerd who's actually kind of cool when you get to know him , and she becomes the target for the high school bully , played by William Zabka , who created a cottage industry out of playing the blonde jock high school bully in teen movies from the 80s , and who coincidentally also tormented Ralph Macchio in " The Karate Kid . " Terry doesn't know much about being a boy , but never fear - - her little brother , who names his penis Spike , does , and he teaches her all the basics , like how to scratch her balls .
I'd Like That Coffee with a Spanking , Please	" Secretary " is a deliciously off-beat dramedy about an emotionally disturbed young girl ( Maggie Gyllenhaal ) who gets a job as a you know what for an attorney with his own set of personal problems ( James Spader ) . Soon , she's doing more than typing for him , and he's helping her come out of her reclusive shell . This film on paper sounds almost exactly like " The Piano . " A young woman is given the choice between a conventional relationship and one that superficially might seem perverse , and opts for the perverse one . In both films , what no-one in the heroine's sphere understands is that the man she's involved with is appealing because he's the only one who seems to understand what she needs . " Secretary " is not as sombre as " The Piano , " however , though it's not as rowdy as the premise might lead you to believe . It's actually a quite substantive film and only occasionally did I think it faltered somewhat in telling its story ( particularly toward the end , when Lee embarks upon her hunger strike ) . Ironically , in offering herself up for submissive humiliation from her boss , Lee finds the strength she needs to face her own demons and forges a confidence she's never before had . Gyllenhall is spectacular , and gives one of those performances that should put her on the map as a serious actress , if anyone is paying attention . Spader is pretty good too , but he's upstaged by Gyllenhaal , who owns this movie .
A Mutant Movie About a Mutant Fish	The monster movie is reborn in this quick , witty and endlessly creative Korean film . An opening scene showing a worker in some military lab dumping bottle after bottle of old formaldehyde down the sink sets the stage for a mutant to come slithering out of the watery depths of Korea's main river , and it does just that , looking like a big angry fish with legs . In a dazzling action scene , it wreaks havoc on pleasure seekers strolling about the waterside , and takes with it a young girl whose family spends the rest of the film looking for her . The movie is as much about the coming together of this likable clan as it is the monster , and it's peppered with unexpected moments of comedy ( some of it downright slapstick ) , so that the whole thing feels like a hybrid of horror movie , family drama and Keystone Kops . In this way , the movie itself is a bit of a mutant . As any self-respecting monster movie should , this film feeds off of current event hot topics - - like pollution and viral pandemics - - to fuel its atmosphere of paranoia and panic ( shots of Korean commuters walking the streets with surgical masks over their faces recall news images of Asia's SARS scare ) . There's also some quite pointed and very harsh jabs taken at America and its reputation as a country that pushes its way into other countries only to make things worse than they were before . It sickens me that other countries think of us this way , even if I can't blame them . I liked this movie's score too ( it sounds like something out of an Italian mafia family movie ) which again is completely incongruous with the film's other elements but yet somehow works .
There's More Than One Use for a Shopping Bag	In " Baghead , " Matt , Chad , Katherine and Michelle are four Hollywood wannabes who go to a secluded cabin to write a screenplay . They get pretty much no work done , but spend plenty of time over petty practical jokes and obsessions with who likes who and who's screwing who . Things get weird when a strange figure wearing a bag over his head begins appearing in the woods , freaking all of them out to a progressively greater degree . " Baghead " is one of those reflexive films about the process of making films . It blurs the line between reality and fiction , and whether intentional or not , it questions whether or not the democratization of film-making is good for the art form . Any four yahoos with a portable camera can now make a movie , but just because a movie is cheap and made outside of the Hollywood system does not make it automatically better . At the film's beginning , the four attend a screening of an underground film made for under $1 , 000 by a director they obviously worship , and I was never sure whether " Baghead " itself was an attempt at creating the kind of low-budget quality film the characters in it admire or whether it was poking fun at the whole idea . Maybe it's both . Whatever its intentions , I liked the film , and especially liked where it went in its final moments , when these four rather boring people we've spent over an hour with become actual characters who we discover we actually care about .
Sadly , a Movie That's Truly for Our Troubled Times	" Bug " is so strange and so rooted in stage origins that it could have gone very wrong as a movie , but it doesn't . While not without its flaws ( like a too abrupt ending ) , director William Friedkin and the small cast he assembled ensure that the movie works , and its enigmatic nature supplies an almost never-ending source of conversation to those who see it . As the movie started , I was worried that Ashley Judd was miscast as a poor white woman stagnating in a flea-bitten hotel in the middle of nowhere , Oklahoma . But she put my fears to rest . She gives a convincing , and by the end absolutely terrifying , performance as a woman who descends into a world of madness and paranoia . The man who drags her down with him is played by Michael Shannon , and he does astonishing work as well . These two hole themselves up in their hotel room , convinced that the government has used them as hosts for an experiment involving mind-controlling bugs , and the more delusional they get , the more they feed off of one another's paranoia until they've constructed a conspiracy theory to end all conspiracy theories . The movie is gruesome at times ( a scene involving a tooth pulling made me turn my face away ) , but it's full of thought provoking ideas and good writing , so the shock moments don't overwhelm the film's merits . It's clearly a response to the world's post - climate of fear and anxiety , where germs and chemicals have become weapons in a faceless war , and where the media is so pervasive that thoughts worm their way into your heads whether you want them to or not . One of the most interesting aspects of the film to me was the fact that these two lost souls create conspiracy theories to account for all of the things that are wrong in their respective lives and over which they feel like they have no control . If they create their own reality , they have power over it . Harry Connick , Jr . has a supporting role as Judd's thug of an ex-husband . Again , I thought he would be miscast and that I wouldn't be able to take him seriously , but he pulls it off . And stage actor Brian F . O'Byrne appears for one brief but memorable scene , and meets a grisly end . I bet this scene is one that provokes the most discussion . Based on the film's indifferent reception upon release , I wasn't expecting to like it nearly as much as I did .
Billy Wilder Stages a Circus	A very good and very cynical indictment of the media's thirst for a good story that nevertheless still left me wanting a little more . Perhaps it's just the fact that so many films between the time of this film's release and now have trodden the same ground that " Ace in the Hole " has a been-there-done-that quality to it . No doubt it was strong stuff in 1951 , but the points this film makes you've seen made a hundred times by now . Kirk Douglas is the down on his luck journalist who orchestrates a media frenzy around a man trapped in a mine . He gives a typically hammy performance - - perhaps I would have thought the film had more punch if someone else had been cast in the lead . It falls to Jan Sterling to give the film's most memorable performance as the wife of the trapped man . Cold-hearted doesn't even begin to describe her character , a classic femme fatale transplanted directly from a 1940s noir . Whatever faults one may be able to find with the film , one has to admit that director Billy Wilder deserves credit for managing the sheer size of the production , which earns its original release title , " The Big Carnival . "
David Lynch's Bizarre Nightmare of Fatherhood	This phantasmagorical David Lynch film is nearly suffocating in its ability to immerse its audience in a domestic nightmare . It's a fascinating film , but not one I can say I necessarily enjoyed watching . All of Lynch's fever dream movies are open to interpretation , so I can only say what I took from this film personally . To me it was entirely about the fear of responsibility and the potential stagnation that comes with domestic married life and fatherhood . The baby in this film is literally a creature from another planet ; it's threatening not because it's evil or menacing itself but rather because it has needs and wants that it has no clear way of communicating and which its father doesn't entirely comprehend . The film manages to capture in images and sounds the kind of abstract thoughts and fears that lead men into mid-life crises . It's a difficult film to summarize or even describe , other than to say that it lingers in the brain and is amazingly unsettling to watch .
Ricky Gervais Sees Dead People	A strong formula comedy that gets an extra jolt of originality from an improvisatory performance by Ricky Gervais . Gervais plays a Manhattan dentist with an over-sensitive gag reflex who hates people . When he accidentally dies for seven minutes during a routine medical procedure , he finds upon waking that he can see and converse with dead people , who want his help in finishing up unresolved business . One of these , a smarmy , cheating husband ( played by Greg Kinnear ) wants him to help prevent his widow ( Tea Leoni ) from marrying a guy he doesn't like . Guess what . . . Gervais falls in love with her himself . There's a lot of standard obligatory plot in " Ghost Town " that's specific to the genre : we have to sit through the requisite scenes of Gervais thinking he's going crazy because he can see dead people ; he and Leoni have a falling out when she thinks he's tricking her just to get close to her , etc . But the acting is so good , especially from Gervais and Leoni , who absolutely lights up the screen whenever she's on it , that it's easy to forget we've seen much of this before . One of my favorite parts of the film was the brief but hilarious performance of Kristen Wiig , who plays Gervais's doctor . You may remember her as Kathryn Heigle's passive-aggressive colleague in " Knocked Up , " and though she always does the same schtick , she makes me laugh every time .
Flick for President ?	The Academy Award attention heaped on " Sideways " helped to make Alexander Payne a mainstream name among casual film goers , but many of us knew about his talent as a film maker long before . And his two more recent films - - " Sideways " and " About Schmidt " - - have been much gentler ( thought still terrific ) than his earlier efforts . Before " Election , " Payne had already made " Citizen Ruth , " a caustic , bracing satire of the abortion issue , and " Election " continued his penchant for harsh , uncomfortable comedy . I mean that in a good way , though . Payne's movies are funny , but they make you uneasy for laughing at them , and they have sharp , intelligent insights into the attitudes that drive American values . In " Election , " Payne uses a high school class presidential election as an opportunity to lampoon everything that's goofy about the American political system . Just as in our national elections for president , the winner is not necessarily the person with the most integrity , and honesty is a liability , not a virtue . The person who is willing to play dirtiest comes out on top , and elections aren't about who is most qualified but rather about who is most popular . And , the best part about the movie is its acknowledgement of voter apathy . Most Americans don't really give a damn , something that makes them not so different from the majority of high schoolers who don't even understand the point of having a class president to begin with . In fact , in the film's best scene , the assembly at which each candidate gives her / his campaign speech , one of the candidates ( who joins the race out of spite ) gets the best reception from the crowd when she encourages everyone not to vote at all . Reese Witherspoon gives a wonderful performance as Tracy Flick , the school's most likely to succeed , whose goodie-goodie exterior hides the fact that she's willing to do just about anything to get ahead . Matthew Broderick is refreshingly unlikable as a social studies teacher who would like to see Tracy fail just once , until the fact that his own life is falling apart turns this wish into an obsession . And Chris Klein has some fun as the dopey , Jesus-following popular guy who becomes Tracy's arch rival , but never really even knows it . Payne doesn't tidy up his film's moral messages . On the one hand , Tracy is obnoxious , and we want to see her fail as much as Broderick's character does . But she does know how to play the game , and isn't that part of what makes someone a good leader ? We sympathize with Broderick up to a point , but his motives really are driven by a personal vendetta , not by any altruistic ideal of right vs . wrong . So if you normally need someone to root for in order to enjoy a movie , you're probably not going to like this one . But who expects a hero ? . . . I mean , come on , we're talking about American politics here .
Ride ' Em , Cowboy	Oy vay . " Midnight Cowboy " is a serious contender in my book for most depressing film ever made . Every once in a while , there's a film that makes me wish I could go back and experience it the way audiences at the time of its release experienced it , and this movie is one of them . I'd venture to guess that American mainstream audiences had seen nothing quite like this at the time , and even now , though there have been hundreds of films since that are more violent , more realistic , more daring in subject matter , it's hard to shake off the grimy grittiness of this sad , sad story . Jon Voight of course plays Joe Buck , young Texan stud who dreams of going to the Big Apple and making his fortune as a hustler to beautiful , rich women . Voight walks a tight rope playing this pathetic and self-delusional character , and gives a tremendous performance . He quickly realizes that the cowboy routine is looked on as a joke in NYC , that he's nowhere near tough enough to make it in this hell-hole of a city , and that it's not beautiful rich women who are likely to pay for his services . He befriends the sickly Ratso Rizzo , played iconically by Dustin Hoffman , and the two of them strike up the kind of friendship that can only develop between two people who are such lonely losers that no one else will have them . This movie isn't remotely entertaining . It's relentlessly grim , depicting a version of New York City that looks nothing like the city today , filled with degenerates and dregs , sleazy sex , drugs and perverts . Director John Schlesinger can't control himself and uses all manner of trendy 60s cinematic devices , including crazy zooms , shock editing , abrupt changes from color to black and white , sped up action . All of this likely seemed cutting edge at the time , and enhanced the feeling for audiences that they were seeing something unique , but now it all makes the film look terribly dated , much more so than other films released at the same time . But it's worth sitting through , because of its marvelous acting , and its rich thematic structure . Schlesinger addresses a lot of issues in this film : the idea of masculinity ; the different kinds of love possible between two men ; the barriers between country and city ; urban loneliness and isolation . In its own way , " Midnight Cowboy " even contributes its own voice to the " death of the western hero " theme that was so prevalent in other films from 1969 , like " Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid " and " The Wild Bunch . " Joe Buck , a cowboy modeled on the masculine ideals he picks up at drive-in movies , finds that what works in the world of myth doesn't work in the cruel , harsh realities of America's urban jungles . Some feminine sensibilities are provided by Sylvia Miles , in a brief but memorable appearance as Joe Buck's first conquest , a strung out society lady who hustles the hustler ; and Brenda Vacarro , as a party-going druggie , who makes Joe go limp ( if you know what I mean ) . A very young Bob Balaban also appears as a creepy young man who picks Joe up at a movie theatre and orally services him during the show . I wonder how he's billed in the closing cast credits . A must-see for anyone seriously interested in film history , but you're forgiven if you only want to see it once .
Even the Most Jaded Movie Goer Has to Choke Up at This One	Ugh , what a gut-wrenching movie this is . Peter Bogdanovich avoids the maudlin histrionics that could have marred this story about a young man suffering from a fatal disease that leaves him horribly deformed . Eric Stoltz is remarkable as the young man , Rocky Dennis , and it's entirely thanks to him , and to his charm as an actor , that we fall in love with Rocky and are heart-broken to see him die at the end . Cher is equally as good as his mom , who sees nothing ugly in her son and feels nothing but ferocious love for him . I will always remember a wonderful scene in this movie , in which Rocky is trying to explain colors to a blind girl ( played by a lovely and young Laura Dern ) and does so by giving her items to touch - - a hot potato for red , cotton for white , ice for blue .
Respectful to Forster's Book But Not Inspired as a Film	Merchant / Ivory give E . M . Forster's novel the Masterpiece Theatre treatment , and the result is an accomplished and beautiful-looking film , if one that misses out on the psychological complexity of Forster's novel . Emma Thompson and Helena Bonham Carter play two Bohemian sisters who find themselves embroiled in the affairs of an aristocratic and business-oriented family and its estate when the family matriarch ( played imperiously by Vanessa Redgrave ) dies . You can feel the movie hitting all of the novel's high points , and it's never less than tasteful and respectful to Forster , but the whole thing feels more dutiful than inspired . Also with Anthony Hopkins , fresh off his Oscar win the year before for " The Silence of the Lambs . "
Husbands and Wives and Foxes and Hedgehogs	When I was much younger and pretentious and just discovering Woody Allen movies , I thought the world of elite intellectuals in which his movies are so often set looked appealing and exciting , and I liked to think of myself as belonging to it some day . Now that I'm much older and have more life experience under my belt , I watch a movie like " Husbands and Wives " and thank God that I don't know any people like the characters in it . " Husbands and Wives " is a very accomplished film , but it came awfully close at times to making me utterly frustrated . It's about a bunch of privileged intellectuals with far too much time on their hands , which they spend dithering about philosophical and emotional conundrums that are boring to everyone but themselves . The saving grace of the film is the fact that Allen seems to be somewhat bored with them too , and suggests that the way to ensure you won't have a fulfilling or satisfying relationship is to analyze and worry it to death . The film is full of some of the most unlikable characters Allen has ever created , notably Sydney Pollack's total ass of an adulterer and Mia Farrow's frumpy drip of a wife . The standout in the cast is Judy Davis , who plays Pollack's estranged wife with a brilliant combination of broad comedy and pathos . She's hilariously believable as a woman who struggles to convey a confidence she doesn't feel , and one of the film's highlights is a scene in which she mentally begins labeling everyone she knows as either a fox or a hedgehog while in the middle of having sex with Liam Neeson . The film also has a part for Allen himself , as a literature professor and writer who flirts with the idea of starting up with one of his students , played by Juliette Lewis . Allen chose to shoot the film as if it were a documentary , with lots of hand-held camera-work and confessional monologues delivered directly at the viewer . I understand why he did it , but it still feels unnecessary and hurts more than it helps .
Bogart and Hepburn ? An Unlikely Jungle Romance	Who would have thought that Humphrey Bogart , known for playing brooding tough guys ; Katharine Hepburn , known for playing strong-willed and ever-so-distant females ; and John Huston , a man's man director , could put together such a light-hearted , screwball comedy ? But that's exactly what happens with " The African Queen . " Bogart stepped way out of his usual screen persona to play this comical , grizzled character ; Hepburn launched the phase of her career that would find her playing uptight spinsters . I never would have thought they'd have any chemistry together , let alone produce even the palest of sexual sparks , but they're as natural a screen pair as either of them was separately with their respective frequent film partners . This adventure romance finds Hepburn's straight-laced missionary and Bogart's unkempt river-boat captain winding their way through the African wilderness . They do all the things you would expect them to do in a movie like this , but what they do best is bicker , down to the very last scene , where their bickering continues even as they are rescued and the final credits roll . According to film annals , Huston hadn't set out to make a comedy , but when he realized how much chemistry his two stars had , he changed gears and made a different movie than was originally intended . Thank God for that - - I'm not a big fan of Huston or his heavy-handed touch as a director , so I'm glad Bogart and Hepburn forced him to lighten up .
A Great Vehicle for Robert Downey , Jr .	Robert Downey , Jr . gives a loose , hip and extremely likable performance in this loose , hip and extremely likable comedy thriller . Downey , Jr . may not be able to manage his personal life worth a damn , but he does manage to show unerring instincts in picking good movies , and he's frequently one of the best things about whatever movie he happens to be in . In " Kiss Kiss Bang Bang " he plays Harry , a petty thief who ends up in L . A . on a fluke auditioning for a part as a private detective in a movie . Fiction begins to blur into reality when he gets caught up in a murder plot and must do some real-life detective work of his own with the help of Gay Perry , a Hollywood agent and odd-jobber ( Val Kilmer ) and his childhood friend , Harmony ( Michelle Monaghan ) , who he meets up with by chance . The plot is fast and twisted ; we frequently can see no further ahead than the characters and so share the same emotions they do when the next development comes along . The writers of this film have fashioned a quick-witted screenplay full of throw-away zingers and outrageous scenarios that they , along with the actors and direction , help to make work . Keep a sharp eye while watching this film ; tiny little details of plot or even of the production design recur later , sometimes in important ways , sometimes as no more than inside jokes . And even that most dreaded of film conventions , the voice over narration , that usually makes me cringe , works very well here , mostly due to Downey , Jr . ' s hilarious delivery of it . So . . . . a fast-paced , funny and off-beat film with don't-sweat-it performances and a solid script . You could do much worse . . . . .
Cagney Commands the Streets of Chicago	Take him or leave him , one can't deny the tremendous screen presence of James Cagney . " The Public Enemy , " which launched Cagney into the Hollywood big time , doesn't so much tell one cohesive story as much as it offers a series of vignettes linked by Cagney's sheer star power . Cagney is Tom Powers , childhood hoodlum who grows up to become an adult hoodlum and meets his end as part of a bloody gang war in 1920 Chicago . The film is positioned as part morality tale , part public service message . A title card at the film's opening announces that the filmmakers in no way mean to glamorize the gangster life , while one placed at the end announces a call to action on the part of the American public to bring an end to the seedy underworld portrayed in the movie . And to the film's credit , despite stylish direction by William Wellman and an intensely charismatic performance from Cagney , it sticks to its promise . The film has an invigorating energy , but it never once glamorizes Cagney or his lifestyle . There are a number of truly memorable moments in this film . Of course the famous grapefruit scene has gone down in film annals as one of them , but I was most struck by the film's shocking finale , in which the body of Cagney is dropped off at the front door of his home while his mother happily changes the sheets of his bed upstairs , thinking that " coming home " means that her son is coming home alive . Another dazzling segment is the one in which Cagney seeks revenge on the gang that killed his best friend . We see him staking out the pool hall where they have gathered , with a truly frightening and psychotic expression on his face . Then he walks through the rain directly toward the camera until his face fills the frame . After he enters the pool hall , we hear shots and a man screaming while the camera stays focused on the exterior of the building . Cagney then emerges , wounded and staggering through the rain . The whole segment feels much more violent than it actually is , because of the effective use of camera and sound ( which was in its infancy , but which Wellman uses superbly ) . Most of the other actors come off poorly next to Cagney , because his style of acting was so different from the conventions of the time . Donald Cook , playing Cagney's war-hero brother , overacts to the hilt , with one foot firmly planted in silent films . A couple of females are thrown in as eye candy , but absolutely no attempt is made to develop their characters . Joan Blondell is cute and sexy , but Jean Harlow is dreadful . How this ugly , clunking , horrible actress ever achieved stardom is beyond me . And as frequently happens with pre-Code cinema , I was taken aback by material that you never think of appearing in films from this time period . It makes overt fun of gays and Jews , frankly addresses sex , and , most strikingly , makes a parallel between gangsters and soldiers , claiming that both murder but for different reasons . Ten years later a comment like that would NEVER appear in a Hollywood film , and movies wouldn't be comfortable criticizing war again until the 1970s . " The Public Enemy " is rough around the edges . You can still feel the various artists involved trying to feel their way around the new era of motion pictures , and as a result , parts of the film are uneven . But it's a striking and remarkable movie that , despite limitations placed on it by the time period and the technology available , packs a gangster-sized punch .
The Film May Be Gloomy , But It's Not Depressing	Movies about literary people too often sound like books rather than movies . The way characters talk doesn't jive with the way people actually sound in real life . Dialogue sounds scripted , phrases and speeches are too well put together . This is a trap " Starting Out in the Evening " doesn't avoid , but it's easy to overlook that minor flaw , as the rest of the film is intelligent and thoughtful . The main reason to watch is Frank Langella , playing Leonard Schiller , an aging novelist who the world has forgotten and who is tempted to hope that his name might be revived by an idolatrous grad student who wants to do her thesis on his work . The grad student ( Lauren Ambrose ) is pushy and rather unlikable , but it makes sense that Leonard would take to her , as only someone as pushy as she could break through his reclusive facade . The relationship these two embark upon is complicated to say the least , and both actors navigate the tricky terrain well . A subplot involves Leonard's daughter ( played by Lili Taylor , who it was a pleasure to see again ) and her rekindled relationship with a man of whom Leonard does not approve ( Adrian Lester ) . " Starting Out in the Evening " is one of those ultra-sombre movies that takes place in the dead of winter , when everything is cold and dead , and in which the predominant color scheme is brown and gray . But the cast brings enough vitality to the film , and the screenplay is unpredictable enough , that the end product is engaging rather than depressing .
The First ( and Best ) Doris Day Sex Comedy	With " Pillow Talk , " Doris Day established a mini-genre of her own that would last well into the 1960s , the wholesome sex comedy . These films offered healthy doses of man-and-woman lust but couched them in bubble gum colored sets and silly complicated sitcom plots that made them palatable to the suburban housewife audience . Still , Doris Day deserves kudos for creating a new kind of 50s heroine , one that looked like the dutiful cookie cutter housewife but had a mind of her own and a saucy tongue to go with it . Her strong-willed independence threatened the uber-masculine appeal of her leading men ( Rock Hudson , Cary Grant ) , but did it in such a comical , likable way that audiences loved her rather than hated her for it . " Pillow Talk " is funny and mindless , not a bad combination if you're in the mood for it .
Widmark Giggles His Way Through a Crime Thriller Classic	Victor Mature plays a hood who's picked up in an attempted jewelry heist and decides to play ball with the police by becoming an informant . Richard Widmark , in a famous performance as a giggling psychopath , is one of the crooks Mature rats out , and it's up to him to figure out how to get Widmark out of the picture before he comes after his wife and kids . Director Henry Hathaway gives this no-nonsense docu-crime-thriller a gritty and authentic look ( a title card at the opening claims that the film was shot entirely on actual locations ) and uses virtually no musical score to complement the action . I thought the pacing was a bit sluggish at times , but Widmark alone makes the film worth watching , and overall it's a great addition to the hard-boiled films that were so prevalent in the years immediately following World War II . Brian Donlevy has a supporting role as a district attorney , and if you blink you may miss a young Karl Malden as a detective .
A Buster Keaton Classic	This delightful Buster Keaton comedy is probably his best known film . In " The General , " Keaton plays Johnnie Gray , engineer on the train that gives the film its name . Johnnie , as one of the title cards explains , has two loves : his train and his girl . When the Civil War comes to Marietta , GA , Johnnie does everything he can to be first in line to enlist . But when he's refused by the recruiters ( they think he's more valuable to the Confederacy as a train engineer than as a soldier , but don't tell him that ) , he falls into disgrace with his true love and her family . Then his beloved train is stolen by a bunch of Yankees , and he's off to rescue her , rescuing his other love in the process and redeeming himself in the eyes of her and her father . What impresses most about " The General " now is the sheer size and scope of the film . 80 % of the movie takes place on a moving train , and we're talking a real-life moving train here , not a model or set . The stunts Keaton plans for himself are life threatening , and it's thrilling to watch him pull them off with effortless and acrobatic aplomb .
Moral of the Story : Divorce Is Tough	A friend of mine was hesitant to see this movie , because she'd heard that it pushes the agenda that divorce is never a good option for dealing with marital problems . I don't really know who told her this , and I hope this same reason isn't keeping others from seeing it . This isn't at all what I took away from the film . It certainly communicates the idea that divorce isn't easy , on either the parents or the kids , but I don't feel that it pronounces judgement on those who turn to it as an option . " The Squid and the Whale " is a sad - - though at times very funny - - look at what divorce does to one family in 1986 New York . Jeff Daniels plays the dad , a pompous , arrogant writer whose feelings of commercial failure ( he teaches literature at a university ) cause him to act intellectually superior to everyone he meets . Daniels is almost too good in this role ; he reminded me way too much of people I actually know who are like this . He's the kind of guy who would be deadly at a dinner party , because there's no such thing as a casual or flippant remark in this guy's presence . He analyzes everything to death , and isn't content until everyone's opinion matches his own . Laura Linney plays the wayward mom , blamed for the break up of the marriage by the dad because of a string of affairs she carries on . Her guilt keeps her from being able to discipline her sons , especially the oldest , who treats her horribly . Linney's role is smaller but in some ways much more complex than Daniels ' . Her character has to take responsibility for her infidelity but still make the audience sympathize with her . Caught in the middle of this mess are their two boys . The oldest quickly allies himself with his dad , and walks around regurgitating his father's opinions on every subject , rarely pausing to form any of his own . The younger son , more sensitive and tired of being intellectually brow beaten by his father and older brother , sticks closer to the mom . No one is totally to blame , yet no one is completely innocent either in this honest and frank film . Noah Baumbach has made no secret of the fact that it is based on his own adolescent life , and it has that confessional feeling that movies in this genre frequently do . There are awkward moments when this doesn't totally work . The ending for one is rather ham-fisted , and a scene between the oldest son and his school therapist seemed awfully pat to me . But the acting and the sharp writing make up for these weaknesses , and the movie manages to be poignant without ever becoming maudlin or overly sentimental . See it for the performances of Linney and especially Daniels , who has been proving his versatility as an actor over the last few years .
Kristin Scott Thomas Gives One of the Must-See Performances of 2008	As I catch up on the movies released in 2008 that did NOT receive Academy Award nominations , I find myself more and more convinced that the Academy seriously botched things this year . How in the world did the Academy NOT nominate Kristin Scott Thomas for her riveting and heart-breaking performance in " I've Loved You So Long . " Thomas plays Juliette , a woman who's been released from 15 years of prison after killing her own son . She's taken in by her sister , who was a teenager when the two last saw each other . Now the two have to start virtually from scratch , as strangers with a common past . Juliette is withdrawn and lifeless , at first justifying the label of cold , merciless child killer that the world wants to pin on her . But as the movie progresses , we see life return to her , and we learn the reason that led her to do what she did . That reason is revealed in the last moments of the film , but what impressed me about the movie , and about Thomas's performance , is that I almost no longer cared why she had done what she did by the time I found out . I still wanted to know out of curiosity , but I don't know that it would have changed my opinion of the character . She was clearly a warm , kind person with the capacity for great love . She clearly was struggling with demons she didn't want anybody to see . Thomas does an amazing thing - - she makes us care deeply for a woman who doesn't ask for or want our sympathy , and this despite the fact that we know she did something most of us , without knowing the circumstances behind the act , would count as unforgivable . Just watch Thomas's face when she visits her ill mother for the first time since going to prison , a woman withering away with dementia in a nursing home , or her face when her sister's family and new-found friends surprise her with a birthday party , and tell me that Angelina Jolie deserved a best actress nomination instead .
Stanwyck Takes Care of Business	A tawdry and downright disturbing pre-code film that stars Barbara Stanwyck giving one hell of a ferocious performance . Stanwyck plays the titular night nurse , assigned to care for the two small children of a negligent and drunken floozy . The children's ' father is dead ; the family chauffeur , played by a hateful Clark Gable , is running things , and he wants the children to die so that he can collect the trust money that was intended for them . Therefore , the children are wasting away from starvation while a useless maid dithers around and Stanwyck tries to get the hospital to intervene . The film would probably be instantly forgettable if not for the fierce performance of Stanwyck , who throws herself ( quite literally ) into the role of savior , taking punches , getting thrown into a wall , all while dishing out some punches of her own . This is film-making of the sensational Warners variety , featuring lots of suggestive dialogue , shots of Stanwyck and her nurse buddy , the saucy Joan Blondell , in their underwear , and a world in which things like murder are o . k . as long as they're done for the right reason . The movie is certainly no masterpiece , but it does have that energy and sizzle that characterized Warners films from this time period , and it is effective on its own modest terms .
Angst in the Heartland	I don't know why anyone would want to live in Texas after the big-screen depictions of it as a place full of nothing but boredom and misery . Surely it can't be that bad . Well , " Hud " certainly makes it seem like it is . This bleak and depressing story shows Hud ( Paul Newman ) , only surviving son of a farm owner ( Melvyn Douglas ) who has found him to be nothing but a disappointment , selfishly whiling away the hours in Nowheresville , Texas . Newman portrays Hud as almost ridiculously virile and full of annoying machismo . His character doesn't know how to interact with anyone on a genuine level , so he instead uses aggression ( physical , verbal , and sexual ) as his only means of communication . It's a great performance by Newman , but the character as written isn't fully fleshed out , and it's hard to ever feel anything but dislike for Hud . Also great in the film is Patricia Neal , who dubiously won the Best Actress Academy Award for her performance as the live-in housekeeper who finds Hud obnoxious and alluring at the same time . Her performance is obviously a supporting one and should in no way be considered a lead ( though she really is the only female character in the movie ) , but she's great in it , and I only wish she was in the film more . Rounding out the cast of characters is Hud's nephew , son of his dead brother , played by Brandon de Wilde ( of " Shane " fame ) , who's also very good . Every actor has a natural style of delivery that makes this film seem so much more contemporary than other ' 63 releases . " Hud " is an incredibly sombre film . Don't go into this expecting to be cheered . Characters continuously reach out for human contact and repeatedly find none . But it's a very solid film , if a bit heavy-handed at times , and the acting is by far its greatest asset .
Whether He's Sane or Insane , Edward G . Robinson Is Terrific	What a fun movie ! Edward G . Robinson plays a respected doctor who decides that the only way to truly understand criminal behavior for an academic study he is writing is to become a criminal himself . He joins a thieving ring run by Jo Keller ( Claire Trevor , looking hotsy-totsy ) and proceeds to both help the thieves with their crimes while at the same time studying them for the biological and psychological effects of their actions . Trouble arises when Jo's right-hand man , played by Humphrey Bogart , begins to feel like a third wheel , and blackmails Robinson when he discovers his true identity . This film is a real treat . It's funny , creepy and suspenseful , all at the same time . Robinson begins to enjoy being a criminal , and his detached approach to crime makes him capable of committing murder without a second thought . Is he sane or insane ? That's the question a jury must answer at the film's climax , and one the viewer still won't be able to answer after the movie's over . Robinson , Trevor and Bogart have enough chemistry together to start a fire , and the three of them would team up again 10 years later for another terrific film , John Huston's " Key Largo . " Anatole Litvak provides the fluid direction .
You've Got to Hand It to Babs	Well-done soap opera with Southern Gothic undertones . Nick Nolte gives a marvelous performance - - the first one to establish him as a serious actor - - as a man in therapy because of a horrible and horrifying event that happened to his family when he was a boy . Barbra Streisand , who also directed , plays the therapist , and delivers a solid performance of her own . People seem to want to dislike Streisand , but you've got to admit that the woman has talent , both in front of and behind the camera . I haven't seen this film since it was originally released , so maybe I would find that it doesn't hold up well . But as it stands now , I remember it as being very good and very moving . There was a big broo-ha at the time that the film received a whole bunch of Academy Award nominations , including one for Best Picture , but not one for Streisand herself as director or actress , the result being that the Hollywood community accused the Academy of being sexist . Big surprise Hollywood ! Nolte did receive a nomination , deservedly , as did Kate Nelligan , playing Nolte's mom .
. . . . Or , the Tale of a Young Homosexual's Acceptance	O . k . I'm being a smart ass , but does anyone else see how you can read homosexual undertones into this story ? The " misfits " who don't fit in . The dad who's disappointed with his son for not being " manly " enough . The fear and suspicion of those who are " normal . " Oh , what has our jaded society done to these once innocent classics ? I loved this film as a kid , and love it now . It's got terrific songs , and wonderful narration from Burl Ives , whose warm-rum voice is forever associated in my mind with the title song , Gene Autry or no Gene Autry . Though on watching this again recently , I was surprised by the story involving the abominable snow monster . I could have sworn that he was cranky because of a toothache and that the little dentist elf made him happy when he pulled his tooth . Don't know where I got that . My favorite character is Yukon Cornelius - - he's a hoot whenever he licks the end of his pick to see if there's any silver or gold on it , and then says , with disgust , " Nuthin ' . "
And You Thought FedEx Delivery Men Had It Rough	A very strange movie in its own way , " Only Angels Have Wings " is about a group of mail carriers living , working and carousing somewhere in South America . Supposedly it's very dangerous to fly mail back and forth from this particular frontier town , and the life expectancy of a flier isn't long . Therefore , when sexy Jean Arthur shows up on a stop-over and gets a hankering for boss Cary Grant , the sexual tension rests in whether or not Grant will be alive long enough to make forming a romantic attachment worthwhile . With a second world war looming on the horizon , one can see how this story was both relevant and irrelevant at the same time : relevant as a parallel for the many American men who would soon be in the position of not knowing whether or not they would be alive from day to day ; but sort of irrelvant too , since we're talking about delivering mail here , not going to war ! ! I can't imagine a movie made today about the dangers of being a FedEx delivery man ( unless you count " Cast Away " ) . Anyway , Cary Grant is horribly miscast as the crusty man in charge , who puts up a callous front and tries to convince everyone that he doesn't care when one of his men dies . I can only take Grant seriously when he's in a tuxedo and being dapper ; here they outfit him in ridiculous parachute pants pulled up to his nipples - - - I kept expecting him to drop to the floor and start break dancing . As for the female lead , Jean Arthur could do no wrong , as far as I'm concerned . Rita Hayworth shows up in an early role as another love interest for Grant , and one-time silent film star Richard Barthelmess struts in playing Grant's mail carrier arch rival ( ! ) , looking for all the world like he's still acting in silent films . Director Howard Hawks creates an authentically foggy and sweaty South American atmosphere , and for all the surface silliness of the plot , he fashions a pretty compelling movie about the instinct to challenge death that dominates these characters ' lives . I don't hear this movie mentioned along with the other classics released in the golden year of 1939 , but it more than holds its own against the more popular films of that year .
Bold and Beautifully Designed	A truly remarkable yet also rather esoteric film about the creative life . I was able to admire it without ever really being drawn into its story . The production design is astounding , and probably the film's greatest selling point . The sets have a baroque , grandiose quality of the kind you see in opera sets - - which is fitting , since this film is about theatre and the role it plays in both the lives of those who use it to make a living and those who turn to it as an escape from their own realities . I wonder if Ingmar Bergman was at all influenced by this film when making " Fanny and Alexander . " Certain parts , and an overall tone , in the second half of Bergman's film reminded me very much of Carne's .
Perfectly Captures the Tone of Evelyn Waugh's Novel	A lovely adaptation of the Evelyn Waugh novel that nicely captures Waugh's original tone of loss , regret and elegiac nostalgia . Matthew Goode plays Charles Ryder , a young Englishman who falls in with an aristocratic family and soon finds himself at the center of its swirling dysfunction . The film explores the role family plays in shaping the kind of people we become , and the temptation to return to the lessons of our upbringing ( here represented specifically by Roman Catholicism ) even if we never fully believed the things those lessons taught us . And running underneath all is Waugh's elegy for an England that no longer existed after it emerged from the ashes of a great war . All of the actors are very good , especially Matthew Goode and Emma Thompson , who plays the family matriarch and brilliantly illustrates the unique hold mothers can have over their children .
Eisenstein's Stirring Propaganda Film	" Alexander Nevsky " marked director Sergei Eisenstein's return to film-making after a period of exile , and what he produced is a bald-faced propaganda film proclaiming Russia's superiority over Germany . There's very little plot : Russians unite to battle Germans ; Russia wins . The film is really an extended montage of mostly battle scenes , mixed in with some moments of German brutality ( like a rather shocking scene that shows German soldiers throwing Russian children onto a raging fire ) . This was Eisenstein's first sound film , and it's clear that he had no idea what to do with the medium . Indeed , this film really looks more like a silent film with some sound added . There are some dialogue scenes , but they sit rather lifelessly on the screen , and the pacing is all off , as if the actors weren't actually on the set together at the same time when they were filming them . Eisenstein mostly uses sound as an excuse to overlay a rousing Prokofiev score over the proceedings , and indeed , that's one of the film's biggest assets . Say what you will about Eisenstein's ability ( or lack of ) to direct actors or tell his film in a more narrative format , he certainly knows how to edit images and music together for maximum effect , and " Alexander Nevsky " over all shines through its deficiencies .
A Fantastic Period Film from Luchino Visconti	Luchino Visconti's " The Leopard " is a ravishing costume drama about the waning days of Sicily's nobility in the 1860s during Italy's struggles to create a united state . Burt Lancaster , in a bit of unlikely casting ( since he couldn't speak Italian and had his entire part dubbed by an Italian actor ) represents the aging nobility that recognizes the need for change but at the same time the fact that there will no longer be a place for it in the new order . Lancaster gives a marvelous performance despite the dubbed voice over . As an actor , he was always good at doing resigned nostalgia ( see " Atlantic City " from 1981 ) . The movie is probably longer than it needs to be , since it doesn't really have much story to tell . But it looks outstanding , thanks to Visconti's meticulous attention to period detail and his use of saturated colors in the film's art direction and costume design . A 45-minute fascinating ball scene caps off the film , and gives the viewer the feeling of being a fly on the wall . Some knowledge of Italian history would probably have helped me to understand this film's nuances more , because Visconti doesn't spend much time catching the uninformed viewer up to speed . But I was able to infer enough to get the basic gist .
Tarantino Has Done It Again ; Rodriguez , Not So Much	What " Grindhouse " proves more than anything is how much better a director Quentin Tarantino is than Robert Rodriguez . It's unfortunate for Rodriguez that his film and Tarantino's are being presented in a format that allows the audience to compare them side by side ; the comparison only highlights Rodriguez's flaws and Tarantino's talent . " Planet Terror , " Rodriguez's segment , is a tribute to the trashy zombie flicks of yesteryear , but it's a completely disposable movie . I know Rodriguez would probably take that as a compliment , since the grindhouse films to which he and Tarantino are paying homage are remembered for being the movie equivalent of junk food . But Tarantino creates a film that could easily stand alone outside of the double feature gimmick concept , while Rodriguez uses his opportunity at genre parody to make nothing but a frenetic gross-out film . I had fun with a lot of " Planet Terror . " I especially liked Rose McGowan , as go-go girl ( don't call her a stripper ) Cherry Darling , who gets her leg gnawed off by crazed zombies and has it replaced with a machine gun that she uses to mow down her enemies while performing gymnastics . It's hooks like these that keep " Planet Terror " afloat . Rodriguez uses today's advanced technologies to include all of the outrageous images and stunts that makers of trash cinema would maybe have included themselves if they could have . But much of " Planet Terror " just made me feel sort of bad and depressed . The sight of mass human carnage in these post - days , when footage of suicide bombings assaults us on a daily basis , carries unpleasant connotations , and it's awfully difficult to lose yourself in the " fun " of seeing bodies ripped and blown apart with all of the indifference of a director who gets off on the site of human bloodshed . Therefore , I felt a slight sense of relief when " Planet Terror " ended . But then Tarantino's " Death Proof " came roaring on to the screen , and memories of Rodriguez's segment were immediately wiped away . In " Death Proof , " Kurt Russell plays stuntman Mike , who uses his grizzled charm to lure girls ( like Rose McGowan , who pops up again in this segment , albeit in a very different role ) into his bitchin ' retro car and then kills them . Or he follows groups of girls riding in their own cars and plows into them at 200 miles per hour , as he does in the film's most disturbing and graphic scene . But after doing away with one such group , he sets his sights on another ( the immensely charismatic trio of Rosario Dawson , Tracie Thoms and real-life stuntwoman Zoe Bell , who plays herself ) - - and instantly recognizes his mistake . Half way through " Death Proof , " Tarantino switches gears , and instead of following a " girls in danger " template , he makes the girls the dangerous ones . It's as if every female ever victimized in a grade-Z horror flick is resurrected in this group of fierce females , and work through them to get their revenge . The film is unpredictable , fresh , rousing and immensely exciting . It sent me out on a high . Tarantino is incapable of making a thoughtless movie , and I'm beginning to think he's incapable of making a bad movie . Where Rodriguez is content to appeal to the most basic urgings of the adolescent males he clearly assumed would be his audience for this , Tarantino is interested in doing something more . " Death Proof " is not simply imitative of grindhouse cinema . Tarantino has always excelled at mimicking the genres he loves while making something completely unique out of them , and he does the same here . " Death Proof " isn't only an homage to the loved films of Tarantino's past ; it's also an elegy . Stuntman Mike is a relic of an age when filmmakers created special effects in real time and space , without the help of CGI , and indeed no CGI was used in the astonishing extended action sequence that comprises the last third of Tarantino's film . He recognizes grindhouse films as the trash that they were , but it's clear that they also represent to him a certain kind of freedom that doesn't exist for filmmakers anymore . Makers of grindhouse movies knew that their films were going to be discounted by the mainstream movie establishment anyway , so they could revel in a kind of artistic freedom and make the movies they wanted to make without thought as to box office or awards potential . It's no wonder that this particular genre appeals to an auteur like Tarantino . And of course , linking these two films are the batch of fake trailers for other sleazy cinematic offerings . " Thanksgiving " seems to be the one that audiences remember the most , but I actually thought " Don't " was the wittiest , and the one that felt most authentic . " Planet Terror " : " Death Proof " :
Yankee Doodle Cagney	I didn't expect to like this movie at all , as I'm not much of a flag waver and from the isolated scenes I had seen from this film , that seemed to be all that took place in it . It's still pretty cornball in its approach to American patriotism and fervour , and with the American government currently bullying its way around the world , the " let's be proud we're all Americans " broo-hah-hah on display in the film is even harder to digest . But don't avoid this movie if those are your only reservations about it . " Yankee Doodle Dandy " has an energetic drive to it that many films lack . The 125-minute running time flies by , and the film is never once boring . This energy is due almost entirely to one thing : James Cagney . Cagney tears into the role of George M . Cohan with everything he's got , and just try taking your eyes off of him whenever he's on screen . He can't sing at all , and he's really more of an acrobat than a dancer , but he pulls off the role of a Broadway showman effortlessly . The rah-rah American sentiments are obviously a product of the time , and little more than World War II propaganda at moments , but I could swallow them easier in this film for some reason . Maybe because when they're at their most intrusive ( the " Grand Old Flag " number , for instance ) , the spectacle is so rousing that I would have been just as moved if they'd been singing about cheese and crackers . A deservedly beloved American classic .
For Once , Emotion Trumps Sex	A married sex therapist doles out relationship advice at work but privately spends her time in search of an orgasm , which she's never had . Two gay men find themselves drifting from one another and introduce a third man into their relationship in an attempt to bring some fulfillment back to their emotional connection . A professional dominatrix excels at abusing clients , but brings that abusive behavior to her personal relationships as well and as a result isolates herself from any true human contact . Meanwhile , all of these characters meet regularly at Shortbus , a sex club where everyone is free to be whatever they want to be , where no one's a freak because everyone's a freak , and where , most importantly , everyone feels a sense of community in a scary post - world . Such is " Shortbus , " John Cameron Mitchell's emotionally affecting follow up film to his dazzling debut , " Hedwig and the Angry Inch . " By now , everyone knows that " Shortbus " contains many scenes of quite explicit sex . As happens with any more conventional film that contains material we are used to seeing only in bona fide pornography , the sex tends to dominate on a first viewing ; it's so hard not to be distracted by the explicit scenes and ignore the other things going on . However , it is to Mitchell's great credit that I left the film not remembering the sex as much as I remembered some of the beautiful emotional moments , of which " Shortbus " is chock full . I saw a screening of this at the Chicago International Film Festival , and two of the actors , Sook-Yin Lee and Lindsay Beamish , were on hand to answer questions . Lee explained what Mitchell was trying to do with this film , and I greatly admire his ambition . She said that he was trying to make an antidote to all of the other films out there that treat sex just as explicitly but in such more negative ways . Sex in our movie culture is usually full of dysfunction - - if it's not downright harmful , it's at best desultory and unsatisfying ( think " 9 Songs " ) . Our culture condones graphic violence in films , many times in combination with sex , but squirms away from sex as it really looks , even though it's one of the most natural of human functions . Mitchell wanted to illuminate this hypocrisy and show that sex can be fun , sex can bring people together , sex can make you laugh . It can't necessarily solve problems , as the characters in this film realize , but it doesn't always have to necessarily cause problems either . My biggest complaint about " Shortbus " is that I felt somewhat left out . As a heterosexual male , I don't feel that I was represented by any of the film's characters . Mitchell , as a gay man , obviously has an understanding of gay relationships , and the storyline with the three gay lovers is handled beautifully . But I felt that Mitchell was stereotyping heterosexual relationships in the same way that heterosexuals stereotype gays . The married couple is bored , unfulfilled , caustic with one another . Lee's character can't achieve orgasm until she comes to a sex club and gets it on with another woman . Just once , can't a film show a heterosexual couple who are happy and having a completely satisfying emotional and sexual relationship ? I know this wouldn't make for great drama , but it would at least make me feel better . I really liked " Shortbus " without feeling that it was a complete bulls-eye for Mitchell . At the very least , he has an outstanding talent and has proved himself to be a young filmmaker to watch .
Another Stark Thriller from John Frankenheimer	John Frankenheimer ( who died not very long ago ) left us with a terrific repertoire of films , yet I don't hear his name mentioned often in discussions about influential American directors . " Seven Days in May " seems to be all but forgotten ; at least , I don't know anyone who's seen it or even heard of it . But it's a terrific political intrigue film , its impact lessened only somewhat by the release of " The Manchurian Candidate " two years earlier . There's no mistaking the John Frankenheimer style : the sharp black and white cinematography , stark sets and lighting , claustrophobic compositions . Faces are framed in extreme close-up to completely dominate the screen . He uses deep focus effectively ; two characters will be having a conversation in the foreground , but a third will be constantly in view in the background , as if to suggest that every whispered secret has the potential to be overheard . This style is fabulously on display in " Candidate " and is reprised here in " Seven Days in May . " Frankenheimer makes great use in both films of TV screens : a character will be simultaneously in view of the film's camera and projected on a screen within the world of the film , giving the movie viewer different angles of the same scene both literally and figuratively ; since media plays a role so frequently in his movies , Frankenheimer constantly draws our attention to its existence and the power it has to manipulate what we perceive to be the truth . As for the performances , there is no improving on Fredric March's understated interpretation of an ailing president , stuck in the dilemma of acting in what he thinks is the country's best interests even though the country itself is rejecting his beliefs . Burt Lancaster does his usual steely Burt Lancaster thing as the film's villain and Kirk Douglas meets him line for line as a subordinate who begins to doubt his boss's integrity . Ava Gardner gives a somewhat weird performance as the film's lone female character ; she walks through the film as if drugged , but it works . And Edmond O'Brien won an Oscar nomination as a hot-tempered southern senator and friend to the president , somewhat curious since March's performance of all of them seems ripe for Academy consideration . " Seven Days in May " isn't as taut a film as " The Manchurian Candidate , " and it's more heavy handed in its political agenda ( this severely dates the film ) , but it's still a rousing good time and comes highly recommended .
Fuller Tops Himself	Samuel Fuller could make whacked-out movies like no other , and " The Naked Kiss " was his most whacked out of all . Constance Towers plays Kelly , a hooker who we see in the film's opening sequence shaved completely bald and beating up her pimp . She takes $75 dollars from him or , as she makes sure to point out to him , " exactly what I've got coming to me , " and then proceeds to put on her wig and makeup while seductive music plays and the opening credits roll . From that moment on , we know we're in Fuller-land . Kelly arrives in the quiet suburban idyll of Grantville , and hooks up with her first and last trick , the town's police captain . After that , she decides to wipe her slate clean , and she becomes a nurse in a children's hospital . But she can't escape her past . When she's accused of killing her fiancée , the town's founder , golden boy and Korean war hero , in a fit of rage after finding him molesting a young girl , Kelly's reliability and reputation is called into question , and her life hangs in the balance . Along with her pimp , Kelly will pound around on a couple of other people before the film is over - - notably a whore house madame who tries to seduce one of Kelly's co-worker friends into a life of prostitution - - but Kelly is basically a good and decent person who believes in justice stripped of any sentimental or phony pretensions . Her fiancée's status and privilege don't prevent her from seeing the pervert underneath , and her love for the children and her young , naive co-workers is fierce but rough ; she'll just as soon slap some sense into someone as she will hug some sense into him . The character of Kelly is a refreshing creation , and both she and Constance Towers , who brings her to life , hold this film together when it otherwise might have been a mess . I think Fuller's weakness was as a writer ; parts of " The Naked Kiss " are hampered by ridiculous , overheated dialogue and melodrama of the most maudlin order . But he was such a striking visionary that his films always work on the strength of style alone , and that , coupled with Towers ' performance , make " The Naked Kiss " something fascinating to behold . Fuller was always interested in the outcasts and misfits of society . You can tell he didn't have much use for the civilized mainstream . In " The Naked Kiss , " his camera lingers lovingly on the crippled children in shots that intentionally evoke impressions of war veteran hospitals . And Kelly leaves Grantville at the film's end , not because the town shuns her - - on the contrary , once they realize she was telling the truth , she's the new town hero - - but because its hypocrisy disgusts her . The implication is that she'd rather remain an outcast than be accepted by a society that she abhors . " The Naked Kiss " is crazy , frenzied and trippy . It's deliriously nonsensical yet makes a pointed statement in that unique way that only Samuel Fuller could pull off . Check it out .
Visual Poetry	" Hero " is a jaw-droppingly gorgeous film that is truly worth seeing for its lush production design alone . Director Zhang Yimou brings a visual elegance to the kung-fu genre film , and a magical realist sensibility to the narrative itself , the results of which are a very violent film where the violence seems to have consequences , and the line between hero and villain isn't so much a line as a vast field of shaded grey . The film is reminiscent of " Rashomon " in its fragmented approach to telling its story ; one is never sure whether or not the version he is hearing is the truth . That may be because in the world of " Hero , " the truth is very open to interpretation - - one man's noble act is another man's crime . The film pays its respects to various art forms , all of which are compared to the artistry of swordplay : music , literature , dance . Just as a skilled swordsman can yield nearly unstoppable power , so can the artist impact the world around him . No one will accuse Yimou of being a subtle director , and I do have to say that the continuous fighting gets ever so slightly monotonous . Yimou does a good job of combating this monotony by changing the color palettes and showcasing increasingly dazzling choreography , but when the character of Snow challenges the character of Broken Sword to a duel for what feels like the fiftieth time toward the film's conclusion , I sympathized with Broken Sword when he says , " Must violence always be the answer ( paraphrased ) . " Still , this is a minor quibble , and one must also remember that this film is working within the confines of its genre , and that that's just how these films are .
A Night Worth Spending	A sultry and marvelously atmospheric screen adaptation of the Tennessee Williams play . Richard Burton plays a defrocked priest who holes up in an isolated Mexican hotel with a group of religious biddies for whom he is serving as tour guide . The group's leader , a strident harpy played by Grayson Hall , wants to report Burton to the authorities for his inappropriate behavior with her young charge , played by the flirty Sue Lyon ( yes , of " Lolita " fame ) . In response , he practically takes the women hostage , disabling their vehicle so that they can't leave the hotel . The hotel's owner , played by a sexy Ava Gardner , is an old friend of Burton , and she becomes a sort of accomplice to his actions . Williams uses the tension created by this situation and these characters to explore the dark nights of the soul that each of us is bound to go through at one point or another in the course of our lives , and the salvation humans can find in one another . I'm not sure how closely the film follows the original stage play , but as presented here , this is one of Williams ' more hopeful and optimistic stories . Richard Burton and Ava Gardner share some sweet moments , during which each allows him / herself to be emotionally vulnerable to the other , and receive some solace from the interaction . And there's a wonderful character played by Deborah Kerr , a spinster painter who shows up with her doddering grandfather in tow and whose vague past hints at some dark nights of her own . She is able to help the Burton character learn how to navigate his crisis and emerge relatively unscathed on the other side . The film is directed by John Huston , and it takes a pretty frank approach to some of the dicey subject matter , a much more frank approach than some of the other Williams adaptations that had been made into films around the same time as this one .
Rousing Film About the Triumph of Justice	Following closely on the heels of another movie about the IRA , 1992's " The Crying Game , " came Jim Sheridan's effective and rousing " In the Name of the Father , " the true story of a group of men wrongly accused of participating in a series of IRA bombings . This film is fun to watch for its period detail and for the predictably excellent performance of Daniel Day-Lewis . But Emma Thompson , playing the attorney of Day-Lewis and his father ( Pete Postlethwaite ) , though given a much smaller role , really brings some fire to the proceedings through her energetic performance . Thompson had just been discovered by American audiences in " Howards End " the year before , and was also winning acclaim in " The Remains of the Day " even as she was making her appearance in this one , and it was refreshing to see her in a more contemporary role . Though nominated for seven Oscars , including Best Picture , Best Actor ( Day-Lewis ) , Best Supporting Actor ( Postlethwaite ) , Best Supporting Actress ( Thompson ) and Best Director , the film was shut out . I'm not a huge fan of Jim Sheridan's movies in general , but I liked this one .
Lancaster's Last Great Role	Burt Lancaster gives an astonishing performance aching with melancholy in this lovely , quiet little film by Louis Malle . He plays a one-time gangster ( in his own mind at least quite a big shot ) who , like the city that gives the film its title , isn't what he used to be . Susan Sarandon , in an early-career performance , plays a woman who works in one of the casinos and whose life intersects with Lancaster's because of a drug deal her no-good husband was involved in . The two don't ever become friends exactly , but they each get something from the other until the sad ending , when Lancaster realizes that there isn't a place in his life for Sarandon , and that there may not be a place in the world for him . The film is a low-key character study that completely satisfies , and gives Lancaster perhaps his last great role .
Strange But Delightful	It's hard to recognize how utterly daring this film probably was at the time of its release . Charles Chaplin was put on a death list by Hitler for lampooning him in " The Great Dictator " in 1940 , and while Ernst Lubitsch's film isn't quite as scathing as Chaplin's , I still have to think that so openly mocking the Gestapo while the war was still raging took a lot of guts for everyone involved . This isn't necessarily a laugh out loud comedy ; there are no really big laughs to be had . But it's never once less than delightful to watch , and all of the performances are terrific . Of course , the most praise must go to Jack Benny , who seems so utterly comfortable on screen , but Carole Lombard is as sexy and engaging as ever , even if she has quite a bit less to do . Very funny , very entertaining , and probably a must see from the period of war-time cinema .
A Scary Wake Up Call for Those Still Napping	The only people who will watch " An Inconvenient Truth " will be those who need no convincing that global warming may just be the single most pressing issue affecting modern man - - yes , even more pressing than the war on terror . As much as jihadists would probably like to think otherwise , radical Islam just can't compete with annihilation of the entire planet . Consisting almost entirely of filmed footage of a fancy slide show presentation Al Gore presents around the world to various groups , " An Inconvenient Truth " lays out a formidable array of statistics to prove the validity of global warming and its effects on the environment , and makes it painfully clear ( if it wasn't already ) that those who still and inexplicably refuse to consider its reality are ostriches with their heads hopelessly buried . The film's title is a perfect one ; those who dismiss global warming as the apparition of liberal scare mongers don't want to admit of its existence because it would be awfully inconvenient for them to . Inconvenient for governments because , as Gore says , they would then have a moral imperative to do something about it . Inconvenient for individual citizens because they would have to make some changes to their lifestyles that would cause them to give up minor conveniences . Moments of the film are deeply scary , like the one when Gore explains what will happen when and if a chunk of Antarctica or Greenland breaks off , elevating the sea level worldwide by 20 feet , drowning Manhattan and most of Florida , and submerging humongous cities like Shanghai in China and Bangalore in India , homes to millions of people . The United States couldn't even deal with a flooded city like New Orleans ; what will it do when Los Angeles and San Francisco become disaster areas ? Luckily , " An Inconvenient Truth " ends on a hopeful note , suggesting that the challenge our planet faces due to global warming is not insurmountable , and that the human race has been able to reverse seemingly irreversible problems in the past ( like the hole in the ozone layer ) . More importantly , it explains what the average citizen like you and me can do to make ourselves feel a little less helpless . Let's hope that the call to action is not only heard but understood by those who need to understand it most .
The Devil Is No Match for an American Politician	This film could never work now , because Americans are far too cynical to accept a politician beating the Devil in a battle of morals . Now the politician would be in the Devil's hip pocket . " The Devil and Daniel Webster " is a creepy , effective little morality tale about a farmer who sells his soul to the devil in exchange for prosperity and the politician who ends up defending him and winning it back . What seemed startling in 1941 feels mostly creaky by today's standards , but there are still some fresh moments of film making in this one . William Dieterle was obviously open to experimentation when it comes to the use of cinematography and sound , and the movie has a striking visual look . The plot is mostly connect the dots , and there are no real surprises , but I don't know that one watches a morality tale for surprises in the first place . Walter Huston is extremely creepy as the Devil ( aka Mr . Scratch ) . He received a Best Actor Academy Award nomination for his performance even though , based on sheer screen time , he really has more of a supporting role . But he's so effective when on screen that his presence dominates the film even when he's physically absent , which probably accounts for the lead nomination . Edward Arnold is pretty good too as Daniel Webster . Also standing out is Jane Darwell ( Ma Joad in " The Grapes of Wrath " ) as a hardened farm mother . Parts of this film have a wicked sense of humour , which I thoroughly enjoyed . The trial at the end ( with a literal jury of the damned ) , is especially amusing . On a sidenote , the film was successful in capturing the 1941 Academy Award for Best Dramatic Score . Don't expect to see any points made that haven't already been made a thousand times in a thousand other movies , but enjoy the originality of the film technique on display .
An Important Film , Even If an Imperfect One	" Crash " has so many good things going for it , it's a shame that it's hampered by a clunky , obvious and over-earnest script . The movie is very Altmanesque in design , featuring a large ensemble cast and a plot that intricately weaves various plot lines together in surprising ways . Unlike Altman's best films , though , " Crash " doesn't have that spontaneous , improvised feel ; everything feels too forced and overly scripted . Every scene plays out in the same way , creating an ever so slightly monotonous pace . It's a movie with great intentions that isn't entirely successful at fulfilling them . But , the writing is my only complaint . From a directing and acting standpoint , " Crash " triumphs . Paul Haggis makes the leap from screenwriter to director ably , and does a wonderful job of keeping his story moving fluidly along , no matter how implausible it might be . And as far as the ensemble goes , this is ones of those movies ( also very like an Altman film , come to think of it ) that has a cast full of actors who you've never seen act as well as they do here . I wouldn't say I've ever been much impressed by the dramatic range of Ryan Philippe , Matt Dillon , Brendan Fraser or Sandra Bullock , but they certainly impress here . Bullock , despite a tiny role , makes an enormous impression , and her brief monologue during which she describes what it's like to wake up every morning filled with anger without even knowing what she's angry about , was one of the most affecting scenes I've seen in a movie all year . Other cast members are excellent as well : Terrence Howard as a movie executive " selling out " to white America ; Thandie Newton as his frustrated wife , angry at him for not standing up to the very people who have made her privileged life possible ; Don Cheadle as a hardened detective who has resigned himself to the unfairness of being judged by the color of your skin . Whatever its faults , " Crash " deserves high praise for tackling with intelligence and conviction subject matter that other film makers wouldn't touch with a ten-foot pole . How refreshing in our time of political correctness that a film would dare suggest that stereotypes might be based on truths , and that a white director and writer can make a sharp film about the race question without feeling the need to cushion everything through the gauzy haze of liberal white guilt . Not a perfect movie by any means , but one that I think deserves to be seen .
One More Reason to Miss Jean Arthur	George Stevens had the ability to make truly memorable films out of lightweight material . " The Talk of the Town " and " The More the Merrier ( 1943 ) " were two early-40s projects that teamed Stevens up with the adorable Jean Arthur . Both would probably have been forgettable pseudo-comedies had Stevens not directed them with such a sure hand . " Town " is a sort of strange hybrid - - part screwball comedy , part political activist film . Its screenplay could probably be a little tidier , but I'm not going to complain , because I loved this movie . Cary Grant and Arthur were a terrific match for one another , and Ronald Colman makes a perfect straight man for the both of them . He plays a stuffy professor staying in Arthur's country home while he devotes himself to work . Grant shows up on the lamb for some political activism that got him in trouble , and the movie is devoted to Arthur's and Grant's antics as they first try to hide Grant's identity from Colman and then try to enlist Colman in their populist cause . This is a great and not especially well known film from the war years . Set aside some time to enjoy it and I'm sure you won't be disappointed .
A Poem	It's nearly impossible to talk about " Hiroshima , Mon Amour " in the same language I use to talk about other films . Even people used to international cinema may find themselves somewhat boggled by this visual tone poem . It's beautiful , and it leaves a distinct impression , but it does so in the way that a striking and unexpected image would , not in the way that an accessible film narrative would . Therefore , it interests without ever fully engaging . To say that Resnais ' film has something in common with silent cinema would be misleading , because sound certainly matters . But the movie definitely feels like a piece of non-verbal cinema , where sensation matters more than cognition . A movie I probably need to see again to truly appreciate .
The Definition of Organized Insanity	Once that now famous and haunting opening theme song , " Suicide Is Painless , " has finished playing , " MASH " bursts on to the screen in a blaze of sound and movement . It's a typical Altman film , and that's a huge compliment . It may not seem like anything special now , because his style has been so influential on all manner of present-day filmmakers , but at the time , audiences had never seen a major studio film whose ordering principle was mass chaos . Altman films have forever spoiled for me just a tiny bit all other carefully framed , carefully constructed conventional films , because his movies feel so alive in a way that other films don't . " MASH " is gloriously crazy , with all of the actors talking over one another and no apparent thought given to the framing of scenes . Altman has said that he wants his audiences to have to work at his movies . You have to decide what you want to listen to and who you want to watch , because virtually every character in the frame at any given moment is doing or saying something that's no less important than what some other character is doing or saying . But don't be fooled . Altman may have claimed innocence in imposing any kind of directorial hand on his material , but his films are as craftily constructed as any other . " MASH " begins with a montage of wounded soldiers being delivered to the medical unit for treatment , and one of the last shots of the film shows a dead body wrapped in a bright white sheet being driven through the MASH unit while in the foreground a group of doctors play cards , pausing only momentarily to glance at the sight . The message is clear . This casual framing approach that in a sense brings the story back to where we started tells us that there is an organizing principle to the lunacy and madness , and that principle is death . " MASH " feels more like an adaptation of Joseph Heller's novel " Catch-22 " than the Mike Nichols film that was actually based on the book , which ironically came out the same year as " MASH . " And I have to say that , unlike many other films that lose their lustre after many years and many viewings , " MASH " gets funnier every time I see it . I think there are better Altman films , and more important ones , but few are are such damn fun .
A Little Slow , But Effectively Creepy	This screen adaptation of the Oscar Wilde novel has style and atmosphere to spare , but it's also a bit slow and ponderous . Hurd Hatfield is perfectly cast as Dorian Gray , an English dandy who's terrified of losing his youth and unwittingly enters into some sort of supernatural pact - - he will never change , while a portrait of him painted by an artist friend will show all the sins and evils that Dorian gives himself over to in his pursuit of selfish pleasure . Albert Lewin provides meticulous direction , using deep-focus compositions in a way that makes Dorian's environment as much a character in the film as any of the living people , and also using color in a couple of clever shock moments for effect . But if he succeeds in creating an air of enigma around the story , the price he pays is that the film moves along rather sluggishly at times . George Sanders appears as another dandy friend of Dorian who's chiefly responsible for encouraging Dorian to give up his morals and embark on a life of debauchery . He's thoroughly aggravating , which no doubt is what the character called for , but doesn't make him any less annoying to deal with . Angela Lansbury has a brief role as one of Dorian's conquests who he carelessly tosses aside . And Donna Reed looks lovely but struggles with an undeveloped role as the love of Dorian's life . I'm not sure how that relationship is dealt with in Wilde's novel , but in the film not nearly enough time is devoted to it and so it comes off as unconvincing . Combine the period Gothic trappings of " Gaslight " with the themes of material obsession in " Laura " and you'll have a good idea of what to expect with " The Picture of Dorian Gray . "
JoBeth Williams Could Be My Mom Anytime	JoBeth Williams made one of the sexiest moms in history in this funhouse chiller from Tobe Hooper and Steven Spielberg . I was all of seven years old when this movie came out , and the image of her in panties and an over-sized t-shirt gave my young mind plenty of fantasy material . Ahem . . . . oh yeah , and there are ghosts in this movie too . Plenty of them . They come in the form of trees that eat people , possessed and evil stuffed clowns and dead , decomposing bodies that come barreling up through your kitchen linoleum . All of the special effects are pretty nifty , and hold up well considering the film's age . And there's a terrific score from Jerry Goldsmith . The whole thing feels much more like a Spielberg film than a Tobe Hooper film , and many suspect that Spielberg played a much larger role in directing it than has ever been admitted .
Bourne's Back in Business	Bourne is back . Jason Bourne , contentedly hiding out with his girl ( again played by Franka Potente ) , dives back into action when a hit-man comes calling . Turns out Bourne has been framed in the killing of two CIA operatives , and getting rid of him would mean the CIA would be left with no suspects . But of course Bourne can't be brought down by a mere assassin , and the rest of the movie is another virtually non-stop string of action set pieces , culminating in perhaps the most amazing car chase sequence I've ever seen . Director Paul Greengrass could film a bar mitzvah and make it exciting - - his films are edited to within an inch of their lives , but somehow his herky-jerky camera-work and lightspeed cutting never become distracting , as they would in the hands of someone else . He has a nearly genius ability to choreograph action so that we're always seeing whatever we need to see when we need to see it , despite whatever else is going on at the same time . The Bourne movies maybe aren't lasting masterpieces , but they're small classics in their genre . Since Chris Cooper copped out at the end of the last one , Joan Allen steps in as the lead CIA agent on Bourne's trail , and she does a good job of looking hot and pensive at the same time .
Admired It , But Wasn't Overwhelmed By It	Clint Eastwood's " Letters from Iwo Jima " is a sober , haunting film , filled with striking images that I thought as I was watching the movie would stick with me longer than they did . I found myself admiring the movie very much , but not feeling greatly passionate about it one way or the other . It didn't resonate with me the way other films this year - - like " Children of Men , " for instance , or " Little Children " - - have . I think much of my reaction is due to the fact that Eastwood wants so clearly to make " great " films . He's a modern day John Ford or George Stevens - - he works with traditionally American subjects and in American genres ( even if , as in " Letters , " the point of view is not American ) , but like those directors , his desire to make films that people will remember him by sometimes infuses them with a formality that's hard to warm to . So it is with this film . One must give Eastwood credit , though , for embarking upon such a daring venture . Only someone with his clout could make a major studio film in a foreign language that asks us to sympathize with America's enemies in one of the world's largest calamities . And he does so without any sentimentality or bombast ; had Steven Spielberg made this movie , the results would likely have been unbearable . But Eastwood has a matter-of-fact quality to his storytelling , and mostly trusts his story to tell itself without forcing it on us with a heavy directorial hand . Even the film's visual pallet is subdued . Everything is a washed out brown and gray , and some scenes , notably the ones that take place deep in the caves in which the Japanese hide themselves , could be in black and white and look no different . The film is terribly sad - - the message that comes through more than any other is the hopeless waste of war . The Japanese don't stand a chance at beating the Americans on Iwo Jima , but they fight to the death , for dying is more noble than surrendering . The film reminds us that people don't fight wars ; governments fight wars , and people get dragged along behind to do their government's dirty work . " Letters from Iwo Jima " reminded me somewhat of " The Thin Red Line " in the way that it tells its story ( though I think " Red Line " is a better movie ) . It's ruminative and deeply psychological . Eastwood avoids the tendency of many war films to present us with a batch of interchangeable " types . " We understand what these men are thinking and feeling , and we understand what they've left behind , so that when they die , we care that they're gone . I have not seen " Flags of Our Fathers " yet , but wonder how that film will change my appreciation of this one . While I liked " Letters from Iwo Jima " very much , I wasn't overwhelmed by it . Perhaps the two films are better when taken together as a whole than either is by itself .
Peter Jackson Before " Lord of the Rings "	Before he was known for the " Lord of the Rings " trilogy , Peter Jackson made this fascinating movie about two friends who submerge themselves in a fantasy world of their own creation with horrifying results . I know I'm in the minority , but I wish Jackson would go back to making movies like this . His love of special effects is clear even in this film , but the effects work at the service of a story about actual people living in the actual world , and the results are far more compelling than anything to be found in all 50 hours of the " Rings " trilogy . Before she was a household name , Kate Winslet appeared in this , and gave a marvelous performance .
Bosom Buddies	The ultimate " buddy " movie . Buddy movies were all over the place in 1969 in various guises - - this , " Midnight Cowboy , " " The Wild Bunch , " " Easy Rider . " " Butch Cassidy " is the lightest and most accessible of these - - for that reason , I don't think it's as interesting to look at now as these other movies are . But it does serve up a dose of good old-fashioned Hollywood film-making , and in Paul Newman and Robert Redford , it presented audiences with a cinema duo as memorable as that of Laurel and Hardy or Abbott and Costello , or if you prefer a more contemporary example , Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau , who had manufactured a similar screen chemistry the year before in " The Odd Couple . " " Butch and Sundance " is mostly a nostalgic comedy , harking back to the glory days of screen westerns . But for all its levity , there is something dark about it that's hard to describe . Butch and Sundance are anti-heroes in the same way that Bonnie and Clyde were in Arthur Penn's brilliant film - - they've got the glamour of Hollywood movie stars , but their doom is sealed from the second the film starts , and because they're so likable and charismatic , it makes it that much more upsetting to see them destroyed . Like Bonnie and Clyde , Butch and Sundance find themselves unable to exist in a world intent on their destruction - - in this way , the film comments both on the death of the traditional western , and on the alienated restlessness of an entire younger generation that was beginning to make itself heard in American cinema . Also starring Katharine Ross as the third point in a love triangle , and featuring one of the best film songs ever recorded , " Raindrops Keep Falling on My Head , " which accompanies Paul Newman as he shows off for Ross on a bicycle in one of the movie's highlights .
Is That a Flashlight in Your Pocket ? . . . .	" The Crying Game " was quite a sensation back in 1992 , and all anybody could talk about in connection with the movie was its big twist . I knew about the twist in advance of seeing the film , so I was able to concentrate on the rest of the story , and it's quite a good one . Neil Jordan crafted a slick little IRA thriller with a dusting of modern-day noir , and the film scores on both the levels of plot and character . Stephen Rea and Jaye Davidson received Oscar nominations for their performances ( whatever happened to either of them ? ) , while Forest Whitaker and Miranda Richardson ( who had quite a prolific year in 1992 ) deliver solid turns as well .
Highly Intelligent Look Into the Mind of an Artist	The recent onslaught of bland , paint-by-number Hollywood biopics may leave you completely disinterested in seeing " Capote , " the new film about eccentric author Truman Capote , directed by Bennett Miller and starring the chameleon Philip Seymour Hoffman . I hope you will reconsider if that is the case . " Capote " is not a biopic in the style of last year's overrated " Ray " - - - show childhood of celebrity ( ideally working in some liberal doses of strife or abuse if possible ) , show scrappy rise of celebrity from modest beginnings , show celebrity reach peak status , show celebrity self-destruct ( usually due to drugs and / or alcohol ) , show celebrity hit rock-bottom , show celebrity seek peace and affirmation , and end on fuzzy , heart-warming scene in which celebrity is honored with a standing ovation as the soundtrack music swells . " Capote " is not that kind of film . In fact , " Capote " is not really about the life of Truman Capote , but rather is about the chain of events that led to Capote writing the book for which he is best known , " In Cold Blood . " This is perhaps the most intelligent film I've ever seen about the relationship between an artist / journalist and the subject about which he is writing . The movie asks : how morally responsible is a writer for his subject ? As depicted in this film , Capote becomes fascinated by a brutal crime in a tiny Kansas town , in which two men brutally murdered an entire family because they thought a large amount of money was hidden in the house . As he spends a great deal of time with one of the men ( Perry Smith ) and begins to piece together his story , he becomes personally interested in helping him fight his case ; eventually , however , Capote's desire to write a work of art overrides the personal interest he's taken in Perry Smith , and he leaves the prisoner clinging to a false hope that Capote is bringing the " true " story ( that is , the story of the men's innocence , though they're not innocent ) to the world . Miller's film is unflinching in its portrayal of Capote as a selfish artist who plays with the lives of his creations ; it's as if he's become so used to writing fiction that he forgets he is telling the story of real people , and moreover real people who trust him to have their best interests at heart . Hoffman has been great in just about every movie he's appeared in , so it was no surprise to me that he would be great here as well . His performance is more than a mere impersonation . He is so good at showing the audience the two sides of Capote : the endearing , lovable side that make people want to trust him ; and the cold , manipulative side that takes over when he becomes Capote the artist . It's to Hoffman's credit that you don't leave the film necessarily despising Capote for his actions , but neither do you feel like you've just participated in a two-hour session of hero worship . Catherine Keener drabs down to play novelist Harper Lee ; Clifton Collins , Jr . is soft and articulate as Perry Smith , which makes his final confession of the murders all the more chilling ; and Chris Cooper adds another fine character performance to his list of character performances as head of the Holcomb , Kansas police department , leading the investigation . My only problem with the film is its monotonous pacing . I feel like the film makers wanted so hard to avoid any of the artificial traditional Hollywood trappings that they felt any burst of energy or activity would be betraying the film's realism . " Capote " is a fine addition to the genre of films committed to exploring the motivations that drive artists , and Hoffman may finally get his due from the mainstream establishment for his award-worthy performance .
Any Other Classics You'd Care to Adapt , Mr . Scorsese ?	Take THAT Merchant and Ivory ! THIS is the way to do a literary adaptation . Martin Scorsese , never one to fear boldness , tackles Edith Wharton's classic and revels in its sumptuous excess . The production and costume design alone are worth the price of admission , but Scorsese does Wharton's themes and characterizations justice as well . That most chameleonic of chameleon actors Daniel Day-Lewis is perhaps a bit too old for his role , but Day-Lewis can do anything and he's great here . Michelle Pfeiffer's natural coldness as an actress serves her well in this particular role . And even Winona Ryder outfits herself well in a smaller but crucial role , even if her contemporary accent and mannerisms are out of place in a period piece . Well done , Mr . Scorsese .
When Hitchcock Comes to Middle America	It's been reported that the primary appeal of doing " Shadow of a Doubt " for Alfred Hitchcock was the idea of bringing a sense of menace to a small , every day American town . In that , this movie brilliantly succeeds . It doesn't join " Rear Window " or " Psycho " as one of my favorite Hitchcock films , but it has much to recommend it . Joseph Cotten didn't get many chances to play a sinister villain , but he's very good at it . His natural ease and charm work to his advantage in creating a smarmy character who you're never completely sure about . He has a lot of chemistry with Teresa Wright , who plays his niece and supposedly has a closer than normal connection with him . In fact , in typical Hitchcock fashion , their relationship in the early scenes of this film takes on a sort of creepy romantic quality that's never overtly addressed but is always there as subtext . As Wright begins to suspect that her Uncle Charlie might not be such a great guy after all - - and may in fact be much worse than simply not a great guy - - the balance of power shifts and she begins to play against him . One of the things I liked most about this movie was how strong a character Wright's Charlie is allowed to be . She's not a ninny , like a character in her situation would be in any number of other films . She doesn't swoon , cry and squeal helplessly . After Uncle Charlie tries to kill her by locking her in a garage with a running car , and she comes to looking directly into his face , she doesn't bite her knuckles as you might expect , but rather says with a cold hard determination , " Go away . " It's very effective , and the whole movie is like that . It has a great supporting cast , both well cast and acted . There's not a throwaway character among the bunch , and everyone makes much of varying sized roles . Patricia Collinge is a stand out as Uncle Charlie's sister , whose radar is going off even as she doesn't want to believe anything sinister can be happening . Henry Travers is the father of the family . . . his attitudes toward Charlie change after he comes to the bank where he works and makes inappropriate jokes . It wasn't until the end credits that I even realized who Hume Cronyn was playing ; I've never seen him so young . " Shadow of a Doubt " isn't as obviously distinguished visually as other Hitchcock films , but it bears his unmistakable mark nonetheless . There aren't as many shots you come away from the film remembering as there are in , say , " Rear Window . " But the whole thing has the feeling of being completely controlled from beginning to end . I really liked the way small-town America was portrayed in this film . It's not full of a bunch of rubes who say things like " aw shucks " and do silly things for us to laugh at . Hitchcock is skillful at showing the contrast between the small-town life of young Charlie's family and Uncle Charlie's jaded big-city life of crime . But he doesn't condescend or patronize . If you want to see higher-tier Hitchcock , you could do much worse than this film . It's got an engaging story , wonderful acting and complex characters , and a few scenes that qualify as genuine nail biters . Very good !
Excellent Film ? Yes . Scorsese's Masterpiece ? No .	I'm resistant to the many claims that " Raging Bull " is Scorsese's masterpiece . It's certainly excellent , but I think at least two of Scorsese's films on either side of this one - - " Taxi Driver " and " King of Comedy " - - are better . Robert De Niro is truly impressive as Jake LaMotta , but , as so often happens with these biopics , the character he's given to play isn't all that interesting . Once he establishes that LaMotta was a boorish , abusive lout , the character has nowhere to go , and when I hear people praise De Niro's performance now , I almost always hear them talking about the weight he gained to play the role , not the performance itself . Joe Pesci gives the performance to watch in this film as La Motta's bullied little brother . He brings the film whatever emotional center it has . And Scorsese , who can sometimes do wonders with female characters , doesn't do so here ; Cathy Moriarty's put-upon wife is window dressing . What the movie does do well is provide a pitch-perfect illustration of what the American dream is to some people and what they're willing to sacrifice on the way to attaining it , and it does so with sterling black and white cinematography and cracker jack editing from Scorsese's long-time collaborator , Thelma Schoonmaker .
Spooky and Stylish Early Coen Brothers	This early Coen brothers film shows what they can do when they're at the top of their game . This juicy noirish thriller has atmosphere and style to spare , with good performances from a handful of unconventional actors , notably Dan Hedaya , who makes a great bad guy , and Frances McDormand , who of course has gone on to become a Coen regular . " Blood Simple " introduced one of the thematic obsessions that have fueled some of the Coen brothers ' best later movies , like " Fargo " and " No Country for Old Men " : what kinds of unspeakable things are going on out there in the middle of the American nowhere when no one is around to see them ?
A Charming and Truly Suspenseful Little Gothic Thriller	Nina Foch delivers a surprisingly strong performance as the title character in this fun little Gothic nail-biter . She accepts a position as secretary to a London society dowager ( played imperiously by Dame May Witty ) and her creepy son ( the effete and bothersome George Macready ) . Before she knows it , she awakens to find herself in a seaside manor she's never seen before , where Witty and Macready are calling her Marian and trying to convince the servants and the nearby townspeople that she's Macready's mad wife . Of course this pair can only be planning dastardly deeds , and even though we know Julia has to eventually escape her trap , director Joseph Lewis builds real suspense in answering the question of just how she'll manage it . " My Name Is Julia Ross " has nothing stylistically to set it apart from any number of films that came out at the same time period , but I was surprised by how well it held together despite its shoe-string budget and B-movie pedigree . There are quite a few moments that just may have you on the edge of your seat , and I found myself really rooting for Julia as she caught on to the scheme underfoot and began to outsmart her captors . In any other Gothic thriller , the heroine would have swooned , screamed and dithered , waiting for her hero to come and save her . So I can't tell you how refreshing it was to have the heroine in this film use her brain and figure out how to save herself . Well done .
The Coen Brothers Flirt with Gangsters	A terrific gangster film from the Coen brothers , set in the 1930s worlds of nightclubs and professional hit men . Gabriel Byrne is the lead in this one , and he gives a solid performance as a man who we're never quite sure we have figured out . But this film is more about style and atmosphere than it is about people and actors . The Coen brothers seem to be as interested in exploring the gangster film genre as they do in making a strict gangster movie , and it has a stylized look to it that lends it the air of the abstract . These aren't complaints though . The film looks tremendous , and it's art directed to the hilt .
Did You Hear the One About Danny Rose ? . . . .	A pretty funny Woody Allen comedy , in which Allen himself plays Danny Rose , small-time talent agent who finds himself falling for the mistress ( Mia Farrow ) of one of his clients ( Nick Apollo Forte ) when he has to pretend to be the mistress's date at one of his client's shows ( it's a long story ) . Before long , Allen and Farrow are engaged in an escape from a gang of hoods that climaxes in a shootout in the storage warehouse for the Macy's Thanksgiving Day parade . Allen is hilarious as usual , but Farrow is the one who impressed me with her acting here . I already knew she was a fine dramatic actress , but here she gets to show her comedic side , playing a brassy floozy with a Joisy accent and enormous glasses . The film is framed as a story one famous comedian is telling to a group of other famous comedians at New York City's Carnegie Deli , and the whole film has the patina of nostalgia for NYC that so often infuses Allen's films . Like " Manhattan , " " Broadway Danny Rose " is filmed in black and white and looks fantastic .
Great Film Only Slightly Marred by Hokey Ending	In " The Wrestler , " Mickey Rourke finds himself matched with the perfect role at the perfect moment in his career , and gives a performance that makes you wonder why he waited this long to show the world how good an actor he can be . Rourke plays Randy the Ram Robinson ( real name Robin , but don't call him that ) , a professional wrestling has-been , relegated to third-tier matches in out-of-the-way towns , attended by a smattering of fans who still remember who he is . After a particularly brutal and gimmicky match involving barbed wire , glass and a nail gun , he suffers a heart attack and undergoes bypass surgery . Faced with the prospect of not ever being able to wrestle again ( which to that point has been his whole life ) , he decides to reconnect with his estranged daughter ( Evan Rachel Wood , effective in a few brief scenes ) and makes romantic overtures to a woman who works at his favorite strip joint ( Marisa Tomei ) . Much of " The Wrestler " feels like a documentary about the behind-the-scenes workings of professional wrestling , or more accurately , about what happens to professional wrestlers after they're spit out of the entertainment mill . We see Randy locked out of his trailer when he can't muster the rent and begging for more hours at the supermarket where he works . He's the Norma Desmond of the wrestling world , waiting patiently at autograph signings barely attended by anybody , carting around VHS tapes of his professional highlights to sell to anyone who might still actually own a VCR . He's a relic from the 1980s , as illustrated in a wonderful scene in which he and Tomei discuss those good ' ol days and the great bands they produced , until Kurt Cobain came along and ruined everything . Rourke plays Randy as a gentle giant , whose tender and warm way with people belies his fierce professional persona . He gives a marvelous performance , achingly sad but not maudlin . This is pretty much his movie entirely ; Tomei and Wood each get a few moments to shine , but Rourke holds the screen and doesn't let it go . The only thing that marred this movie for me was its ending . Most of the movie is completely lacking any of the phony Hollywood trappings that mar so many other movies . Therefore , the " Rocky " - style ending , with Randy's true love racing the clock to get to his match on time , and us left wondering whether or not he's going to drop dead of a heart attack right in the middle of his big moment , felt like a cheat . But otherwise , this is one of the better movies I've seen this year .
Joan Crawford Steals the Show	Movies like " Grand Hotel " were to the 30's what disaster movies were to the 70's : all-star , fluffy escapist entertainment unabashedly aiming for box office success . But " Grand Hotel " shouldn't be dismissed for those reasons . It is fluffy to be sure , but it also happens to be wildly entertaining , so I guess you can call it a supreme success as it does exactly what it sets out to do . A bevy of big , big stars - - Lionel and John Barrymore ( where was Ethel ? ) , Greta Garbo , Wallace Beery and a young Joan Crawford ( before she turned scary ) - - act up a storm in this glorified soap opera that takes place solely in the eponymous hotel . Barely a melodramatic plot twist is left unturned . So what if much of the plot is laugh inducing , and so what if half the cast seems to think they're still acting in silent film . Best not to take too critical an eye with this one and just enjoy the goings on . Joan Crawford pulls the rug out from under every other cast member and walks away with this film ; indeed , she's so good , she seems to be acting in a completely different movie . And she's actually pretty , the one and only time I can make that accusation in regards to her . Wallace Beery walks around speaking with a guttural German accent and looking grumpy ; don't feel too bad for him , though , since he won an Oscar that year ( albeit for a different movie ) to cheer himself up . John Barrymore is as animated as a tree stump , but he skates by on his matinée idol looks anyway . Words cannot describe the level of atrocity to which Greta Garbo sinks , however . She's putrid ( capital " P " , capital " U " , capital " Trid " ) as a dying ballerina ( or something ) and acts like she's starring in her high school play . Garbo's allure has always escaped me ; I just don't get what's so great about her . With that deep voice and those broad shoulders , I'm still not sure she wasn't secretly a man , though in that case I would have to rethink my thoughts about her acting ability . The set for " Grand Hotel " is its most valuable asset . Before the days of sophisticated cinema trickery , this set had to have been quite an achievement . It's enormous and detailed , and director Edmund Goulding makes great use of it , sending his camera soaring around its interior . You'll have a lot of fun with this one , especially if you like to make fun of Greta Garbo , and especially if you don't believe there ever was a time when Joan Crawford wasn't frightening .
Pitt the Major Flaw in This Otherwise Strange and Beautiful Western	2007 is shaping up to be the year of the Western revival . There's not much need of a plot summary for " The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford , " because it's all right there in the title . And there's not much plot to summarize anyway . This is a movie more interested in character than plot and more interested really in aesthetics than character , and it's a strangely fascinating film . It's certainly one of the most beautiful films I've seen in a long time . The young actor Casey Affleck is a revelation as James's assassin . His Robert Ford is awkward and stammering , whose appearance and behavior leads people to believe he's dumber than he is . His idolatry of Jesse James is fueled by the dime novels he collects and in which James so frequently appears . The character as written is somewhat obtuse ; I'm not sure I completely ever understood what makes Ford turn on James , or when the change in his feeling occurs . But Affleck does wonders with what he's given to work with and gives one of the best performances I've seen thus far in the year . Unfortunately , at the film's center is Brad Pitt , and he creates a vacuum which the film succeeds in spite of rather than being dragged down by . Pitt is simply not a good actor , but his good looks and sheen of Hollywood glamour will assure that film makers keep giving him starring roles . I kept thinking about Russell Crowe's marvelous performance as an outlaw in " 3 : 10 to Yuma " and couldn't help but wonder how much better this film would have been if Crowe had been cast instead . Pitt doesn't sink the film , because the cast he's surrounded by does such good work ( in addition to Affleck , Sam Rockwell is a stand out as Robert Ford's older brother ) , but he prevents it from being even better than it otherwise could be . Some may be turned off by the film's formality ; virtually every shot looks like a carefully composed photograph . But I thought the film's tone and visual style matched the subject . After all , we're talking about a legendary figure here , someone who's as much myth as man , so why not give the movie the imprint of myth as well ? " Jesse James " isn't much interested in ideas , though I think it wants to be . Only in the movie's final moments , after Ford has assassinated James and then suffers the harassment of a public that decides to idolize James in his death and deride Ford as a coward , does the film toy with the question of what distinguishes a hero from a villain . It doesn't come to any conclusions , and because of Pitt's inadequate performance , it never explains why James was able to make himself into a legend while Ford died a figure of infamy . But I was willing to let the film's sheer physical beauty and fine supporting cast sweep me along with them and cause me to not care too much about anything else .
The Muppets Take Big Ben	Anglophile that I am , I love " The Great Muppet Caper , " and think I might like it even more than the original " Muppet Movie . " The gang find themselves foiling the plot of a group of crack diamond thieves led by Charles Grodin , and it's a hoot to watch the slick , professional thieves ' preparations and actions juxtaposed to the loud , crude antics of the Muppets . There's a pretty funny musical number that finds Miss Piggy ripping off Esther Williams , and another lovely song performed while the entire group goes bike riding . Long before the days of jacked up special effects when anything can be done using a computer , I remember being astounded by the fact that this special effects team could make the Muppets ride bicycles . Ah , what a more innocent time . . . .
Testing the Boundaries of Propriety with Merchant / Ivory	Very well done Merchant / Ivory adaptation of the Kazuo Ishiguro novel . People remember Anthony Hopkins for playing Hannibal Lecter , but it's performances like the one he gives here that prove how masterful an actor he can be . He plays an English butler who prides himself on his absolute servility and adherence to the codes of decorum and propriety , but who begins to sense a crack in his world when it becomes apparent that those he serves are Nazi sympathizers . Emma Thompson plays an outgoing housekeeper who falls in love with him and tries to break through his icy exterior . Hopkins and Thompson had of course worked together the year before on " Howards End , " so they were a natural choice for this film . Thopmson does an admirable job , but her character exists more as a plot device , and it's Hopkins who gives the fascinating characterization . Of the Merchant / Ivory productions I've seen , I'd probably have to say that this one is the best .
Don't Be Fooled	Don't let people convince you that " Freaks " is a horror movie , because it isn't . It's actually a quite sad and sympathetic look at the way abnormalities were treated in the early part of the 20th century , and has direct parallels to the obsession with physical perfection causing eating disorders today . Tod Browning of course asks us to consider who are the bigger freaks : those with deformed bodies or those with deformed souls ? The two " normal " people who are out to cheat and steal are monstrous , whereas the freaks are quite likable and charming . The ending is disturbing to be sure , but it's hard to condemn the freaks for acts that seem largely justified . Is it a coincidence that in several shots showing Cleopatra reclining on a sofa , she appears to be deformed herself ( in one shot it looks as if she has no legs ) . Has anybody else noticed this ? " Freaks " was obviously way ahead of its time . There's a very interesting documentary on the DVD about its reception in 1932 ; it bombed and pretty much ruined Browning's career . Thank God that the general public is not allowed to be the final arbiter of a film's value . Think how many priceless films we would have lost by now if that were the case .
A Goofball Charmer of a Movie	This film is a blast . It's completely unmemorable , but in this case , that's a compliment , because it's unmemorable for really good reasons . It's just silliness , without any big themes or points to ponder , and it's airy and breezy and goofy , like watching an utterly insubstantial but extremely well made sitcom . Alec Guinness and Stanley Holloway make a crackerjack comic pair , and their bumblings and pratfalls will make you continuously chuckle if not laugh out loud . " The Lavender Hill Mob " is like cotton candy : it dissolves immediately upon contact , but it sure is enjoyable while it lasts .
A Zany Harold Lloyd Short	In this Harold Lloyd comedy short , Lloyd plays one of many suitors wooing a rich girl with a very busy father . In order to win her hand , they have to get her father's permission first - - if they can even get an appointment to see him , that is . This funny film is chock-full of physical pratfalls and sight gags . Lloyd storms the father's office , determined to talk to him at all costs , even if he has to don a suit of armor , impersonate a rampaging suffragette and out smart any number of office booby traps , not the least of which is a movable walk way that sends unwanted visitors sailing out the door . I loved the ending of this movie too . Let's just say that things aren't always worth the effort it takes to obtain them .
Took Me By Surprise	This film blew me out of the water . I was expecting an amiable , slight comedy , serving more than anything else as a launching pad for Katie Holmes's career into the Hollywood big time . But instead , this movie is a substantive and very moving story about a young girl who desperately wants to make a nice Thanksgiving dinner for a family from whom she feels somewhat estranged . It's extremely warm but extremely sad , and left me with a huge lump in my throat . Katie Holmes is winning and sweet as April , and whether or not you like Holmes , I bet you'll be rooting for her by the film's end . For one day , her whole world becomes about planning one successful dinner party , and her lack of skill forces her to fall back on the kindness of neighbors she's never taken the time to meet . Meanwhile , her family ( mother , father , brother and snotty sister ) are on their way into the city to April's apartment , whining and complaining about having to visit a crummy part of town and missing no opportunity to criticize April , while trying to ignore the white elephant in the room , the fact that their mom has cancer and may not live to see another holiday . Of course , the conversations they have with each other communicate heaps of back story and clue us in to the family dynamic , and we learn that April's biggest critic , her mom , also happens to be the most like her daughter . Patricia Clarkson has become one of my favorite actresses , and her Academy Award nomination for her performance as the mom in this film was richly deserved ( I think she should have won ) . She beautifully plays this role with just the right amount of sarcasm and wit to prevent the movie from ever getting bogged down in sentimentality . When she finally is reunited with April at the very end , what could have been an icky , maudlin ending instead knocked the wind out of me with its simplicity and honest emotion . " Pieces of April " just feels like one of those movies that is based on actual events in the life of its writer or director . It's full of tiny details of behavior that make the characters feel completely authentic , rather than creations . And there's a total understanding on everybody's part of the dynamics at play in a family that doesn't always get along and of that tendency of families facing some sort of crisis to latch on to one thing that's pretty mundane in order to avoid dealing with something else that is too big for the individual family members to deal with on its own .
Soap Opera with Superb Acting	A high-brow soap opera , but an awfully good one . Meryl Streep delivers an absolutely heartbreaking performance as Sophie , a woman who was forced to make a terrible choice during WWII that haunts her for the rest of her life . The choice is so horrific it can't even be comprehended ; therefore , it's a bit tacky that it's used as one of those last-minute plot reveals to make an emotional impact . Streep's performance , though , is never tacky - - it's deeply sincere . Kevin Kline , of all people , delivers a frightening performance as Sophie's abusive boyfriend . It's hard to reconcile the Kevin Kline in this film with the one who would play such nutty characters in later films . Even if you're resistant to the film's melodramatic pandering , it's hard not to be moved by it .
Forgotten Thriller Is a Lot of Fun	A nifty little thriller that has lawyer Edmond O'Brien hired as bodyguard for business tycoon Vincent Price . Of course it doesn't take a detective to figure out that someone is setting someone else up , nor does it take a college diploma to figure out who those someones might be . Still , the cast ( which also includes Ella Raines and William Bendix ) is obviously enjoying themselves here , and if they're not going to take things too seriously , why should you ? It's best not to think too hard about the plot developments ( like why would a tycoon hire a lawyer to be his bodyguard in the first place ? ) and just enjoy the slick ride .
An Existential Comedy ? Yep .	David O . Russell belongs with the recent new generation of film directors who are bringing a hipper , edgier sensibility to modern movies . I'm thinking of Paul Thomas Anderson , Wes Anderson , Darren Aronofsky and Alexander Payne , to name a few . His films are at least as good as many of the films by this group , but I feel he's still being underrated by the film community . " I Heart Huckabees " delivers on its promise to be an existential comedy . It's certainly not for everybody's tastes , as is illustrated by a quick scroll through the existing comments here . But if you're of the right mentality and are watching this movie in the right frame of mind , it's wonderful . Russell brings together a top-notch cast and lets them go to town with the material . The film is Altmanesque in its tendency to let its ensemble run rampant through the compositions , and the viewer must decide on which part of any given shot he's going to place his focus . I guess others may feel this is chaotic and scattershot , which it kind of is . But it fits the material perfectly , since this movie is about a group of people who are struggling with whether or not their lives have any significance in a potentially anarchic universe . Russell doesn't really bring any new insight into the whole existential debate , that's true . But he also avoids heavy-handed treatment of the material . It's as if he realizes that so many " serious " attempts have been made at investigating the existential crisis in film and literature that the only thing left is to make fun of it . He pokes fun expertly , but not without also drawing some poignant conclusions . And now for the cast : what a terrific ensemble Russell collected for this film . Lily Tomlin and Dustin Hoffman nearly hijack the movie with their pitch-perfect comedic performances . They walk through the film simultaneously aware of nothing and everything going on around them . Mark Wahlberg is turning into a fine actor , and he's hilarious here as a fireman who is questioning the meaning of his existence in the wake of . Jude Law and Naomi Watts are a yuppie couple whose relationship unravels as they realize the material comforts they've padded their lives with can't protect them from the doubts they have about themselves . And Jason Schwartzman is perfect as the anchor of the film , young , neurotic , annoying and lovable , all at the same time . " I Heart Huckabees " is truly original , so if it doesn't always work , it gets a break from me for trying to be something different . It joins " Flirting with Disaster " and " Three Kings " as a list of Russell projects that have been wrongfully ignored . Here's hoping the film community starts making things up to him and fast .
Unpredictable Plot Twists Highlight This Mystery Thriller	Though it's listed here at IMDb as " Taste of Fear , " the version I saw was titled " Scream of Fear . " Either way , it's a generic title for what is actually a rather stylish little mystery thriller . Susan Strasberg plays a wheelchair-bound accident victim who comes to stay with her father and his new wife at their French country manor . She begins to suspect the worst of her step-mother and her doctor friend ( played by Christopher Lee ) , believing that they have killed her father and are trying to drive her insane , thus rendering her incompetent and ensuring that his estate will pass to the step-mother . But don't worry - - this rather predictable set up gets a few jolts of surprise with some clever plot twists late into the film . And the film makes the most of its small budget - - the black and white cinematography is executed well and creates a lot of moody atmosphere .
Molly Shannon Surprises in a Small But Very Strong Film	Anyone who's ever felt an activist instinct - - even a mild one - - should be able to relate to " Year of the Dog . " Molly Shannon , in an impressive display of dramatic acting ability , gives a fearlessly unflattering performance as Peggy , a woman whose life unravels when her beloved dog dies . Socially , Peggy is insecure and inept , and when the energies she used to put into her pet are redirected at the human world around her , things go badly wrong . A number of famous actors pop up in supporting roles , playing people who only serve to reinforce to Peggy how different she is and how badly she fits in . Laura Dern is her type-A supermom sister-in-law , who won't let her kids get a dog because of her fear of allergies ; John C . Reilly is a next-door neighbor whose love of hunting serves as a catalyst for some of Peggy's most anti-social behavior ; Peter Saarsgard is a volunteer for an animal rescue shelter whom Peggy would like to like but who doesn't like her back ; Regina King is a fellow co-worker who acts as the closest thing to a confidant Peggy has . " Year of the Dog " is surprisingly meaty , and it makes a lot of interesting observations about people who believe in causes and the need for those people to be wary of the line between staying committed to their beliefs and trying to force their beliefs on others . Peggy isn't very likable for much of the movie , but Shannon lets us see that she's a deeply good person who's in the wrong environment . One of my favorite aspects of the movie is the ending . Peggy decides to devote herself to animal rights activism , and the last time we see her , she's on a bus with fellow advocates traveling somewhere to forward their cause . I was pleased that the movie wasn't condescending to her character , and didn't suggest that all she needed in order to be " normal " was a boyfriend and a makeover . Instead of changing herself to fit in with those around her , Peggy finds people who understand her the way she is . That to me is one of the most positive messages I've seen in a movie this year .
A Sleeper Hit	" Serenity " is one of those movies that flies in under the radar , quietly plays out its theatrical run , and then slowly but surely builds a solid base of fans and praise until sheer curiosity compels you to see it . I think it's based on something I'm not familiar with : a t . v . show or comic book series or something . And I'm not even a sci-fi / fantasy fan . I CAN enjoy sci-fi , but it has to be of a certain kind . Well , " Serenity " is that kind , and I had a lot of fun with it . It's greatest asset as a sci-fi movie is its sense of humour and its refusal to take itself too seriously . Just when things get too geeky or intense , there's a throw-away line or bit of physical comedy tossed in to help you regain your bearings . And the main hero ( a Han Solo type ) speaks with a strange old cowboy movie dialect ( " darlin ' " ) that takes a while to get used to but adds a sense of fun and silliness once you do . " Serenity " has an attractive cast with a lot of chemistry between them . And unlike other sci-fi stories , the characters here go beyond simple types easily summarized with a word or two , and instead become full-bodied personalities that you care about , so that when they're put in dangerous situations , you have something vested in what happens to them . The special effects are fine , but they're not what you come away from the movie remembering , which is a compliment . For once , spectacle doesn't drown story .
Memorable Direction Distinguishes This Standard B Flick	Alfred Werker is credited with directing this cross between a docu-drama police procedural and a crime thriller noir , but annals have it that Anthony Mann was the film's true director . Whatever the case , the direction is one of the most distinguished things about this movie , which looks spectacular and has all sorts of memorable moments , not the least of which is a climactic chase in a sewer that instantly brings to mind Carol Reed's " The Third Man " from two years later . Richard Basehart is the villain in this one , and it's fun to see him give himself so completely over to a nasty role , that of an armed robber who will kill if he has to . Jack Webb has a small role as a forensics expert , and one of the film's most interesting scenes is one in which he uses the feedback from an assembly of Basehart's victims to reconstruct a picture of what their unknown suspect looks like . The movie is better as individual pieces than it is as a whole - - there's not a whole lot of cohesion to the script , and it just abruptly ends without much conclusion , but for lovers of the genre it's fun none the less .
1979's Answer to " Little Miss Sunshine "	One of those " little films that could , " " Breaking Away " is a competitive cycling version of " Little Miss Sunshine " : a group of lovable underdogs go up against the rich privileged kids and you want to see them win with all your heart . It's low key and unambitious , but breezy and utterly enjoyable . A bunch of actors who would later become regular faces - - like Dennis Quaid , Daniel Stern and Jackie Earle Haley - - appear looking impossibly young , and the wonderful actor Paul Dooley , along with Barbara Barrie ( Oscar-nominated ) do nice work as a mom and dad . Instead of the original score or pop songs you might expect on the soundtrack , the film is instead set to a bunch of rousing classical pieces . A fun and lovable movie .
Swing Your Razor Wide , Sweeney	" Sweeney Todd , " Tim Burton's big-screen adaptation of the classic Stephen Sondheim musical , was faced with the nearly impossible task of meeting the expectations of both Burton and Sondheim fans alike . So if it falls a little short , I'm willing to forgive and forget . I think Burton made probably the best film that could be made from Sondheim's musical , but his movie also confirmed something I already suspected : " Sweeney Todd " is inherently theatrical , and though Burton mostly succeeds in reinventing the musical as a film , he doesn't totally succeed in justifying the necessity of doing so . I felt during " Sweeney Todd " the way I so often feel watching screen versions of stage musicals : the medium of film only serves to highlight the weaknesses of stage shows . Things simply work on stage that don't work on screen and vice versa , and that's the case here . I thoroughly enjoyed " Sweeney Todd " the movie , but I've enjoyed live performances of the show much more , and despite all of my efforts to forget the stage productions while watching the movie , I couldn't help but compare the two . But let's talk about the movie . It's a deliciously macabre and dark story , and Burton deserves great credit for resisting the urge to make it more palatable to mainstream film audiences . Indeed , his interpretation of the tale is darker and bloodier than any stage version I've seen , and the film's final moments left me chilled and disturbed . Johnny Depp plays Sweeney , a vengeful barber who declares war on humanity for the wrongs he has suffered at the hands of a malicious judge and beadle . Helena Bonham Carter plays Mrs . Lovett , whose meat pie business becomes revitalized when she starts using Sweeney's victims as , ahem , ingredients . Carter and Depp have tremendous chemistry together , maybe because they look so much alike . Depp does a good job with Sweeney , but he's limited from the start because Sweeney is a one-dimensional character . Depp delivers an intense and frightening performance , but aside from the interest inherent in whether or not he'll be able to pull off Sondheim's notoriously difficult music ( which he does just fine , thank you very much ) , I didn't find the performance itself that interesting . Carter , however , if a weaker singer than Depp , does wonders with Mrs . Lovett . This is the first version of " Sweeney Todd " I've seen where I actually felt bad about what happens to her character . Carter balances the role beautifully between ruthless accomplice and maternal caretaker . She doesn't play the role big and blowsy like Angela Lansbury did in the original stage version , or like Patti LuPone has played it , and she'll probably be criticized for taking too meek an approach to the material as a result , but I think her's works wonderfully as a film interpretation of the role . Sondheim's score sounds glorious , but I was disappointed at the many cuts made to it . A few songs are missing altogether , and there's hardly one left that isn't at least shortened . My one bit of unqualified praise goes to the film's visual style , which is magnificent . The production design couldn't be improved upon . " Sweeney Todd " might get better with subsequent viewings , once the automatic screen-to-stage comparison is flushed out of the system and one can watch the movie for what it is . As it is , I liked the movie a lot without thinking it was one of the best of the year .
A Movie About a Kid Made for Adults	Chalk this up as one of those movies I had no clue I would enjoy so much . This boy / horse story has all the ingredients of a syrupy Disney sugarfest , but it's nothing like that . It's about a boy , but it deals with very adult emotions . The scene I remember the most comes when the little boy is begging with his mom ( a wonderful and warm Teri Garr ) to let him race his horse , and she's reluctant for fear that he will get hurt . The scene is played beautifully by both actors , the son who's trying to articulate feelings he isn't old enough yet to express , and the mom understanding that her little boy is on the cusp of making an adult decision for the first time in his life and needs to have the freedom to do so , no matter how much it hurts her . It's a wonderful moment . Mickey Rooney also stars as a gruff but lovable grandfather figure for the boy , and manages to mostly keep the hamminess at bay . And the cinematography and score are exceptional .
James Cameron's Powerhouse Sequel to " Alien "	Say what you will about James Cameron's attempts at more " serious " film-making ( " Titanic " ? Ha ! ) , the man does know how to put together an action movie . He takes a completely different approach to this second film in the " Alien " series than Ridley Scott did to the first - - whereas Scott's film was slow , creepy and scarier for what you didn't see than for what you did , Cameron's is nearly non-stop hard-core action . It works though , and for all the difference in their styles , the two films cohere very well together . In this sequel , the focus moves away from the science / research angle of the first and instead focuses on a group of marines sent to a ghost town of a space station to investigate the disappearance of the colonists . Ripley ( Sigourney Weaver ) is along for the ride again , and Cameron uses her fear of what they could potentially be walking into effectively . Whereas in the first one , we were scared because we shared the scientists ' cluelessness about what was going on and only learned things as they learned them , in this one we're scared in the same way Ripley is , precisely because we know what's going on and how terrifying it is . And Cameron ups the ante here - - instead of one single alien as a nemesis , this group of marines has to deal with hundreds of them . I'm not really a fan of the subplot involving Newt , the little girl the marines find and who forms an attachment to Ripley . But the story does give Ripley's character a lot of motivation and makes her stand off with the aliens much more personal . I've seen this film a few times , so you'd think it wouldn't hold any suspense for me now , but I just watched it again over the weekend and damned if I wasn't on the edge of my seat .
An Unpredictable Pseudo-Noir	" In a Lonely Place " is widely considered to be one of the best of the film noir genre , but I can't quite bring myself to give it noir status . It certainly has the ambiguity , sense of paranoia and seedy underworld setting of the standard noir , but it's also lacking in a few crucial elements that in my opinion give a film noir its noir : the femme fatale , the sense of underlying corruption . When Gloria Grahame first slinks her away across the screen , you think " Ah ha ! Here's our femme fatale . " But she's not , and this is only one instance of the way this film unpredictably turns the audience's expectations upside down . The film is very unusual in the way it tells its story . Bogart plays a struggling screen writer suspected of murdering a young , star-struck girl . We know he hasn't done it , and we expect the film to be about the unraveling of the mystery surrounding her death in Bogie's attempts to prove his innocence . But that's not at all what we get . The murder is forgotten , never very important to begin with , and the film settles into a character study of Bogie , not concerned so much with whether or not he committed a murder but rather with whether or not he has the CAPACITY to commit murder . The cool , unflappable persona that greets us at the beginning of the movie ( the Bogie we're used to ) , deteriorates into a paranoid , jealous , nearly psychotic loner by the film's end , and Gloria Grahame ( who we early on suspected of having some devious aims ) becomes our chief object of concern . The movie is all over the place in a good way , truly surprising and fresh . The title of course refers to the lonely place of the interior psyche , and the demons that can haunt a man who has too much time with himself . Bogie spends so much time in the imaginary worlds he creates for his screenplays , that he can't seem to deal any longer with the reality of the material world around him , or maintain relationships that don't rely on his bullying his way into getting what he wants . And the saddest thing is that he knows this about himself . It's a great display of acting on Bogie's part and a neat deconstruction of the Bogie screen persona . Enjoy .
Pixar Does It Again	The Pixar team continues its winning streak with this sharp , snappy , surprisingly adult animated adventure film about a family of former superheroes who cannot fit into " normal " society no matter how hard they try . I'm actually surprised that kids stayed with this film long enough to enjoy the fast-paced non-stop action of its second half ; the film's early scenes are a quite funny commentary on bland , middle-class suburban America and the insidiousness of mediocrity that it encourages , obviously aimed more at its adult audience than it is at the kiddy crowd . My only complaint is that Pixar animation always looks slightly creepy when applied to human characters . The actors and animators do as much as they can to infuse the characters with warmth and to make them engaging , but they can't completely get around the fact that there's a plastic , lifeless quality inherent in digital animation that doesn't exist in its hand-drawn counterpart . But that's not a huge detriment here and doesn't prevent this film from being a lot of fun .
Could Be Called Beauty and the Beast	" Notes on a Scandal " is like " Fatal Attraction " as produced by the BBC . It's wildly entertaining , tremendously acted , and deliciously tawdry . But it's also pretty smart , so this is one guilty pleasure you can enjoy without feeling too guilty about it . The scandal that gives the film its title - - a young and pretty art teacher named Sheba Hart ( Cate Blanchett ) , who teaches in a rough-and-tumble lower-class English school , has an affair with a fifteen-year-old student - - is not a very original or interesting one . We've seen real-life versions of the same thing on our evening news , and we pretty much know how it has to play out . The filmmakers , therefore , are wise to use the scandal merely as a background for the far more interesting interplay that takes place when the teacher's dalliances are discovered by a lonely , spinsterish colleague named Barbara Covett ( Judi Dench ) who also happens to have one hell of a case of sexual repression . Barbara doesn't really care that the affair is illegal , nor does she care about the young boy ( she's long since given up on teaching what she perceives to be a generation of thugs , and instead refers to modern-day teaching as no more than " crowd control " ) . She only cares that Sheba , to whom she's formed a sort of fascinated and obsessive attraction , cares for something and someone other than Barbara . She sees the opportunity to use her knowledge to her advantage , and manipulate Sheba into a friendship and perhaps something more . In a way , she acts like she and Sheba are sixteen year old girls , who share a harmless secret that they can giggle about together at sleepovers . Of course , this delicate balance can only last for so long , and tensions eventually boil over in a stupendous cat fight between Sheba and Barbara that goes down as one of the most marvelously acted scenes of the year . What I admired most about " Notes " was the intelligence of its script . You might think that Blanchett and Dench , two of the classiest actresses around , would be slumming it with material like this , but that's not so . The screenplay is sharp and incisive , and the two characters ' back stories are filled with small details that make their actions and behavior perfectly natural and understandable . These are not caricatures in the " Fatal Attraction " vein . Sheba makes stupid decisions , but she's not entirely without our sympathy . Barbara is a nut job , but Dench plays her so well that we see the person behind the nut , and we don't know whether to loathe her or feel sorry for her . Dench's performance provides one of the most affecting and disturbing portraits of loneliness and isolation that I've ever seen . All of the talk this year has been about Helen Mirren in " The Queen , " and while Mirren was spectacular in that film and completely deserving of all the praise she has received , I have a feeling it's Dench's performance that I will still be remembering a few years from now . " Notes on a Scandal " revels in its excess , but it never lapses into silliness . There's a degree of cheekiness about the film , and you sense that everyone involved knows just how seriously to take themselves , which isn't too seriously . Indeed , almost every line that falls out of Dench's mouth , whether it be spoken to another character or part of the rambling voice over narration that we hear whenever Barbara is making another of her copious entries in her diary , got a laugh out of the audience I saw this with . And lastly , a word of praise for Philip Glass's splendidly frenetic score , that drives relentlessly forward and makes every moment feel more fraught with significance than it should actually be . I know many people find his scores intolerable , but I love them . They all sound the same , but when matched with the right material , they work beautifully .
Good , But Not the Rousing One Against Many Film You Might Expect	The anti - " Erin Brockovich . " It's George Clooney's turn to take on corporate bigwigs who are determined to give cancer to all the decent folk living out in America's heartlands . He plays Michael Clayton , fixer for a big time law firm acting as a defendant in a class action law suit leveled at the cancer-causing conglomerate . When his good friend and the lead attorney assigned to building the defense ( Tom Wilkinson , excellent ) goes off his rocker and starts babbling about the evils of what he's been aiding and abetting , and even begins to help the prosecution with its case , Michael is called in to " fix " the situation . But he of course suffers a crisis of conscience when it turns out that his crazy friend is the only sane person around , and it becomes his job to make sure the corporation doesn't get away with its dastardly deeds . " Michael Clayton " is well acted and written , but it's awfully dour and gloomy . Every movie like this has a big payoff scene at the end , where our hero gets to tell off the corporate jerk to the rousing applause of the audience ( " Erin Brockovich " consisted of nothing but scenes like that ) , and this movie is no exception . However , the one here is relatively muted , and we're not allowed to enjoy it for long . The final shot of the film is of Michael's face driving away from the big showdown in a cab , and it's not wearing an expression of triumph . It's the face of a man who's been worn out by the injustice of life , and I don't know that I've ever seen Clooney look worse on screen ( though I hope that the bags under my eyes look as good as his ) . The film suggests that facing the evils of the world and doing the right thing can still hollow you out inside . This approach makes the movie better than a film like " Erin Brockovich , " but it may disappoint people who come into it thinking they're going to get to enjoy two hours of George Clooney telling people what's what . Along with Clooney and Wilkinson , the fine cast features Tilda Swinton , lips so thin they're practically non-existent , as the uptight corporate bitch who gets her comeuppance ; and Sydney Pollack as head of Michael's law firm .
Whiling Away the Hours in Abilene , Texas	Peter Bogdanovich created a sombre and quietly devastating film from Larry McMurtry's coming-of-age soap opera about a bunch of teenagers stagnating in a Texas backwater in the years following WWII . Sam Bottoms and Jeff Bridges play best friends who wind up duking it out over the small town's resident spoiled and bored rich girl , played by Cybil Shepherd ( pretty but vacuous , just what the role calls for ) . A host of other sad characters populate this glum story : Cloris Leachman's wall flower coach's wife , who begins a tentative affair with Bottoms when the coach is looking the other way ; Ben Johnson's world-weary cowboy , who serves as a kind of sage to the young boys ; Clu Galager's stud , who takes Cybil Shepherd on a pool table ( or is that scene in the book only ? ) ; Eileen Brennan's salty diner waitress , who I wish was in the movie more ; and , best of all , Ellen Burstyn , as Shepherd's reckless mom , who makes us see exactly from whom her daughter inherited her wayward tendencies . Filmed in stark black and white , the film has a brooding atmosphere , and Bogdanovich's no-frills direction perfectly captures the feeling of a forgotten place in which nothing ever happens and nothing ever will . Children and parents alike waste their days away in bored ennui , and both turn to the same things to fill their time : sex , booze and brawling . The children have two choices : turn into their parents , or run away and never come back . It's a shame that Bogdanovich never directed anything else as accomplished as this , because he proves himself to be a director in complete mastery of his medium .
A Hilarious ( and Much Needed ) Assault on Decency	Sacha Baron Cohen comes to America in the guise of Borat Sagdiyev and wreaks his own brand of Kazakhi havoc in this very very funny film . In our age of uber-political correctness , " Borat " comes sweeping through like a brisk and refreshing wind , completely bounding over every cultural taboo we've erected around ourselves . Thus , no one is safe : Borat takes on Jews , blacks , gays , feminists , middle-Americans , religious fanatics , frat boys . The only weapon against the bumbling Borat is a sense of humour , which this movie shows most Americans painfully lack . Indeed , if there is any message to be had from " Borat " ( and I'm not sure there is much of one , beyond its fascinating cultural experiments ) , it's that everyone needs to lighten up and not take themselves so seriously . The image of Americans projected in this film varies from the heartwarming to the downright frightening . New Yorkers threaten Borat with physical violence when he approaches them on a subway . Feminists walk out on him when they find his views on women too much to tolerate . Folks out in the heartland commiserate with him over his hatred of gays and Jews ; a gun shop owner even helps him pick out the best weapon for shooting Jewish people . A sweet Jewish couple give him a place to sleep , and bring him a homey meal ( that is , before they turn into invading cockroaches ) . A group of manic Pentecosts help him find Jesus . An RV full of frat boys make complete asses of themselves by espousing their hopelessly ill-informed views on minorities in our country and the need to revert to slavery . The majority of people treat Borat in the condescending way of those who want to think of themselves as being culturally aware without really knowing anything at all about other cultures . These people become rude the second Borat offends their sense of propriety . On the other hand , the disenfranchised of America greet Borat with open arms , and we see a group of gays and a group of blacks interacting with him as if no cultural boundaries existed at all . The film's sweetest ( and most unexpectedly so ) moments come from Borat's befriending of a black prostitute . Of course , this is a carefully crafted work of fiction , and Cohen only lets his audience see what he wants them to see . I would probably react much the same as many of the people in this film if this crazy-looking and sounding man appeared out of nowhere and began to antagonize me . But the movie does make Americans look like a bunch of awfully self-important , uptight stiffs , and I've been to enough places in this country and met enough people to realize that the way events play out in this film ( even if they are manipulated or staged ) probably come very close to the real thing . Thank God for movies like " Borat . " If nothing else , they remind us that our cultural boundaries only matter as much as we let them , and that all of the fears that govern political correctness are mostly ungrounded . After all , virtually every person in this film was offended at one point or another , and as far as I can tell , all of them lived to tell about it .
Worth Remembering for Great Rosalind Russell Performance	Rosalind Russell tears through this film like a force of nature , giving one of the best and most underrated performances of the 1950s . The film revels in all of the excesses that make much of cinema from this time period seem so tacky now , but somehow the excess here works . Garish production design plastered across a mile-wide CinemaScope screen ; cameras that don't really play a role in the film but rather sit in one spot and record action ; over-the-top acting ; and a running time that stretches a wisp of a plot out to 140 minutes - - it's all here in its 1958 glory , and damned if it's not a pretty good time . Director Morton DaCosta makes no effort to make his movie feel like a movie - - he even resorts to stage lighting blackouts to transition between scenes . But a movie like this doesn't need fancy direction or even cinematic direction . It just needs a leading lady who can do the role of Mame Dennis justice , and with Roz Russell , it has that in spades . She's a hoot ( just watch her trying to mount a horse for a fox hunt ) and single-handedly makes this artifact of a movie worth treasuring .
Career Women with Big Ideas and Even Bigger Hair	A pure fantasy served up by Mike Nichols , but a vastly entertaining one . Melanie Griffith is the secretary with massive hair who pretends to be a corporate business woman when her boss is layed up with a broken leg . The catch is , she finds out she's pretty good at it , and things get complicated when she ends up spearheading a business deal and falling in love with her key partner ( Harrison Ford ) , all the while trying to keep what she's doing from her boss ( Sigourney Weaver ) . It's the kind of movie that could just as easily have been made as a screwball comedy in the 1940s , perhaps with Barbara Stanwyck in the lead role . The film is a classic in its own small way , one of the best comedies to emerge from the 1980s . Griffith is matched well with her role , so her limitations as an actress don't draw too much attention to themselves . But it's Weaver who steals the show as Griffith's imperious boss . She's a riot as a confident and powerful career woman from hell . And Joan Cusack steals a few scenes of her own as Griffith's best friend and fellow secretary , who sports hair as big as Griffith's and a Joisy accent to boot . Nichols knows how to direct a comedy so that the funny bits speak for themselves .
Where the Wild Things Are	This sombre sci-fi film can't help but look dated , and it's full of the usual cheesy 1950s sci-fi trappings , but one can't deny the influence it clearly had on the genre , and one can see the thumbprint of this film on any number of subsequent science fiction offerings . A very young Leslie Nielsen plays the leader of a group of American astronauts sent to a distant planet to find out what happened to a previous group of explorers . He comes across a man ( Walter Pidgeon ) and his daughter ( Anne Francis ) living alone with their robot servant ( Robby ) . Pidgeon has discovered the advanced technology left behind by a previous race of beings , the ability to harness inconceivable power through mind control . But Nielsen realizes that Pidgeon's subconscious is truly in control , and it's responsible for creating the monster that wiped out the former group of American visitors and comes to decimate Nielsen's crew as well . The love story between Nielsen and Anne Francis , whose role consists almost entirely of skipping around in miniskirts , would feel obligatory in any other sci-fi film , but here it takes on interesting dimensions . The presence of a woman brings out the animal sexual urges in the American crew ( who haven't seen a woman for a very long time ) , a theme that ties into the idea that mankind's largest obstacle to progress are its own base urges . " Forbidden Planet " suggests that the scariest monsters come not from the depths of space , but rather from the dark corners of man's own mind . What helps " Forbidden Planet " to stay fresh despite its dated look is its message about the responsibility man has to use wisely the technology he creates . The fact that much of the technology we have created over the years is responsible for beginning the slow death of our planet makes the film not only relevant , but prophetic . The movie is unsettling in an undefined way . It's not full of action , space wars , bizarre aliens or any of that . It's quiet and abstract , and it's more about ideas than it is plot .
Dazzling Special Effects in Toon Town	A dazzling mixture of live action and animation is this film's selling point , but it helps that it's anchored by a smart script that tips its hat to the detective noirs of the 1940s and by good performances from both its human actors ( Bob Hoskins and Christopher Lloyd ) and its voice performers ( Kathleen Turner is especially memorable as Jessica Rabbitt , perhaps the sexiest cartoon woman in history ) . Computer animation has made special effects passé , but at the time of this movie's release , its effects were state of the art , making Disney's previous efforts to blend live action and animation ( like " Mary Poppins " ) look hopelessly antiquated . You'll have a blast spotting the cartoon celebrity cameos . It's like a Merrie Melodies version of " Around the World in 80 Days . "
Words Can't Do Justice	It seems almost pointless for me to add any comments here , since everyone else who's posted has done such a great job of summarizing this film's merits , but I can't resist . How do you rate a movie like this ? On the one hand , it's one of the worst movies I've ever seen : completely lacking in coherence , shameful acting , writing so bad it seems to be making fun of itself . In fact , I'm still not convinced this movie isn't supposed to be a parody of Christina Crawford's book rather than a serious attempt to adapt it to the screen . On the other hand , it's such a rip-roarin ' good time of a show that I'm tempted to give it 10 stars on the strength of its sheer entertainment value alone . Faye Dunaway gives the most jaw-droppingly mesmerizing freak out ever captured on screen , whose bizarreness cannot even be topped by Halle Berry's Oscar acceptance speech . Dunaway must have realized early on that she was a rat in a sinking ship , but instead of deserting , she decides instead to devour the crew . I don't know if her performance comes anywhere close to capturing the real Joan Crawford , but if Crawford was even a tenth of a percent as loony as Dunaway portrays her here , I would have been high-tailing it to Canada if I were either of her children . The fabulous lines , many of which are quoted on this site , can't really be done justice when removed from the context in which they appear , and you really have to see the faces of the actors as they're delivering them to get the full effect . The wire hanger scene is of course a classic , but it's really the floor scrubbing scene immediately following , with Dunaway in kabuki makeup squatting on the floor like a Sumo wrestler , that remains more memorable . Watching Joanie jog is a sight to behold , especially when she starts talking to herself and scrunching her face up as if she's imitating Alvin or one of his chipmunks . There's the " I can handle the socks " moment , one of the most seductive moments ( hee , hee ) in film history , and of course the coup de grace comes when Joanie tackles Christina across the coffee table and begins banging her head into the floor like she's in a women's prison movie . The editing in this film is atrocious . There's no sense of time ; events follow each other in a loosely chronological fashion , but they don't make dramatic or narrative sense . Frank Perry , the director , must have been dozing off through much of this production ; either that or his film crew carried out a mutiny , tied him up , threw him in a shed , and went ahead without him . But it seems churlish to criticize a film like this for its poor film making . It's like kicking a dead horse . All I can say is , if you watch this movie with the right people in the right frame of mind ( i . e . with alcohol ) , you will be howling . I watched this with a group in college , and we had to periodically pause the movie in order to allow everyone to recover before continuing . Thank you , Ms . Dunaway , for giving us " Mommie Dearest . " The world will never be able to repay you for your kindness . or ( depending on your perspective and level of sobriety )
So Bad I Didn't Want It to End	If you can suspend disbelief long enough to swallow Jennifer Jones - - in spray-on tan and flamenco outfits - - as a half-breed Indian girl , then you're on your way to enjoying this quite bad but embarrassingly entertaining howler . Jones goes to live with her distant relatives after her father is hanged for shooting her mother in a jealous rage . The ranch she ends up on is run by a hammy Lionel Barrymore and a soft-spoken Lillian Gish . It's not long before the two sons who live on the ranch - - brooding and dangerous Gregory Peck and bookish lawyer Joseph Cotten - - are fighting over Jones and her overdone snarl . The duel of the film's title comes at the finale , and boy what a finale it is . Let's just say the duel is not between the two characters you might expect it to be , and you've never seen worse acting than the sorry display Jones puts on . Director King Vidor films everything in over-saturated , feverish color , and the results are quite striking and endlessly fascinating . I couldn't quite decide whether or not Vidor might have been attempting to make a bad cult classic all along , but intentional or not , that's exactly what this film is . It's ridiculous , over long , corny and even somewhat pointless , and I couldn't get enough of it . Along with the big-time names that headline the cast , the supporting players include Herbert Marshall , Charles Bickford , Harry Carey and notably Walter Huston , as a slimy preacher .
The Film That Brought Eastwood Hollywood Street Cred	After years of being relegated to the world of pulp genre films , Clint Eastwood established himself as a major Hollywood filmmaker with this throwback to John Ford , an honor he continues to enjoy to this day . I haven't seen " Unforgiven " since it originally appeared in 1992 , and to be honest I was probably too young then to fully appreciate it . I do remember it being bleak and unsettling in ways I didn't completely comprehend , but now I realize that it was unsettling in the way many classic westerns are , when they deal with some of those existential themes like life and death and what it means to be a man . Eastwood himself gives a good performance , while Gene Hackman won just about every acting award under the sun that year for playing a sadistic sheriff . Morgan Freeman and Richard Harris also appear in supporting roles . One scene that sticks in my mind to this day is the one in which Hackman's sheriff graphically kicks the crap out of Harris .
Huston and Bening Put the Femme in Fatale	A devilish , twisted modern day noir with style to spare . Director Stephen Frears handles the morbid material expertly - - it walks a razor thin line between dark comedy and " too disturbing to enjoy . " John Cusack plays the con-man at the film's center , torn between the affections of his mother and his lover . Anjelica Huston and Annette Bening , playing the two women , tear up the screen . Both of them are like femmes fatale who wandered out of the 1940s and ended up here . We can be grateful that they got lost . A good , good movie .
Charming and Sweet	In Oscar lore , Judy Holliday is known as the actress who stole the Academy Award , undeservedly , one might add , right out from under either Bette Davis's ( " All About Eve " ) or Gloria Swanson's ( Sunset Boulevard " ) nose ( depending on which report you hear ) . Well , there's no doubt that Holliday's win was an unjust upset , but that should only upset you if you don't consider the entire history of the Academy Awards to be one long , uninterrupted unjust upset . Let's not hold the fact that a dumbass awards group decided her's was the best female performance of the year against her . Given the roles Judy Holliday would become known for playing , Billie Dawn certainly doesn't appear to be much of a stretch for her , but there's no denying that she's captivatingly charming in this lightweight George Cukor comedy . Holliday plays a ding-bat blonde numbskull gangster moll who , tired of her boyfriend's ( Broderick Crawford , made a star a year earlier by " All the King's Men " ) constant dismissal of her as just a dumb broad , sets out on an odyssey of self improvement . To help her in her goal , she enlists intellectual and booky William Holden ( we know he's intellectual because he wears glasses ) , who just happens to be drop-dead gorgeous as well ( this is Hollywood , folks ) . This is a sweet movie . I've got a soft spot for any story in which someone identifies his / her own limitations and sets out to improve them against the odds . There's a real excitement in seeing Holliday's character gradually begin to understand the satisfaction a good book can provide or become for the first time in her life legitimately engaged in a serious discussion and have opinions of her own . Holliday and Holden have sizzling chemistry , and even if Holliday isn't delivering Shakespeare , she's still awfully cute to watch . Melanie Griffith did a remake of this movie that I've never seen and never want to - - I don't believe for a minute that it can be anything but worse than Cukor's version . Despite Hollywood's tired attempts to force remakes down our throats , send the studio suits a message and stick with the originals - - they're always better .
A Naturalistic Account of the IR	This fascinating film about the Irish Republican Army in 1920s Ireland has an improvisatory feel about it . Not many scenes in the movie feel scripted . There are many scenes showing groups of men and women arguing , debating and fighting , but it all feels natural , and like the way these kinds of moments would play out in real life . Indeed , thinking back on the movie , it seems like much of it took place without dialogue , or at least without significant dialogue . This may be an odd comparison , but it reminded me of Michael Cimino's style of film-making in " The Deer Hunter " and " Heaven's Gate " : the emphasis on male solidarity up against forces too strong to oppose , the environment almost becoming a character in the film , the loosely choreographed scenes and the fact that much information is conveyed through imagery rather than words . The nominal focus of the film is on two brothers who start out on the same side of the Irish / British conflict , but who become opposed to one another as the IRA fragments into conflicting factions . The brother against brother plot line is of course meant to symbolize a larger and more universal struggle , but it's not dealt with in a heavy-handed manner . A very good and overlooked film .
Probably the Best Version of Shakespeare's Tragedy We're Ever to Get	This filmed version of one of Shakespeare's most famous tragedies is likely to be about as good a version as will ever be produced . Director Franco Zeffirelli had warmed up the year before with the Burton / Taylor version of " The Taming of the Shrew , " but here he nicely transitions from the frantic comedy of the former to the darker and sadder tragedy of this story about star-crossed lovers ( played by Leonard Whiting and the famously big-bosomed Olivia Hussey ) . Zeffirelli infuses the film with the same kind of restless energy that was feeding the youth movement in 1968 , so this is one Shakespeare film that feels completely relevant to the time in which it was released . The film has beautiful production values ( the scene at the ball is a work of art all by itself ) and of course that famous musical theme . It shows reverence for the original text but doesn't feel stage-bound or stodgy ; yet neither does it feel like a product of trendy 60s cinema . And unlike the Baz Luhrmann debacle that passed as a version of " Romeo and Juliet " about 10 years ago , the actors in this version seem to both understand their characters and the lines they've been given to read .
A Bloody Good Show , Mr . Craig	The charm of James Bond films have mostly eluded me over the course of my 31 years . In fact , I've only seen one other as far as I can recall ( " Octopussy " - - and by the way , how did that movie ever get released with THAT title ? ) and I remember virtually nothing about it . I don't think I'm missing much . From the isolated moments I've been able to catch on T . V . here and there , Bond movies look pretty awful - - not , mind you , awful in the tongue-and-cheek , isn't-this-fun kind of way , but awful in the I-wonder-what-else-is-on-T . V . - right-now kind of way . Well , Daniel Craig may make me a Bond convert , at least for the next few films . " Casino Royale " is a blast - - it's an action-packed adrenaline jolt of a movie , full of beautiful people and beautiful locales , and it's a testament to its ability to entertain that I didn't once look at my watch during its 144 minute running time . Daniel Craig looks like a bulldog , runs like the terminator , and has steely blue eyes that usually match the color of whatever body of water he happens to be standing in front of at the moment . The moment he appears on screen , you get the sense that he's out to quash once and for all all of the naysayers out there who assume that he'll make a lousy Bond . And boy does he . He could take on Roger Moore and Pierce Brosnan at the same time with both hands tied behind his back . Sean Connery maybe would give him a run for his money , but I suspect Craig would still pummel him severely . As for his sex appeal , I'll leave that to the ladies to assess , but if my wife's reaction to Craig's entrance half way through the film in a tuxedo is any indication , he's not lacking in that department either . It's almost laughable how regressive these movies are . Women are treated as nothing more than objects to either seduce or save , and Bond usually refers to the lead female in this as nothing more than " the girl . " I bet feminists hate James Bond .
James L . Brooks Does " Network "	A smart and funny adult comedy about a network news station and the lives of those who make it run . William Hurt is the newly-hired golden boy who looks great on screen but doesn't have a lot going on upstairs . Albert Brooks is the sharp reporter who doesn't have the looks to make it as an anchor . And Holly Hunter , blowing everyone out of the water in an amazingly energetic performance , is the driven producer who serves as the object of affection for both men . She's a funnier and more Southern version of the character Faye Dunaway played in " Network " . Like all of James L . Brooks ' screenplays , this one feels like it would be just as at home as a T . V . movie than as a film , but since it's about T . V . , the sitcom trappings aren't as jarring .
Makes a Much Better Movie Than Book	It rarely happens , but in transferring " House of Sand and Fog " from the page to the screen , the film makers have improved the material . If you want to know what I thought about the book , I've written a review at Amazon . In a nutshell , I thought the book was absolutely dreadful and nearly unredeemable . It made me feel bad - - - not bad for the people or for what happens , but just bad to be exposed to such unlikable characters and an improbable plot - - - in short , I was depressed by bad art . The movie , in contrast , made me feel not bad but rather sad - - - sad for the characters themselves , because the screenwriter and actors do a much better job at creating sympathetic characters than does the book's author . The colonel is a bit less of a monster at the end of the movie - - - Kathy seems to come more fully to her senses . Lester's actions don't make any more sense in the movie than in the book , but it's easier in the film to accept that they're impulsive , rash actions being carried out by a desperate man ; the book , on the other hand , wants to justify Lester's actions with heaps of back story , none of which helps in the least . The actors do a fine job . Ben Kingsley's performance is a bit overrated , but even at that it's great . Ditto Shoreh Aghdashloo - - I only wish she had had a bigger role . Jennifer Connelly just does the mopey suffering thing she's done in just about every other movie she's appeared in . It's time for this woman to make a comedy . The biggest treat in the film is the sterling cinematography . If you hated the book , see the movie . If you like the movie , DO NOT read the book . The book deserves to be burned ; the movie deserves to be seen .
Accent Man Paul Muni Goes Italian	Not to be outdone by Jimmy Cagney and Edward G . Robinson , that hammiest of hammy 30s actors , Paul Muni , tossed his hat into the gangster ring to play Tony " Scarface " Camonte , polishing off a nice little trilogy of gangster movies from the early 1930s that includes " The Public Enemy " and " Little Caesar . " The result lands squarely between the other two films in my affection . " Scarface " doesn't have the ability to knock the wind out of you the way " The Public Enemy " does , but it's better than the somewhat limp " Little Caesar . " And say what you will about Paul Muni's overacting , he certainly knows how to hold a screen . He gives a fascinating performance as Tony Camonte , even if he can't hold on to his Italian accent to save his life . Ann Dvorak lands the role of Tony's sister , and it's their strange relationship , one that takes the picture in a surprising direction toward its climax , that lends the film its novelty in the otherwise fairly formulaic gangster genre . Howard Hawks helmed this one , and earned his salary by his creative direction of the opening sequence alone .
Good But Not Great	Gus Van Sant's rock-solid account of the rise of San Francisco politician Harvey Milk and his efforts to bring awareness to gay-rights issues is supremely capable and engaging , but there was something about the whole thing that just felt a bit uninspired to me . I knew absolutely nothing about Milk's story before seeing the film - - I was all of three when Milk was assassinated - - so I was very interested in it from a historical perspective . However , I just didn't connect to it on an emotional level . I'm not sure why , because I'm a chump for a good old fashioned underdog story - - which " Milk " certainly is . And there's almost nothing negative I can say about the film that accounts for my lukewarm reaction to it . Sometimes there's just an intangible " something " missing from a film that prevents me from responding much to it , and that's the case here . It does boast a tremendous performance from Sean Penn though , completely lacking in the hamminess Penn has been guilty of in his more recent film appearances . He unfussily gets down to the business of playing the character of Harvey Milk without self-concsiously reminding us that he's Sean Penn playing him . Weirdly , despite Milk being such a flamboyant character , Penn's performance is unshowy . Of the supporting cast , I was most impressed with Emile Hirsch , who plays a member of Milk's campaign committee . Hirsch contributes a great deal of energy to the film whenever he's on screen , and the scenes featuring him and Penn together are some of the movie's best . For once , I didn't like a Danny Elfman score . It's too obtrusive and is at odds with Van Sant's typically objective style . But other than that , I thought the film was extremely well done . My comment may have already made this apparent , but I'm rather puzzled at my own reaction to the film . Instead of being able to give it an enthusiastic endorsement , I rather thought that it was a good but not great 2008 offering .
Pure Camp or High Art ? Or Both ?	This gloriously turgid melodrama represents Douglas Sirk at his most high strung . It eschews the soft wistfulness of " All That Heaven Allows " and the weepy sentimentality of " Imitation of Life " and instead goes for feverish angst and overheated tension . And of course , it's all captured in vibrant Technicolor . The cornball story has something to do with a friendship between Rock Hudson and Robert Stack that becomes a rivalry when Hudson snags the affections of Lauren Bacall , but who's really paying attention to the story ? Dorothy Malone won a Best Supporting Actress Academy Award for her splendidly over-the-top performance as Stack's sister , who takes the family business into her own hands when no one else will . A highlight of the film comes when this high-spirited wild child breaks into a frantic dance in her bedroom , unable to bear the restraints placed upon her by middle-class propriety . As so frequently happens in Sirk movies , the scene is both unintentionally hilarious in its absurdity and yet strangely moving in its effectiveness . Sirk came closer than anyone else to turning pure camp into high art , satisfying the philistines and the high brows at the same time within the same films . His was a unique talent and I don't know that there's ever been another film maker quite like him since .
Into the Funhouse with Orson Welles	Rita Hayworth gets the same treatment given to Barbara Stanwyck in " Double Indemnity " ( 1944 ) in this audacious noir entry from Orson Welles . Fitted out with platinum blonde hair and a heart chiseled from a block of ice , Hayworth is the femme fatale and Welles the object of her malice . The plot is nearly impossible to follow , or at least it was for me on a first viewing . But this is Orson Welles , folks , so the focus should be on the dazzling style , which is highly steeped in German Expressionism . Canted angles , disorienting reflections , whirligig music - - it's all here , the aural and visual equivalent of the funhouse that serves as the setting for the film's unforgettable climax . For Woody Allen fans : this is the movie Allen pays homage to at the end of " Manhattan Murder Mystery . "
A Sleeper Romance	I wouldn't have thought from previews that " Roger Dodger " would have an ounce of romance in it , but it does . The scene between Elizabeth Berkeley , Jennifer Beals ( both very good by the way - - who would have thought ? ) and Roger's nephew is incredibly sweet and touching , but without being overly sentimental or cloying . Campbell Scott gives a fabulous performance as Roger , illustrating how broad his acting range is . My only complaint with the movie is its incredibly annoying cinematography . All of the compositions are cluttered and claustrophobic , sometimes so much so that the main focus of the shot is entirely obscured . And this trend toward hand-held cameras needs to be stopped . I think directors feel that hand-held cinematography lends a gritty , realistic point of view to their films , but more frequently it serves only to distract . But a fairly minor quibble about an otherwise very good film .
An Under-appreciated Screen Musical , One of My Favorites	Shirley MacLaine fills the formidable shoes first worn by Gwen Verdon , who created the role of Charity Hope Valentine in the stage musical on which this film is based , and makes the role her own . " Sweet Charity " is nearly a one-woman show , so the success of any version depends almost entirely on its leading lady , and MacLaine delivers the goods and then some as this New York City " dance hall hostess , " part broad and part waif , who wants nothing more than to just be loved but always manages to pick the wrong guy . It's to MacLaine's great credit that you don't get frustrated with Charity , despite her denseness and her willingness to be treated like a doormat . Rather , you respond to the inherent good in her , the belief against all evidence to the contrary that life can have a fairy tale ending , and which the screenplay and MacLaine's performance convey without an ounce of sentimentality . There's not a whole lot of plot ; rather , the film takes you into the life of this warm character through a number of episodic segments , until finally we realize that Charity's problem is not , as she thinks , that she's not good enough for anyone , but rather that she can't find someone who's good enough for her . Bob Fosse , who directed and choreographed the stage version , takes on the same tasks here , with somewhat mixed results . The choreography is stellar , especially during the " Rich Man's Frug " number , set in a hilariously stylized version of a trendy New York night club ; and during the " Rhythm of Life " number , led by Sammy Davis , Jr . as a sort of hipster preacher who leads bizarre revival meetings in parking garages . But Fosse's direction is a little less sure , and when one compares this film to his later efforts , like the nearly perfect " Cabaret " and the not as perfect but still fascinating " All That Jazz , " one can see how much shakier he is here . He struggles to meld a very conventional style of film-making to his own unique cinematic style , the results being that all of the musical numbers are dazzling and energetic while all of the non-musical moments are a bit flat . He also gives in too much to trendy 1960s flourishes , so the film seems dated now . But the good in this film greatly outweighs the bad . The terrific score retains most of the major songs from the musical : " Big Spender , " " If My Friends Could See Me Now , " " There's Gotta Be Something Better Than This , " " I'm a Brass Band , " and " I Love to Cry at Weddings . " The title song is set to a different tune , and is an improvement over the version that appeared on stage . " My Personal Property " replaces " You Should See Yourself " as Charity's opening number - - again , an improvement . " A Very Nice Face " replaces " I'm the Bravest Individual " as the number sung by Charity when she and Oscar ( a hilariously spastic John McMartin ) are trapped in an elevator , the one song that's not as good as the original . Ricardo Montalban makes a terrific Vittorio Vitali , the virile and lusty Latin lover movie star who takes Charity back to his place only to leave her stranded in a closet all night when his girlfriend shows up unexpectedly , but his big number , " Too Many Tomorrows , " is dropped . And the rubber-limbed Chita Rivera and Paula Kelly , playing Charity's fellow dance hall hostess friends and roommates , don't get their second-act number , " Baby , Dream Your Dream " in the film , but they do great work on " Big Spender " and " There's Gotta Be Something Better Than This , " which the three actresses perform on a rooftop in a scene reminiscent of " West Side Story . " " Sweet Charity " came out a time when the Hollywood musical was dying , and because it was a box office bomb , I feel that it gets lumped in with other bad films from the late 60s , like " Doctor Dolittle , " " Camelot , " " Hello , Dolly , " and " Throughly Modern Millie , " but it's leaps and bounds better than any of those , and is one of the unsung musical gems from that era .
The Verdict Doesn't Matter in This Courtroom Thriller	Television shows like " CSI " exist today because books and films like " Anatomy of a Murder " existed first . " Murder " was somewhat different from courtroom thrillers that had come before it , because it focused almost exclusively on dissecting the forensic evidence ( much of it quite graphic and frank for its time ) that the two sides use to build their cases , and less on the attorney histrionics and impassioned speeches that comprise most movies set in courtrooms . The film casts that benevolent everyman James Stewart as an attorney charged with defending a man ( Ben Gazarra ) accused of murder , who in turn claims that the murder was an act brought about by temporary insanity over the rape of his wife ( a sultry Lee Remick ) . Stewart's benign presence no doubt helped audiences at the time to more easily navigate the rough waters of this film's language and mental images . I don't know that a major Hollywood film before this had addressed the subject of rape so candidly . It's no surprise that Otto Preminger , that most provocative of provocative directors , helmed this one . George C . Scott has a lot of fun with his role as the cocky , snarky prosecuting attorney . He brings a predatory , menacing edge to the film , an edge enhanced by stark black and white photography and a jazzy score . In the end , whether or not Stewart wins his case is beside the point ; in this film , the ride is more important than the destination .
Join an Old Friend for Dinner	The FBI thriller to end all FBI thrillers . We can probably thank " The Silence of the Lambs " for the plethora of CSI shows bombarding our T . V . screens today , but don't hold that against it . This is one of those films that I never tire of seeing , and I can't come across it on cable without stopping whatever it is I'm doing to watch it . " Lambs " came out of nowhere in 1991 as the big film of the year , and the fact that it won the top five Academy Awards has given it prestige . But to look back , it's amazing that this film was taken seriously enough to win big . It's brutal , violent and traffics in all manner of psychopathic nastiness , from cannibalism to sexual deviation . Jonathan Demme's direction is tight but by-the-book - - it's first and foremost a plot driven movie . But the film's ace card is the performance by Anthony Hopkins , who chose to play Hannibal Lecter as a suave and polite Englishman rather than a raving lunatic . His scenes with Jodie Foster , as FBI trainee Clarice Starling , are mesmerizing , and it was a brilliant choice on the part of the screenwriter ( and this probably came from the book , though I haven't read it ) to make the film , under its grisly surface , essentially about a love story . Foster's performance doesn't hold up well all these years later . She's mannered and unconvincing , especially later in the film as her character becomes more frantic . But Hopkins ' creation remains one of the most memorable ever committed to the screen .
Growing Up with the Blitz	A delightful and imaginative film about a young English boy's perspective of the London blitz . Instead of focusing on the weariness , fear and anxiety that the war causes among the adults , this film depicts war-torn England as a source of fantasy and sensory delights for a child who's too young to fully understand its implications . Houses reduced to piles of rubble become treasure-troves and playgrounds ; bombs going off in the night sky become fireworks . The film looks wonderful , and it's artfully directed by John Boorman . The cast is full of mostly unknown actors - - the most recognizable is probably Sarah Miles , who received a Best Actress Oscar nomination for " Ryan's Daughter " way back in 1970 .
Not the Book , But Beautiful in Its Own Right	It's difficult on a first viewing of " The Grapes of Wrath " not to be somewhat disappointed with it . So much of Steinbeck's beautiful novel is left out of the film , and it's hard to see his story and characters wedged into the " gee whizz " style of film-making so prevalent at the time . But once you get beyond a comparison of the movie to the book , you begin to realize that John Ford created a beautiful piece of work of his own , and the film inspires a great deal of admiration , and deserves credit for its gutsiness at tackling a story that wouldn't have gone down smoothly with film executives at the time . Of course the most controversial parts of the book are left out ( like its final image , for example ) , but Ford still managed to work around the constraints forced upon him to fashion a hard-biting film . Henry Fonda is perfect casting for Tom Joad - - never have his otherworldly eyes been used to greater effect . And Jane Darwell is pitch-perfect as Ma Joad - - she captures the tough-as-nails dignity that the character has in the novel . The whole movie is lit by expert cinematographer Gregg Toland , who uses shadow and reflection to cast a ghostly pall over everything . Indeed , much of what Ford wasn't able to include in the film as words he communicates instead through images , and isn't that what a good book-to-film adaptation should do ? One of those films that feels ahead of its time .
Spencer Tracy's One-Armed Man Comes Calling	A superb suspense thriller in the " High Noon " tradition , in which our hero must find a way out of his predicament before night falls and the bad guys come shooting . Our hero in this case is Spencer Tracy , a mysterious one-armed man who shows up in a tiny town ( more a collection of buildings than a town , really ) looking to pay a call on a Japanese rancher . He's met with suspicion and hatred all out of proportion to his purpose , and it doesn't take him long to figure out that something's rotten . As Tracy uncovers the mystery , the band of thugs who runs things , led by Robert Ryan , makes it clear that Tracy will not be allowed to leave , at least not alive . This film is tense and blunt , and delves into post-WWII issues like racial prejudice and man's instincts to brutalize other men . A couple of the townsfolk , like the doctor ( Walter Brennan ) and the ineffectual sheriff ( Dean Jagger ) want to help Tracy , but they must first be shaken from the fog of futility into which they've fallen . A running theme in the film is the uselessness men feel as they get older and find themselves supplanted by a younger generation with a different moral code . Ernest Borgnine and Lee Marvin appear as two of Ryan's henchmen , and it's worth sitting through the movie just for the scene in which Tracy kicks Borgnine's ass . Anne Francis plays the lone double-crossing female .
An Underwater Treasure	" Finding Nemo " finds the Pixar animation studio back in top form after their somewhat disappointing ( I thought ) " Monsters , Inc . " This group has always had a knack for finding source material that will give them full freedom in unleashing their animation imaginations ( the toy-chest world of " Toy Story , " the insect world of " A Bug's Life , " ) and in " Finding Nemo " they take us underwater and show us the beauty , wonder , and danger of the sea . There are any number of jaw-dropping set pieces in this film : a field of jellyfish , a shark attack , a mass escape from a fishing net . As usual , Disney fills its film with liberal messages about the treatment of wildlife and the environment , much welcome and needed messages in my opinion . But great animation alone cannot sell me on an animated movie - - that's done with the quality of the story and characters , and " Finding Nemo " delivers there as well . The Pixar movies are never as cloying as the traditionally animated films produced by Disney - - there's always a drier , cheekier brand of humour , and you get the feeling that just as many jokes are aimed at the adult audience as at the kids . The voices are terrific , the story is quick and funny , and I thoroughly enjoyed the whole thing .
Fierce and Poetic	With " Throne of Blood , " master director Akira Kurosawa gives us an extraordinary screen adaptation of " Macbeth , " set in feudal Japan . Kurosawa does what I wish more filmed Shakespeare adaptations did : use the original texts as source material but treat them in decidedly cinematic ways . I would rather watch a movie like " Throne of Blood " any day over a faithful but stagy filmed play . This version of " Macbeth " MOVES ; Kurosawa knows how to tell a story visually , and he takes full advantage of the play's opportunities for ghoulishness : haunted woods , opaque fogs , grisly deaths . Kurosawa regular Toshiro Mifune gets the Macbeth role and does well with it , but no one in the movie comes close to equaling Isuzu Yamada's performance as the Lady Macbeth counterpart . Yamada delivers a performance so intense and harrowing that you want to shrink from the screen when she's on it . Her portrait of a woman consumed with hatred and revenge to the point of near inhumanity is one of the most frightening things I've ever seen captured on film , and would alone make this movie worth watching if nothing else did . Fortunately , nearly everything else does too .
Like Stepping Into a Classical Painting	I'm reading Thackeray's " Vanity Fair " even as I write this comment , and what strikes me about " Barry Lyndon " now that I've read something by the author who wrote it is how much the film recreates the experience of reading Thackeray . " Vanity Fair " is nearly 700 pages of nothing much happening , yet it's all fascinating . That's " Barry Lyndon . " Ryan O'Neal plays the eponymous protagonist , and Marisa Berenson his beleaguered wife in this costume drama that follows the exploits of our dear rogue Lyndon from young manhood to weary middle age . And that's really it for lead characters . Neither O'Neal nor Berenson registers much , but no matter . The true stars here are the film's magnificent and jaw-dropping production design , followed closely by its score , which , like in other Kubrick films , incorporates previously existing classical compositions that are perfectly matched with the material . Every shot in this film looks like a painting , which was Kubrick's intention and why he used such a square aspect ratio . The meticulous details of 18th Century court life make this movie endlessly fascinating , even if many viewers have complained that it's emotionally distant ( a criticism that could apply to more than one Kubrick film ) . I loved " Barry Lyndon " the first time I watched it , thought it was hollow and lacking the second time I watched it , and then went back to thinking it a masterpiece the third time I watched it . Let's see how I feel after a fourth viewing . As for now , it's my third impression that sticks .
A Dirty , Pretty Little Movie	This is a slick , atmospheric gem of a film from the always-reliable director Stephen Frears . It's got one of those stories that might sound silly on paper - - - I won't say any more , because surprise is responsible for much of the fun in watching this . At various times , I was reminded of Jules Dassin's " Rififi , " Francis Coppola's " The Conversation " and Samuel Fuller's " Pickup on South Street . " It's hard to find movies anymore that aren't derivative and that can genuinely show you something you haven't seen before . " Dirty Pretty Things " does this - - not in a major way , but even that is part of its charm . It's modest but finely crafted , and that combination can result in high praise indeed .
A Deserved Classic	" Frankenstein " is really nothing like the Mary Shelley book on which it is based , but it instead takes the story and makes it something all its own . Gone are the philosophical and allegorical qualities of the novel , and in its place is a much simpler tale about man's responsibility to the things he creates and the dangers inherent when Mankind tries to play God . Like " King Kong " two years later , " Frankenstein " manages to create an incredible amount of sympathy for its villain . Like Kong , Frankenstein's monster doesn't ask to be unleashed on the civilized world ; it's not really his fault that he doesn't know how to function in it . There are gorgeous moments in this film , like the scene when the monster communicates with a little girl by the side of a lake , all the more effective because the scene quickly transitions to one of horror . And as is typical for films released in the very early days of the 30s , this movie looks better and more technologically advanced than many films that came out in the succeeding decade . The camera is more fluid , there's a more imaginative use of light and shadow , and the effects , especially in the scenes where Dr . Frankenstein brings his creation to life , and later when the angry mob has trapped the monster in a windmill and is burning it to the ground , are quite good . " Frankenstein " is considered one of the great all-time monster movies , but it's not scary so much as it is sad and fairly moving .
He's Baa-aack	The original " Terminator " movie had a low-budget look about it , but money was obviously not an issue with this blockbuster Hollywood sequel . This time around , Ahhnold is the good guy , sent back in time to protect the son of Linda Hamilton from another and more advanced terminator , ALSO sent back in time to kill him . This new model looks like liquid mercury and can take on the appearance of anyone and anything he happens to be around . This gives the visual effects artists all kinds of opportunities to show off , which they do . These effects were a big deal at the time , and even with all of the more sophisticated computer effects of today , they still hold up well . The film looks dazzling , and it benefits from a sense of humor that the first one didn't have .
Everything " Top Hat " Isn't	If you've read my review of " Top Hat " you know that that was my introduction to Astaire and Rogers movies and that I was somewhat disappointed in it . Well " Swing Time " made me understand why everyone loves these movies . Everything I expected from " Top Hat " and didn't get was more than made up for by this sparkling musical comedy . The plot to " Swing Time " makes even less sense ( if possible ) so there's really no need to go into it . What sets this movie apart from its immediate predecessor is the energy that goes into the dances . In " Top Hat , " I couldn't get over the impression that Ginger Rogers , as good a dancer as she is , was putting all of her energy into keeping up with Fred Astaire . Here , she seems to be his dancing equal , and the chemistry between the two when they're hoofing around the enormous art-deco sets is palpable . Also , the score ( this one by Jerome Kern ) is much better and full of more memorable songs . " The Way You Look Tonight " is probably the most famous , but " A Fine Romance " is great too , and I especially liked how the two were blended together in the final duet . And not to be outdone by the astonishingly campy " Piccolino " number from " Top Hat , " " Swing Time " gives us the lamentable " Bojangles of Harlem " number , a scene you have to see to believe . However , if you can get past the atrocious idea of black face numbers to begin with , the dancing itself is actually pretty cool , especially when Astaire squares off against a trio of his own giant shadows projected on the wall behind him . Helen Broderick and Eric Blore return again in the supporting cast . Broderick gets much more to do ( does she remind anyone else of Mary Wickes ? ) while Blore gets somewhat less . I didn't really like Victor Moore in his role . He has a really eccentric and distracting way of delivering lines . It's not like I've seen all of the musicals made during the 30s , but of the ones I have , I'd say " Swing Time " is the best .
Boogie Till You Drop	No one will ever accuse Paul Thomas Anderson of subtlety , and if any one word describes his approach to material , " excessive " will do the trick , but the boy sure can put together one hell of an entertaining movie . In a blast of disco and neon , " Boogie Nights " comes blazing from the screen in an orgy of dazzling camera-work and funky 70s and 80s tunes ( one of the best soundtracks ever compiled for a movie ) . Anderson with his camera is like a little boy who just got the toy he wanted more than anything else for Christmas , and he goes wild with it . It swirls around actors in ridiculously long takes , follows them on to the dance floor as they do the hustle , catches elaborately choreographed segments in single shots . The camera gives the sense of never wanting to be left behind by the action , and at one point even plunges under water in a swimming pool to follow one of the many extras at a party scene who decides to go for a dip . Anderson wants to do way too much with the movie , and he doesn't know when to quit . He's like a writer so in love with his story that he doesn't want to leave anything out , even when his material becomes redundant . I can't help but feel that a long sequence late in the movie featuring a wild cameo by Alfred Molina should have been left on the cutting room floor , but then another part of me would hate to miss out on this wonderfully bizarre segment . The whole movie is like that . Even when Anderson pushes too far and too hard , you're carried along by his enthusiasm for his own film . Anderson's style is certainly reminiscent of Altman's , but he's not an Altman rip-off . In many ways he's the opposite of Altman ; you never feel that Anderson is anything less than in complete control of his movies ( and this feeling increases if you watch the documentary of the making of " Magnolia " ) whereas Altman's films seem to come together despite his attempts to instill chaos on his actors . But both share the knack for being able to build a film around a unifying tone rather than any rigidly imposed dramatic structure , and they're both wonderful with actors . And speaking of actors . . . . . " Boogie Nights " would be nothing without its astounding ensemble . Burt Reynolds leads the pack in the performance of a career , but he's certainly not alone . Julianne Moore and Don Cheadle are terrific here as usual , but even Heather Graham , whose career has gone nowhere , impresses . John C . Reilly should probably have been directed to tone down the jokiness of his performance , as he strains credibility in every scene he's in , but he's so damn funny that you don't really care . And Mark Wahlberg has proved himself to be a fine actor , pulling off this difficult role with aplomb . His performance here coupled with his performance in " I Heart Huckabees " convinces me that he may be one of the most promising young actors in circulation . Who ever would have thought that ? " Boogie Nights " may be a step or two shy of greatness , but I dare you to watch this movie and not have a great time . Groove on , man .
Off-Beat Movie About Eccentrics and Misfits	One of those small , quiet films about human behavior that utterly captivates through the strength of its writing and acting . It could have been too quaint for its own good , full of self-consciously eccentric characters , but it's not . Instead , it's warm and inviting , full of the kind of characters you wish you could just stay with after the movie's over . Peter Dinklage plays a grumpy misfit who moves out to a solitary town in order to be left alone . But the outgoing assortment of fellow misfits he meets won't let that happen . Dinklage is good , but Bobby Cannavale , as a goofball who won't ever shut up , and Patricia Clarkson , as a sad and lonely painter , are the stand outs .
Ridley Scott Knocks One Out of the Park	Director Ridley Scott has surprised me : he's finally made a movie I liked . Since the last one was " Alien " back in 1979 , I'd pretty much given up on him . " American Gangster " is a kinetic , dazzlingly entertaining crime film . It features two strong performances from Denzel Washington and Russell Crowe , but this wasn't a movie that left me remembering the performances . Rather , it's the great writing and assured directing that left me most impressed . Washington plays Frank Lucas , a drug dealer in 1960s Harlem who applies the principal of the American dream and capitalism to his drug trade : make something better and sell it for less , and pretty soon your product will be the one to beat . Crowe plays perhaps the only honest cop in New York City , who's appointed the leader of a narcotics unit whose mission is to bring an end ( or at least curb ) New York's rampant drug market . All of this is based on a true story , but who knows how accurate it all is . And frankly , with a movie as entertaining as this , who cares ? The film only slows down toward the end , when Washington and Crowe finally meet , and the screenplay decides it must tidy things up in a " here's-the-moral-of-the-story " kind of way . The rest is energetic and highly accomplished . The film doesn't join the ranks of " The Godfather " as one of the best American films about organized crime , but I'm not sure it tries to , and that's one of its best qualities . A host of other actors appear in supporting roles , including Cuba Gooding , Jr . , Chiwetel Ejiofor , Ruby Dee ( memorable as Washington's mother ) , Ted Levine ( who I'll never be able to see as anyone other than Buffalo Bill from " The Silence of the Lambs " ) , Josh Brolin ( who has now officially appeared in every movie released this year ) and , chewing the scenery , Armand Assante doing his best Marlon Brando impersonation . Like him or not , there's no denying that Scott does know his way around a movie set , and with " American Gangster " he's given us one of the best and one of the most entertaining films of the year .
A Great Time	I can't say I'm necessarily a huge Marx Brothers fan , but I also can't claim to be an expert on them , since I've only seen this and " A Night at the Opera . " Based on these two films , I've concluded that I like the IDEA of a Marx Brothers movie more than I like the movies themselves . Groucho is such a cultural icon that , like Charlie Chaplin , he inspires warm nostalgic feelings in movie buffs even if you've never seen one of his movies . However , that said , I have to assume that " Duck Soup " is the Marx Brothers at their zaniest best , and it is very funny . This is the film that includes the famous " mirror " scene , in which two men in a doorway becomes a hilarious comedic bit , as one man thinks he's looking into a mirror because the other is matching his actions and gestures . It's inspired scenes like that that seem to have given the Marx Brothers their longevity . You remember individual skits that can be easily shown in a 60 second clip rather than the movies as a whole .
Dick Powell Dances His Way Through the Role of Philip Marlowe	Dick Powell exchanges his dancing shoes for the film noir anti-hero's characteristic fedora in this fiendishly inventive 1944 entry based on the Raymond Chandler novel , " Farewell , My Lovely . " Many at the time questioned Powell's ability to pull off this tough-guy role , but he does just fine with it , thank you very much . His Philip Marlowe isn't as much of a hard case as the Sam Spade inhabited by Humphrey Bogart in " The Maltese Falcon " ; he doesn't have the same imposing physical appearance and he doesn't try to strong arm anybody to get what he wants . He uses a caustic tongue in place of a fist , and if he gets intimidated , scared or ruffled , you'll never know it , because he's always ready with a sarcastic comment to complement his cool exterior . In this movie , private detective Marlowe finds himself mixed up in a murky and byzantine scheme involving a jade necklace and a blackmail plot . Meanwhile , another case has him searching for a missing person , a Velma Valenti , one-time lover of a big ox named Moose Malloy ( Mike Mazurki ) . Gradually , Marlowe realizes that the two cases are connected , and he does his own share of scheming to make sure he's not the dupe that everyone involved seems to want him to be . Claire Trevor appears in a fabulous performance as one of the best femmes fatale ever to grace the genre . She has much in common with that other classic femme fatale from 1944 , Barbara Stanwyck in " Double Indemnity . " She also gets the film's best and most suggestive line - - when talking about a male " friend " and his desire to be a sculptor , she tells Marlowe , " He couldn't get started for fear of failure . " You've got to love film noir for lines like that . Anne Shirley gets saddled with the sweet , wholesome good girl role that all of these films must have in order to balance out the evil vamp ; she's about as uninteresting as you'd expect her to be . Director Edward Dmytryk adds all kinds of flourishes to the film to keep it visually appealing : imaginative use of key lighting , those angular shadows so common to films like this , a bizarre nightmare montage when Marlowe is tripping on heroin . Whenever Marlowe blacks out ( which is often ) , oily black fog comes curling out of the edges of the frame to engulf the screen . Dmytryk maintains a firm but light grip on the material and keeps his film just as playful as it ought to be . For coming so early in the film noir cycle , " Murder , My Sweet , " like " Double Indemnity , " is pretty cynical and bleak ( though it has a much happier ending than the other film ) . It's a high-water mark of its genre .
A Wonderfully Clueless Emma	Who would have thought that the best screen adaptation of Jane Austen's " Emma " would emerge from an updated parody set in a Beverly Hills high school and directed by Amy Heckerling ? But that's exactly what has happened with this film . Heckerling obviously gets that Austen's continuous appeal lies in the fact that her stories remain relevant and timely - - - so why not update it , make the character of Emma ( Cher here , played by the adorable Alicia Silverstone ) a daffy valley girl , and fill the movie to the brim with pop-culture references and one very funny vignette after another ? After all , the spirit and tone of " Emma " emerges unscathed . Comedic performances are always underrated , maybe because they look so easy , but Silverstone really deserves a lot of praise for this movie . It would be nothing without her performance .
Wonderful Film Is Much More Than Just a " Cartoon "	Do not dismiss " Persepolis " as only being a cartoon . It's animated in the sense that it's not live action , but it's more serious minded and sophisticated than many a live action film out there . Marjane Satrapi wrote the source material on which this film is based , and she's its main character . It documents her troubled coming of age during a period when her home country ( Iran ) was experiencing a severe identity crisis . Sent to Europe by her parents when the Iraq / Iran war makes simply living in Iran dangerous , she finds that the land of democracy and bounty that Europe promises is largely a myth for people like her , looked down on as foreign and barbaric invaders . In the end , she prefers living under a militant regime to the " freedom " of the West . " Persepolis " is quite tragic , really . Americans have become so conditioned to think of all Iranians as radical Muslims that we've forgotten it used to be a progressive country not that different from America . Those who are being oppressed now should not be blamed for the choices of their leaders . Would any American want to be held accountable for the attitudes and behavior of our president ? But Iran is still home to these people , and they do the best to make of it what they can . The film is beautiful , with stunning and artistic animation . It's cheeky , and there are many humorous moments , but it will also break your heart .
One of the Best of 2004	Yes , for all the pomp and broo-hah-hah surrounding last year's " serious " films like " Million Dollar Baby , " " The Aviator , " " Ray " and " Finding Neverland , " this little quirky comedy made its way on to my personal 10 best list when none of the aforementioned films did . It's small , personal and definitely not to everybody's tastes , but it's also hilarious and even rather touching . Overall , it really is just a goofy comedy with low aspirations , but there is a slightly sober tone underlying the goofiness , whether intended or not . This movie is for anyone who's ever felt the unfairness of being labeled a dork or nerd simply for being different , or having interests outside of the mainstream . Napoleon is weird , and his sullen manner doesn't win him any admirers ( though it does provide the film with countless laughs ) , but there's something noble about his refusal to change himself to accommodate the whims of the popular , acceptable crowd . I loved this movie because all of the outcasts have happy endings on their own terms , but the film avoids any dopey life-affirming lessons . But lest you think I'm taking the movie too seriously , let me repeat that it is first and foremost a silly , goofy , stupid comedy , and on those terms it's a classic .
In the Mood for a Truly Cinematic Film ?	It can be surprisingly difficult to find truly cinematic films - - that is , films that tell their stories in a way unique to the medium . Kar Wai Wong's " In the Mood for Love , " therefore , will come as a welcome surprise to cinephiles . I can imagine this story being told in another medium , but certainly not in the way Wong tells it . Set in 1962 Hong Kong , the movie is about a lonely man and a lonely woman who live next door to each other , and who discover that their spouses are having an affair with one another . Thrown together out of mutual feelings of rejection and hurt , the two embark upon a timid friendship that gradually becomes something more . They vow not to become like their unfaithful spouses , but what they do become can not be completely categorized . The movie is vague about how far they take their friendship , but the vagueness feels right , for this is a film not about obvious emotions but rather about the complicated inner workings of the heart and mind that don't always allow for tidy answers . Wong shoots the film in a dreamy , slightly surrealistic fashion . Nothing about the film is overtly avant garde , yet it's not entirely accessible as a traditional narrative film . You might spend the first fifteen minutes or so somewhat confused , but stick with it . Everything eventually makes sense , but it only makes sense after Wong has established a certain pattern and rhythm . Early scenes only have meaning after you've seen scenes later in the film . This is one of those films that gets in your head and stays there . It reminded me at times of both " Brief Encounter " and of the films of Douglas Sirk .
A Highly Unusual and Disquieting Film	Director Werner Herzog has always been interested in telling stories about men with obsessions , especially if those obsessions lead to madness . So it's no surprise that he was engaged by this story about a group of Spanish conquistadors in 1560 trekking through the Peruvian jungle in search of El Dorado , legendary city of gold , and one man in particular , Aguirre , who stages a mutiny and continues to lead the remaining troupe on an increasingly insane and futile journey when all logic and reason compels them to turn back . It's remarkably easy to forget that you're watching staged action during this film , as the movie drips with authenticity . Herzog's approach to the material is one of almost journalistic objectivity ; he never tries to impose emotions or meanings on his viewers . There's very little dialogue and hardly any music ; we don't realize how much we rely on characterizations and scoring to tell us how we should feel until they're no longer there to direct us . The series of events that transpires over the course of Herzog's movie could be considered to be telling the history of man in microcosm - - or the history of any civilization . It's only a matter of time in any group of individuals before one tries to assert his supreme authority , and from that moment the rest break into factions of those who will follow and those who won't . Aguirre uses fear to retain control ; those who oppose him are disposed of . Substitute Hitler for Aguirre and it wouldn't be difficult to read this film as an allegory for Nazi Germany . However , I feel like Herzog is interested in Man in general rather than Man at any one point in time , and he seems to be saying that the obsessions that drove men centuries ago are the same obsessions that drive them now . One of the most striking aspects of this film is its treatment of religion . The film is narrated by a priest , whose diary was the sole surviving record of the expedition . He is determined to tame the savages by bringing them the word of God , but Herzog's irony is not lost on us , for who are the true savages in this film ? The hypocrisy of the church is brought home by a scene in which the priest tells one of the women of the expedition that he supports Aguirre because the church has always allied itself with those who are strong , not those who are worthy . And in another scene later in the film , when someone suggests that they are nearing the city of gold , the priest's eyes glitter as much as anyone's with the promise of fortune and wealth . Herzog doesn't treat any one incident in the movie with any greater emphasis than any other . This is refreshing in one sense , because the movie is utterly lacking any of the phony bombast that plagues so many more commercial films . But this can also sometimes be a disadvantage , because the monotone pacing too often lulled me into a state from which I had to remind myself to pay attention .
Bergman's Version of a Cage Match	After " Wild Strawberries , " this is perhaps my favorite Bergman movie , though be warned : it will take the wind out of you , especially if you watch the full five-hour version in a condensed period of time , as I did . Liv Ullmann and Erland Josephson create perhaps too realistic a version of marriage in this emotionally bruising film . When Marianne ( Ullmann ) finds out that Johan ( Josephson ) has been cheating on her and has decided to leave her , the safe , secure world she has built around her crumbles . She plays Marianne as a wife blind to her own husband's unhappiness and embarrassed that she didn't see it coming , and her's is a convincing portrait of a woman whose partner has decided long before her that what they have isn't working . Josephson makes Johan into a contemptible ass , but he still manages to earn our sympathy . It's easy to dislike Johan but difficult to hate him , so we're in many respects thrust into the same emotional straight jacket as Marianne . The saddest thing about " Scenes from a Marriage " is how much affection and love there actually is between these two people , and how it's going to waste . When they get angry , they lash out to hurt one another with words and even with fists at one point . There are tears , laughs , reveries . It's obvious that there wouldn't be the need for all this if there wasn't so much ingrained affection between them , and it's tragic to see them become each other's enemy rather than each other's ally . For a very good if not quite as brilliant sequel to this film , see " Saraband , " which has Marianne visiting Johan for the first time in many years after each has established a life of his / her own without the other . It brings a peaceful sense of closure and in many ways stitches up the raw wound left by the first film .
Hitchcock at the Top of His Game	A superb Hitchcock thriller from his pre-Hollywood days . Margaret Lockwood plays Iris Henderson , on her way via train to London to marry a fiancée she's not all that crazy about . She meets a kind old lady named Mrs . Froy ( a name I will not ever forget because of the way in which Hitchcock introduces it to the audience ) , played by Dame May Witty , who disappears seemingly without a trace while Iris is asleep . Iris then enlists the help of Gilbert Redman , a fellow passenger played with a great deal of cheek by Michael Redgrave , one of the only people who believes that Mrs . Froy isn't a figment of Iris's imagination , and the two of them embark upon a search of the train and an interrogation of its passengers to solve the mystery of the lady's disappearance . As this bizarre story plays itself out , the WWII propaganda becomes so thick that you can cut it with a knife . By the end , all of the English passengers have overcome their indifference and / or their desire not to get in involved in a potentially messy situation and have joined the cause . It's a bit heavy handed , but easy to forgive given the time period in which it was released and the fact that Hitch keeps things so damn entertaining . Indeed , one of the things that distinguishes " The Lady Vanishes " is how funny it is . It's a virtual parade of dry one-liners and even some physical comedy thrown into the mix . In addition to Redgrave's veddy English performance , the bulk of the comedy comes from Naunton Wayne and Basil Radford , playing two English chaps whose only concern is getting back to London on time for a cricket match . Their refusal to get ruffled , even in the middle of a climactic shootout , is hilarious , old sport .
This Ain't Your Grandmother's Andy Griffith	Whoa ! This steam roller of a movie may just leave you wondering why no one ever seems to talk about it or remember it all these years later . . . . Elia Kazan made one of those films that feels like it could have been made today with few changes . It's so relevant today that the movie was either ahead of its time or it proves that things haven't changed much in the succeeding years . Andy Griffith plays a folk hero who becomes a radio and then television sensation , sees his fame reach its highest point , and then collapse when his ego gets too big to control . The movie is shockingly honest about the simplicity of middle America and its willingness to believe what it wants to hear . The film is part cautionary tale and part fulfilled prophecy . I had trouble with Griffith at first . His performance reeks of over acting , and I just couldn't take him seriously as this charismatic , sexy character who women fall in lust with . But I warmed up to him over the course of the film , and his final scene is devastating . Patricia Neal is the one to watch here . She is a wonderful actress , and she had a natural style of acting that immediately made anyone else on screen with her seem a little less authentic by default . Walter Matthau appears in a rare dramatic role , Anthony Franciosa plays a slime ball and Lee Remick appears as a trampy cheerleader . Kazan did not take the most subtle of approaches to this movie , but it's not a story calling out for subtlety .
A Hugely Exciting African-Set Thriller	With " The Last King of Scotland , " Kevin MacDonald has created a bracing , exciting and totally satisfying thriller . Forest Whitaker gives a titanic performance as Idi Amin , Ugandan dictator who rose to power in the 1970s . James McAvoy plays Nicholas Garrigan , a Scottish physician who travels to Uganda for the adventure and wins Amin's affections , becoming his personal doctor . Garrigan enters into a moral crisis as he begins to realize the kind of man Amin is , and begins to fear for his own life as events spiral more and more out of his control . Whitaker seizes the chance to play this larger than life character and runs with it - - I've never seen Whitaker give so convincing and transforming a performance . However , as good as he is , McAvoy impressed me more . His performance as Garrigan is not as showy , but it's much more textured and subtle , and his character has the bigger arc from start to finish . Gillian Anderson also does terrific work in a small role as a fellow doctor , who understands things about Amin and the African culture that Garrigan does not . Unlike other recent thrillers set in African nations ( " The Constant Gardener , " " Hotel Rwanda " ) , " The Last King of Scotland " is not greatly concerned with the geo-political implications of Amin's reign . The atrocities he committed against Ugandans are given only the barest of mentions , and the film sticks almost exclusively to Garrigan and the danger he himself faces . Some may think the film is irresponsible for this reason - - that the plight of one man pales in comparison to the plight of thousands , and I can see where a criticism like that is justified . But the movie packs a powerful wallop regardless , and complaints like this seem like quibbles when up against such an entertaining movie .
A Movie That Defies Description ( In a Good Way )	Writer / director Martin McDonagh has fashioned a little gem of a crime thriller / black comedy with his film , " In Bruges . " It's quirky and eccentric , but in a way that comes naturally and doesn't feel remotely forced . And despite the running joke about Bruges being such a boring and dull place to be , the movie makes the city itself look lovely . Ray ( Colin Farrell ) and Ken ( Brendan Gleeson ) play two hit men who hole up in the titular city awaiting orders from their boss , Harry , played by Ralph Fiennes . Both suffer a crisis of conscience - - Ray because his first hit resulted in his accidentally killing a little boy , Ken because his orders once they come are to bump off Ray , who annoys him but who he rather likes . When Ken tells Harry he refuses to kill Ray , Harry comes after the two men himself , resulting in a quite violent finale . McDonagh's background in theatre shows , especially in his writing . The screenplay to " In Bruges " is a marvel , tightly wound and compact . It's fresh and surprising , traits that don't frequently describe movie scripts nowadays . The movie is viciously funny , but the relationship between Ray and Ken is also rather moving , and the violence ( and boy is it graphic at times ) is very disturbing precisely because we come to care so much about the characters it's happening to . All of the performances , but especially those of Farrell , Gleeson and Fiennes , are superb . McDonagh proves himself to be a good director of actors , and he handles his own material masterfully . He even manages to make midget humor ( the stuff of movie comedy clichés ) funny again .
Unashamedly Sentimental - - - Works for Me	I had the pleasure of seeing a screening of this film ( silent , though it came out well into the sound era ) with live music accompaniment by the Chicago Symphony Orchestra . As you can imagine , this added a tremendous amount to the overall effect of the movie , which I had seen once before on video . This is Chaplin at his most unabashedly sentimental , but darn it if it doesn't work like a charm . This feels the most dramatic of the Chaplin films I've seen , with the most " plot , " but that doesn't mean there aren't wildly funny bits , like Chaplin's brief stint as a boxer . I don't cry especially easily at movies , so the ending didn't have me in tears , but you're excused if it has that effect on you , and you might want to have a handkerchief handy just in case .
Speaking Catalan with Woody Allen	Woody Allen's on a roll again . Three years ago he gave us " Match Point , " a nearly perfect thriller that was unlike anything he'd done before , and last year he directed the under-appreciated " Cassandra's Dream . " With " Vicky Cristina Barcelona , " he's proved that this new artistic reawakening is more than a passing phase . Vicky ( Rebecca Hall ) and Cristina ( Scarlett Johansson ) travel to Barcelona for a summer adventure . Vicky is treading water until she marries her fiancé . Cristina , a wilder spirit , is looking for love , or at least lust . Both become involved with a dashing Spanish artist ( Javier Bardem ) and find that the things they took for granted about themselves may not be true after all , and each leaves Barcelona a little less grounded than she was when she arrived . What makes so many Woody Allen films good is the same for this one . He understands both the dynamics of human emotions and the needs of effective drama , so if he's got even half-way decent actors in his movies the material is bound to succeed . In " Vicky Cristina Barcelona , " he's got better than half-way decent actors . Rebecca Hall is probably the least known of the cast , but she makes one of the biggest impressions , and the movie is " about " Vicky more than it is anyone . Johansson and Bardem are well cast and they act their parts well . But it's Penelope Cruz , who storms into the film at about the mid-way point as Bardem's unhinged ex-wife , who you'll most remember . " Vicky Cristina Barcelona " explores the differences between the way different people approach relationships . It's about the difference between those who are artists and those who are not , and it's also about the difference between Americans and Europeans . But it's never judgemental and it doesn't generalize . Every single character , even those with little screen time , is fully developed and respected by both Allen and the actors who play them . This one's a winner .
Poorly Received David Lean Film Looks Terrific with Age	Poorly received at the time of its release , perhaps " Ryan's Daughter " is one of those movies to whom time has been kind , because I just saw it for the first time and thought it was remarkable . It's based on Flaubert's " Madame Bovary , " but it really only borrows the barest of outlines from that novel . In its details and the outcomes of its characters , it differs greatly . Sarah Miles plays a young woman living in a tiny coastal village in rural Ireland , whose assumptions and illusions about romantic love and passion cause her to marry a schoolteacher ( Robert Mitchum ) on whom she nurtures a former student's crush . The mystery and excitement of man / woman relations fades quickly , as early as the wedding night , and it's not long before she falls for a shell-shocked British soldier who joins the garrison stationed in the village . As the affair between these two becomes known , she's condemned as both a slut and a traitor , and must fall back on the understanding of her cuckolded husband to defend her against the townspeople . Director David Lean and screenwriter and frequent Lean collaborator Robert Bolt spend as much time on the political battles raging between Ireland and England as they do the forbidden love affair , and I liked the film for that , even though it makes it quite long . The film does take its time , but it doesn't overstay its welcome . It's like curling up with a nice , big fat novel that you like so much you don't want to end . Sarah Miles gives a lovely performance in the title role , and Robert Mitchum is also good as her uptight husband , even though he fails miserably at an Irish accent . Of the supporting cast , Trevor Howard is the standout as the village priest and mediating influence on the village rabble who cry out for blood at the slightest provocation . John Mills gives a rather hammy performance as the village idiot and won an Oscar for it . The character is thematically important even if he's too often used for maudlin and sentimental purposes . Cinematographer Freddie Young does jaw-dropping work in capturing the beauty of the Irish landscape , and won the film its only other Oscar . One way in which the film greatly resembles the novel is the emphasis on the natural world , both its magnificence and its potential for violence . Lean and Bolt take the Madame Bovary story and make it a tale of outcasts , of people who don't belong . In this version , Ryan's daughter , the village idiot and the British soldiers themselves are all outcasts , and they're among whom our sympathies lie . It's an interesting approach , since in any other version of this story we would be asked to side with the Irish whose homeland is being invaded by imperialist forces . I wonder if that's partially the reason for the film's poor reception upon release .
Family Dysfunction in Small-Town America	" Junebug " gets the atmosphere of small-town America just right . It's a place where practicality is a virtue and one's church is the center of one's social world . There's an inherent distrust in anything " urban , " partly the result of judgemental small-mindedness and partly the result of a defensive insecurity . But it's also a place where people can be incredibly loyal and warm when they get to know you , where neighbors know and trust one another , and where people can be refreshingly free of pretension and pettiness . All of this is skillfully conveyed in " Junebug , " Phil Morrison's un-condescending exploration of the tension and strain in one North Carolina family when the oldest son visits from Chicago , bringing along his newlywed wife ( newlywed in every sense of the word ; they knew each other a week before marrying ) . At first glance this family is filled with types : the friendly but distant father , the icy mother , the hostile little brother jealous of his sibling's success and intimidated by his education . But over the course of the film , we see these family members interact , reach out to one another in their small , seemingly insignificant ways , and drop hints as to why and how they've come to fill the roles they do . At the center of the family , where you would think the mom would be , is Ashley , pregnant wife of younger brother Jimmie , who acts as a life force for the rest of the family . She's hopelessly optimistic and naive , the kind of person you think could never function in the real world , and yet she manages to hold the family together through sheer strength of will . It's a remarkable character and a beautiful characterization from actress Amy Adams , who should have won the Academy Award for which she was so justly nominated . Though Ashley is the focus of the family , Madeline , the new wife of oldest brother George , is the focus of the film . She and George are in North Carolina in the first place so that she can talk to a local artist about showing his paintings in her Chicago gallery . The urban aloofness we might expect from her character is non-existent ; she warmly embraces the family , despite the fact that they're almost uniformly ( with the exception of Ashley ) hateful to her . For a while , indeed , her character seems unbelievable , and we wonder how much crap a person would take from virtual strangers before giving up . But as the story develops , and as a tragedy occurs that tests the strength of the family , we realize that Madeline hasn't been as warm as we think she has been . She's not thinking of these people as family ; how they treat her almost doesn't matter , because she's not interested in forming close attachments with them anyway . Director Morrison and his screenwriter do a good job of illustrating that just because some people act the way you expect them to doesn't mean they're incapable of acting otherwise , and that just because some act in ways you're not expecting , they're not necessarily innocent of reinforcing stereotypes . " Junebug " is staunchly resistant to sentimentality , or to giving us an unqualified happy ending , and for that I'm entirely grateful . However , it's a very sombre film , more sombre than trailers or other comments may lead you to believe , and I wouldn't have minded a couple of heart-warming moments just to lighten things up a bit . But overall a wonderful and original drama , and another terrific example of what a great year 2005 was for movies .
A Magnificent " Magnificent Ambersons "	RKO tried its damnedest to butcher Orson Welles ' haunting , fantastic follow-up to " Citizen Kane , " but they only partially succeeded . The movie does fall just short of greatness for me , but that's not Welles ' fault . One can see that if the film he intended to make had actually been preserved , it would rival " Kane " as the premier example of Welles ' cinematic genius . The movie feels rushed due to RKO's hack editing job , and there are odd , disjointed sections in which the pacing and sense of time feel off . Tim Holt isn't a forceful enough presence to play Georgie Amberson , and so Joseph Cotten , a much more charismatic screen presence , becomes the focus of the film , except for the moments when Agnes Moorehead is on screen and blows everyone else away with her caustic performance as Aunt Fanny . This is the one aspect in which the film is inferior to Booth Tarkington's magnificent novel , in which Georgie Amberson emerged as one of the most compelling and colorful characters I've ever seen in literature . And I don't think even Welles ' " true " version would have changed that , since the failing is in the actor , not the editing . However , that aside , " The Magnificent Ambersons " stands as a towering achievement in film art . All of the Welles trademarks are there : the chiaroscuro lighting , the deep focus , the fluid camera . The sense of deterioration that plagues the Amberson elite is palpable in every frame . It's a high compliment to a film when you can say it's only fault is that there should have been more of it .
Lovely Little Film About the Power of Words	A sweet , gentle film about a quiet postman who discovers the power of poetry in winning the heart of his true love . Massimo Troisi gives a warm , wonderful performance as said postman , while Phillipe Noiret plays the poet Pablo Neruda . The setting , a sleepy Italian village , gives the film a cozy atmosphere , and it's got a lovely score to match . One of the rare foreign-language films to be nominated for a Best Picture Academy Award , it lost to the thunderingly stupid " Braveheart . " Mel Gibson could use a little poetry himself .
Sexy and Mature	Myrna Loy was never lovelier than she is in this surprisingly sophisticated and mature 1936 film . Though billed as a screwball comedy , the movie has much more than screwball comedy on its mind . Loy plays wife to Clark Gable , a successful business exec who spends much of his time at the office with his irreplaceable secretary , played by Jean Harlow . Loy completely trusts her husband until a seed of doubt is planted in her mind by her cynical mother-in-law ( May Robson ) . The film examines the idea of trust in marriage , and it's honest about the nature of infidelity . In a fascinating scene that takes place between Gable and Harlow in a Haitian hotel , the film suggests that the key to making relationships work lies not in avoiding temptation ( which it also suggests is impossible anyway ) , but in knowing how to say " no " to it when it arrives . Gable and Loy have as much chemistry together as Loy did with William Powell , her other frequent co-star , and Jean Harlow is as cute as I've ever seen her . I don't normally like her much , but I liked her in this as much as I've ever liked her in anything else . There are no good guys or bad guys in this movie ; Gable isn't a cad and Harlow isn't a floozy . The three just play normal people navigating the tricky waters of male / female relations . This one's a winner .
Are You Stoned , Mr . Marlowe ?	That most expert of genre benders - - Robert Altman - - takes aim at the noir detective film in this delightfully creative and witty adaptation of the Raymond Chandler novel . Altman - - not to mention Elliott Gould , who delivers a wonderfully whacked-out performance as Chandler staple Philip Marlowe - - gives us a hero who's right at home in the drifter , " everything goes " environment of 1970s L . A . His mumbled refrain throughout the film is " It's o . k . with me , " a refrain that sees him through all manner of confrontations , some of them life threatening . The plot is one of those convoluted puzzles for which films noir are known , having something to do with Marlowe's close friend , Terry Lennox , turning up dead in Mexico after supposedly murdering his wife . Marlowe , unable to believe that his friend would be capable of such an act , can't let the case drop even though the police want him to . And of course , in true noir fashion , he's hired for a separate case that at first seems to have nothing to do with the other but eventually turns out to be connected , involving the wife ( Nina van Pallandt ) of a suicidal novelist ( Sterling Hayden , giving a frightening and intense performance ) . But , also true to film noir ( and true as well of most Altman films ) , none of this plot really matters as much as the movie's tone , so artist and genre find themselves perfectly matched . Over the course of the film , we realize that Marlowe is the only honest person in this crooked version of contemporary L . A . , and he begins to seem like more of a relic from a past decade , a shuffling gumshoe that might be at home in a Warners crime film from the 40s , but who is woefully under equipped to handle the dirty dealings of the present . That is until a shocking and cold-blooded finale , in which Marlowe proves himself to be a bit more resourceful than we had given him credit for . There's a hip quality to " The Long Goodbye " - - it's a sustained joke of a film that Altman pulls off beautifully . Our introduction to Marlowe finds him going off in the middle of the night in search of his cat's favorite brand of pet food , and then trying to trick the cat into eating a brand it's not used to . This endears us to him , and we stay endeared to him for the rest of the film , thanks largely to the way Gould plays him . The film looks great too ; Altman's frequent collaborator on his early 70s pictures , Vilmos Zsigmond , does cinematography honors . And John Williams composed a great theme song , that plays in numerous variations throughout the film and contributes a running gag to the proceedings , popping up at one point as the funeral dirge being played by a Mexican band and at another as the tinkling tune of a doorbell . I've liked " The Long Goodbye " more and more every time I've seen it , and have quickly come to the conclusion that it's one of Altman's best .
A Holiday Worth Taking	" Holiday " belongs right up there with " The Philadelphia Story " and " Bringing Up Baby " as one of the best movies to team Katharine Hepburn and Cary Grant . Watching it today , it's nearly impossible to understand why audiences stayed away from this and " Baby " back in 1938 . These movies have instant classics written all over them . " Holiday " is much closer to " Philadelphia Story " than " Baby " in its style of comedy . Contrary to the labels people have assigned it , it is NOT a screwball comedy - - in fact , it's quite serious and brings a tremendous amount of character depth to its story , much in the way " Story " would two years later . Hepburn of course plays the sister of a shallow girl who's about to be married and who only thinks of living a luxurious lifestyle . Grant waltzes in and finds that he and Hepburn are soul mates . The scenes in which these two , along with an intellectual professor and his wife , lambast the vacuous lives of the stinking and very dull rich , are the movie's highlights . " Holiday " is one of those movies that never becomes irrelevant , not to people who still think that intelligence , imagination , creativity and ideas are more valuable commodities than material possessions .
Harold Gets the Girl ( Of Course )	I did not enjoy " Girl Shy " quite as much as Harold Lloyd's most famous feature length film , " Safety Last ! " , but I still had a good time with it . Lloyd plays a hapless tailor's assistant who stutters terribly whenever around women ( watching Lloyd stutter in silence , by the way , is hilarious ) . To make up for in fantasy what he lacks in reality , he writes a book about the conquest of his many ( fictional ) women , and travels to the big city with the dream of having it published to tremendous success . The publisher takes it as a big joke and thinks it will be a hit as a piece of comedy . Lloyd is , of course , crushed that no one will take him seriously , but the joke's on everyone else when he manages in true Lloyd style to win the girl of his dreams . I'm only a very recent Harold Lloyd convert , but now that I've seen a few of his films , I have to say that I like his brand of silent humour much more than Charlie Chaplin's . Lloyd's physical stunts are stunning , and " Girl Shy " builds to a tremendously fun and exciting climax as Lloyd rushes to claim the girl before she's wed to another , braving every manner of transportation imaginable in ever-increasing outrageous set pieces . But Lloyd's acting impresses too - - he's not just a silly clown with a knack for physical comedy . Lloyd does as much with his face as he does with his rubber limbs . Another Harold Lloyd winner .
Loneliness in the Digital Age	It's wonderful when any work of art seems to be speaking personally to you as you experience it , but really , how often does that happen ? Well , it did happen for me with this movie - - I finished it and it stayed with me for a long time - - I felt like I'd just had a conversation with the writer and director , Miranda July , and discovered that we think very similarly about the world in which we live . " Me and You and Everyone We Know " resists tidy summation , and I imagine ten people could see it and come away with ten different versions of what it's about . The basic plot involves Christine , a performance artist whose art consists of carrying on imaginary conversations with other people , and who drives elderly people around in a taxi as a day job ; and Richard , a shoe salesman whose marriage has unraveled and who is absolutely at sea with what to do for his two young sons . Watching these two misfits make tentative steps toward reaching out to one another comprises the foundation of this film , but it's the many rich story lines that give it its depth : Richard's co-worker , a galoot of a guy who makes lewd sexual suggestions to a couple of teenage girls but who's terrified when they actually decide to take him up on his offers ; the owner of a gallery , who connects to the performance art Christine produces and spends her free time on an Internet sex chat line ; a next-door neighbor girl who likes to buy housewares for the dowry she hopes to some day bring to a marriage ; and Richard's two sons , the oldest who is drawn to the stable if fictitious home life said next door neighbor girl offers , and the youngest , who does some online chatting of his own . At a more thematic level , " Me and You . . . . " is about loneliness in the digital age , and the feeling of isolation people have when they think they're the only ones not not making connections that they perceive others to be making . July seems to be suggesting that we live in a world where intimate communication is easier than ever , but that in a paradoxical way all of this ease of communication is only making human beings more and more distant from each other . People spend their days talking frivolously on their cell phones or via e-mail , but draw further and further away from being able to communicate face to face with people when it really matters . Everyone's in his or her own private little world , and too many people hide behind their cell phones so as to avoid having to acknowledge the strangers around them . July has fashioned a bitter sweet film around this theme , and it works like a charm . One of the things I liked best about it was the absence of meanness or nastiness . You keep waiting for something just awful to happen , and continuous references to pedophilia and violence toward children seem like hints dropped to prepare you for a shocking surprise . But it turns out that everyone in the film is at heart just a decent person , doing the best he or she can to cope with their private miseries . Pessimist that I am , I still believe that the vast majority of mankind is comprised of essentially good and kind people , so this aspect of the movie felt realistic to me , and I thought it was refreshing that July sidestepped those misanthropic tendencies that too often drag down other " indie " films . And lastly , I loved the ending of this movie . Richard's youngest son is up earlier than usual one morning and hears a strange clicking noise coming from outside . His mom tells him that it's caused by the streetlamps automatically turning off and that it happens every morning . This becomes a sort of mystery for the little boy , until the final scene , when he wanders outside and finds out that the clicking is actually caused by a nice gentleman tapping a quarter against a sign post as he waits for a bus . As the sun rises , the little boy realizes that what he thought was the sound of a mechanical process is instead the sound of a random human action . Beautiful .
A Salvador Dali Painting Come to Life	This playful and surrealist film from Luis Bunuel is a gem from 1970s foreign language cinema . A group of well-to-dos gather for a dinner that never quite seems to take place , since each time they sit down to dine , some sort of bizarre , dreamlike occurrence prevents them from doing so . The film is difficult to describe ; it's like a fever dream visualized - - or like stepping into a Salvador Dali painting . The charms of the middle class depicted here are discreet indeed , nearly to the point of being nonexistent . Bunuel's point , of course . . . .
A Brutal and Twisted Noir	Cornel Wilde plays a police detective obsessed with bringing down crime lord Mr . Brown ( Richard Conte ) , while hoping at the same time to win the affections of Conte's girl , Jean Wallace , in this tremendously atmospheric noir from 1955 . The noir genre wouldn't last much longer ( many contend that 1958's " Touch of Evil " is the last true noir ) , but it went out with a bang , giving us some of its best examples ( this , " Kiss Me Deadly , " " On Dangerous Ground " ) in its last years . Wilde plays detective Leonard Diamond like a man coming apart at the seams . His determination to bring an end to Brown's reign feels as if it's fueled by personal motivations as much as by a sense of justice . This ambiguity in the hero's actions adds to the rotten atmosphere created by director Joseph Lewis , in which the bad guys often have more allure than the good ones . Richard Conte certainly has magnetism to spare ; his monotone , machine-gun patter when belittling Diamond for being a " little man " nearly makes you forget that Wilde towers over Conte whenever they're in the frame together . And , despite his chauvinist treatment of her , one can understand why Jean Wallace's character would be drawn against her will to the more virile Conte than to the " impotent " Wilde . Indeed , the question of manhood - - who has it and who doesn't - - is central to " The Big Combo . " It's a theme common to the genre , but is given one of its most overt treatments here . In this twisted world , the ability to inflict pain - - be it mental , emotional , physical or sexual - - is a measure of one's ability to " be a man " and make it in the world . Those who aren't man enough , like Mr . Brown's gay henchmen or right-hand man , McClure ( played with just the right amount of vulnerability by Brian Donlevy ) , are destroyed . " The Big Combo " boasts arresting black and white images , and a number of thrillingly memorable set pieces ( let's just say that imaginative and recurring use is made of a hearing aid ) . It doesn't beat its kissing cousin from the same year , " Kiss Me Deadly , " in my book , but it's an awfully fun ride .
Keith Carradine and Shelley Duvall as Lovers on the Lam	" They Live by Night , " the 1948 screen adaptation of the Edward Anderson novel " Thieves Like Us , " and other films that have obviously been inspired by it , like " Gun Crazy " ( 1949 ) and " Bonnie and Clyde " ( 1967 ) , have all been so good that it makes you wonder if yet another version of the same story is necessary . The answer is yes , because Robert Altman is behind this version , and if Altman proved nothing else as a director , he proved that he could take any material and make it his own . Altman's " Thieves Like Us " is a beautiful and heartbreaking version of the lovers-on-the-lam story , with Keith Carradine cast as Bowie , the soft spoken , sensitive member of a trio of escaped convicts and bank robbers ( the other two , Chickamaw and T-Dub , played by Altman regulars John Schuck and Bert Remsen , respectively ) . During a lull in their series of robberies , Bowie sets up house with Keechie ( Shelley Duvall ) , a shy , simple country girl , and they take a stab at a sort of domestic bliss despite the fact that Bowie is doomed and it's only a matter of time before the law catches up to him . Meanwhile , T-Dub's sister-in-law , Mattie ( Louise Fletcher ) , who has helped the fugitives because of family obligations , begins to tire of the example the trio are setting for her own children , and becomes an accomplice to the police trying to track down the criminals . Previous screen versions of this story cast gorgeous actors as the lovers and made us fall in love with them . In 1948 it was Farley Granger and Cathy O'Donnell ; in 1967 it was Warren Beatty and Faye Dunaway . We fall in love with Carradine and Duvall too , but for different reasons . They are decidedly NOT gorgeous actors - - they're both skinny , ungainly and awkward . But they're both incredibly simple and sweet , and they have some lovely and naturalistic moments together that make us wish these two could just settle down , have a family and achieve their own small share of happiness . Altman constantly reminds us of the happiness these two are denied through use of an endless parade of print and radio advertisements that serves as a running commentary throughout the film . During a horrible depression during which so many people could afford nothing , Altman seems to be accusing the American consumerist culture of incessantly reminding everyone of what they didn't have . The way to happiness , Altman implies , seemed to lie in material comforts ; no wonder the trio of men in this film prefer robbing banks to the alternatives available to them . And there's another theme winding its way through Altman's version , one which appeared again and again in his work , that of frustrated male inadequacy . The men in this film turn to the most destructive behavior ( thieving , drinking , sexual aggression ) in order to cope with a world they feel they've lost control of , and this behavior is continuously juxtaposed to the feminine , domestic sphere represented by Mattie , eternally capable and resourceful , and resentful of the disruption the men bring along with them . " Thieves Like Us " does not have that beautiful , ethereal sheen to it that characterized Altman's other early-1970s films , mostly because he did not use expert cinematographer Vilmos Zsigmond on this outing . But thanks to the winsome performances of Carradine and Duvall , and the touching representation of their characters ' tentative relationship , this is one of his warmest and emotionally resonant films from that time period .
Accomplished If Not " Fun " Hitchcock Drama	Considered by many to be Hitchcock's masterpiece , " Vertigo " may be tough to warm up to on a first viewing . It's an enigmatic and extremely slow-moving film , and it feels personal in ways that many of Hitchcock's other , more playful movies don't . You get the sense that Hitch is working through his personal demons on screen - - the fetishes and obsessions that played such a major role in so many of his films leading up to " Vertigo " feel like characters in and of themselves here . James Stewart delivers a frightening performance as a man who plunges into a world of weird sexual obsession when a woman with whom he's formed a romantic attachment dies ( or seems to ) . He finds another woman who looks amazingly like the first , and proceeds to force a complete physical makeover on her in an attempt to recreate his former love . Kim Novak plays the two women in her typical icy fashion ; for once , her stilted , awkward acting works for a role and comes off as an attribute rather than a liability . In its new remastered life on DVD , " Vertigo " looks stunning . San Francisco and its surroundings are bathed in ethereal , dream-like lighting , and Hitchcock pays more attention to art direction and the use of color than he ever had previously . Also , there's that amazing swirling Bernard Herrmann score that haunts the film , and accompanies one of the most memorable opening credits sequences ever filmed . There are still a number of other Hitchcock films I would rather watch before " Vertigo , " and many others that I would qualify as much more fun , but I can't deny that this one certainly has an allure .
A Rousing Film About a Bloody Subject	A visceral , kinetic and exciting film from Roland Joffe ( whatever happened to him ? ) . Set against the bloody backdrop of Cambodia during the civil war that saw the surge of the Khmer Rouge , " The Killing Fields " tells the story of an interpreter ( the non-actor Haing S . Ngor ) who befriends an American journalist ( Sam Waterston ) and then descends into the nightmare of Cambodia while Waterston sits helplessly in America wondering if his friend is dead or alive . It's one of those liberal films Hollywood loves to make , that asks us to feel guilty about our cushy American lives even as people in other countries are being butchered . It's not heavy handed or manipulative though , and Joffe films the whole thing with a journalistic approach that fits the subject matter and lends the film a documentary-like quality . Ngor , who had never acted before , is amazing , and though Waterston gets top billing as the most recognizable actor , Ngor is the film's true star .
An Eerily Beautiful Film About a Little Boy and His Vampire Girlfriend	An utterly unique and oddly beautiful Swedish film about the budding friendship between a 12-year-old boy and a female vampire that manages to be both morbid and sweet at the same time . Oskar is the sad little boy who lives a life of detached loneliness with his single mom . He's horribly bullied at school and sees his dad only once in a while . He has no friends that we see . He seems to have an unhealthy and unleashed propensity for violence , and he keeps a scrapbook full of clippings about grisly murders . Maybe it's for all of those reasons that he's willing to so quickly accept the friendship of Eli , a little girl who also happens to be a vampire . " Let the Right One In " is not a vampire movie in the traditional sense , but given that I was surprised at the amount of vampire horror the movie contains . We see vampire attacks , we see Eli scaling walls , we see vampires attacked by cats and bursting into flames at the sight of sunlight . However , at the heart of the film is an aching , wistful story about two outcasts who find each other , and the fact that one of them is a vampire becomes almost incidental . Eli could just be an awkward little 12-year-old nerd like Oskar and the story wouldn't have to be much different . The movie is dazzlingly filmed . Hardly a scene goes by without some sort of striking image or composition , most notably a climactic scene set in a swimming pool . The scene ends in a moment of shocking violence , but it also manages to be eerily beautiful . And a word about the whole " is Eli really a castrated boy " argument swirling around this film . Apparently the book makes it explicitly clear that this is the case . But there is simply not enough evidence in the film to allow the viewer to make this intuitive leap if he / she hasn't read the book , so I believe that the director and writer left it ambiguous on purpose , so that you can take away what you want depending on whether or not you've read the source material . And in any case , I don't see how that plot detail is especially relevant or makes one iota of difference to the story .
An Astonishing and Authentic Examination of Terrorism	Wow , " The Battle of Algiers " really could have been made today , couldn't it ? I don't know if I should be comforted or disturbed that the events depicted in Gillo Pontecorvo's film so closely mirror those going on in the Middle East right now . On the one hand , it's comforting to realize that events and tensions that seem scary in the present day have been going on virtually forever , and that every generation has probably thought at some point that the world they lived in represented the human race at its lowest point . But on the other hand , it's disturbing to think that the same patterns have been repeating themselves for ages and we as a race just keep making the same blunders over and over again . " The Battle of Algiers " chronicles in near documentary fashion the struggle of the Algerian Muslims against the imperialist French rule in the 1950s . Overwhelmed by the might and resources of the French military , a rebel group of Algerians resort to terrorist tactics to make themselves heard . Stuck in the middle are the everyday Algerian and French citizens , who die in bombings and attacks perpetrated by both sides , and are fed propaganda explaining how each side is working in their best interests . There's a scene mid-way through the film in which a French military commander lectures a gathering on the personalities and philosophies of terrorist cells . He explains the terrorist cell structure , and how the best way to kill the cell is to cut off its head . Sound familiar ? Pontecorvo's film is engrossing , and one that will always ( sadly ) be relevant . His sympathies obviously reside with the Algerians - - the film ends with images of an Algerian uprising that occurred two years after the main events depicted in the movie , with Algerian people celebrating in the streets , waving flags and shouting cries of " freedom , " " liberty " and such . But we do see the human cost and dubious morality of terrorist warfare , and the film fairly showcases the brutality inflicted by both groups . " The Battle of Algiers " has an astounding authentic quality to it that makes it almost impossible to believe that this is a fictional film and not a documentary .
A Superb Hitchcock Thriller with a Healthy Dose of His Typical Playful Humour	Hitchcock was working at the top of his game in this dazzling thriller . Only he could create movies like this , that blend elements of romantic comedy and dark , grim realism to make something completely unique . Joel McCrea , an actor I've begun to like more and more , plays a writer who travels to Europe with the purpose of reporting on the gathering clouds of war . Once there , he falls for the daughter ( Laraine Day ) of a respected official ( Herbert Marshall ) whose peace organization happens to be a cover up for a spy ring . This ring stages the assassination of an important political figure ( Albert Basserman ) and then kidnaps him to wring secrets from him that will benefit the German army . But McCrea figures this out long before anyone else , and the race is on . " Foreign Correspondent " is filled with dazzling Hitchcock set pieces , beginning with the assassination itself , which segues into a race through a sea of umbrellas . There's one of the film's most famous moments , a nailbiting hideout in a windmill , made even more effective by the eerie production design . And the grand finale is an impressive airplane crash into the Atlantic . The supporting cast boasts George Sanders , best known for his portrayal of vicious gossip columnist Addison DeWitt in " All About Eve , " playing a quite different and heroic character here , and Edmund Gwenn , unrecognizable without his Santa Claus beard , playing a quite different and villainous one . " Foreign Correspondent " maybe feels more like a product of its time than other Hitchcock films , which is maybe also why it seems to be less well known . Like many films from the same time period , it was used both as a piece of entertainment and war propaganda . The last scene finds McCrea delivering a radio address to the American people urging them to pay attention to the dark cloud of war descending on Europe . The speech is quite stirring as delivered by McCrea , and the film fades to black as the rumble of the London blitz pervades the soundtrack . One of Hitchcock's best .
You May Find Yourself Falling for " The Fall "	A strange and wonderful film that's as much about the love of movie storytelling as it is anything else . Lee Pace plays a stuntman , Roy , who suffers an accident and winds up in a Los Angeles hospital , crippled and suicidally depressed . He befriends a little girl , Alexandria , who's in the hospital with a broken arm , and who is entertained by his fantastic adventure stories . Roy begins to manipulate her into stealing morphine for him as a method for committing suicide , but she instead proves to be the thing he needs to help him get over his depression and continue living . This film reminded me both of " The Princess Bride " and " Pan's Labyrinth . " The story within the story has a " Princess Bride " feel , complete with the occasional tongue-in-cheek moment to remind us that what we're watching is the creation of someone's imagination . But it's also like " Pan's Labyrinth , " in that the story we see acted out is diffused through a child's eyes - - the story is Roy's , but the visual interpretation of the story is Alexandria's , so the characters in the story are played by the people she interacts with daily , with the result being that the distinction between reality and fiction sometimes becomes blurred . The creators of " The Fall " clearly intend for their film to be about the joys of movie storytelling . Alexandria says at one point that she doesn't like " flickers , " but the story Roy tells her is exactly the kind of outrageous adventure he would be in himself , and she's hooked . And one of the last scenes in the film shows the hospital staff and patients gathered together to watch the slapstick western that Roy injured himself filming , and they're all enjoying it immensely . I doubt there will be a movie this year that looks better than this one . The production and costume design and cinematography are so imaginative and striking as to send some moments of the film into the world of the abstract .
The One That Started It All	" Mean Streets " is the film that put Martin Scorsese on the map and established him as a serious talent to watch . In many ways , Scorsese has simply been remaking the same story ever since this one , but I think that " Mean Streets " ( along with much of his 1970s work ) has a much grittier and authentic quality to it than the movies he's been making in the last couple of decades . " GoodFellas " and " The Departed " are certainly expert movies , and they're wildly enjoyable , but you can tell that Scorsese's primary motivation in these films was to entertain , while in his 1970s movies he was passionately driven to tell particular stories . Featuring soon-to-become Scorsese regulars Robert DeNiro and Harvey Keitel , both delivering top-notch performances .
A " Brief Encounter " for a New Generation	This simply gorgeous and scandalously overlooked 2006 release manages to be a sweeping old-fashioned Hollywood romance while completely avoiding the righteous bombast that usually makes movies like this so intolerable . Based on a novel by W . Somerset Maugham ( and apparently filmed at least once before with Greta Garbo in the starring role ) , this film tells the story of a young and impetuous English lady ( Naomi Watts ) who rashly decides to marry a stuffy bacteriologist ( Edward Norton ) to escape the displeasure of her family and the danger of turning into a spinster . The two move to China , where the doctor pursues his work and the young woman becomes increasingly bored . She begins an affair with a swaggering compatriot ( Liev Shreiber ) , and when her husband catches her at her game , he decides to punish her by volunteering his aid to a cholera epidemic that is ravaging a remote village , and drags her along with him . Once there , and in the face of something vastly larger than either of them , the two begin to realize how petty their marital squabbling is , and each begins to see the good in the other that up to that point was hidden entirely by the bad . The love that develops between them is not the phony , hyperbolic , passionate love that Hollywood aggressively tries to convince us exists , but rather the much more realistic love that is based on mutual admiration and respect . The characters played by Watts and Norton are fascinating , and the two actors do an amazing job inhabiting them . This project was obviously their baby , as both served as producers , and their passion for it shows . They also happen to have a great deal of screen chemistry together . The film is superbly intelligent and unsentimental , and God love it for that . My wife and I found out after watching it together that both of us separately and without knowing it were reminded of " Brief Encounter , " one of our favorite movies . It's not like that 1946 masterpiece in terms of plot , but it's very much like it in terms of tone and in its attitudes about love and relationships . Both films are frank and candid about the many flaws human beings bring to their interactions with other human beings , and both honestly address the distinction between love and lust and don't try to pretend that they always go together . On top of all that , the film looks spectacular . It's the kind of period drama that the Academy usually wets itself over , so I can't imagine how it was overlooked in categories like art direction , cinematography and costume design . But perhaps the fact that the Academy completely ignored it is the highest endorsement I can make for it .
Vengeance Breeds Vengeance	" Fury " is a ferocious movie from Fritz Lang about the impulses that drive mob violence . It belongs in the same category as films like " The Ox-Bow Incident " and " 12 Angry Men " and other movies that show how a group of normally decent people can turn quickly to animals when they smell blood . Spencer Tracy plays Joe ( read " average Joe " ) , who finds himself in the wrong place at the wrong time and ends up sitting in a country jail , pegged for a kidnapping he didn't commit . The townspeople get wind that someone has been arrested for the crime , and they want to exact their own brand of justice , not much caring on whom they carry it out . In a spectacular sequence , they storm the jail , burning it down and killing ( they think ) Joe . But Joe manages to escape , and the fury he feels at the way they treated him fuels his own feelings of vengeance , until he becomes as ruthless as those he denounces . Lang's movie is unique in that it poses a particularly interesting moral dilemma . The men and women who are on trial for murder ( for Joe keeps the fact that he is alive a secret , just so he can see them hang ) truly did act like murderers . The fact that Joe survives is no thanks to them ; it was pure luck that he escaped . Yet can Joe really let men be punished for a crime they didn't technically commit , and if he does , is he any better than they are ? " Fury " is not an easy movie . There aren't tidy answers to the conflicts ( though there is the obligatory happy ending demanded of films from this time period ) . Sylvia Sidney plays Joe's soon-to-be bride , and provides the film with its moral conscience . She's the prosecution's ace-in-the-hole witness , able to both identify the members of the mob and attest that it was Joe who was locked up in that jail cell . But as she begins to suspect that Joe is really alive ( thanks to some clever clues that Lang places throughout the movie ) , she begins to experience a moral crisis of her own . All of this is told in Lang's typical high style : terrific use of camera work , sound , music . The frenzied mob scene is a coup de cinema , and Tracy gives a taut and disciplined performance in the central role . There's also a very interesting comment on the power of visual media that plays a large role in the prosecution's evidence during the trial scenes . One has to conclude that this was a response to the importance of the motion picture newsreel that had by that time become a staple of the film going experience and would be paid homage as an art form of its own 5 years later in " Citizen Kane . " " Fury " is a terrific , lesser-known film from the 30s .
A Terrific Ensemble and Sizzling Direction Keep This Flawed Classic Watchable	On rewatching " On the Waterfront " recently , I found it to be preachy and schematic , more like a dose of medicine than a form of entertainment . However , I think that's what sometimes happens to socially relevant films when the context in which they first appeared is long past , and this fact should not be held against the movies themselves . Despite any cracks that may have surfaced in the facade of Elia Kazan's film over the years , it still remains a blisteringly powerful movie . Marlon Brando had a singular appeal as an actor . He attacked his roles like a wounded bull , bluntly charging around the screen while letting glimpses of a vulnerable and aching center show through . I would have said that his performance here as Terry Malloy was his best - - if I had not seen the woeful " Last Tango in Paris , " a dreadful movie that nevertheless showcases Brando at his highest level of greatness . His " I coulda been a contender . . . " soliloquy in " Waterfront " has been hopelessly parodied in the intervening years , but I hope that doesn't prevent viewers new to the film from appreciating what a truly heartbreaking and moving cinematic moment Brando creates while delivering it . Watch also the supporting players in this film , particularly Rod Steiger as Terry's brother , both stronger and weaker than his younger sibling , who obviously admires Terry even while he's baffled by him . Even though Brando gets all of the choicest lines in the above-mentioned contender scene , Steiger matches him every step of the way with his hang-dog , nuanced facial expressions . Lee J . Cobb blusters and shouts his way through his performance as the mob heavy ; he serves the function required of him but grows tiresome by the time the movie ends . Karl Malden gives an impassioned performance as a local priest and Eva Marie Saint single-handedly provides the film with some much-needed estrogen . She never gave another performance to equal this one . I greatly admire Elia Kazan as an artist . I don't care about his personal actions or beliefs ; he made great movies , and what he did in his private life does not change that fact . He could make virtually any material better than it would have been in the hands of another director , and what saves " On the Waterfront " today from its heavy-handedness , aside from the remarkable acting , is Kazan's fierce commitment to the material and his explosive directorial decisions . " On the Waterfront " may be flawed , but it's still a classic .
A Remarkable Variation on the Teacher Saves Student Theme	Ryan Fleck's writing and directorial debut is sober and even somewhat glum , but it boasts a tremendous and committed performance from Ryan Gosling in the lead role ; an understated and sweet performance from the young actress Shareeka Epps in a supporting role ; and an intelligent , thoughtful , spare screenplay that avoids falling prey to easy sentiment . Gosling plays Dan Dunne , a young history teacher from a liberal family who himself has liberal ideas and a charismatic way with his students . They like him in a guarded way , despite the fact that he's white and part of the institution that most of them , black kids from an impoverished neighborhood , have been taught to distrust . Dan is filled with the kind of optimism that many of us had coming right out of college , when we cared passionately about our beliefs and believed we could make others care as much about them . However , Dan's promise as a teacher is severely limited by his addiction to crack , which consumes his personal life and turns his lectures into chaotic ramblings . One of his students , a quiet girl named Drey , finds Dan after school hours stoned in the girls ' locker room , and an unlikely bond forms between the pair . Something about witnessing this intensely private and human side to her teacher makes Drey able to trust him and open up to him more than she can to anyone else in her immediate circle , which includes a well-intentioned but distracted mom , a brother in prison , and a no-good drug dealer friend of the family , who wants to put Drey to work delivering to customers . Meanwhile , something about the encounter works the same effect on Dan . It's as if being caught in the act removes the burden of secrecy , and he can let his guard down when with Drey . The two begin looking forward to their casual encounters and conversations , and each fills a void in the other's life . This isn't at all creepy or inappropriate . Drey may have a harmless crush on Dan in the way that young students often do on their teachers . Dan , for his part , becomes protective of Drey , and tries to convince her to stay away from the drug scene even as the example he sets conveys the exact opposite . He tenaciously clings to the belief that one man can indeed make a change even as the indifference and hardships of his immediate world tell him otherwise . " Half Nelson " paints a grim and harrowing picture of drug addiction and loneliness , and much of it is painfully depressing . But there's a tremendous warmth working under the surface of Fleck's film which prevents it from feeling nihilistic . Dan and Drey are both good people , trying to make their way in a world that doesn't always reward them for simply being good . The conclusion of the film is only mildly uplifting . We have the feeling that Dan has weathered some sort of crisis and has made some realizations about himself and his addiction , but the movie ends before we see what he does with that insight . He may ultimately be o . k . , or he may not . What's more important is that Drey will be o . k . , and one of the things I liked most about " Half Nelson " was its suggestion that many times the most effective role models are those who show us who we DON'T want to be , rather than those who we want to emulate . Gosling proves himself to be a young actor to watch with his performance here . Not once does he step out of character , and he exhibits a tremendous screen presence . He's able to charm us as much as he is his students . Shareeka Epps has a sweet , warm quality to her . Most of the time she keeps her mouth set and rigid , and conveys the quality of someone who's determined to be disappointed in the world so that the world won't have a chance to disappoint her first . But every once in a while , a character will make her smile , and when she does , her face lights up the screen . This is a fine film and one that lingered in my head . Highly recommended .
Beautiful Dreamer	In 1974 , Phillipe Petit walked a high wire between the two towers of NYC's World Trade Center and for a brief moment became a media sensation . " Man on Wire " is a documentary account of Petit's stunt , focusing primarily on the preparations for it and detailing how he and his team of four snuck on to the roof of the towers in the first place . Let's just say that times have changed . Obviously , the twin towers are no longer there , but if they were , you can be sure it would not be as easy to stroll right in as it was for Petit and his crew . Petit was obviously a man obsessed with a goal , but those who come into the film wondering exactly why he was obsessed with this particular goal will come away still wondering . As Petit says at one point , it's a typically American question to ask " why ? " in relation to something like this rather than simply enjoy the beauty of it . I can't believe Werner Herzog didn't get his hands on this story first , as the man obsessed angle would seem to be right up his alley .
A Tough Watch , But Tremendously Well Done	In " United 93 , " the fictionalized account of what may have taken place on board the sole hijacked commercial airliner that did not reach its target on September 11 , 2001 , director Paul Greengrass has given us a clenched muscle of a movie . The film runs on pure adrenaline ; it's terse , lean and frank . It also happens to be extremely difficult to watch . Filmed in a bare-bones style , with few recognizable actors and very little significant dialogue , the movie offers an account first of what takes place in several air traffic control centers in different locations as the realization that planes are being flown into buildings around the country settles in , and then it confines itself exclusively to the cabin of the doomed flight itself , after the passengers have learned that they're being used for a suicide mission and fight back against the hijackers . Greengrass resists the urge to sentimentalize the events or make heroes of anyone ; the resistance of the passengers is not filmed in dramatic slow motion set to a booming soundtrack . Instead , it looks confused , messy and panicked , the desperate acts of people not suited for their roles . Likewise , the scenes that take place in the air traffic control centers have the atmosphere of authentic immediacy . I was at work the morning of , and the way I learned about what was going on matched very closely the way the people in this movie learn about the events - - through snippets of overheard conversations , images on the news , and random rumours . Many people have decried this movie as being unnecessary at best and downright dishonest at worst . Some have called it a blatant piece of American propaganda . I don't get that . I admit that while I was watching it , I did wonder if I could justify a film about such a sensitive subject that doesn't really have a point of view and can't even claim to be an accurate recreation of events . But then I watched one of the special features on the DVD , a short film about the relatives of those who died on this flight . Many of the actors met with the families shortly after filming , and Greengrass held a special private screening for the relatives before the studio released the film to the general public . All of the family members felt nothing but solace and a sense of peace after watching the movie . Almost all of them expressed their gratitude to the filmmakers for making the film and telling their loved ones ' stories . They seemed unable to understand why others wouldn't want a film like this to be made . One of the rationales used against this movie is that it came out too soon after the date of the tragic events depicted in it . In response to this criticism , one of the family members replies , " It's not soon enough . " So if the families who are most closely affected by the event don't feel the need to justify the movie's existence , why should anyone else ? And as for those who claim that the film is a piece of manufactured propaganda , the Internet culture now allows every Tom , Dick and Harry to publish his or her opinions in cyberspace ( my own included ) as uncontested fact , but how do any of these bloggers know what took place on that day ? They don't . Perhaps no one but the people on board ever will . Greengrass never claimed that his film was a factual recreation , but rather that it's a suggestion of what might have happened based on available evidence . It's easy to sit at a laptop in a coffee shop and claim that the movie is crap based on a bunch of conspiracy theories floating around in the ether , but until anyone has anything better to offer , I'll stick with Greengrass's version of events Only a mere five years after , it's hard to believe that there was ever a time when Americans were so dismissive of terrorism . As this film shows , worked because Americans really had no context for believing something of this magnitude could ever happen . Surprise was the terrorists ' greatest ally . So no , I don't think it's too soon to show movies about that terrible day , or to keep thoughts of it constantly with us . The more we're prepared , the less likely it is that something this horrible will happen again . I can't say I was entertained exactly by this movie , though I was never less than completely engrossed in it . But I can certainly say that it is easily one of the best movies I've seen this year .
Apocalypse Now	" Psycho " may have been the scariest Hitchcock film , but there is no film by the master of suspense more unsettling than " The Birds . " This enigmatic revenge-of-nature fable makes no effort to explain away its mysteries , and that's the most unsettling thing about it . What is nature seeking revenge for ? Why is the birds ' uprising timed to begin with the appearance in a sleepy little coastal town of an icy blonde from the city ? Why is everyone so antagonistic toward said blonde ? Is it only because she appears to have designs on the resident golden boy stud , or is there more to it ? Ultimately , these questions end up not mattering much . Three-fourths of the film concern itself with the tensions ( sexual and otherwise ) between Tippi Hedren's Melanie and the townspeople ; then all hell breaks loose in the last quarter and these tensions are completely forgotten . The genius of the film lies in its ability to make horror out of the mundane . At the apocalyptic end , as the rag-tag group of survivors drive off into the distance , watched by a bird army that covers the ground as far as the eye can see , the effect on the viewer is as powerful as if the survivors had awakened the morning after a nuclear holocaust . And perhaps most unsettling of all is Hitchcock's refusal to use any kind of incidental scoring in his film . You don't realize how much we rely on film music to tell us how we should feel until it's no longer there to do so . With Rod Taylor as the stud , who keeps that famous hairy chest under wraps ( sorry ladies ) ; Suzanne Pleshette , as the butch and sexually repressed school marm ; Jessica Tandy , in the film's best performance as a mother who relies a little too much on her son ; and Veronica Cartwright , whose presence in any film is like nails on a chalkboard . A strange masterpiece , and Hitchcock's last great film .
A Uniquely Charming Fairy Tale	This utterly charming fairy tale for grownups proves that Rob Reiner and Ron Howard must have gone to the same school of film-making - - both are at their best when they're being light-heartedly whimsical , but make absolutely dreadful films when they try to get serious . This film wouldn't have been anywhere nearly as good if everyone involved had tried to make something more ambitious . Instead , a great cast delivers sweet and funny material , and the emphasis is on characters and story rather than gee-whiz special effects . In a large ensemble of recognizable faces , the standouts for me are Wallace Shawn , in perhaps the funniest poisoning scene ever made , and ( I can't believe I'm saying this ) Mandy Patinkin as a swarthy swashbuckler . This is the only time in his woeful career that he has appeared on a screen and not utterly repulsed me . It helps that he doesn't sing .
I Can Thank This Film for Inspiring My Favorite Film Genre	This German silent is frequently shown in film study classes ( which is indeed where I first saw it ) , so for many it may carry the taint of " homework , " but please don't let that keep you away from it . " The Cabinet of Dr . Caligari " is breathtaking , and you will not miss the presence of sound when you see what a visual feast this movie offers . Firmly rooted in the German Expressionism art movement , " Caligari " creates an entirely new world on screen that looks like a hallucinogenic version of our own . My favorite film genre , film noir , wouldn't even exist if the visual style of German Expressionism hadn't been introduced to the screen in the first place .
This Movie Isn't About Vietnam ; It IS Vietnam	Francis Ford Coppola's extraordinary Vietnam film is deeply flawed , but in this case the flaws feel so right for the subject matter that they almost make the movie better . This movie is a perfect marrying of source material and directorial vision . Setting Joseph Conrad's " Heart of Darkness " against the backdrop of the Vietnam jungles is brilliant , and the dark odyssey of Martin Sheen's character is so nightmarish , feverish and sweaty that this movie feels more like it IS Vietnam than merely ABOUT Vietnam . With a number of memorable appearances , notably Robert Duvall as a war-hungry Army officer glorying in the carnage around him ; Dennis Hopper as a drugged out photojournalist who's lost his mind to the jungle ; and , perhaps most memorable for its pure weirdness , Marlon Brando as Kurtz , the officer who's gone missing and has fashioned himself as a dark God amongst the primitive natives . The movie totally loses its way toward the end , but that somehow feels right . Recommendation : Don't watch the redux version if you can avoid it . It's yet further proof that directors usually have good instincts and that what they initially cut from their movies should remain cut .
Allen and Keaton as Nick and Nora	If " Double Indemnity " had been adapted as a vehicle for the Marx Brothers , you might get " Manhattan Murder Mystery . " This underrated Woody Allen comedy is one of my favorite Allen films . Allen and Diane Keaton , still the best of his many leading ladies , play an upper class , snooty New York couple who go sleuthing when the wife suspects their next-door neighbor of murder . If this plot description conjures images of " Rear Window , " it should . Hitchcock's film is payed obvious homage , as are many of the 1940s and 50s films noir that provide this film the style that it parodies ( in fact , the characters go to see a showing of " Double Indemnity " at one point , and the ending is a spoof of Orson Welles ' " Lady from Shanghai . " ) Allen and Keaton are simply terrific together , deftly stumbling their way through physical comedy bits and one-liners like a nebbish version of Nick and Nora Charles . They're obviously having a great time , and so do we . Alan Alda and Anjelica Huston are also on hand in large supporting roles , and they're hilarious as well . The highlight of the film is a scene in which the four of them are at dinner and actually hatch the scheme for nabbing the murder suspect . It's one of the best moments of ensemble work ever filmed for an Allen movie . Favorite line , delivered by Allen to Keaton as she goes out snooping in the middle of the night against his protests : " Is this what you do when I forbid you ? Because if this is what you do , I won't be forbidding you very often . "
Claws Out , Ladies	Lovers of glamorous bitch fests will have the time of their lives with this gem from 1939 . MGM's best female talent were assembled for this catty story about females good and bad , and all of the conniving , backstabbing , hissing and scratching that ensues whenever you have a group of ladies together at one time . Of course it's all exaggerated , and even fairly retrograde by today's standards , but I encourage everyone to muffle those feminist sensibilities for two hours and allow yourselves to have fun here . Norma Shearer plays the goody-goody heroine , Joan Crawford plays the deliciously malevolent villainess , and Rosalind Russell steals every scene she's in as a brassy society lady with far too much time on her hands . George Cukor was directing at the height of his talents , and keeps things snappy and smart . A treasure to relish from one of Hollywood's golden years .
All Is Not Well in Washington Square	A handsome , icy film adaptation of Henry James's novel " Washington Square . " Olivia de Havilland is a far cry from Melanie Wilkes as Catherine Sloper , a socially awkward ugly duckling who becomes the target of a gold digger , the dashing Morris Townsend ( Montgomery Clift ) , who loves the idea of Catherine's inheritance more than he loves her . Catherine's father , imperiously played by Ralph Richardson , is horrible to Catherine , always comparing her to his late wife and finding her lacking , but he does feel a protective instinct for her and sees Morris for what he is . When her father threatens to disinherit her if she moves forward with marrying Morris , Morris himself takes to the hills , leaving Catherine jilted and devastated . Scorned one too many times , she becomes a bitter , hollowed out shell of her former self and displays a cold cruelty that rivals her father's . " The Heiress " is masterfully directed by William Wyler , and it's surprisingly suspenseful . The acting is superb from everyone : de Havilland , Clift , Richardson ( who can reduce someone to a shriveled husk with the raise of an eyebrow ) , and Miriam Hopkins , in the role of Catherine's romantic and not-so-very-practical aunt . My only quibble with the film is its abrupt ending that stops short . I wasn't ready for it , and expected the story to go further . In a way , though , that's a compliment , because it's basically saying that I didn't want the movie to end .
An Elegy for a Stunning Career	By now , Robert Altman films are a genre unto themselves . They have a language of their own , and there are people who either speak that language or don't . At this point in his career , I doubt that Altman is trying to win over any converts ( if he ever was ) . So let me say this about " A Prairie Home Companion " : whatever else it may be , it is first and foremost an Altman film . If I had been dumped into the middle of this movie , I would have been able to tell you who directed it . As for the movie itself : it's wonderful . It's warm , sad and at times very funny . It's diffused with a nostalgic glow that lasts long after the film itself is over . If there's a unifying motif , it's death , yet the movie never feels morbid or grim . Rather , it's about paying tribute to the past even as you're letting go of it - - it feels like a work made by an artist who is getting ready to say goodbye . This is Altman , so it doesn't all work . There are awkward moments . But Altman is only ever awkward because he tries daring things , and I'd much rather sit through a bad Altman film ( o . k . maybe not " Quintet " ) than just about any other good but conventional film . And most everything about " Prairie " works quite well . Altman has assembled a marvelous cast that rivals the boat-load of Brits he assembled for " Gosford Park . " Each has his / her moment to shine , and no one feels neglected , as can sometimes happen in Altman's large ensemble pieces . I'm not going to single anyone out , because they're all equally deserving of praise . They're obviously having a great time working with one of the best directors of actors who's ever lived , and their sense of fun is infectious . And as he proved with " Nashville , " Altman can make country music sound great to people who don't even ordinarily like country music . This is perhaps the warmest film yet that Altman has made during his long career , proof that the old curmudgeon maybe has a soft spot after all .
A Minor American Classic , Friendo	" No Country for Old Men , " the Coen brothers ' screen adaptation of Cormac McCarthy's nailbiter of a novel , is doggedly faithful to its source , which will please fans of the book , but which is also what limits it from achieving greatness . As it is , the movie will probably and deservedly be remembered as a minor classic , but that's due more to its execution than it is its subject matter . It's as accomplished as " Fargo , " still the Coens ' best movie in my opinion , but it doesn't carry a powerful message the way that film did , or have any characters who make a lasting impression . Josh Brolin plays a Vietnam veteran living in Texas sometime in the early 1980s who comes across a satchel of money ( $2 million to be exact ) at the scene of a drug deal gone bad . He takes off with it , his arrogance leading him to believe that he will be able to outsmart whoever comes looking for it . Who comes looking for it is Anton Chigurgh , a relentless psycho who's as untraceable as he is unstoppable ( played by Javier Bardem ) . Tommy Lee Jones plays sheriff Ed Tom Bell , who provides the film with a voice over narration in which he laments the state of the world and the awful nature of crime in his day as compared to those of his dad and granddad , both sheriffs before him . In McCarthy's novel , all of this is told in clipped and deadly serious language , and it all feels more full of philosophical import than it is ; it's not until you've put the book down and start thinking about it that you realize how lightweight it is . I was interested to see if the Coens would bring any depth to the material that wasn't inherently there . They don't . Therefore , the movie is supremely engrossing and suspenseful , and I hung on every scene and image they put on the screen , but it didn't feel like an important movie to me . On the other hand , who says that every movie has to be important ? The Coens bring some of their trademark ghoulish humor to the film , which was welcome , because I thought McCarthy could have lightened up a bit himself in the novel . The film feels oddly unemotional , mostly because all of the principal action revolves around characters who aren't remotely sympathetic ( including Brolin's , who's a bit of a jerk really , when you think about it ) . The warmest character in the film is Brolin's wife , played in a lovely performance by the Scottish actress Kelly McDonald , but her part is tiny , and the character herself has little to do other than look perplexed or suspicious . I thought Bardem lacked the menace necessary to pull off Chigurgh , who's more of a supernatural representation of evil than a real character ; I couldn't help but think what Benicio Del Toro could have done with the role . And Woody Harrelson pops up miscast as a hit-man , in a role as pointless in the movie as it is in the book . But again , all of these weaknesses were things the Coens inherited from the source material . They've made the best movie possible of McCarthy's novel , and " No Country for Old Men " easily joins " Fargo , " " Blood Simple , " " Miller's Crossing , " and " The Man Who Wasn't There " at the top of their canon .
In Space , No One Can See You Wet Your Pants	The film that can reduce grown men to tears , this movie scared the crap out of me the first time I saw it and still does . While its immediate sequel , James Cameron's " Aliens " ( 1986 ) is very good too , it's really more harrowing than frightening . Ridley Scott's original is just plain creepy as hell . It's rare to find a film more atmospheric than this one . Though I don't know what it's like to be on a space crew on board a big-ass ship in the middle of the universe , somehow I think it would be just like this . And it doesn't get more unsettling than the scene where the crew heads out to investigate a distress signal and come across the empty remains of a giant ship with a big batch of eggs growing on the floor . Need I say more ? Despite the notorious reputation of John Hurt's dinner scene , the film isn't that gory . If there's anyone left on the planet who doesn't know what I'm talking about , I won't ruin it . But let's just say the next time you're at a dinner party and someone begins retching violently while his stomach starts bubbling , clear away the dishes and grab a blunt object . But other than that , the scares are primarily psychological . Filmed before the days when CGI could do everything for film makers , the visual effects team here knew if they showed too much of the alien , it would just look cheesy . Therefore , the audience never sees much more of it than brief glimpses , and our dread builds with the dread of the crew , because we don't know what we're dealing with anymore than they do . The same serendipity made " Jaws " a classic of suspense four years earlier . And of course , the acting in this film is leaps and bounds above what you usually see in horror movies . Sigourney Weaver and Ian Holm are great fun to watch as they match up in one battle of the will after another . John Hurt made a believer out of me . And Scott uses Tom Skerritt as effectively as Hitchcock did Janet Leigh in " Psycho . " " Alien " really feels like a movie where absolutely anything could happen . I haven't really liked much of anything else Ridley Scott's done ( and that includes " Blade Runner " ) , but this movie at least proves he's got it in him to make a great film , even if he doesn't use that talent very often .
A Beautiful , Bittersweet Silent	This was my first exposure to Janet Gaynor , and I fell in love with her . She plays a poor , ragamuffin country girl who begins a timid romance with a wheelchair-bound WWI veteran ( Charles Farrell ) , against the stern wishes of her mother , who wants her to marry instead a swaggering bully . Director Frank Borzage keeps the potential mawkish sentimentality at bay , and pulls achingly beautiful and naturalistic performances from his actors . When you watch Gaynor's face in this film , able to convey heaps of emotion ( just get a look at her when she first realizes Farrell is confined to a wheelchair ) with the most nuanced of glances , it's no surprise that she was able to make a successful transition to sound film and continue as a huge star and box-office draw throughout the 1930s . The forbidden love storyline is the stuff of standard silent film melodrama , as is the suspenseful race-against-time finale that finds Charles Farrell willing himself to walk so that he can get to Gaynor before her husband-to-be takes her away forever . All of that is as silly as it sounds . But it's the quieter moments that give this film its gentle appeal : like the surprisingly erotic scene in which Farrell decides Gaynor needs a makeover and washes her hair with the yolks of a dozen eggs ; or the beautiful bittersweet moment when Farrell gives Gaynor a gold bracelet that looks like an over-sized wedding ring . A film center in Chicago is showing a festival of Gaynor and / or Borzage films , and I look forward to seeing more of both of them .
Razzle Dazzle ' Em	A never less than fascinating , barely fictionalized biopic about legendary choreographer and director Bob Fosse . The character in the movie is named Joe Gideon , but come on : he's in the middle of choreographing and directing a stage musical that looks an awful lot like " Chicago , " and he's in post-production on a film that looks an awful lot like " Lenny . " I think we all know who this movie is REALLY about . It's self indulgent to be sure , and a bit of a mess overall , but it's just so damned accomplished in every way that it's impossible not to sit back and enjoy the ride , however destructive that ride might be . And boy is it destructive . You're going to feel like you need to go on a rigorous exercise regimen and a system-cleansing diet after watching the Fosse stand-in in this film abuse himself to death . This movie will quickly disabuse you of any illusions about the glamour of the show business world . Roy Scheider gives the performance of his career as Joe Gideon . My other favorite performance came from Leland Palmer as Gideon's long-suffering ex-wife ( and presumably Gwen Verdon stand in ) . These two make poignantly obvious what made them click in the first place while at the same time conveying perfectly why they can't live with one another . Ann Reinking plays Ann Reinking , one-time girlfriend to Fosse who does the same honors in the movie . And before anyone knew who she was , Jessica Lange played a very ravishing angel of death . " All That Jazz " isn't as tight or as powerful as Fosse's previous musical , " Cabaret , " but that's largely because it's so much more insular as a movie . It's really about the demons plaguing one man , and it doesn't have any broader context than that . Whether or not you like it will depend heavily on how fascinating you find the world of New York theatre , and how much you care about Joe Gideon in the first place . To his credit , Scheider is able to make Gideon an entirely sympathetic , if not entirely likable , character . And if there aren't any musical numbers to rival the razzle dazzle of the " Mein Herr " or " Money , Money " numbers from " Cabaret , " there are still a fair share of showstoppers in " Jazz , " notably a cute little duet for Reinking and the girl that plays Gideon's daughter , and the rousing opening number , in which a stage full of Broadway hopefuls audition for a show in a whirl of quick edits set to the song " On Broadway . " A fantastic , mesmerizing film .
No Need to Worry About This Harold Lloyd Comedy	In " Why Worry ? " Harold Lloyd plays Harold von Pelham , a pampered and spoiled millionaire who has all the time in the world to worry about medical conditions that don't exist , and treat his smitten nurse and trusted valet as mere lackeys . He goes to a South American retreat for some much-needed rest and relaxation , but instead finds himself in the middle of a revolution . Along the way he picks up a devoted friend , a giant man named aptly Colossus , who becomes as loyal as a dog to Harold because he helps to pull an aching tooth . By the film's end , Harold has plumbed reserves of hidden strength , realizes he no longer needs his pills and medications , and discovers his love for his nurse . The funniest thing about " Why Worry ? " is that this little band of lovable characters never has a clue what's actually going on around them . They don't know one side of the warring parties from the other ; they just know when they're in trouble , and they go from scene to scene doing whatever is necessary to get themselves out of scrapes without realizing how they're affecting the bigger picture . This film is wonderfully written and performed , with hilarious bits . Watching Harold's transition from pampered wimp to scrappy freedom fighter is delightful , and he has wonderful chemistry with Jobyna Ralston , who plays his nurse , and John Aasen , the impossibly enormous actor who plays Colossus . This film is a treat .
Woody , Meet Mr . Hitchcock	Anyone who laments the fact that Alfred Hitchcock is no longer alive to make thrillers can rest easy - - - the Woodman is on the case . " Match Point " is a ghoulishly entertaining movie that threatens to become a rip-off of " An American Tragedy " mixed with " Crime and Punishment , " until Woody jerks the film in a totally different direction and makes it utterly original . For about the first twenty minutes of the film , I was thinking how ironic it was that Allen's best movie in a long time ( and even in the first twenty minutes you can tell it is indeed going to be that ) should also be his most unoriginal . The plot is cliché , and is not helped by the fact that Allen borrows heavily from Theodore Dreiser in setting up his main character's dilemma . However , once the protagonist ( for want of a better word ) sets out to plan the " perfect " murder , inspired by " Crime and Punishment " ( which you see him reading early on in the film ) , the movie becomes an anything-can-happen nailbiter , and had me on the edge of my seat . Scarlet Johannsson is remarkable as an emotionally unstable love interest ; Allen uses her sultry good looks to perfect effect , and he includes her in some of the most erotic moments he's ever filmed . Jonathan Rhys-Meyers , who I can't decide whether or not I like , also equips himself well as the ex-tennis pro who finds himself torn between a life of privilege and his lust for the object of his desire . And all of the supporting players are excellent , though I expected no less from a Woody Allen film . Allen shows complete mastery of a genre he's never tackled . This doesn't even seem like an Allen film at first glance , but many of his recurring themes are here , and his usual knack for writing such strong characters with such believable motives adds much to the suspense and effectiveness of the film overall . A true stunner of a movie , easily one of the best of the year .
Early Hitchcock Is One of His Best	" The 39 Steps " is the best book Graham Greene never wrote . This classic thriller from Alfred Hitchcock has Greene's stamp all over it , though the famed author had nothing to do with it . It's got spy rings , a man implicated in a murder he didn't commit , a feisty and reluctant girl Friday and wonderfully atmospheric English settings ranging from a rowdy London music hall to the barren , eerie countryside . Robert Donat plays the man on the run and Madeleine Carroll the young lady who first joins him against her will and then cozies up to him when she realizes he's playing straight with her . I had some trouble warming up to Donat at first , but his charming performance gradually worked on me . I had no trouble warming up to Carroll - - I was in love with her from the start , even if I did want to punch her character repeatedly for making things so difficult for our leading man . The entire middle section of the film , that finds Donat and Carroll handcuffed together , is sexy and racy , especially a scene in which Carroll removes her wet stockings while Donat's cuffed hand wavers suggestively about her knees . This is pure Hitchcock , creepy , exciting and funny all at the same time . It's not to be missed .
A Quirky Delight	It's kind of hard to describe " The Triplets of Belleville " other than to say that it's truly original . It made me long for the days of old-fashioned hand-drawn animation , the kind that Disney revolutionized before turning to CGI . Interestingly enough , there's a car chase scene toward the end of the film that reminded me of " 101 Dalmatians , " and I said as much to my wife while we were watching it . It was something about the way the cars were drawn and moved , and the color palate in general . Then in the supplementary materials , one of the film's creators cites " 101 Dalmatians " as an inspiration , so I was able to congratulate myself on my perceptiveness . It doesn't take much to make me happy : )
Could Just Have Easily Been a Horror Movie	Acclaimed documentarian Fredrick Wiseman trains his notorious camera on the goings on of a hospital used primarily by people from a lower income bracket , and the results will likely sadden and horrify you . Wiseman is always skilled at making you think he's being totally objective ; it appears that he just turns his camera on and lets it run . However , he manages to construct a compelling indictment of how the poor are treated by the American medical industry and anyone with an ounce of warm blood in their veins will be enraged by what they see . There are heartbreaking moments in this film , like doctors telling a woman she has only a limited amount of time to live and her complete unresponsiveness to the news . There are also moments that make you want to turn away from the screen , like the sight of a young man who's been given a purgative for a drug overdose spewing vomit all over the room , and then falling down in it . Indeed , much of this movie makes you feel guilty for watching at all . Shouldn't people's privacy and dignity be honored in situations like this ? On the other hand , how would the majority of us know how the poor are treated if people like Wiseman didn't document it ? The movie doesn't really pose and questions or answers , yet it manages to be completely compelling nonetheless . I saw it in a documentary film class and there was plenty of debate inspired by it .
A Simply Terrific Movie	Sorry ladies , but " The Great Escape " is the ultimate GUY movie . I'll never forget watching this movie when I was about ten or eleven , with my then super-cool brother-in-law , who I realize now was a bit of a slimeball but who at the time I looked up to for the very things that made him a slimeball . But lest you think my fondness for this movie rests only on its associations in my mind and not on its quality , I have seen it since and it holds up remarkably well . Who can forget the iconic image of Steve McQueen taking off across that field on his motorcycle ? We can look back now and see that that image served as an announcement of a new and radical shakeup taking place in film and popular culture , and that the next decade or so would be ruled by the renegade and the bad boy . " Easy Rider , " " Bonnie and Clyde , " " The Graduate , " " The Wild Bunch " would all come later . " The Great Escape " came first .
Leave Your Expectations at the Door and Just Have Fun	Let's get this out of the way : this is not the A & E 5-hour version of Jane Austen's novel . This movie does not star Colin Firth . This version takes greater liberty with the Austen book than does the A & E version . Good , I'm glad that's behind us . Now just sit back and enjoy what happens to be a stellar film . Of course this version is a less literal adaptation , but it doesn't have the luxury of being 5 hours long . And there is much about this version that I thought was actually better than the A & E version . For example , this version is much more cinematic and never more so than at the astoundingly filmed ball scenes , when the camera takes off swooping and swirling around the actors in some of the most complexly choreographed shots I've ever seen . Keira Knightly and Matthew Mcfadyen seem more right for the roles than did Jennifer Ehle and Firth ; they're at least closer to the age of the characters as depicted in Austen's book . Brenda Blethyn improves on the character of Mrs . Bennett , turning her into a real human character rather than a broad caricature . And Judi Dench has a ball storming on to the screen in a couple of scenes and decimating everyone in her path . This film is for people who already know the book and Austen's characters . It's a very fresh and exciting telling of a very familiar story - - - who really needs yet one more ploddingly faithful movie that dares not deviate at all from the novel ? We already have a faithful adaptation that's not going away just because this movie came out , and the book is always there to reread if you need your fix of unadulterated Austen . All I can say is , I was in an audience full of obvious " Pride & Prejudice " junkies , and they were on the edges of their seats through the entire length of this film . Highly recommended .
Finney and Courtenay Work Wonders Together	" The Dresser " is a small but absolutely wonderful film , brilliantly acted by Albert Finney and Tom Courtenay . How in the world this tiny film attracted enough attention to garner five major Academy Award nominations back in 1983 is a mystery to me , but it's nice to know the Academy can be guilty of a display of good taste every once in a while ( of course , they gave the award that year to " Terms of Endearment " - - after all , they don't want to be accused of showing TOO much taste ) . Albert Finney is a drunken Shakespearean actor in a production of " King Lear " ; Tom Courtenay is the man who works double time behind the scenes to keep this actor in front of the footlights . It's both hilarious and piteous to see Courtenay's character showering Finney's with attention and affection , only to see his efforts utterly unappreciated and dismissed , even up to the very bitter end . Finney and Courtenay work wonders together , and though Finney gets the showiest moments ( he does get to recite Shakespeare after all ) , Courtenay is the heart and soul of the film .
Every Film Student Knows This One	" The Rules of the Game " is one of those movies that would be easy to be disappointed by , because it's constantly lauded as one of the greatest movies ever made , and anyone who's spent any time studying film knows that at some point you have to see this movie if you're going to consider yourself a film connoisseur . Well , it is excellent , though it's not excellent in a lot of obvious ways , and I could forgive someone for watching it and having a lukewarm reaction on a first viewing . The film is sort of reminiscent of Bergman's " Smiles of a Summer Night " ( though of course Renoir's movie came first ) in its use of a country estate filled with a bunch of well-to-do's and the servants waiting on them . It also put me in the mind of Evelyn Waugh's novels , as Renoir uses a thin glaze of humour to mask some bitter truths about class and social standing . There are some downright slapstick moments that feel like something out of a silent comedy , but there are also some sober moments that give the film a very serious grounding . What impressed me most was the fluidity of Renoir's direction . The camera is a constant observer , gliding through the vast house , following one character only to switch direction and follow another as he or she walks past . The viewer feels like a voyeur , and Renoir gives the impression that these characters would be behaving somewhat differently if they knew you were watching . I can't explain exactly how he does that , but the feeling comes across distinctly . Probably needs to be watched a few times for a full appreciation . In fact , I need to watch it again myself .
Malick's First Film Sets a High Standard	Martin Sheen and Sissy Spacek are lovers on the lam in this , Terrence Malick's first feature film . Malick-directed movies seem to come around with less frequency than total solar eclipses , but he has almost always managed to produce a masterpiece when he finally gets around to it , and " Badlands " set the bar high . This kind of story always seems to work on film , no matter who's in it or who directs it . " They Live By Night " in 1948 comes to mind first , then " Gun Crazy " the next year , " Bonnie and Clyde " in 1967 , Altman's " Thieves Like Us " in 1974 . All of these films are very different and all of them are fantastic . " Badlands " belongs among them .
A Film That Never Sits Still	" Vanishing Point " is the counter culture movie to end all counter culture movies . It's got it all - - the grizzled , moody anti-hero ; the rebellion against authority ; the naked hippies ; the criticism of racial oppression ; the bleak , " what's the point of it all ? " existential angst . But first and foremost , " Vanishing Point " is one hell of a kick-ass movie . It's clear why Quentin Tarantino , an obvious cinephile , fell in love with this movie and decided to pay homage to it with his car chase film " Death Proof . " Because " Vanishing Point " above all else is supremely cinematic . It's a film about movement - - our protagonist is never content to stand still , lest the demons chasing him catch up to him . And like him , the film never stands still either . It's kinetic and full of an angry and restless energy , and it's always compelling even if it doesn't always make sense . Barry Newman plays the tortured hero , Kowalski , looking like a cross between Mike Brady and Tim Roth . Cleavon Little is the blind d . j . who becomes a sort of guardian angel to Kowalski . And old-time character actor Dean Jagger has an unsettling cameo as a hermit living out in the desert wilds .
Sprawling , Uneven , But Quite Remarkable	" Little Big Man " is highly uneven , but always fascinating . Arthur Penn directed this picaresque tall tale about a man ( played by Dustin Hoffman ) who experiences first-hand much of America's ugly history in the late 19th and early 20th centuries . Narrated by the man years after the principal events of the film have occurred , the film is episodic in structure , and like many episodic films , some sections just work better than others . The tone of the film is all over the place , some of it quite dark and sombre , some of it jokey and slapstick , all of it very critical about America's treatment of the Native Americans . But Hoffman's strong performance holds the film together , and the movie should be held in much higher esteem than it is . As it is , it's one of the more forgotten films from the early 1970s . Faye Dunaway appears in a comic role as a woman who comes to Hoffman's aid , and Chief Dan George , Academy Award nominated , delivers the film's second strongest performance as mentor and father figure to Hoffman .
A Beautiful Sunrise	You'll have to suspend a whole lot of disbelief in order to fully enjoy F . W . Murnau's classic silent , but that's the point . " Sunrise " takes place in a fairy tale world in which love always triumphs in the end . The film's subtitle , " A Song of Two Humans , " is an apt description , as " Sunrise " feels more like a song or a poem - - where images and tone are more important than logic . The initial scenes of this film are reminiscent of Dreiser's " An American Tragedy " - - indeed , the style in which Murnau shoots these segments , using dissolve editing to superimpose one image over another to ghostly effect , made me wonder if George Stevens was perhaps influenced by this film when he made his own screen adaptation of Dreiser's novel , " A Place in the Sun . " Poor farmer George O'Brien , bored with dowdy country wife Janet Gaynor , is lured into an ill-advised love affair with a siren from the big city . She suggests that O'Brien kill Gaynor by drowning her and making everything look like a boating accident . At the last minute , he can't do it , and the film changes directions drastically , as O'Brien and Gaynor , who overcomes the newly founded terror of her own husband , spend a day in the city , falling in love all over again . On paper , and even thinking about it in retrospect , " Sunrise " doesn't make a lot of sense . But there's something irresistible about this sweet domestic story , in which two people who thought they knew all there was to know about each other begin to make tentative gestures at rekindling a flame that to all appearances went out long ago . Seeing these two country folk , removed from their usual environment and plopped down in the middle of the big city , juxtaposed to urban life and the ways of urban people , reinforces to us just how right for each other they are , without making condescending assumptions or resorting to the reinforcement of rural stereotypes . This movie isn't about much more than the love of one man for one woman , how that love is tested , and ultimately how the strength of its bond wins out over the hardships and bitternesses of everyday life . Murnau has fashioned a nimble , visually versatile film . It is evidence to all those who still need convincing that the late silents were more sophisticated and artistically advanced than the early talkies .
It's Monty Python Meets George Orwell and Aldous Huxley	An audacious film , and one that was just born to be a cult classic . I've only seen " Brazil " once , but once was enough to make me fall in love with it , and I'm sure it's the kind of movie that just gets better and better the more you see it . Jonathan Pryce plays the man trapped in a dystopian future that looks like something out of Monty Python by way of George Orwell . Visionary director Terry Gilliam creates a fantastic visual world , and a host of great actors appear in small roles - - Robert De Niro has an especially memorable scene as a repair man . And I give Gilliam tremendous credit for sticking to his guns and giving us a downbeat ending in the director's cut .
One of the Best Films of 1993	A lot of audiences didn't quite know what to make of " The Piano " upon its initial release , which I think is a testament to its originality . I really hadn't seen anything quite like this movie and was riveted on my first go around with it . Jane Campion wrote and directed this story about a mute woman arranged to marry a landowner ( Sam Neill ) in 19th Century New Zealand . She has two loves : her young daughter ( played by Anna Paquin ) and her piano . She's drawn to a frightening but magnetic worker on the plantation ( Harvey Keitel ) and begins a torrid affair with him . Things come to a boil when she's found out by her husband . The film is intensely erotic without being gratuitous . The characters are fascinating , and the acting is uniformly stellar . Holly Hunter gives a brave and fierce performance . Not brave because she allows herself to be filmed nude frequently or because she recreates quite graphic sex acts ; but rather brave because she allows her character to be complicated and difficult and perhaps to some even unlikable . She never asks for our sympathy , but she does ask for our understanding . Neill and Keitel offer able support , and child actor Paquin amazes and delivers a quite un-childlike performance . Top the whole thing off with vivid cinematography and a lush score from Michael Nyman and you have one of the best films to emerge from 1993 .
A Powerful and Dead-On Portrayal of Intense Family Dysfunction	A searing dysfunctional family drama that holds up very well today . Living on Chicago's north shore as I do , I can say with authority that this movie completely nails a certain kind of affluent north shore community that exists in Chicago suburbs like Lake Forest , Winnetka , Highland Park , etc . , places where people erect hedges and fences not so much to keep people out as to keep family problems and secrets in . Director Robert Redford and writer Alvin Sargent clearly understand their subject matter . And in fact , this film so closely mirrors many of the personal circumstances of my wife and her family ( my wife even established a productive relationship with a Jewish therapist who works out of Skokie , no less ) , that we joke that the film is really about her . Maybe it's my closeness to the subject matter that gives me my appreciation of the movie , but even without that I still think that I'd consider this film to be a superb drama , flawlessly acted . Speaking of the acting , Mary Tyler Moore , Judd Hirsch and Timothy Hutton were all recognized with Academy Award nominations ( Hutton won ) for their work in this film , all deservedly . Moore especially is memorable in her portrayal of a brittle power mom who must constantly hide behind a veneer of icy aloofness for fear that one tiny crack in her facade will send her crumbling to pieces . But two other actors deserve praise as well : Donald Sutherland , as a suffering father who's ill-equipped to deal with his family's problems yet whose heart is in the right place ; and Elizabeth McGovern , who brings a sense of normalcy and healthiness into the film like a fresh breeze off Lake Michigan . There's a lot of talk about whether this film is better than " Raging Bull , " which came out the same year and lost the Best Picture Oscar to " Ordinary People , " which only goes to show how lame award competitions are when it comes to movies - - how can you possibly compare the two ? See them both .
A Funhouse of a Movie	This late entry in veteran director Joseph L . Mankiewicz's oeuvre proved that the old guy still had it . By now , it's probably not spoiling anything to reveal that " Sleuth " is a two-man movie , with Laurence Olivier and Michael Caine playing all of the roles with the help of some masterful makeup work . This cat-and-mouse game of who can outsmart who is dark and devilish fun , with production design that's as fascinating to watch as the pinball plot itself , and a terrific , rambunctious score by John Addison . This doesn't seem to be an especially remembered film now , but it's more than worth a look .
Longing for the Days of Hand-Drawn Animation	Watching this first feature length Disney film is a reminder that today's slick computer-generated Pixar movies come at the expense of hand-drawn artistry . " Snow White " is horribly dated in some ways , especially apparent whenever Snow White herself breaks into that piercing , warbly soprano to sing some very familiar songs , but there are moments in this film that will take your breath away with their sheer beauty of animation . I especially liked the wicked queen , who's really scary , and not a jokey villain like those of Disney's more modern animated films . O . k . so a single attractive female shacking up with seven smitten men would make many an eyebrow raise today , but get your minds out of the gutter , people . I can accept that technology changes , and today's animation offers many treats in its own right , but that doesn't mean I don't lament an art that has become by and large obsolete .
Could Have Been Called " Army of the Dead "	Jean-Pierre Melville's " Army of Shadows " is a sombre film about the French Resistance during WWII . It's yet one more movie that makes me feel like I have a terrible grasp of history , as I knew virtually nothing about the movement before seeing this . Melville himself was a member of the Resistance , so I can only assume that his film is fairly accurate . It's powerful , but not obviously so . It doesn't inspire tremendous reactions or emotions while viewing it , but it gets in your head and stays there . The film is lacking any of that championing of the underdog spirit that infuses so many other stories about scrappy groups resisting the tyranny of the powerful . The members of the French Resistance in this film live like unearthly beings , skittering from one shadowy doorway to another , trying to erase any sign of themselves . The movie suggests that this need for non-existence bleeds into their psychology as well - - the film's main character becomes nearly inhuman in his devotion to the cause and his ability to ruthlessly do away with colleagues when there's a chance that one of them might jeopardize the others . He's not inhuman , but he must do inhuman things , because the desperation of his and his comrades ' situations calls for it . The Criterion Collection's print of the film looks terrific , or at least as terrific as the film's dreary pallet of grey and brown will allow . Melville gives the film an authentic look - - only some scenes set in the London blitz and on an aircraft carrier have a studio set look to them . A shot of the Arc di Triomphe both opens and closes the film : a symbol of the France that would eventually emerge from the dark days of WWII , or an ironic jab at a country that can't take much credit for fighting off the tyranny of fascism ?
Utterly Absorbing Documentary	Engrossing documentary about two inner city kids and their struggles to make it into professional basketball . " Hoop Dreams " made a big splash when it was released in 1994 , and there was a big controversy around Academy Award time when it was deemed ineligible in the Best Documentary category . It likely would have won had it been nominated , and it ranks right up there among some of the best documentaries of all time . This is mostly due to how engrossing the storytelling is . You forget you're not watching a fictional film , which just supports the claim that truth can be more compelling than fiction . You don't have to be a fan of basketball to enjoy this movie .
Further Proof That Swinging London Was a Myth	Perhaps the most accessible film Michelangelo Antonioni ever made , " Blowup " joins the same year's " Alfie " to create a set of movie bookends that puncture the idea of a free and swinging 1960s London where one's personal actions have no consequences on others . " Blowup , " however , is a much more intellectually challenging and stimulating film than " Alfie . " David Hemmings plays a free-wheeling and womanizing photographer who , while taking pictures of a beautiful young woman in a park ( Vanessa Redgrave , looking beautiful indeed ) , inadvertently captures what appears to be a murder being committed in some foliage in the background . Think of this as a companion film to " The Conversation , " with a photograph taking the place of a sound recording . The idea at first haunts Hemmings and then obsesses him , and his life begins slowly to unravel . This is Antonioni , so nothing takes place as neatly and clearly as I've layed it out for you here , and the ending is especially enigmatic , but " Blowup " makes for a fascinating watch , and it will likely tantalize and haunt you as much as those blurry images tantalize and haunt the film's protagonist .
Not Your Average Serial Killer Movie ( And That's a Good Thing )	" Zodiac " may frustrate viewers who come to David Fincher's latest film expecting a traditional serial killer thriller . The film begins with a couple of hair-raising and rather brutal recreations of murders carried out by the mysterious killer who terrorized the San Francisco Bay area in the late 1960s and early 1970s . These early scenes are shocking and , compared to the rest of the film , disorienting , because they offer the only time that we come close to seeing events from the killer's perspective . As the film progresses , the Zodiac killer himself fades into the background , and the movie turns into a meticulous and engrossing document of the investigation to track him down , an investigation that includes countless blind alleys and false clues and which to this day has not reached a conclusion . I would be more prone to label the somewhat rambling screenplay as sloppy storytelling if I did not feel that Fincher tells the story exactly as he wants to . The elusive narrative works , because the film is about an elusive villain . Jake Gyllenhaal plays Robert Graysmith , a cartoonist working for the " San Francisco Chronicle " at the time the Zodiac killer began his gruesome work . He becomes fascinated by the case , and takes it on as a sort of morbid personal hobby long after the police department has given it up as a lost cause . Graysmith eventually wrote the book on which this film is based , and according to his accounts , he discovered enough evidence about one of the suspects in the case to put the police back on his trail years after he'd been cleared for lack of evidence . Other characters come and go . Robert Downey , Jr . does characteristically terrific work as a reporter at the " Chronicle " who grabs his own portion of notoriety through his involvement in the case . Mark Ruffalo and Anthony Edwards play the two detectives in charge of the investigation . Chloe Sevigny plays Gyllenhaal's put-upon wife , who gradually loses her husband to his obsession . All of the actors deliver thrilling performances , many of them against the odds . Since this isn't a character driven movie , many of the characters remain undeveloped , but not , for once , to the detriment of the film . This story isn't about the people involved , but rather about their role in the Zodiac saga ; once they've served their purpose , Fincher dispenses with them . Ironically , a film that clocks in at nearly 3 hours exhibits a great deal of narrative economy . Parts of " Zodiac " are intensely creepy . Fincher effectively uses the rainy San Francisco atmosphere to its maximum potential , and the grimy browns and grays of the production design call to mind Fincher's other well-known films , like " Seven " and " Fight Club . " But " Zodiac " is much more grown up than those films , and for an audience to enjoy it , it has to have an attention span . Long scenes are given to analyzing handwriting samples , recreating the scenes of murders , digging through newspaper clippings and files . You can tell that Fincher is fascinated by police work in the pre-CSI era , when fax machines were still a novel invention . He delves into the investigative process with a nearly fetishistic attention to detail , but he makes all of it endlessly mesmerizing . He does his best to bring everything to some sort of conclusion , but the real-life end to the story makes a complete conclusion impossible . This film is more about the journey than the destination , and what a journey it is .
A Hilarious Housing Shortage	This is a wonderful comedy that uses the housing shortage in war-time Washington , D . C . to comic advantage . Jean Arthur won her sole Academy Award nomination for this performance , and my only quibble with that is that she was only recognized by the Academy once . She's absolutely adorable here as a type-A career woman who rents one half of her apartment to a doddery old man ( played perfectly by Charles Coburn ) . She runs her apartment with military precision , and the movie's highlight is the scene in which Coburn tries earnestly to stick to the morning schedule given him by Arthur the night before and ends with his pants getting stuck in a tree ( you have to see it ) . Of course there's more to Coburn than meets the eye , and the plot thickens when he rents half of HIS half to a good-looking single man ( Joel McCrea ) and begins to play matchmaker . This is a delightful movie directed with a sure hand by George Stevens . Stevens could be overly stoic and ponderous when making " important " films , but his comedies rarely fail to entertain . " The More the Merrier " is breezy and fun with just enough meat to it to give it some substance . I can't praise it enough .
Jesus Christ or Jack the Ripper ? Or Just Peter O'Toole ?	No other actor has had a career filled with more idiosyncratic roles than Peter O'Toole , and his role in " The Ruling Class " is perhaps the most idiosyncratic of them all . O'Toole plays the heir to a British House of Lords who dies accidentally ( and bizarrely ) , leaving his family to hash out the estate . The family is much disturbed by the fact that O'Toole is the heir - - understandably so , since he believes that he's Jesus Christ . Much wackiness ensues , until O'Toole has a change of perspective and decides that instead of Christ , he's Jack the Ripper . More wackiness ensues , the film gets darker and darker in that way that only British films can , and the whole thing may leave you scratching your head but will no doubt also leave you gloriously entertained . For O'Toole fans , this is a chance to see him single-handedly carry a delirious mess of a movie on his shoulders , and make a rousing success out of it . Much of it doesn't make a lot of sense , but it's all a hoot , especially the impromptu musical numbers peppered throughout the film . There's some scathing satire aimed at the British class system , but it's nothing you haven't seen before , and the whole film has the feeling of being the pet project of an undisciplined director . But I highly recommend this , because you've never seen anything quite like it , and it's a chance to see one of our generation's greatest actors strutting his stuff like the pro that he is .
Terrific Debut	" Garden State " is an excellent first effort for Zach Braff : personal , textured and authentic . There are really only a couple of scenes ( his reconciliation with his father and the soliloquy delivered by Denis O'Hare's character ) that feel clunky and too pat . The rest of the film is notable for how realistic it feels - - - the characters don't necessarily find their ways to happy endings , but they do come to better endings . Zach Braff gives a great performance here in addition to his directorial debut . Natalie Portman also shines - - there's something so magnetic about her persona , she can walk into a scene and immediately make the movie about her ( as she did in " Closer " ) . And all of the other actors in smaller roles - - Peter Sarsgaard , Ian Hom , Jean Smart - - create memorable characters with the sometimes limited material they're given to work with . When I was watching the special features on the DVD of " Garden State , " the director of photography mentioned how he thought the movie's look and feel are reminiscent of the Hal Ashby movies from the ' 70's , and I thought this was very astute . Watching " Garden State , " I was reminded of " Harold and Maude . " It's quirky and goofy like that movie , but it doesn't ever feel forced or like it's trying too hard . One of the best of 2004 .
Sidney Lumet Sees Into the Future of American Broadcasting	" Network " is hard to describe . It's not hard to see why Sidney Lumet's acidic tirade about American news networks caused a sensation back when it was released . The famous refrain that becomes the mantra of Peter Finch's character , a news anchor who has lost his stomach for the kind of crap he's asked to spew out night after night and decides to do something about it , is " I'm mad as hell , and I'm not gonna take it anymore ! " This could have been the refrain for America at large in 1976 , after assassinations , a failed military conflict and political scandals had pretty much decimated any faith Americans still had in their nation . The fact that that same phrase could be a refrain for America today shows how ahead of its time and relevant this movie was and is . The story seemed outrageous then . Finch's character decides that he's going to kill himself on network television , and the network chief , played by Faye Dunaway in a blistering ball-buster performance , rather than react in horror , sees only the potential for sky-high ratings and a boost to her career . Sadly , in this age of reality television and sensationalistic journalism , the premise no longer seems very outrageous . So as a satire I think " Network " holds up expertly , but as a movie , I think it shows its age . Paddy Chayefsky , who wrote the screenplay , stages the film's action as a series of monologues and speeches , and the overall result can be a bit tedious , like a film version of an essay . The writing feels like it might work better on stage than on screen . But Sidney Lumet , who was coming off a high with " Dog Day Afternoon " the year before , happens to be a director who's always had a knack for giving stagey material a cinematic quality , so he's perfectly matched with Chayefsky . And there are no quibbles with the acting . Finch and Dunaway are fierce and get the showiest moments , but Robert Duvall and William Holden , in quieter roles , do outstanding work as well . Ned Beatty and Beatrice Straight give two of the smallest Oscar-nominated performances ever . Both each have essentially one scene , but both do quite memorable things with them , and Beatty's in particular is one of the most grotesquely fascinating cameos ever captured on film . An essential film from the 1970s whose impact is blunted now only because the film was so prophetic . How many movies can you say that about ?
Rock Me , Amadeus	Milos Forman serves up a deliciously macabre film based on the Peter Schaffer play about brilliant composer Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart and lesser composer and Mozart arch rival Antonio Salieri . This is Salieri's story much more than it is Mozart's . More than anything , the film is a study of the devouring envy one artist can have for the talents of another . F . Murray Abraham is good as Salieri ; he has never since gotten as juicy a film role as this . But he's upstaged by Tom Hulce's Mozart , played as a giggling , flamboyant showman who's absolutely oblivious to Salieri's mounting hatred . Indeed , one of the aspects of the rivalry that is most heartbreaking , and which adds fuel to Salieri's fire , is the degree to which Mozart doesn't even recognize Salieri as a rival . Though the movie is meticulous in its period detail , the screenplay is peppered with modern , slangy American dialogue that frees it from the museum piece stuffiness that so often infects other period films . Bravo .
Every Man Against the Bigwigs	The term Capraesque when applied to film has come to mean sentimental , cosy and idealistic . But under many of Capra's superficially simplistic stories lurked a seed of angry bitterness . The desperation of the Great Depression is acutely palpable underneath the screwball romance exterior of " It Happened One Night , " and despite its reputation as a heart-warming Christmas film , " It's a Wonderful Life " has some very dark moments which effectively illustrate one man quickly approaching the end of his rope . In the world of " Mr . Smith Goes to Washington , " everything of course turns out right , justice prevails , and American government is depicted as a body of men who basically want to do the right thing by their people . But it's also an angry indictment of corruption and the self-interest rampant in our government that existed then and still exists today . Rich politicians want the poor to stay poor ( or they at least have no incentive to help the lower classes improve their situations ) , because it benefits them . This movie was pretty fearless for its time , when anti-government sentiment would not have been popular and would become even less popular as the U . S . entered WWII and patriotic fervor struck the nation . Anchoring this film is James Stewart , who deserves mention along with Jack Lemmon as one of cinema's great everymen . He gives a slow-burn performance here , at times very similar to the one he would give seven years later in " Wonderful Life . . " Even given their darker undertones , Capra's films may still be too saccharine for some to tolerate now . But there's something appealing about his movies today . They don't shy away from tough issues , but they make you feel like Mankind has it in him to make everything turn out o . k . in the end .
One Mad Genius Salutes Another	Vies with " Edward Scissorhands " as my favorite Tim Burton film - - though " Scissorhands " wins in a squeaker . Burton was not above poking fun at infamous good bad movie director Wood , but you can tell he also obviously has some affection for the guy , and even admires his dedication to the craft . That makes all the difference in this movie , which could have been a glib if enjoyable comedy , and becomes in the hands of Burton something touching , a tribute from one mad genius to another . Johnny Depp gave us an early indication of his talent for playing crazy eccentrics , but it's Martin Landau , in a tour de force performance as washed up movie actor Bela Lugosi , who you will remember most . The film looks great in black and white , and has a terrific opening credits sequence .
Funny But Sad	If you're wondering why Paul Anka refuses to throw in the towel and admit that his time in the spotlight is over ( have you heard his recent rendition of " Eye of the Tiger " sung as if he's performing in a piano lounge ? ) just watch " Lonely Boy " for your answer . How could anyone keep their head firmly below the clouds when they're surrounded by yes-men - - fans and managers alike - - proclaiming that they're the next best thing to the coming of the Messiah ? I think my favorite moment comes when Anka's manager tells the camera , in all seriousness , that Anka is the most important artist since Shakespeare . All of the people in this are unintentionally hilarious , but the documentary as a whole is a rather sad look at one man's brief moment at the peak of his fame and his refusal to let it go .
The Battle to Be Mr . Kong	A film that will make you ask the question : " Are there really people like this living out there in the world ? " " The King of Kong " chronicles the ongoing rivalry between two celebrities of the video gaming world : nice guy Steve Wiebe ( pronounced WEE-bee ) and jackass Billy Mitchell , world record holder for his Donkey Kong score . Our sympathies easily lie with Wiebe , who just wants to break into the gaming competition world but who has trouble being accepted by the insular world of nerds who populate it . Mitchell is portrayed as a sad , pathetic man who has a lot of trouble finding ties to match his shirts , and who didn't get the memo that feathered hair and black jeans were last seen in 1982 . He acts like holding the world record in Donkey Kong defines him as a human being , and he refuses to face off against Wiebe in public . The movie is absolutely hilarious . Part of me wants to feel bad for making fun of these guys , but the rest of me thinks that if they didn't want to be made fun of , they shouldn't have put themselves out there in the first place . And I have to admit that I admire them all in a way - - after all , they commit themselves to something that's important to them and whatever anyone thinks about it be damned . One of my favorite characters is Mr . Awesome , who makes home videos of himself dressed up as Mr . Awesome giving lessons on how to go about scoring some " poon tang . " You won't believe this movie wasn't made 25 years ago . Movies like this make a fictional movie like " Waiting for Guffman " seem entirely plausible .
Altman Takes on the Wild West	Robert Altman puts his unique spin on the Western , and gives us a haunting and mournful film , and one of the best in his canon . Warren Beatty buries himself underneath a bushy beard and an enormous fur coat to play McCabe , an opportunist who considers himself to have much more business savvy than he actually does . He appears in the ramshackle mining town of Presbyterian Church , somewhere in the wilds of Washington state at the turn of the 20th Century , and builds a whorehouse and saloon . Constance Miller ( Julie Christie ) , also sporting her own mound of unkempt hair , arrives a little later and becomes McCabe's business partner . She knows much more about running a whorehouse at a profit , and it quickly becomes clear that she's the brains behind the operation . These two develop a timid affection for one another that's never overtly expressed , but their relationship doesn't have time to prosper , as a trio of hit men arrive to rub out McCabe after he refuses to sell his holdings to a corporation intent on buying him out . Not surprisingly , considering the director , " McCabe & Mrs . Miller " is a strange film . There are virtually no scenes given to outright plot exposition or to showy acting . Much of the plot is conveyed through asides , casual glances and subtle nuances . Wilderness life is shown in all its unglamorous detail , and many of the normally familiar actors are unrecognizable behind their bad teeth , greasy hair and dirty faces . The harsh environment is a character itself , and few movies have a more memorable ending , with McCabe engaged in a most unconventional shoot out amid waist-high drifts of snow . Altman is of course interested in debunking the usual Western myths . There are no heroes to be found here . McCabe is a decent enough guy , but he's a bit of a fool , and when the bad guys come calling , he runs and hides . The American frontier depicted here is not a sacred place waiting for brave and noble men to come and realize their dreams . Instead , it's a brutal and dangerous wasteland , in which only the craftiest can survive . The theme of corporate exploitation that pervades the film still rings resoundingly to a present-day audience . But for all its harshness , " McCabe & Mrs . Miller " is a beautiful film to look at . Vilmos Zsigmond bathes everything in an ethereal light , and if there are images of icy starkness , there are also reverse images of rich warmth , notably those that take place in the whorehouse itself , which ironically becomes much more of a civilizing agent and cultural epicenter for the small town than the church that figures so prominently in other ways . One of the best from Altman's golden period as a director , and one of the best films to emerge from any director in the 1970s .
One of My Favorites	This vaulted to the top of my list of favorite films noir the second it was over . This truly stylish and excellent little crime thriller stars John Payne as an ex-con who's framed for being involved with a bank robbery he had nothing to do with . Fueled by a sense of wronged justice , he tracks down the real culprits , who have met down in Mexico for the money exchange . The plot gets much more intricate than that , though , when it turns out that the boss of the operation , an ex-cop gone bad , is planning to double cross the other members of the team and collect the reward money for himself . And it gets more intricate when Payne falls for the boss's daughter , who has come down to visit him at his tropical getaway . Many of the usual noir touches are present in this film : the anti-hero who finds himself in the wrong place at the wrong time ; the hard-boiled tough-guy patter ; the blurred lines between the law and the criminals . The film clips by at a tense pace , and it's an awful lot of fun .
The Myth of the American Dream	" Easy Rider " likely made a generation of young men want to take to the road on motorbikes , sticking it to the man and living the American dream . And today , it's viewed nostalgically as a relic from a simpler , more innocent time . But I think it's wrong to read the film this way , and robs it of much of its impact . " Easy Rider " isn't about living the American dream ; it's about finding out there is no such thing . That's what I like most about this movie . Dennis Hopper and Peter Fonda could have made a smug , alienating critique on bourgeois American culture , and it's rather surprising that they didn't . Instead , they made a disturbing film with a big heart at its center , about two drifters who go out in search of what makes America great , and find that there's no place in it for them . The ending packs a wallop , and I'm always amazed that two newbies who were probably both loopy most of the time on drugs could manage to put together such a strong , resonant film . Jack Nicholson appears in a supporting role as another drifter the two pick up on their travels , and the always fascinating Karen Black appears briefly as well as one of their female companions .
A Powerful , Achingly Beautiful Movie	" The Sea Inside " is a refreshingly subtle polemic , if there can be such a thing . It has a clear agenda - - arguing in favor of humans ' right to die with dignity - - and it makes only the most minor attempt to address all sides of the right to die controversy , but it never preaches or gets bogged down in treacly sentimentality . It's as clear headed and articulate as its protagonist , Ramon Sampedro , a quadriplegic who fought , and ultimately lost , to have his right to end his own life recognized by the Spanish government . Javier Bardem plays Sampedro in a simply beautiful performance , all the more astounding given the fact that for most of the movie Bardem must act from the neck up only . His Ramon is a man full of great reserves of love and compassion for his family members and friends , but he's also single minded in purpose ; he wants to die , and he doesn't want anyone , no matter how well meaning , to stand in his way of that objective . Therefore , we almost always support Ramon in his goal , but don't always approve of his methods , or the way he treats others around him , particularly the young woman who ultimately assists him in his suicide , who's on the rebound from a failed marriage and attaches herself rather desperately to Ramon , and whom the movie suggests Ramon would take emotional advantage of if it would help him achieve his goal . But the movie's point is that Ramon is being forced to play by rules created by a bunch of people who know nothing about what it's like to be in his situation , so he can be forgiven if he breaks those rules . There's much to enjoy in " The Sea Inside " even if you are strongly opposed to assisted suicide . It really is a poignant , beautiful movie , and it resonates with compassion . I remember the small controversy that surrounded this movie and " Million Dollar Baby , " another film about assisted suicide that came out in the same year , and audiences ' calls to boycott these films because they espoused a point of view the audiences were against . I can understand why someone would not agree with the argument in " The Sea Inside , " but I can't imagine how they could have a blanket objection to watching the film , when it's so full of warmth and examples of decent human kindness .
Early Kubrick Robs the Bank	Stanley Kubrick directed this slick heist film early in his career , and it stands as one of the most exciting of the many crime thrillers released during the 1950s . Our friend Quentin Tarantino owes much to this film . Anyone who thinks Tarantino invented the gimmick of telling a story through topsy-turvy chronology should watch this to see how much this movie had to have influenced " Jackie Brown " and " Reservoir Dogs . " Stylish black and white photography ( which includes some trademark Kubrick Steadicam shots ) add much to this film's atmosphere . Watch and enjoy .
Nearly Perfect	" The Nightmare Before Christmas " gets better every time you see it . It's a little masterpiece of an animated film from the imagination of Tim Burton , and it's for people who want to gag whenever they see previews for the T . V . show " Seventh Heaven . " This ain't your standard Disney fare , but is rather a morbid and hilarious movie that I watch every Halloween season . The songs by Danny Elfman seem so-so upon a first listen , but they get better on multiple viewings too . If you like Edward Gory , you will like this movie ( though he's not credited as doing so , his artwork had to inspire the people who designed this movie ) .
Lucas Finally Gets It Right	Third time is apparently the charm for Mr . Lucas , because " Revenge of the Sith " finally , FINALLY , feels like a " Star Wars " movie . " Attack of the Clones " was tons better than " The Phantom Menace , " and even " Menace " improves as part of the entire series when it doesn't have to stand alone , but " Sith " is the only installment in the new trilogy that deserves the " Star Wars " brand . With " Sith , " events start to feel like they actually matter , and the elaborate but hopelessly dry plot lines that dominate the first two movies begin to coalesce into something resembling a story with resonance . The Emperor's rise to power and the way he creates a dictatorship while giving the impression that he's preserving democracy feels right , and there's an intense momentum to this film as the dark powers insidiously take over that the previous two films seriously lack . The acting is still woeful , with the exception of Ewan McGregor and Ian McDiarmid , both able to make George Lucas's terrible dialogue sound better by virtue of their British accents alone . Hayden Christiansen continues to play Anakin as a petulant teenager ; he's at times embarrassing in his attempts to convey a demented mind spiraling downward . But in a way , it makes sense that Anakin would be an immature brat at his most impressionable , easily influenced by Palpatine while his still young mind is transparent . So in effect , Christiansen's poor performance accidentally ends up working for the character . And nothing can be said about Samuel L . Jackson's performance , other than that a great drinking game could be made out of it : everyone has to take a shot each time Jackson looks like he'd rather be doing anything other than appearing in a " Star Wars " movie . " Revenge of the Sith " makes the entire prequel trilogy , whatever its faults ( and there are many ) , worth the time it takes to watch them .
Enter the World of David Mamet	If there were any such thing as an Academy Award for best ensemble cast , this film would have won hands down in 1992 . What a crackerjack adaptation of the David Mamet play ! The dog eat dog ( or should that be shark eat shark ) world of uber-macho salesmen is brought to vivid life by a cast that includes Jack Lemmon , Al Pacino , Alec Baldwin , Ed Harris and Jonathan Pryce . Mamet's rapid-fire dialogue sounds great on screen , and it's to this particular ensemble's credit that they all know how to deliver it to maximum effect . I'd like to think that Al Pacino's Academy Award nomination for Best Supporting Actor was a way to acknowledge the entire cast , and it's a crime that he won the very same year in the Best Actor category for " Scent of a Woman " but not for this .
A Dark Romantic Comedy	Jack Lemmon plays a nice guy sad sack and Shirley MacLaine the wayward waif with whom he's smitten in Billy Wilder's bittersweet romantic comedy that's long on the bitter and short on the sweet . Wilder nails the sterile world of corporate American anonymity in this film . Lemmon's character is a worker bee , whose work space is lost amid a sea of identical spaces , captured brilliantly by the art direction as a black and white version of a human ant hill . The only thing distinguishing Lemmon from the multitudes is his apartment , which the good ol ' boy management staff like to use for their adulterous trysts , and which Lemmon himself never seems to need for the same purpose . He falls for elevator operator MacLaine , a brassy yet wistful cutie , who happens to be one of his boss's said trysts . Things get complicated as Lemmon has to decide which is more important to him : the moral high ground or climbing the corporate ladder . Lemmon essays a tricky role beautifully . I would have been instantly annoyed by this character had anyone else played him . It's hard to feel sorry for a doormat who can't say " no , " but Lemmon makes it virtually impossible not to like his character . MacLaine , too , delivers one of the best performances of her career , a rather ballsy one in a way , as she makes her elevator operator unsympathetic through much of the movie . This pair of unconventional actors creates a refreshingly bleak romance , if there can be such a thing . The only thing that seems to be preventing both of these characters from getting completely lost in the crush of indifferent humanity is their tenuous connection to one another . " The Apartment " is a perfect New Year's Eve film . It superbly taps into that feeling of being lonely while surrounded by people that only those who live in big cities can understand . Anyone who's commuted to work on a subway or bus will instantly recognize the feeling this movie conveys .
I Fell Hard for " Juno "	" Juno " is this year's " Little Miss Sunshine , " a tiny film with a gigantic heart . Ellen Page plays Juno ( NOT like the city in Alaska , as she makes very clear at one point ) , a sixteen year old who acts tougher and older than she really feels and who finds herself pregnant after one experimental romp in an easy chair with her best buddy , Paul Bleeker ( the terrific Michael Sera ) . She decides to give the baby to a thirty-ish yuppie couple ( Jennifer Garner and Jason Bateman ) living in a sprawling McMansion who haven't been able to have a child of their own . The rest is a sweet , very funny and refreshingly unpredictable comedy about what it means to grow up . There are dilemmas in " Juno , " but they may not be the dilemmas you're expecting . Diablo Cody has written a sharp screenplay that's fair to all of her characters . It was so nice for once to see a young , married , successful couple portrayed as something other than yuppies from hell , and both Bateman and Garner do wonderful work with their characters . Page is a revelation ; this is one of those films that's so self-consciously quirky and in love with its own style that it could have been disastrous if not played just so , but Page nails the main character beautifully . She allows us to see Juno's vulnerability , and that's essential to the film's success . The film , unlike so many others , acknowledges that teenagers aren't equipped to deal with adult problems , and that there's a lot they could learn if they were only receptive to it . I give the film great credit for portraying Juno's parents ( J . K . Simmons and Allison Janney ) as something other than buffoons or losers . And Simmons and Janney as actors have some of the film's best lines and moments . Only someone with a heart of stone could leave this film without a lump the size of Alaska in his throat . And , can I just say bravo to the filmmakers for including a terrific opening credits sequence . Am I the only one who's saddened by the fact that movies don't seem to have opening credit sequences anymore ?
A Minor Classic	" Dodsworth " is a disarmingly honest and frank depiction of a failed marriage , based on the Sinclair Lewis novel . Its naturalistic acting and its refusal to make its characters anything less than full-bodied human beings make it feel way ahead of its time . It's never mentioned along with other classic films of the period - - probably because it doesn't have an epic scope - - but it should be . Walter Huston gives an absolutely flawless performance in the title role . His type is so recognizable , even today : the successful American business man who values the simplest and most traditional of American values , and who comes across as provincial and crass to the rest of the world . Ruth Chatterton meets Huston's performance every step of the way as Dodsworth's wife , glad of the material comfort her husband can provide , but embarrassed by him and aware that he will prevent her from joining the world of high culture to which she wants to belong . It is to the movie's distinct credit that neither of these characters is either hero or villain . Dodsworth is crass and unsophisticated ; yet at the same time he's honest and never misleads his wife into thinking he's something that he's not . Mrs . Dodsworth has a right to be bored by the kind of life Dodsworth is content with , but she might have thought of that before so readily accepting his financial success . I don't really know for sure , but I have a feeling this movie might have made people very uncomfortable in 1936 . I doubt married couples were encouraged to turn too critical an eye on their own marriages back then , and I suspect that more people than not decided to stick it out in unhappy marriages rather than violate a sense of social propriety . Before the days when people dated for a few years before getting married , many people probably learned about the kind of person they were marrying only after the wedding day . " Dodsworth " beautifully captures the sad , melancholy feeling of waking up one morning and realizing you're not married to the person you thought you were .
The Best Version of the Dickens Classic	It might surprise many who equate director David Lean with enormous sweeping epics like " Lawrence of Arabia " and " Doctor Zhivago " that he first came to American audiences ' attention in the mid-40s as director of quiet , small and very literary black and white films . He made what in my mind is the greatest romance ever put to screen , " Brief Encounter , " in 1945 , and followed that up with a screen adaptation of Charles Dickens ' " Great Expectations " in 1946 - - - both films earned him Best Director Academy Award nominations , though he lost both times . In 1948 he took his second crack at Dickens with " Oliver Twist , " to this day still the best screen version of the classic story that I've seen , towering far above Roman Polanski's 2005 film and the popular 1968 musical . Lean's " Twist " is a sumptuous film with beautiful period decor and chilly , shadowy black and white cinematography that feels perfectly suited to the cold harsh world into which Dickens ' eponymous orphan is thrown . Lean's unique quality as a filmmaker has always been his ability to combine intense character studies with gigantic , epic stories , so it's no surprise that he's so well suited to do justice to Dickens , whose novels , despite their huge arrays of names , places and outrageous plot twists would be nothing without the colorful idiosyncrasies of their individual characters . He pulls a remarkable performance out of Alec Guinness as Fagin , who delivers an admittedly un-politically-correct reading of the character as a money-grubbing Jew , but who nonetheless nails the spirit of the character as written by Dickens . And Guinness is backed by a cast of strong , if relatively unknown , supporting players . If you have to choose just one version of " Oliver Twist " to see , then look no further .
You Know the Thing About a Shark , Chief ? . . . . . .	I can barely relax in a swimming pool to this day because of Steven Spielberg's ultimate shark movie . I've become a detractor of Spielberg in his more recent years as a director , but " Jaws " represents him doing what he does best : putting fun popcorn movies on screen and using his shameless powers of manipulation to thrill us rather than wrench tears from us . Give me " Jaws " and " Raiders " over " Schindler's List " or " Saving Private Ryan " any day . Acting in movies like this gets overlooked , but I think " Jaws " would not be the classic we remember it as today without the marvelous trio of actors who play the men on the hunt of that pesky great white : Roy Scheider , as police chief Brody , whose sense of duty and obligation outweighs his morbid fear of water and the unknown ; Richard Dreyfuss , as a cocky scientist mesmerized by the beauty and the majesty of the creature they're hunting ; and Robert Shaw , in an off-his-rocker performance as Quint , loony shark hunter , the Captain Ahab of Amity . These three together deliver one of the best depictions of male bonding ever put on screen . Peter Benchley greatly improved his own book for the screen . The book is full of boring subplots and lengthy passages told from the shark's point of view . The screenplay , on the other hand , is streamlined and crisp , not pushing the story beyond its modest bounds , and reducing it to a basic man against nature - - or man against his own worst fears - - tall tale . It's like " Deliverance " lite . And that John Williams score . . . . . oh , that score . . . . . .
One of the Ultimate Mobster Movies	When Martin Scorsese is at his best , no one can do a gangster movie like him , and " Goodfellas " is him at his best . Mind you , I don't think it's his best film ( for me , that title belongs to " Taxi Driver " ) , but it's a hugely entertaining and rollicking film that spends its first half making the world of mobsters look like an enticing fantasy and its second half making it look like a living hell . There are fierce performances from everyone , but though Joe Pesci was singled out for his outrageous depiction of the ultimate hot head , the film would not hold together without Ray Liotta's commanding performance at its center . Lorraine Bracco's performance as a naive dense wife who turns into an enraged shrew of a wife is like nails on a chalkboard , but I'm guessing she delivered exactly what was asked of her . The film features rapid fire editing and a soundtrack that won't quit , but in the hands of Scorsese , elements like this feel like more than empty stylistics .
Play Ball	" Murderball " is an inspirational yet completely unsentimental documentary about quadriplegic rugby . Yes , you read that correctly . But if you're coming to this movie in the hopes of learning a lot about the sport , be warned - - - it's not really all that much about rugby , but rather about the lives of the men playing it . We are not asked to feel sorry for these men , or pity them . In fact , that's exactly what they don't want . What " Murderball " gets across more than anything else is how much like you and me these guys are ; they've had to adjust to a new way of living , but they're essentially the same . They trash talk each other , brag about their sexual exploits , goof around , make fun of one another . Watching them is like watching any team in a locker room . As one of them mentions , when people hear that these guys are playing the Paralympics , they immediately think Special Olympics , which is not the case . These are men with physical , not mental , handicaps . The film really focuses on three characters : Joe , coach of the Canadian team , who struggles to relate to his pre-adolescent son , who himself has no interest in sports ; Zupan , who has become the poster-boy for quadriplegic rugby , and whose reunion with the friend who caused the accident that paralyzed him is addressed in an offhand manner ; and to a lesser extent Keith , recently paralyzed and just released from physical rehab , who we see painfully trying to come to terms with the reality of his situation , and for whom rugby offers the opportunity of reclaiming some normalcy . " Murderball " made me feel condescending many times . I would see one of the men maneuver his wheelchair down an escalator or jump into a swimming pool for a swim and think , " Wow , they can do THAT too ? " I already knew that quadriplegics can lead perfectly self-sufficient and fulfilling lives , but it didn't hurt me to be reminded of that . The funniest moment in the film comes when it's time to show the how-to-get-back-to-having-sex instructional video that is part of the quadriplegic's rehab . You can tell the guys in the movie thought it was one of the funniest parts too . A terrific film that , unlike the year's most beloved documentary , " March of the Penguins , " actually manages to answer more questions than it raises .
We All Live on a Nazi Submarine	" Das Boot " is one of those movies you think there's no way you could actually enjoy , and then find yourself totally engrossed in . A three-and-a-half hour film in German set almost completely on a submarine would not seem to have the makings of a gripping film , but gripping this film certainly is . Wolfgang Petersen and his cameraman make tremendous use of their limited space , and this film is more visually dynamic than many films that have much more room to play with . The claustrophobia is intense , and the small details about life on a submarine endlessly fascinating . And it's a tremendously humanist film as well ; by the end , we don't really care that these men are fighting for the Nazi cause , we simply care about them as men .
The Guilty Aren't Always Punished	" Crimes and Misdemeanors " is probably Woody Allen's darkest film , or at least it was until his British crime thriller duo of " Match Point " and " Cassandra's Dream " from the last couple of years . In fact , " Match Point " borrows heavily from " Crimes " and both borrow from Dreiser's " An American Tragedy . " Martin Landau plays a prominent doctor who pays to have his unhinged mistress ( Anjelica Huston ) bumped off when she threatens to make things unpleasant for him and his accepted social standing as an upright citizen . The guilt he experiences is worse than the shame he would have endured had the mistress lived to tell what she knew . In a parallel story , Woody Allen plays a man in an unhappy marriage who is making a documentary for a regular T . V . show about a pompous T . V . exec ( Alan Alda ) while falling for one of the show's producers ( Mia Farrow ) . The two stories don't seem to be related , aside from the common thread of infidelity that runs through them , until the very end , when Allen's and Landau's characters meet at a wedding and Landau " confesses " his crimes . The big question Allen explores in " Crimes and Misdemeanors " is the inherent nature of the universe : is there a moral structure or is the universe essentially chaotic and cruel ? If there is a moral code , is it dictated to us by a higher power or is mankind itself inherently moral ? These are interesting questions , much more interesting than the " what is the point of existence ? " questions Allen frequently addresses and which he borrowed wholesale from Ingmar Bergman . This film ends on an essentially optimistic note , but not before it gives us a rather nasty and chilling twist - - Landau's character finds that his conscience gradually eases on its own , and finds that the guilty aren't necessarily punished , and are sometimes even rewarded . A highlight in Woody Allen's canon .
Spending Time with Cleo	The Cleo in " Cleo from 5 to 7 " is a frivolous , spoiled singer living in Paris . The 5 to 7 refers to the two hours ( roughly ) of the day we spend with her as she awaits the results of a medical test that will tell her whether or not she has cancer . During that time , we watch her pout , sulk , buy a hat , and goof around with friends , but it's not until the film's final moments , when Cleo meets a total stranger , that she has anything resembling meaningful interaction with another human being . The most remarkable thing about " Cleo from 5 to 7 " is the performance of Corinne Marchand in the title role . Her Cleo is petulant and unlikable in the film's early moments , and she barely plays a part in her own story . She's not even so much afraid of dying as she is of losing her beauty . But over the course of the film , we see her gradually emerge from her pampered shell and flower into a three dimensional woman , capable of complicated thought and emotion . It's a minor miracle of acting . The film doesn't exactly have a happy ending , but it's not really a downer either . Cleo gets her diagnosis , but her reaction to it surprises us . Her final words in the film are about her feeling happy - - the way she delivers the line leads us to believe that this is a new sensation for her - - and at that point it's as if the diagnosis doesn't really matter anymore , either for her or us .
A Movie About the Thanklessness of Leadership	What a wonderful movie ! I can't believe it's taken me this long to get around to seeing it . In a bit of convenient coincidence , I happened to be reading " The Caine Mutiny " at the same time that I saw " Mister Roberts , " and the two stories are kissing cousins . Both concern the tyrannical captain of a largely obsolete ship in the late days of WWII and the second-in-command officers who try to bring some humanity to the lives of the sailors suffering under the strict leadership . In " Mister Roberts , " that captain is James Cagney , and the executive officer is Henry Fonda ( Mr . Roberts ) , beleaguered by the notion that he's missing out on the important parts of the war , and that his time aboard a supplies ship stationed in the safe zone of the South Pacific is wasted . The point of the movie , though , is that the world is full of all kinds of heroes , and combat heroes are only one type . There's a valid heroism to be found in simply being reliable and decent , and the kind of person that knows how to be a good leader . It's less glamorous , but no less important or necessary . One of the points that I liked best about the film was the acknowledgement that the hero's job can be a quite thankless one . Mister Roberts is a hero to his men , but they don't necessarily know it - - they easily turn on him when things don't go exactly their way . Anyone who's ever supervised a group of individuals in any context should be able to appreciate the same feeling . Fonda is wonderful in his role , and he's backed by a tremendous cast . Cagney , Jack Lemmon and William Powell fill out the other major roles , and this is one of those instances where an entire cast just clicks - - the chemistry between all of them is palpable . The film gets a bit maudlin and treacly towards its conclusion , and it tries to race through too much plot in its last moments , but I forgive it these flaws , since it did come out at a time when there would still have been an intense nostalgia for and a great deal of sentimentality surrounding WWII stories like this one .
Lars Has an Anatomically Correct Girlfriend	Lo and behold , a film that still believes in simple human kindness . There's been a severe lack of that on our movie and television screens lately , which is why I found " Lars and the Real Girl " utterly irresistible . I imagine this is the kind of movie that's either going to work for you or it's not . I can guarantee that if you go into it and pick apart all the ways in which it's not realistic , you're not going to enjoy it . Ryan Gosling has rocketed to the top of the list of my favorite contemporary actors . He's given two of the best performances in the last two years : here in " Lars " and last year in " Half Nelson . " The success of " Lars and the Real Girl " depends almost entirely on Gosling's ability to sell this character to the audience , and he does so flawlessly . Lars is a sweet teddy bear of a man who also happens to be intensely lonely . He orders a life-size and anatomically correct sex doll and proceeds to make a companion of her , taking her to parties , to church , to family dinners . A psychiatrist ( a marvelous , as usual , Patricia Clarkson ) tells the family that the best thing they can do for Lars is to encourage his delusion until he works through whatever is causing it ; they relay that to the townspeople , who take it to heart . As a result , Lars's " girlfriend " is completely accepted by the town , and even gets elected to the school board . Ultimately , " Lars " probably isn't very realistic , but isn't it nice to think it could be ? That a group of people could be this warm , kind and accepting , simply because they happen to like somebody and want to see him get better . The film is full of wonderful performances from everyone . In addition to Gosling and Clarkson , Emily Mortimer shines as Lars's caring and worried sister-in-law . It really irritates me that critics were divided on this movie on the basis of it pushing the boundaries of credibility , when they almost unanimously praised " Gone Baby Gone , " a film so melodramatic and heavy handed as to be no less implausible , and that goes down as two of the most unpleasant hours I've spent in a movie theatre for a long time . Has our culture now decided that a film about good kind people is too unrealistic to stomach , and that the only movies that ring true are ones about human depravity ? So far , " Lars and the Real Girl " is one of my favorite films of the year .
Classic Portrait of an Enabler	Daniel Mann directed this emotionally bruising screen adaptation of the William Inge play . Shirley Booth recreated her stage performance opposite Burt Lancaster , as a dowdy housewife stuck in the past , who's so devoted to taking care of every single need of her alcoholic husband that she's forgotten she has a life of her own to live . A young college student ( Terry Moore ) the couple takes in as a boarder shakes up their domestic routine when she exposes them to a world of youth and vitality the two had forgotten existed . Having had direct experience with an alcoholic and the family dynamic swirling around him , I can say that this film perfectly captures the attitudes and behavior of a classic enabler . The fact that Booth's doting wife goes on and on about how proud she is that her husband has remained sober for a year ( even going as far as attending an AA meeting with him ) , and then keeping a bottle of alcohol in the kitchen cupboard and serving cocktails at a dinner party where her husband was an intended guest , struck me as painfully accurate . The movie is quite surprisingly frank about some of the more unsavory " behind-closed-doors " topics that film as an art form wasn't yet comfortable in exploring as of 1952 . In addition to the exploration of alcoholism and its abusive effects on both the user and those around him , the film delves into sex and the long-term - - and sometimes unexpectedly profound - - role it can play in shaping people's ( and especially women's ) lives .
Grow Old with Marty	One of those movies I didn't have a great deal of interest in , but after seeing it left me wondering why I didn't discover it sooner . Don't let the fact that this little film from 1955 won the Best Picture Academy Award keep you from discovering it yourself . God knows you'd be justified , given the Academy's track record . But this is a sweet , warm movie about two ugly ducklings who find one another and happily discover that they don't have to spend their lives alone after all . I've never liked Ernest Borgnine better than I did watching him play Marty . And Betsy Blair , as Marty's love interest , Clara , was wonderful too . ( On a side note , I found out from watching this on TCM that she was married to Gene Kelly at the time this movie was made ) . In a way , " Marty " is a kind of anti-romance . It posits that true love isn't based on the wild passion between two gorgeous youngsters , but rather on the deep affection and compatibility that comes with finding someone you can really talk to and grow old with . A charmer .
One of Chaplin's Best	" The Gold Rush , " perhaps more than any other Chaplin film , best captures that elusive , sad quality about the little tramp that permeates so many of his films . What is it exactly that's so sad about Chaplin , given the fact that he's always doing something zany and laugh out loud funny ? It's that he always seems to be an outsider ; he never quite fits in . There's always someone bigger , stronger , richer , better looking than him . And I think that's what movie audiences responded to during his hey-day and what they're still responding to now . Perhaps no other scene in a Chaplin film ( at least of the ones I've seen ) captures this feeling more than the one in " The Gold Rush " where Chaplin has gone to a great deal of effort to prepare a New Year's dinner and is stood up by his date , spending his New Year's alone . This scene is almost unbearably sad , so thank God it's surrounded by scene after scene that will have you giggling . This is the movie with the famous " dancing potatoes " scene , and wait till you see Chaplin eat his boot for dinner , slurping up his shoelace like it's a spaghetti noodle . I strongly recommend Chaplin films to anyone who is moderately interested in early cinema but is turned off by the idea of silent pictures . He's so expressive and so fun to watch that I guarantee you you'll forget that you're watching a silent film . Even after movies went to sound , Chaplin continued to make virtually silent pictures , and you don't even feel the absence .
Fast and Gritty	Nobody could use a city's atmosphere to his film's advantage better than Jules Dassin , and " The Naked City " joins " Night and the City " and " Rififi " in the long line of Dassin films that are worth watching for their location shooting alone . I don't know the T . V . series that this movie inspired , but the film is terrific . It's terse and gritty . Not a second is wasted as it races through it's hard-boiled detective-movie plot , climaxing in a splendid chase scene in which the bullets fly . Unlike other Dassin movies , this film seems to have a sense of humour about its own importance , and it never gets carried too far away from its pulpy comic book trimmings . There are no stars to speak of in this ; Barry Fitzgerald is the closest thing to a marquee name , if that tells you anything . But everyone in it is so breezy and relaxed in their parts , they seem tailor made for them . If you're looking for a 40s film that breaks out of the stilted studio conventions so rigidly imposed on many films of the period , take a look at this one .
A Terrifically Spooky Drama	Val Lewton takes the Universal Pictures horror film idea and brings it to RKO , with tremendously improved results . " Cat People " is far superior to any of the horror offerings Universal dished up during the same time period . This superb chiller was helmed by Jacques Tourneur , director of what may have been the best film noir to emerge from the 1940s , " Out of the Past , " and he brings the same dreamy atmosphere to this film that he did to that classic . " Cat People " sounds ridiculous on paper - - it's like a female version of " The Wolf Man , " only set in the middle of New York City rather than rural England - - but it makes for a spooky movie . Simone Simon plays the Eastern European émigré who turns into a cat when her passions are aroused ; and nothing arouses them more than the jealousy she feels toward her husband's female co-worker , with whom he falls in love when his chilly wife won't perform her wifely duties . The plot is a feminist's nightmare - - the idea of a female " cat fight " being taken to literal extremes - - but it's not to be taken so seriously . Indeed , the best scenes in the film are exactly those that show Simon stalking her female nemesis , first down a foggy , shadowy pathway in the dead of night , then in an apartment swimming pool . Tourneur shoots everything beautifully ; he allows imaginative camera work to take the place of any sort of special effect , and hardly a frame of the movie goes by without an arresting image . Terrific stuff .
David Lynch's Nightmare Version of Suburban America	This David Lynch chiller just may make your skin crawl . Ever wonder what rotting secrets lie buried underneath the picket fence perfection of suburban America ? Well , David Lynch is here to show you . " Blue Velvet " is actually one of Lynch's more accessible films in terms of linearity and conventional storytelling , but it still manages to deeply disturb . Kyle MacLachlan and Laura Dern are the two youngsters who get trapped in this particular Lynchian rabbit hole , and Dennis Hopper ( terrifying ) and Isabella Rossellini are the grotesques they find there . What follows plays out like the kind of dream you would have if you were running a temperature of 102 . Don't be put off though - - as creepy and disturbing as the film is , it's also very funny in that way that only Lynch films can be ( meaning that you'll laugh but you'll probably be squirming as you do ) .
Something Ain't Right in This Particular Nuclear Plant	Released at the height of America's nuclear disaster paranoia , " Silkwood " is one of those blue-collar one-against-the-many films that revolve around simple folk fighting corporate power and abuse as best they know how . Meryl Streep plays Karen Silkwood , who unlikely and reluctantly becomes a spokeswoman against lax safety restrictions in place at the nuclear plant at which her and just about everybody else in her tiny town works . Since it's based on a true story , the movie ends the way Silkwood's life ended , and it ain't upbeat . But I found the whole movie to be morbidly fascinating , especially the details about how the plant treated those they suspected of radioactive contamination . Meryl Streep and Cher , who plays Silkwood's best friend , are phenomenal , and even Kurt Russell flexes his acting chops admirably . Mike Nichols might not seem like the obvious choice to direct a gritty , ugly movie like this , but he's able to make it feel authentic . A disturbing but rewarding experience .
A Devastating and Profoundly Affecting Documentary	" Grizzly Man " is a mesmerizing but deeply unsettling account of the life and death of Timothy Treadwell , who lived for years with bears in the Alaskan peninsula until he was mauled and killed by one of them . Much of the footage director Werner Herzog has assembled was shot by Treadwell himself ; the rest comes from interviews Herzog conducted with Treadwell's family and friends . What results is a disturbing look into the mind of a man who seems to be self-destructing before our very eyes even as he convinces himself that he's engaged in a just and heroic cause . Herzog is obviously as fascinated by Treadwell's behavioral patterns as Treadwell is that of the bears he studies , and so this documentary becomes a complex series of observations : we observe Herzog observe Treadwell observe the wildlife of Alaska . This is enhanced by the fact that Herzog frequently interposes himself into his movie ; he will editorialize on a piece of footage or make references to the movie he is making . He makes no attempt to maintain that " fourth wall " between film maker and audience . Therefore , his movie is extremely intimate , at times uncomfortably so . Treadwell fashioned himself as a kind of vigilante environmental crusader . He invented a superhero persona for himself , and he makes it his self-proclaimed duty to protect the bears from a modern world of humans intent on their destruction . In the film's early scenes , he's an amusing eccentric , and there's something charming about his devotion to a cause he deems to be important . But as the film progresses , it becomes alarmingly clear that Treadwell was not a well man , that his self-imposed exile to the Alaskan wilderness was more the result of anti-social tendencies and an almost manic persecution complex than it was his concern for the bear population . And one begins to wonder what good Treadwell was actually doing . He wasn't really protecting the bears from anything ; when a group of campers / hunters in one scene are taunting the bears by throwing rocks at them , Treadwell hides in the bushes and works himself up into a rage , but he's powerless to do anything about it . And as many interview subjects throughout the film attest , there was something highly irresponsible about his actions . He seemed unable to respect the line between man and nature . He approached the natural world with the idealistic awe of a child - - we see him cavorting with wild foxes , treating the bears like they're cranky but lovable dogs . He claims that he is more in tune with nature than the human world and that this somehow gives him the right to do what he does , yet he seems incapable of dealing with the realities of that world : the sight of a dead bumblebee reduces him to tears . The film's most haunting , chilling scene is the one in which Herzog listens to the tape that recorded the deaths of Treadwell and his female friend . No videotape of the attacks exist , and Herzog , presumably out of respect , does not play the audio portion for his film's audience . But the impact of the tape is made painfully clear nonetheless , and Herzog can't finish listening to it , pleading with Treadwell's one-time girlfriend to destroy it without ever listening to it herself . This is an extraordinary film that any fan of documentaries - - or for that matter fans of expert film making - - should see .
A Nearly Perfect Little Romance	A warm , sweet and remarkably charming film about two antagonistic workers in the same shop ( James Stewart and Margaret Sullavan ) who are carrying on a romance via mailbox without either of them knowing it . The key to this film's success is that Ernst Lubitsch keeps any syrupy sentimentality absent and calls on his actors to give low-key , unfussy performances . As a result , you fall in love with virtually all of them . There's a strong undercurrent of melancholy running through this film which I appreciated . Loneliness is a major theme , most obviously represented in the character of the shop's owner and manager , played wonderfully by Frank Morgan . He discovers that he's being cuckolded by his wife , and realizes that the successful life he's created for himself isn't enough to keep him from feeling lonely when he doesn't have a partner to share it . This makes the timid romance between Stewart and Sullavan all the more poignant , because they're both reaching out to this unseen other , who each thinks of as a soulmate before they've even met . Of course we know everything will turn out right in the end , but the movie doesn't let you forget the dismal feeling either of them would feel if they found that the reality didn't live up to the fantasy . Lubitsch fills his movie out with a crackerjack cast that has boatloads of chemistry . The little group of shop employees refers to itself throughout the movie as a little family , and that's exactly how it feels to us as well . This is a wonderful , unsung romance .
Douglas Sirk at the Peak of His Artistry	Jane Wyman gives a winsome and luminous performance in this achingly beautiful Douglas Sirk weepie . Wyman plays a dutiful 1950s widow , going through the motions in a straight-laced , stifling suburb . Her children are college age and live away from home ; her life has settled into a boring routine . She falls for gardener Rock Hudson , who not only is younger than her but also is ( GASP ! ) poorer . Marriage to him would mean facing the harsh criticism of the snobbish New England society to which she belongs - - even her children oppose the match . But Wyman's character harbors a strong-willed spirit which bristles at the conventions forced upon her . If this premise sounds familiar , it should - - Todd Haynes borrowed it for his homage to Sirk's melodramas , " Far From Heaven " ( 2002 ) . In that film , he reexamined Sirk's critique of mainstream upper middle class America and the banality forced upon anyone who wishes to belong to that class . Haynes's film is edgier than Sirk's - - a more liberated culture allowed him to explore racism and homophobia in addition to class barriers . But Sirk's film is no less powerful or devastating despite the limitations placed upon it . In my mind , Sirk held a unique place among film directors . He made art out of pure melodrama , something not many could do . The same stories filmed by other directors would be easy to dismiss as cornball entertainment - - but it's not so easy to dismiss Sirk . He attacked conventions that at the time were taken for granted as being desirable for anyone wanting to live the American dream ; but his attacks , if not his films , were subtle , and he made his movies for the very audience at whom he was aiming his criticism . No other Sirk film matches " All That Heaven Allows " for sheer craftsmanship , not even the wildly feverish " Written on the Wind , " released a year later . And Jane Wyman was a perfect Sirk heroine ; she was able to deftly navigate the cornball elements and create a character who you both believe in and care deeply for .
A Harrowing , Disturbing Film with a Dazzling Performance from Liz Taylor	I've heard many reports that the screen version of Edward Albee's Pulitzer-Prize-winning play greatly dilutes the content and language of the original text , blunting some of its emotional impact . Well , if this is the blunted version , I don't know if I'm prepared for the original . Richard Burton ( who I've never really liked as an actor , but who I have to admit does brilliant work here ) and Elizabeth Taylor ( in the definitive performance of her career ) go at each other like two inmates in a prison brawl , and the results are devastating . To see two people who obviously have a deep bond but who are so intent on deeply hurting each other is enough to make your skin crawl . At the root of their misery is a child , or rather the lack of one , and unable to deal with their own emotional crises , they instead turn their troubles into a grotesque game , where hurting each other becomes perversely the only thing that brings them comfort , because it's less scary than the prospect of facing the skeletons they've packed away in the closets . Burton's George is a loathsome character , a nasty yet beaten man who seems nearly inhuman in his ability to repress any show of true emotion . Taylor's Martha is one of the most fascinating female creations ever put on the stage or the screen , and Taylor tears into the role as if her life depended on it . Ultimately , it's her who will break your heart , this woman who has turned into something everyone detests in an attempt to wring from her husband a sign that she and their marriage still matter to him . I'll never forget the feeling of hollowed-out despair this movie left me with after my first viewing . George Segal and Sandy Dennis play the young couple who suffer the force of George and Martha's attack . They serve as reminders of what George and Martha perhaps once were , while George and Martha serve as warnings of what the younger couple could become .
Chaplin's Plea for Peace	I know many people prefer Charlie Chaplin when he's silent , but I have to rank this as my favorite Chaplin film , sound and all . This is one of those movies chock full of one memorable scene after another : Chaplin's hapless soldier trying to load and fire a giant gun ; his goofy dictator cavorting with an inflatable beach ball designed to look like a globe of the world ; his gentle barber trying to give a member of the Gestapo a shave . I've heard that Chaplin was put on Hitler's death list as a result of this film ; I don't know whether that's true or not , but if he was I'm not surprised . I can't even imagine the guts it took to make a film that so obviously mocked such a scary historical figure . In a time when comedians mock our world leaders left and right , it's easy to forget that there were times ( and still places today ) when doing so could get you killed . Without Chaplin's impassioned plea that closes the movie , in which he steps out of character and warns his audience directly about the consequences of ignoring the gathering storm of Nazi Germany ( and fascism in general ) , " The Great Dictator " would be a marvelous comedy . With that plea , it becomes much more than merely a marvelous comedy ; it becomes an important and inspiring historical document , that happens also to be pretty damn funny too .
Unbelievably Honest Movie for Its Time	It's been a long time since I've seen " The Best Years of Our Lives , " and I'm sure I was way too young when I did see it to fully appreciate it , but even then I could tell it wasn't quite like other old black and white movies I was used to . This film came out during a period in which Hollywood was interested in producing socially conscious message movies . " The Lost Weekend " addressed alcoholism ; " Spellbound " addressed psychotherapy ; " Mildred Pierce " addressed the impact WWII had on the women left behind ; " Gentlemen's Agreement " addressed anti-Semitism . But these other films were heavy-handed , steeped highly in melodrama , and they seem laughable today , despite their good intentions . " The Best Years of Our Lives " is different . It's a highly sensitive and understated look at what happened to men when they returned from WWII and tried to acclimate themselves back into the world they left . And remember that this came out not ten years after the end of the war , when historical perspective could safely remove the sting . This came out one year after the war's end ! How often does a film , especially from back then , directly address a social concern while it's actually happening . This movie follows three men and their stories . We see Fredric March return to the bank at which he formerly held an executive position , forced to take a menial , secretarial job well below his skills . The pettiness of the civilian world is brought home to him when he gets into an argument with a supervisor over office supplies . We see Dana Andrews return to a wife that he doesn't know anymore , and who doesn't know him . Other war stories show men and their loves pining for one another while they're separated , faithfully awaiting the time when they can be together again . They don't mention that perhaps the strain on the relationship can cause people to fall out of love . And in the film's most uncomfortable storyline , we see a man who has lost both arms trying to deal with being handicapped in a society in which people with handicaps are viewed as second-class citizens . Much has been made of the fact that Harold Russell ( who won both a special Oscar and the Best Supporting Actor Oscar for his role ) was not a professional actor , and was handicapped in real life . It's really amazing to think how brave this movie was in speaking frankly about one topic after another that until that time had remained unspeakable . This movie definitely deserves a second look from me , and a first look from anyone who hasn't seen yet seen it at all .
A Perfect Film About One of History's Darkest Hours	Bob Fosse's most accomplished film is one of the most accomplished films ever made , period . Fosse understood that the days of the old-fashioned Hollywood musical were over , at least as of 1972 , so he gave audiences a musical that doesn't feel like a musical . Based on Christopher Isherwood's fine collection of novellas , " Goodbye Berlin , " and the subsequent stage musical based on them , " Cabaret " takes elements of both sources to create something completely unique . It tells the story of Brian Roberts ( Michael York ) , a British professor who travels to 1931 Berlin to give English lessons to a wealthy heiress of a German Jewish family . He meets the irrepressible Sally Bowles ( Liza Minelli , in a dynamite performance ) , an American and fellow lodger in his boarding house , and the two begin a madcap friendship and sort-of romance , eventually falling in with a wealthy German baron until they all fall out with one another . Meanwhile , revellers come to the Kit Kat Klub , the cabaret where Sally performs , to join the sinister Master of Ceremonies ( Joel Grey , recreating his Broadway performance ) in laughing away the dark cloud of Nazism building on the German horizon . Fosse sharpened his directorial teeth on " Sweet Charity " three years earlier , and while I greatly admire that film , I can admit how uneven it is as a movie . " Cabaret " proves Fosse to be a master behind the camera , with a directorial style as unique and instantly recognizable as his choreography . The Kit Kat Klub and its devilish M . C . provide stylized commentary on the world rotting away outside the cabaret's decadent interior ; the musical numbers don't advance the plot as much as comment on it . Fosse's way of filming musical numbers is fascinating , using quick edits to capture movement from multiple angles almost simultaneously . But what gives " Cabaret " its shattering power is the way it depicts the Nazi movement's insidious rise to power even as people were dismissing it as a joke . For all of the film's stylized panache , it provides one of the most realistic documents I've ever seen of just how the Nazis positioned themselves to dominate Germany . It's no coincidence that the film's most disturbing moment comes not in the nightmare , feverish world of the cabaret's stage , but rather in the realistically depicted world of a German beer garden , where the angelic voice of a Nazi youth raised in song becomes a rallying cry and call to arms for the German people . The acting is phenomenal . Liza Minelli gives easily the best performance of her career and one of the best performances in the history of cinema . Joel Grey creates a character who manages to be no one and everyone at the same time . One can't imagine this vampirish imp of a man existing outside of the dark , lurid walls of the cabaret . And Michael York does terrific work as well , even if his role isn't as showy . I think " Cabaret " has been underrated because people have labeled it as a musical , and musicals never get taken as seriously as other genres . But I would caution anyone against dismissing this film on those grounds . Yes , there is music in it , but what " Cabaret " is more than anything else is a haunting warning about the dangers in any time and place of ignoring the unpleasantness of the present and near future for the hedonistic pleasures of the moment .
Exceptional Examination of the Death Penalty Issue	A stunning film about a nun ( Susan Sarandon ) enlisted to comfort a death row inmate ( Sean Penn ) in the days leading up to his execution and the tentative friendship the two develop . Sarandon and Penn are at the top of their game , as is director Tim Robbins , who uses his film not as a liberal diatribe against the death penalty , but rather as a tool for fairly examining both sides of the issue . Whether or not you believe in the death penalty , or whether or not you believe the Penn character deserves to die for his crimes , is beside the point - - I defy anyone to watch this film and not at least be somewhat moved by the sheer warm pulse of humanity that courses through it . I remember being unable to speak walking out of the theatre after seeing this for fear that I would burst into tears .
Roz Russell Is on the Case	Every good thing you've heard about this movie is true . It may very well be the fastest paced movie I've ever seen . Jerry Bruckheimer's most hyperbolic action movie ain't got nothing ' on this one . Cary Grant and Rosalind Russell were a brilliant screen pair ( indeed , it seems that no one was bad casting when paired with Cary Grant ) as rival reporters in a furiously paced news office . Russell is the odd man , or should I say odd girl , out , due to her lack of a penis , but she proves herself more than capable of holding her own with the boys . Russell charges across the screen and never loses momentum for a second . She's goofy , sexy and hysterical . The funniest moment in the film comes when she's chasing a man down the street ( I won't go into details ) and dive tackles him to the ground . One of the first films from the 40s and a highlight of the decade .
Knee Slappin ' Funny	Movies just don't get much funnier than " The Naked Gun . " From the people that brought you " Airplane ! " comes a comedy in a similar vein , stuffed with one-liners and sight gags . Leslie Nielsen is perfect for this kind of comedy . He's droll and oblivious to the absurdity around him . He takes everything completely seriously but manages to make fun of himself in the process somehow anyway . It's hard to explain but you'll see what I mean when you watch the movie . Ever since " The Naked Gun " was released in 1988 , it's been one of those movies I watch every once in a while when I just want some mindless entertainment or when there's nothing else on , and it never fails to disappoint . It holds up well ( I think even better than " Airplane ! " ) and deserves to be counted among the best screen comedies ever made .
Best Film About American Media Since " Network "	Every once in a while , a character actor who has made a living popping up here and there in mostly unmemorable roles , is cast in a film and does such an amazing job that everyone starts immediately wondering why he or she isn't more famous . However , if you think about it , this sort of makes sense . Character actors don't carry around the baggage of being big-name Hollywood personas ; they can entirely sink into a role and not fight audience tendencies to watch them as a celebrity rather than as a character . This works even more to their advantage when they're asked to play real people . I'm not even that familiar with Edward R . Murrow , the famous American newscaster who waged a media war that eventually brought down Joseph McCarthy , but even if David Strathairn comes nowhere close to accurately impersonating Murrow , he gives a fantastic and intense performance . This movie is a terse , succinct account of the Murrow / McCarthy debates ; there's not really a wasted moment or one single superfluous scene or line of dialogue . George Clooney ( who deserves much credit for his work as director on the film ) plays Fred Friendly , producer at CBS and , as portrayed here , Murrow's chief ally . The chemistry between he and Strathairn is terrific , especially in a scene toward the end of the film when they both have their hands slapped by the head of CBS , played by Frank Langella . Despite the fact that he appears in virtually every scene , and as good as he is , Strathairn does not walk away with the picture ; it's a generous lead performance in that he allows every other actor , even in mostly small roles , to shine ( Clooney should probably be credited for this as well ) . Robert Downey , Jr . and Patricia Clarkson play a secretly married couple who work on Murrow's news team . Their storyline might feel unnecessary on a casual viewing , but I thought it brought a nice dose of humanism to the film , and reminded the viewer that the war against McCarthyism was not simply an effort to save careers and professional reputations , but also to save personal and private lives . The movie is so tightly contained and so confined to the world of the news room , that it would be easy not to think of anyone in the film as having actual lives beyond the ones they lead at CBS , and the Clarkson / Downey , Jr . storyline is a clever way to convey that . And let me throw in one last bit of praise for another actor , Jeff Daniels , who in recent years has really impressed me with his versatility , and makes quite an impression in this film in only two or three brief scenes . " Good Night , and Good Luck " is unashamedly one-sided . Clooney obviously has very strong feelings about the role media should play in American culture , and the responsibility news providers should feel in brining the public what they think the public needs , not necessarily what it wants . Given the fact that a recent devastating earthquake in Pakistan has been all but ignored by American media in favor of World Series coverage , I'd say this message has significant relevance . And in the lessons learned by the McCarthy debacle , it's not hard to draw a parallel to the current Bush Administration , and its efforts to label anyone remotely critical of American policy in Iraq as unsupportive of our troops or as unpatriotic , a band wagon on to which too many Americans are jumping for my comfort . I've not seen as good a film about the American media since " Network , " and in some ways I like this movie even more . " Network " is satire , effective satire , but satire nonetheless ; it never feels exactly real . " Good Night . . . " , on the other hand , is remarkable for how authentic it feels ; I never felt like I was watching scripted actors , but rather was watching an especially exciting documentary . This is easily one of the " must see " films of the year .
Heaven for Graham Greene Fans	Is there any greater entrance in cinema history than Orson Welles's in this movie ? His character , Harry Lyme , supposedly dead , is hiding in a dark doorway . His American friend , Holly Martins ( Joseph Cotten ) , who came to Vienna to see Lyme and instead has gotten wrapped up in trying to solve the mystery of his death , is looking toward the doorway at the figure in shadow . Suddenly , someone in an upstairs apartment across the way turns their light on , which shines directly on Harry's face , revealing him to his friend . The look Welles gives at that moment was singlehandedly deserving of an Academy Award . With just a faint smirk on his lips , a twinkle in his eye , and not one single word of dialogue , he manages to say " hello " to his friend , apologize for lying to him , and invite Holly in on what Harry seems to think is a great big joke . When people talk about those classic moments in films , they're talking about moments like this . " The Third Man " is like a Graham Greene novel come to life , and not surprisingly , since Greene wrote the screenplay . But it catches the tone of a Greene novel in a way no adaptation of any of his stories has ever been able to do . Many people will call " The Third Man " a film noir , but it's not really . It's got noirish elements , but underneath the seriousness of the storyline , there's a tremendous sense of fun that is unique to Greene's style of storytelling . He's out primarily to entertain you , but if he makes you think a little bit along the way , that's o . k . too . The atmosphere of post-WWII Vienna is brought to vivid life with lots of location shooting amid bombed out buildings and rubble . This movie has some of the best black and white cinematography ever , shown to best advantage in the breathless race through the sewers at the film's climax . And of course , there's that glorious zither theme that recurs throughout the movie , which adds much to the funhouse tone of the film . The performances are flawless . Welles is great as mentioned . Cotten has almost never been better . Trevor Howard is urbane and witty and Wilfrid Hyde-White ( you'll know him as Pickering in the film version of " My Fair Lady " ) is a hoot as a dotty Englishman ( when he finds out that Holly came to Vienna to meet a friend who has shown up dead , his response is " I say , that's rather awkward . " ) Only Alida Valli disappoints . She's a vapid actress who delivers everything in a boring monotone , but in this case her acting style fits the character she's playing so well that it doesn't hurt the film . A fantastic film that I can watch again and again . Heartily recommended .
Sam Peckinpah's Bloody Wild West	Sam Peckinpah's sensational , elegiac western did for that genre what " Bonnie and Clyde " had done for the lovers-on-the-lam genre two years earlier . William Holden , Ernest Borgnine , Edmond O'Brien and Robert Ryan - - all throwbacks to an earlier , more traditional style of Hollywood film-making - - star in this revisionist western about a group of over-the-hill outlaws looking to pull off one big last score before packing it in for good . Set in the days just before World War I , the film shows how technological progress gradually begins to make these outlaws obsolete . Cars replace horses ; machine guns replace rifles . At the same time , the moral code that governed the wild west makes way for a newer , more chaotic moral order , where the good guys can no longer necessarily be separated from the bad . The literal story of aging gunfighters serves dual purposes under Peckinpah's direction . He's as much interested in the death of the traditional Hollywood western as he is the death of these specific characters . With Vietnam raging , the quaintness and black and white simplicity of John Wayne simply didn't fit in any longer with the reality of the times . Peckinpah gave us violence in " The Wild Bunch " that matched the grim images bleeding their way into families ' homes via television . Therefore , in this film , when somebody gets shot , he doesn't fall neatly and bloodlessly into the dust . Wounds in this film spurt blood into the air ; bullets tear through flesh . The violence in " The Wild Bunch " is tame when compared to the graphic violence in films today , but it shocks more , mostly because it seems to matter in a way that violence in today's films doesn't . Superbly edited as well as directed , " The Wild Bunch " is terribly exciting and quite disturbing . It's a high-water mark of 1960s film-making .
" Kill Bill " Is a Killer	I keep waiting for Tarantino to stumble , but he hasn't disappointed me yet . The first installment of " Kill Bill " is sensational from start to finish and shouldn't disappoint anyone who expects Tarantino to meet the bar he set with " Pulp Fiction " and " Jackie Brown . " I don't know if there's another director out there who can borrow so heavily from other movies and directors , yet make such original and unique works of film . The comments here at IMDb on " Kill Bill " number in the thousands , so there's no need for me to mention the plot or even any of what makes this film so hugely entertaining . I just wanted to add my voice to those who love this movie . If you're a movie buff , I don't see how you could come away from this film anything but dazzled , since , if nothing else , " Kill Bill " is a joyous celebration of movies at their most eager desire to entertain . An energetic , startling , vivid , funny and at times surprisingly beautiful movie .
One of the First , and Still Best , Movies About America's Obsession with Violence	Every time I watch " Bonnie and Clyde " I'm convinced that this time it won't shock me . And every time I'm proved wrong . " Bonnie and Clyde " was one of the first American movies to acknowledge that Americans are turned on by violence . People blame this movie for ushering in the increasingly graphic content of movies that in the present day makes it seem as if nothing is off limits . But this is wishful thinking on the part of people who don't want to admit that America has been a violent culture from day one . " Bonnie and Clyde " was a huge hit , but it's because it gave people what they wanted , not because it introduced them to something they'd never thought of before . At least in this film , you see what happens when a bullet tears through human flesh - - I can't say the same for the countless morale-boosting WWII films from the 1940s or the John Wayne westerns that are so beloved by conservative America . In the world of " Bonnie and Clyde , " sex and violence are extensions of the same impulse . Clyde can't get one " gun " to work , so he uses another . Bonnie is as restless as a cat in heat - - but Clyde won't scratch her itch , so she finds other ways of releasing tension . It's a movie that makes us identify with the killers . They're gorgeous and glamorous , but they're also vulnerable . They're Robin Hoods , justifying their crime by stealing from the rich and giving to the poor ; but they're also naive in thinking that when they steal money from banks they're not also stealing from the poor rural people who use those banks . Authority figures aren't seen much in the film , but when they are , they're sadistic . Sheriff Hamer is a stony , craggy mass in comparison to the movie-star killers , and C . W . Moss's dad , who's finally the one to turn Bonnie and Clyde in , does what is right morally , but that's overshadowed by the fact that all we see him do is beat C . W . and call him white trash . It's no wonder this half-wit kid ran away with the Barrow gang in the first place . We know there's only one possible ending to the movie , yet by the time it comes , we find ourselves half hoping that Bonnie and Clyde can start over and make the American dream a reality . We've forgotten that they've killed , many times , in cold blood . The most haunting scene in the film is the one in which Bonnie visits her mother for one last time , and her mom tells her what the audience has known all along but hasn't consciously acknowledged until that point : " You try to live within three miles of me , and you won't live long honey . You best keep runnin ' . " It's one of the most chilling and effective moments I've ever seen in a movie .
Robert Ryan Gives a Sensational Forgotten Performance in a Perfect Little Movie	A nearly perfect small B movie from director Robert Wise . Robert Ryan beautifully plays an aging boxer aching for a win , whose manager has so little faith in his abilities that he hasn't even told him he agreed to a fixed fight , so certain is he that Ryan will go down without having to lay down . Audrey Totter is Ryan's wife , tired of a life spent in flea-bag hotels in forgotten American towns , worrying that each fight will be Ryan's last . Ryan couldn't be better , and he's become one of my favorite noir actors . Totter is a little less well served by the script , but she's fine for what she's asked to do ( for a very different performance , see her as a deliciously evil femme fatale in " Tension " from 1950 ) . The movie takes place in real time , and it provides a fascinating , almost documentary like look behind the scenes of the boxing world . We see the boxers preparing for their bouts , both the young ones who are just starting out on their careers and the old ones who are clinging to theirs ' out of desperation . Ryan's boxing match is filmed in its entirety with fantastic editing adding to the excitement . The movie is completely lacking in sentimentality and has a marvelous authenticity to it that reminded me of some of the superb , gritty and naturalistic films that would become vogue in the 1970s . In many ways , " The Set-Up , " for all its modest budget and ambitions , feels way ahead of its time . A little known film , but one absolutely worth checking out .
Exceptional Whodunit	This superbly written and acted soap opera brought writer / director Joseph L . Mankiewicz Best Director and Best Screenplay Oscars the year before he repeated the exact same wins with " All About Eve , " to my knowledge the only time that's happened . Jeanne Crain , Ann Sothern and Linda Darnell play three friends who go off on a children's ' outing for the day . Before they leave , they receive a letter from the fourth member of their circle , the enigmatic Addie Ross , who tells them she has run off with one of their husbands . The rest of the film plays out like a murder mystery , each woman thinking back over her marriage and wondering if her husband's the guilty party . In both this and " All About Eve , " Mankiewicz proved himself to be a wonderful writer for women . He had a knack for addressing some of the negative aspects of the female personality , but in a way that felt honest rather than stereotypical . Many of the usual " types " are present in this film - - the career woman , the golddigger , the man stealer - - but the women themselves are so richly written that they're not easily pigeonholed . Crain plays the country bumpkin who feels inadequate among her affluent husband's set ; Sothern is the working woman who begins to lose her identity to a job ; Darnell is the aforementioned golddigger who treats marriage like a business deal . All three actresses give lovely performances , especially Sothern and Darnell , and the film builds a great deal of suspense as it works toward its revealing conclusion . The supporting cast features Kirk Douglas and Paul Douglas as two of the husbands ; Thelma Ritter , unsurprisingly stealing scenes as Sothern's maid ; and Celeste Holm , heard but never seen as the voice of Addie Ross .
Where to Begin ?	What more is there to say about " Pulp Fiction . " Released in 1994 , the film was an adrenaline shot to the heart of the film industry . Though the movie payed homage to a variety of film genres and styles ( film noir , gangster film , French New Wave ) , it managed to be unlike anything seen before . Whether you love " Pulp Fiction " or hate it ( and I , for one , love it ) you can't deny the impact it had on film-making moving forward into the 21st Century . While watching " Pulp Fiction " for the first time , I knew sitting there in the theatre that I was seeing something that would immediately influence movies forever , and it has . I won't bother to summarize the plot , since plot in this movie is only of incidental importance anyway . I won't bother to single out individual performances , since the performances are uniformly excellent . I will save my praise for Quentin Tarantino's audacious attempts to show us something original , daring and experimental and for giving us a welcome break from the stale products Hollywood studios have been churning out for years . If you're one of the handful of people in the world who haven't yet seen this film , run out and see it now . I can't guarantee you'll like it , but I can guarantee that you'll have a definite opinion about it , and even that is refreshing these days .
One of Scorsese's Best	This hugely underrated film is one of Martin Scorsese's best , and further proof that as a director he has much more range than many might give him credit for . Robert De Niro and Jerry Lewis deliver pitch-perfect performances as a stand-up comic wannabe and a popular T . V . personality , respectively , when their worlds collide due to De Niro's ( whose character's name , Rupert Pupkin , has to be one of the most perfect ever created for a movie role ) fanatic devotion to his idol . It's a subject uncomfortably familiar to Scorsese , given the obsession Ronald Reagan's attempted assassin , John Hinckley , had with Jodie Foster , largely because of her performance in " Taxi Driver . " The tone and storyline to this film were incredibly tricky to pull off . If those involved had carried the humour and slapstick elements of it too far , it might have come across as glib ; but if they played up the disturbing elements too much , it would have ceased to be funny and would have seemed like a warm-over of " Taxi Driver . " As it is , I don't see how the film could be better . De Niro makes his character warm and endearing enough to keep you sympathetic with him , while making him menacing enough to take seriously , while Lewis for once shows himself adept at playing the straight guy , and gives a spectacular performance as a hang-dog celebrity whose quiet and sober personal demeanor is at odds with that of his on-screen personality . And praise also must go to Sandra Bernhard , who gives a delightfully wacky take on another aspiring star and accomplice to Rupert , whose plans go awry in hilarious and unpredictable ways . Bernhard is a ball of energy here , and I've never liked her better . This is truly a must-see film .
I Will Always Watch This Movie As a 7-Year-Old Boy	There are some movies it's simply impossible to review with a critical eye , and " E . T . " is one of them . Come on - - I was seven when this movie came out . I belonged an E . T . fan club , for God's sake ! Let's just say that Steven Spielberg is in his element when working on movies like this , and it's only when he devotes himself to unadulterated fantasy and adventure that his penchant for over sentimentalization is bearable . I recently saw John Williams conduct music from several of his film scores at the Chicago Symphony Orchestra , and one of the pieces they performed was a medley set to images from the respective films , " E . T . " among them . I'm becoming such a sap as I get older that just the theme and some shots of little Drew Barrymore in pigtails almost made me cry .
Royal Wedding - - Just Not the One You Expect	The stars were aligned during the shooting of this film , and the results gave us one of the most perfect films in screen history . Katharine Hepburn gives the best performance of her career as Tracy Lord , uppity society heiress who's about to be married to a stuffed shirt . James Stewart and Ruth Hussey play an acerbic journalist and photographer , respectively , sent to the Lord estate to cover the wedding for a trashy gossip magazine . And Cary Grant , Tracy's ex-husband , saunters in to stir things up just to give his ex-wife a hard time . Everyone performs at peak level here , and there's not a misstep in the movie . Stewart is laid back and winning . It's refreshing to see him play a rather cocky and sexy love interest as opposed to the everyman he usually played . Cary Grant is as charming as can be trading sarcastic barbs with Hepburn . And Hussey drops one droll throw-away line after another like a pro . Of course , the movie all comes down to Hepburn , and it's a case of absolutely perfect casting . At the nadir of her career , Hepburn made the brilliant decision to bring this stage play to the screen with herself in the lead role , cast as an untouchable snob who just wants to be loved . Movie audiences got to see her brought down a peg , and their appreciation was instantly apparent : Hepburn catapulted to the top of Hollywood royalty and never came down . Screen comedies don't get more sophisticated than this .
Alain Resnais ' Haunted Hotel	A man and woman wander around the baroque corridors of a fancy hotel . He keeps insisting that they met the previous year and that she promised to run away with him . She keeps insisting that she doesn't remember him and made no such promise . There are other people at the hotel , notably a man who may be this woman's husband , but for all intents and purposes these two interact in a world of their own creation . All the while , the man intones in voice over about the hotel's mirrors , chandeliers , doors opening on other doors and hallways leading to other hallways . Is the man a messenger of death , come to claim his prize ? Is the woman suffering from some type of mental breakdown ? Is the movie an allegory for the journey an artist takes in bringing to life his creations ? Is it about opportunities missed ? Is it about the game of love ? Could it be all of these things , or none of these things ? In the end , is the movie " about " anything ? Is it about whatever we want it to be ? Does is matter ? " Last Year at Marienbad " may sound like an academic slog to sit through , but I was surprised to find how deeply engrossed I was in this film , even if I can't with any confidence tell someone else what it's about . You will be frustrated instantly if you try to watch this movie in the traditional way . But if you instead give yourself up to its strange rhythms , and approach it more in the way you would approach an abstract painting or a poem , you might find yourself enjoying it quite a lot . This is a film where narrative is secondary to recurring images and sounds . It's one of the most beautiful movies I've ever seen . Not only is the hotel itself magnificent , but director Alain Resnais uses his actors like chess pieces , decking them out in black and white clothing and placing them strategically around the frame to create striking compositions . There's something incredibly eerie about the film , and its look has much to do with that - - we feel as if we're spending time in a haunted hotel , surrounded by ghosts . In its use of camera-work and shock editing , it reminded me of Stanley Kubrick ( and especially of " The Shining " ) and the labyrinthine , dream-like narrative brought to mind David Lynch . Like a lot of abstract modern art , I think " Last Year at Marienbad " is about whatever you bring to it , and in that way it's fascinating . I wouldn't want my cinematic diet to consist of nothing but movies like this , but I'm so glad movies like this exist , because they push the boundaries of the medium and help it to grow as an art form .
A Hypnotic and Dazzling Film	This spellbinding movie from that spellbinding film-making team ( Powell and Pressburger ) is another entry in the long line of literary and film stories that revolve around British restraint and repression unraveling under the force of mysterious foreign cultures ( usually Eastern and frequently Indian ) , and it's one of the best . A group of nuns travel to the Himalayas to do missionary work among the natives , but instead find themselves coming under the mystical spell of the place and people around them . Deborah Kerr is stunning as the head nun , who's determined to maintain order and British civility at all costs . I still can't decide whether this or " The Innocents " ( 1961 ) gave her her best role . At the other extreme is Kathleen Byron's Sister Ruth , who renounces her vows , paints her lips bright red , and engages in a fierce battle of wills with Kerr . What follows is a film that is surprisingly sexual , erotic and wild . Powell and Pressburger are experts at using color . Instead of employing their Technicolor to simply make their film look pretty , the color almost becomes a character in itself , creating a feverish , hyper-realistic glow to the film . Legendary cameraman Jack Cardiff is responsible for the sterling and Oscar-winning cinematography . Equally stunning is the art direction , which created very realistic mountains out of papier-mache . A simply sensational film , one that holds up completely and could be watched again and again . This and " Out of the Past " vie in my esteem for best film released in 1947 .
A Terrifyingly Disturbing Man Against Nature Tale	" Deliverance " is the kind of movie that gets in your mind and stays there forever . I will never forget this movie , nor the haunted feeling it left me with after seeing it for the first time . Four men from the city go on a fishing trip somewhere in the wilds of Appalachia , and are attacked by a couple of psychotic hillbillys . The men's vacation quickly turns into a hellish ordeal , and the sense of adventure offered by the challenge of navigating the tricky rapids of a raging river becomes instead a Darwinian lesson in survival of the fittest . This movie is blunt , brutal and intensely affecting . It's a clenched gut of a film ; the sour smell of fear and exhaustion that bathes these men by the time the movie is over practically comes wafting from the screen . Jon Voight is the nominal star of the film - - if the movie is about any one of the four men , it's about him . But to single him out is to do a disservice to Burt Reynolds , Ned Beatty and Ronny Cox , all of whom do smashing work and create full-bodied characters in whose lives we become utterly invested . Of course the initial confrontation with the hillbillys and the notorious rape scene are what this movie is remembered for now , but I think in this day of global warming and environmental crisis , it's interesting to re-watch this movie and see how much in tune with environmental issues director John Boorman was when he made it . Through plot exposition , we learn that the river these man are traveling down is being dammed and redirected to make way for development . The men's callous disregard for the natural world comes back to haunt them when the natural world ceases to be a friend and becomes instead an enemy . There are not many films like this one , and certainly few that are as chillingly disturbing .
A Deeply , Deeply Scary Movie	I don't know that I've ever been more scared on a purely gut level by any horror film as much as I was by Tobe Hooper's grisly 1974 cult classic . The current batch of torture porn crap passing as horror films obviously owe much to this film , and they've borrowed certain characteristics wholesale : the fetid , rotten production design ; the fixation on human dismemberment and carnage ; the depiction of rural Americans as psychotic , deformed cannibals . But the original " Texas Chain Saw Massacre " is better than just about every modern-day horror film in just about every way . Advanced technology has allowed horror-brat directors like Eli Roth and Alexandre Aja to show the destruction of a human body in literal and painstaking detail , but they have no idea how to actually scare an audience . Hooper , by contrast , uses actual skill to suggest much more than he actually shows , and if you think about this film afterwards , you'll realize that there is very little bloodshed . The violence in this film is actually somewhat understated , and it's all the more terrifying for that . I will never forget the first appearance of Leatherface , who thumps a guy on the head with a mallet and drags him down to his lab with all the nonchalance of a butcher readying a slab of meat for sale . Eli Roth would have focused all of his attention on the impact of the mallet with the skull - - we probably would have been treated to an image of the skull caving in and blood splattering the walls . Hooper , instead , understands that it's the casual nature of the killing that's most disturbing - - not the bloodshed - - and that's what he shows . Hooper decided to make his movie about frightening situations rather than graphic gore and as a result created a small horror masterpiece .
The Zombie Movie to End All Zombie Movies	Perhaps the premier example of how low-budget restrictions can work to the advantage of a film . George Romero's 1968 grindhouse shocker is the granddaddy of every zombie flick made since , and it remains by far the best . A scrappy group of survivors hole up in a deserted farmhouse to take a stand against a horde of rampaging zombies . The usual social dynamics present in movies like this are turned on their ear by the fact that the most capable of the group is black , and Romero makes no attempt to hide the thread of racial tension that this creates . The terrible film stock and remedial editing hide the otherwise likely laughable makeup and special effects , so that the zombies are truly scary , and the gore truly nauseating . This is a visceral , gut-churning and terribly scary , scary movie .
Guest's First Ensemble Comedy Is Perfect	" Waiting for Guffman " may just be that rare thing : the perfect comedy . It's brilliantly ( and I don't use that word lightly ) written and acted . I think it would be easy to dismiss the talent that went into this film , because it looks so effortless on screen , but you would have to be a wonderful actor to make material this subtle and dead pan work as well as it does here . " Guffman " is better than any of the follow up films Christopher Guest and his recurrent ensemble have made since because it doesn't stretch itself too thin . Guest focuses on a handful of main characters , and all of his other players get much smaller but no less hysterical roles to play . This is in sharp contrast to his most recent movie , " For Your Consideration , " in which he tries to give everyone equal screen time with the results being that everyone gets short changed . I grew up in a tiny town of 500 people in rural Illinois , and I remember our town celebrating its bicentennial . We even had a little pageant full of skits ( I had a part in it myself ) . And I have to say that it was EXACTLY like this movie . The actors don't even have to exaggerate much to capture that feeling of small-town folks who take themselves and their little village ultra-seriously . Councilman / Pharmacist : " Corky , our budget for the entire year is $50 , 000 , and that includes swimming . " Corky : " Well , I don't have any swimming in my show . " I'm sorry , but if you can't understand why an exchange like that is funny , I can't help you .
One of the Best " Ghost Story " Movies	" The Innocents " begs comparison with Robert Wise's " The Haunting " from 1963 . Both films were made in the ' 60's , in the then popular ' Scope technique of photography . Both feature a female protagonist through whose eyes we see events and who may or may not be entirely reliable . And both feature a big , spooky house with things that go bump in the night . But " The Innocents " is better than the other film in just about every way , and may be the best " ghost story " movie ever made , or at least the best I've ever seen . Deborah Kerr is perfectly cast as a prim governess who is given charge of two strange children in a huge , rambling English country estate . Kerr was known for playing nuns and nannies , and was the epitome of British refinement . So to see her playing this sprightly governess , who gradually unravels under the influence of the creepy goings on taking place in the house around her , adds an extra jolt of shock to her performance . I don't know that I've ever seen her play a role better than she does here , with perhaps the exception of " Black Narcissus . " In the story this film is based on , Henry James's " Turn of the Screw , " the state of the governess's mind is left ambiguous . Is she correct in assuming that evil forces are at work and are manipulating the children , or is she manufacturing everything in her head ? The film's director , Jack Clayton , does an admirable job of trying to achieve this same ambiguity . The children are just creepy enough , and objective parties like the housekeeper seem freaked out enough , that the viewer suspects the house may indeed be haunted by ghosts . But Deborah Kerr plays the role so well , that it seems just as likely that she's conjuring situations from her paranoia . I won't tell you which is true , but few movies have an ending more shattering than this one . " The Innocents " is the best kind of creepy movie , because the creepiness is in the psychology of the characters , not in the film's effects . For a relatively short movie , it packs a lot of themes into its story : sexual repression and deviance , obsessive protective instincts , the nature of evil . On top of that , it's got top-notch production values . The b & w cinematography has been much lauded , but kudos need to go to the art director for taking full advantage of the massive set ( notice the use of flowers ) and to the film editor for terrific use of dissolve editing . There really are not many films quite like this one .
One of the Most Visually Hypnotic Films I've Ever Seen	Bernardo Bertolucci's stunning early-1970s classic looks absolutely beautiful nearly forty years later . It tells the story of a fascist in 1930s Italy who is assigned to root out and assassinate anti-fascists . As the story develops , we learn that a childhood event played a large role in shaping this man's perception of himself , and that the life he is leading is largely a lie . The story Bertolucci tells is odd and compelling , but what kept me glued to the television screen was the film's mesmerizing visual style . Bertolucci collaborated with cinematographer Vittorio Storaro , and it's not an exaggeration to say that they create some of the most beautiful images I've ever seen in a film . One might expect Bertolucci to adopt a sombre color palette for telling such a gloomy story , but that's not the case . On the contrary , he opts for lush colors , striking contrasts , and stylized lighting to create a slightly surrealistic environment that's one small step removed from reality as we know it . A truly remarkable movie .
A Phenomenal Movie About a Phenomenal Story	After hearing the numerous critical accolades heaped on this film , I thought there was no way it could live up to its hype . I was wrong . What a sensational , beautiful movie . Julian Schnabel , whose past efforts have left me cold , tells this amazing story with a nearly perfect directorial approach . It's about Jean-Dominique Bauby , former editor of Elle magazine , who suffered a rare kind of stroke that left him completely paralyzed from head to toe , but with his mental faculties completely intact . He learns to communicate by blinking an eyelid , and with the help of a translator , wrote the memoir on which this film is based one letter at a time . I haven't seen a movie this year that more perfectly matches visual style to subject matter . The first half an hour or so of the film is told strictly through Bauby's point of view - - the world appears as a series of blurry , fragmented images . This style nearly sent me out of my skin with claustrophobia , and while it can't come near to recreating what Bauby himself must have suffered , it's effective enough . But then the movie opens up as Bauby's world begins to expand , and the film becomes as much about the remarkable people around him who supported him in his recovery as it is about Bauby himself . Once Bauby's perceptions of the world become limited to what he can hear and what he can see through one eye , he realizes that he's lived his life somewhat deaf and dumb to the world around him , and so - - as the film implies - - do we all . But the film isn't preachy or over sentimental . It didn't really even have anything to say that I haven't heard before , yet it took such an original approach to the material that it all felt brand new . Mathieu Amalric delivers a marvelous performance as Bauby , and Max von Sydow will break your heart in two brief but devastating scenes as Bauby's dad .
Be Ruthless - - It's Good for You	" Ruthless People " has one of the best premises in film comedy history . Spandex miniskirt millionaire Sam Stone ( Danny DeVito ) plans to kill his battle axe wife ( Bette Midler ) for her inheritance . However , his plan is put on hold when she is kidnapped and held for ransom . The kidnappers threaten to kill her if Sam doesn't pay , which is a-o . k . with Sam , and means he doesn't have to do his own dirty work . But the kidnappers ( Judge Reinhold and Helen Slater ) are too kind hearted to follow through with what they start . Meanwhile , Sam's floozy mistress ( a smokin ' Anita Morris ) knows about Sam's plans , and sends her doofus boyfriend ( Bill Pullman ) out to videotape what he thinks is Sam killing his wife so that they can blackmail him . This is a lot of plot to cram into a brisk 90 minutes , but this well written film never feels forced or rushed . Every scene conveys something important either for the story or about one of the characters , and not a moment feels wasted . The ensemble is terrific , each actor landing his / her jokes without fail . The standouts , though , are Bette Midler , who gives an outrageously vulgar performance pitched to the third balcony ; and Judge Reinhold , who gives the film its heart . One of the most quotable movies ever , the film also boasts a great opening credits sequence , one more reason to lament the fact that movies hardly ever have opening credits anymore .
Natalie Wood Is Adorable	By and large , child actors of the 1940s were a nauseating bunch , so how wonderful that we have Natalie Wood's performance in " Miracle on 34th Street " as a document of just how adorable a child actor could be . Natalie joins hands with Edmund Gwenn ( who just IS Santa Claus ) and runs easily away with this holiday favorite . On the downside , Maureen O'Hara gives a performance that wouldn't be out of place in a high school play , though John Payne shows off his manly cleft chin to fine effect , but neither of them matter , because this movie belongs to Santa and his little helper . It's a surprisingly unsentimental and even cynical movie for its time . Despite its happy ending and magical elements , it really does a good job of capturing the dead materialism of Christmas and a culture that has become too sophisticated for its own good - - - and this was in 1947 ! Movies like this are timeless for a reason - - they were relevant then , and they're still relevant now . Aside from " A Christmas Story " probably my favorite Christmas movie .
A Movie That Will Make You Proud to Be Ordinary	Much of " Little Miss Sunshine " shouldn't work , yet almost all of it does . One of the best ensemble casts in recent memory delivers this outrageous material with a tremendous amount of heart and conviction and , as a result , a screenplay that threatens to stretch the bounds of credibility comes across as believable and achingly poignant . The characters are given such strong motivations for their actions that everything they do and say feels utterly plausible , even when the film itself threatens to teeter into Faulknerian Southern Gothic crossed with National Lampoon's " Vacation . " The writers , director and cast stubbornly refuse to allow us any tidy character assessments . Therefore , we see the brittle and harsh side of Toni Collette's otherwise loving mom ; the warm , charming and please-like-me vulnerability of Greg Kinnear's otherwise smarmy and nearly intolerable dad ; the intellectual pompousness and snobbery that peeks its head through Steve Carell's otherwise emotionally wounded suicide case ; and the affectionate patriarch lurking behind the otherwise gruff and offensive exterior of Alan Arkin's grandfather , whose greatest crime may be that he's too honest . " Little Miss Sunshine " hands over this motley cast of characters and lets us glory in their imperfections , and through doing so helps us feel better about our own . As the movie points out , perfection isn't possible , and the aggressive pressure in American culture to achieve it is only making people miserable about failing at something they never had a chance of succeeding at in the first place . The movie is so warm hearted though , that its ultimate lesson isn't a downer . At the end , this close-knit family realizes that they're proud to be ordinary , and dammit , so am I .
It's Movies Like This That Earned Bergman His Reputation	Ingmar Bergman made films like " Persona " ( and " Wild Strawberries " and " Cries and Whispers " ) that make me forgive him for making other films like " Hour of the Wolf " and " Winter Light . " In " Persona , " a nurse is charged with taking care of a mentally deteriorating actress , and through a series of enigmatic , dream-like scenes , we are left wondering which of the two actually exists and which is the figment of the other's imagination . It's a sort of precursor to " Mulholland Drive , " and the comparison is even more apt as both films are very much about the art of acting and the art of making movies . The most stunning ( and stunningly simple ) moment in the film comes when one of the actresses delivers a lengthy monologue while the camera slowly zooms into a close up of her face , and then the entire scene plays out again , with the other actress delivering the same monologue . Somehow , Bergman manages to overcome some of the stifling trappings that make so many of his other movies slogs , and gives us a bracing , haunting masterpiece . " Wild Strawberries " may be the Bergman movie I like the most , because of its warmth , but " Persona " is the one I can't get out of my head .
One of the Best Non-English Films Ever Made	This marvelous film from one of my favorite foreign directors , Francois Truffaut , remains one of the best foreign-language films ever made . To many , the word " foreign " as it applies to movies means difficult , but " The 400 Blows " is actually a very simple tale simply told about a young man who turns to a life of petty crime for a lack of anything better to do with his life . It's a picaresque tale that is refreshingly free of a moral . We don't necessarily watch the film to see that the young boy eventually sees the error of his ways ; we watch simply to see what will happen to him , because we care about him . Truffaut gets his audience to feel for the boy exactly what the society in which he lives doesn't - - compassion - - and which , more than anything , would likely be most effective in convincing him to give up his delinquent ways . And there's that wonderful closing shot , the freeze on the boy's face , careless and free , qualities that the audience recognize as luxuries only the young can afford .
A Cookie Full of Arsenic	Tony Curtis and Burt Lancaster play against type in this unapologetically but delightfully nasty film about the desire to be " known " in the New York social scene , and the lengths to which people will go , or the depths to which they will sink , to achieve fame . It's rare to come across such a blisteringly pessimistic film as this one , even today . Lancaster gives one of the best performances of his career as J . J . Hunsecker , gossip columnist to NY's social elite , who lurks in dark corners of exclusive restaurants like a bird of prey waiting to pounce on those weaker than him . He can make or break a career with a few words put to paper , and he doesn't insist that the words be true . Tony Curtis plays slimy loser Sidney Falco , who desperately wants to be somebody , and jumps to J . J . ' s commands like a circus animal . Together , these two prowl the grimy , shadowy streets of a nightmare version of the Big Apple , creating a vision more steeped in film noir than the most noirish detective movie . Accusations of Communist sympathies are made , while Hunsecker reveals an unnatural fondness for his sister . All of this is set to a discordant and jazzy score that's like the aural version of neon signs . You could fill a book with the quotable lines from this film . My favorite . . . . . " That fish is four days old , and I ain't buyin ' it . " Or the ever classic " I'd hate to take a bite out of you . You're a cookie full of arsenic . " Indeed , the movie is a cookie full of arsenic - - bitter at its center , but so damn sweet and enjoyable .
This One Takes Me Back	It's nearly impossible for me to write objectively about the quality of " The Wizard of Oz , " so bundled up is it with associations from my childhood . It's like trying to do a critical analysis of " Star Wars . " Sorry , can't be done - - - at least , not by me . " Oz " is such a strange movie , in some ways so creaky and old-fashioned , in other ways so incredibly ahead of its time . Few films I've seen during my lifetime have such a complete vision as " Oz " does - - - such painstaking care went into the look and design of the film ; it's as if the filmmakers really did create a whole other world for this film to take place in . It's odd that during a time in American film history , when movies were being cranked out like cars on an assembly line , a film could feel like such an auteurish product ( increasingly odd , since the credited director , Victor Fleming , actually shared directing duties with several others . The same is true for " Gone with the Wind , " released in the same year and also bearing Fleming's name as sole director . He was quite a lucky guy in 1939 ) . The plot and feeling of " Oz " veers quite a bit from that of the book on which it is based . The book is much nastier and darker , but the film manages its fair share of grimness for all that . The Wicked Witch is spectacularly scary ( Margaret Hamilton admits to regretting the intensity with which she approached this character ) as are the Flying Monkeys . There's such a feeling of ominous dread under-laying this entire film . As if the land of Oz is a bit too beautiful and perfect , like a perfectly ripe piece of fruit that at any moment can begin to rot at the edges . Really , despite her scariness , the Witch is the most fun character in the film - - - it's really a riot to watch this film as an adult and enjoy her sarcasm and nastiness ; it's refreshing as juxtaposed to the goody goodiness of the other characters . Frank Morgan in a variety of roles is also great . A cloud of darkness has come to surround this film over the last couple of decades , due to the urban legends about the stagehand supposedly caught on film hanging himself and the truly bizarre stories about the arduous process of making the film ( and the many accidents and tragedies that occurred along the way ) . This reputation may be responsible for the cult status that has arisen around this film and perhaps even for elevating it to the level of admiration it has received . On a side note , an excellent book by Gregory Maguire called " Wicked " offers back story to the events leading up to " The Wizard of Oz , " and most particularly focuses on the early life of the Wicked Witch of the West . It's an outstanding book , and I venture that you won't be able to watch " Oz " in quite the same way again after reading it .
Powerfully Romantic	Quite simply , the most intensely romantic movie ever made . Plain Jane Celia Johnson meets dashing rogue Trevor Howard in a train station cafe . She has a loving husband but is obviously bored with a life that doesn't fill her time . He's a successful doctor having marital problems . They reach out to one another and make increasingly forward overtures at starting up an affair . With none of the melodramatic trappings that were the bread and butter of swoony romances up to that point in time , " Brief Encounter " is a love story for a more cynical , jaded audience . It exists in a world forever altered by a horrible world war , and it's a very realistic and adult portrait of adultery . We get swept up in the passion these two strangers feel for one another , but we are never allowed to forget that the indulgence of their urges could very well come at the expense of those they love . And , one also suspects that they likewise are not going to find the satisfaction they're looking for in one another ; if they have the affair , how long before the forbidden glow wears off and they're faced again with the cold reality of their lives . Celia Johnson gives an astonishing performance as the heart and soul of this film . Her acting is wonderfully understated and intelligent , and she creates a wholly believable heroine . I don't understand how she didn't go on to have a more robust film career , unless her less glamorous looks held her back . My wife and I got a copy of this movie from our library , and with about half an hour to go , the DVD crapped out on us and we couldn't finish it . None of our local video stores had it , so we bought it just so we could see the end . Now we watch it regularly . So I guess that's my review in a nutshell : it's good enough to buy so that you can see how it ends . And I can never hear that Rachmaninoff theme without instantly thinking of this movie .
THE Ultimate Adventure Movie	The 1980s were a dark time for cinema - - they didn't give us much to remember them by , unless you have a love of stuffy British dramas . However , the 80s DID do two things very well : adult-oriented comedies and adventure movies . " Raiders of the Lost Ark " is THE ultimate adventure movie . There had never been one quite like it and I don't think there ever will be one to match it , not even its sequels . This was a case of everything working just right . Steven Spielberg is at the top of his craft when in playful mode like this ; Harrison Ford , though you'd never know it from his wooden persona today , made a perfect Indiana Jones ( I can't imagine anyone else playing him ) ; Karen Allen was able to convince you that she could be a damsel in distress one minute and then take you out back and kick the crap out of you the next ; and John Williams contributed one of his best and most memorable scores . The film simply races from one dazzling set piece to the next , and the joy is in seeing just how much more over the top the film can get with each passing minute .
Vol . 1 Was Dessert - - This Is the Main Course	" Kill Bill Vol . 2 " is the second half of one large story , and it creates a cohesive whole with the first part , but in many ways it's a completely different movie from Vol . 1 . The first half was all about movement - - it was almost balletic in its merging of images and music . Vol . 2 slows down , WAY down , to create a stoic , mythic conclusion . Where events in Vol . 1 rushed by in a glib montage , with blood spewing and limbs flying around the screen in a parody of film violence , everything about Vol . 2 feels heavy with consequence - - - there's much less violence , but what there is feels like it matters far more . Uma Thurman gave a nimble , athletic performance in Vol . 1 , but really impresses here with her ability to get to the dramatic bottom of her character . Beatrix Kiddo's conflict emerges - - - she becomes a flesh and blood human character rather than a comic book hero seeking revenge . David Carradine , as Bill , is the second part's most significant addition , and he plays his part perfectly . And I got a kick out of Daryl Hannah's Elle Driver , who turns in a memorable cameo in the first part , but really gets a chance to strut her stuff in the second . I don't think it's a criticism of Tarantino's films to say that the first part is all style while the second part is the substance ; it's like eating your dessert before the main meal . I think Tarantino would be the first to agree , and both parts exhibit all the signs of being thoughtfully and carefully assembled . One thing you're never in doubt of when dealing with Tarantino is that you're seeing the exact movie he wants you to see . But why spend time worrying about which one is better or which one succeeds more ? They're both part of the same movie - - - one wouldn't exist without the other . And they're both remarkable .
Stunning Bergman Masterpiece - - Maybe His Best ?	" Wild Strawberries " profoundly moved me . The theme - - an old man coming up fast on death and wondering if his life has had any meaning - - is an old one for Bergman , and one which he explored ad nauseum throughout the subsequent decades . But here Bergman approaches the question with an uncharacteristic optimism and sense of hope . For once , he seems to come close to finding some peace with the unknowns of life that obviously preoccupied him as an artist , and the movie he gives us is sad but immensely warm ; resigned but calm and reflective . An unequivocal masterpiece , and only one of a handful of Bergman films ( " Persona " and " Cries and Whispers " being two others ) that don't drive me over the edge when I watch them now .
One of Lynch's Most Mainstream Films Is Also One of His Best	This lacerating film about John Merrick , a man in 19th century England who suffered from a terrible physical deformity and was treated as a circus sideshow by a public who did not understand his condition , proves that David Lynch is as adept at mainstream , linear storytelling as he is at putting miraculous fever dreams on the screen . I experienced " The Elephant Man " as something physical ; my heart literally ached while watching this profoundly sad yet oddly exhilarating film . People may not think of Lynch as an especially emotional director ; his experimental approach at film-making may leave some feeling detached . But the more I see of his films , the more I come to appreciate that all of his films have a strong emotional core to them , so it doesn't surprise me that he would do so well with this story . He films in beautiful black and white , which gives the film an old-fashioned look that feels right for its time period and subject matter , and he makes use of a brilliant musical score . All of the actors are terrific , but especially John Hurt , who is able to act through heaps of prosthetic makeup ( the actor himself is completely unrecognizable ) , to deliver a powerhouse performance . I defy even the most cold-hearted cinephile to watch his final scene and not have to sniffle back at least a tear or two . What a wonderful , wonderful movie .
The Boy Who Loves " Star Wars "	A long time ago , in a galaxy far , far away . . . . . There was a boy who was only two years old when the original " Star Wars " film was released . He doesn't remember first seeing the movie , but he also doesn't remember life before it . He does remember the first " Star Wars " themed gift he got . . . a shoebox full of action figures from the original set . He was too young to fully appreciate how special that gift would be . But years later , he would get what to this day goes down as one of the best gifts he's ever received : another box full of action figures , ten of the final twelve he needed to complete his collection . It's now legendary in this boy's family how the last action figure he needed , Anakin Skywalker , stopped being produced and carried in stores , and how this boy went for about ten years ( until he got into college ) trying to track one down and finally bought it from someone on his dorm floor for a bag of beer nuggets ( don't ask . . . it's a Northern Illinois University thing ) . I can't review " Star Wars " as a movie . It represents absolutely everything good , fun and magical about my childhood . There's no separating it in my mind from Christmases , birthdays , summers and winters growing up . In the winter , my friends and I would build snow forts and pretend we were on Hoth ( I was always Han Solo ) . My friends ' dad built them a kick-ass tree house , and that served as the Ewok village . They also had a huge pine tree whose bottom branches were high enough to create a sort of cave underneath it , and this made a great spot to pretend we were in Yoda's home . I am unabashedly dorky when it comes to " Star Wars " and I think people either just understand that or they don't . I don't get the appeal of " Lord of the Rings " or " Star Trek " but I understand the rabid flocks of fans that follow them because I am a rabid fan of George Lucas's films . I feel no need to defend my opinion of these movies as some of the greatest of all time . Every time I put them in the DVD player , I feel like I'm eight years old again , when life was simple and the biggest problem I had was figuring out how I was going to track down a figure of Anakin Skywalker . Grade ( for the entire trilogy ) :
One Little Robot with One Gigantic Heart	Mesmerizing . This little film about a little robot has one of the biggest hearts I've ever seen in a movie , and its message , about the responsibility humans must accept in changing their own lives and the life of their planet for the better , is perhaps the single most important message film as an art form can be communicating right now . " Wall-E " did for me what so few films are able to do : it transported me to a place where , for the hour and a half that I was watching it , nothing existed for me but this movie . It made me feel like a kid again , and recreated the feelings I had watching " Star Wars " or " E . T . " for the very first time , which would account for the countless scenes that made me tear up for vaguely nostalgic reasons . Despite the fact that we spend most of our time with mechanical robots , a love of humanity and of the earth pulses from every frame of " Wall-E " . Movies , television and the news media spend so much time trying to convince us that the world is a terrible place to live , that one rickety little robot with big eyes telling us otherwise comes as a revelation .
Left Me Speechless	I'm nearly at a loss for words . " Children of Men " took my breath away with the sheer visual audacity of its storytelling and the deep strength of feeling contained in it . Alfonso Cuaron , adding his voice to the many other directors who have made post - films about the grim state of a world governed by terror and hopelessness , has given us one of the most memorable and dramatically satisfying films I've seen in a long , long time . Much ballyhoo has greeted the trio of Mexican directors who released films this year , and people have been wetting themselves over Alejandro Gonzalez Innaritu's " Babel " and especially Guillermo Del Toro's " Pan's Labyrinth . " " Children of Men " blows both of these films off the map . Cuaron's world view seems to be as grim as his compatriots , but unlike Innaritu and Del Toro , Cuaron seems to think that the world in which we live is worth saving and uses his movie to deliver a practical message of hope that resonates in the here and now . " Children of Men " is the most uplifting downer I think I've ever seen , and the long scene in which a small , crying baby temporarily halts the warfare and carnage taking place around it , for one instant uniting enemies in the wonder and glory of new life , reduced this viewer to tears ( and I don't cry easily at movies ) . Cuaron's visual style is absolutely stunning . He creates a meticulously detailed vision of a nightmare future that is all the more horrifying for its plausibility . And there are a couple of extended set pieces ( I'm thinking most notably of the one in which a car containing our hero , Clive Owen , and a group of activists / terrorists is attacked by an angry mob , the entire scene filmed in one long take by a camera that never leaves the car ) that astounded me with their showmanship . And yet , for all of its directorial panache , I never felt that style overwhelmed substance - - Cuaron ably and completely welds style to subject in such a way that his approach always perfectly serves the story he's telling without drawing attention to itself . I think it's very interesting that the end of this film is inspiring so much debate , and that different people have completely opposite readings of it . Some think it's dismally depressing , lacking in any sign of hope . Others think it's optimistic , the happiest ending possible in such a dystopian work of fiction . I believe the ambiguity is intentional on Cuaron's part , and I personally came away exhilarated by the powerful message of hope , and a reinforcement of the belief that there will always be good people willing to do good things for others in the belief that the world can change for the better . Maybe I read into the ending what I wanted to read into it , but maybe that's the point . Perhaps those who think this movie has nothing to say have given up already on the state of the world , while those of us who find in it a happy ending are those who will continue to refuse to accept that a world governed by panic and fear is acceptable . " Children of Men " makes a nice companion piece to this year's " Little Children , " another downer that ended up being one of the biggest feel-good movies of the year for me . It's so refreshing to find that there are directors who want to do more than simply wallow in gloominess , and actually offer solutions even as they highlight problems .
The Boy Who Loved " Star Wars "	A long time ago , in a galaxy far , far away . . . . . There was a boy who was only two years old when the original " Star Wars " film was released . He doesn't remember first seeing the movie , but he also doesn't remember life before it . He does remember the first " Star Wars " themed gift he got . . . a shoebox full of action figures from the original set . He was too young to fully appreciate how special that gift would be . But years later , he would get what to this day goes down as one of the best gifts he's ever received : another box full of action figures , ten of the final twelve he needed to complete his collection . It's now legendary in this boy's family how the last action figure he needed , Anakin Skywalker , stopped being produced and carried in stores , and how this boy went for about ten years ( until he got into college ) trying to track one down and finally bought it from someone on his dorm floor for a bag of beer nuggets ( don't ask . . . it's a Northern Illinois University thing ) . I can't review " Star Wars " as a movie . It represents absolutely everything good , fun and magical about my childhood . There's no separating it in my mind from Christmases , birthdays , summers and winters growing up . In the winter , my friends and I would build snow forts and pretend we were on Hoth ( I was always Han Solo ) . My friends ' dad built them a kick-ass tree house , and that served as the Ewok village . They also had a huge pine tree whose bottom branches were high enough to create a sort of cave underneath it , and this made a great spot to pretend we were in Yoda's home . I am unabashedly dorky when it comes to " Star Wars " and I think people either just understand that or they don't . I don't get the appeal of " Lord of the Rings " or " Star Trek " but I understand the rabid flocks of fans that follow them because I am a rabid fan of George Lucas's films . I feel no need to defend my opinion of these movies as some of the greatest of all time . Every time I put them in the DVD player , I feel like I'm eight years old again , when life was simple and the biggest problem I had was figuring out how I was going to track down a figure of Anakin Skywalker . Grade ( for the entire trilogy ) :
Pure Craziness from Start to Finish	This is probably the craziest of all 30s screwball comedies , and it seems almost impossible today that it could have bombed when first released in 1938 . I'm not sure Katharine Hepburn was ever much of an actress - - I think she was good at picking roles in which she could just be Katharine Hepburn . But when she set her mind to playing ding-bats , she could be as ditzy as the best of them , and her character here may just be the ditziest ditz ever captured on film . Cary Grant was sort of a male Kate Hepburn in a way . He was never really called upon to act ; directors just hired him whenever they needed someone to play Cary Grant . But the befuddled , exasperated character he creates in this movie is sensational , even if it didn't require Grant to flex his acting chops . Together , Grant and Hepburn are an unforgettable pair , and they make an unforgettable movie . It seems pointless to mention specific classic scenes in a movie in which every scene could rightfully be considered a classic . But my favorite just may be when Grant and Hepburn go charging around her family home's extensive grounds , chasing after the dog George . Not to be missed by anyone who enjoys film comedy .
Stunning Film ; Why All the Hate ?	I'm really amazed by all of the spiteful , vitriolic insults hurled at this film from other users . Why all the anger ? If you don't like the movie because you think it's boring , or because you think nothing happens , or whatever , fine . . . but there are reviewers who are actually dismissing it because it's " feminist tripe " and because all of the characters are " queer . " I also saw the word " dyke " used . Sadly , these people are only helping to make the film's point . It's funny that people hate this movie for the reason that nothing happens , because I feel that SO much happens . Maybe not in a traditional Hollywood narrative sense , but this isn't a traditional Hollywood narrative , and God bless it for that . It's hard to get your mind around a discussion of " The Hours , " because it's about so much . It's about women and women's roles , it's about making choices and regretting those choices , it's about taking control of your life when others have become complacent in theirs , it's about the power of art to change lives , it's about taking care of the people in your life . And reviewers are saying it's about NOTHING ? I have to believe that the users who hate this movie the most live the kinds of lives the women in this movie are struggling to fight their ways out of : dull , complacent , bland , satisfied with banalities . These people don't get why Laura Brown might be revolted by the antiseptic sameness of a Los Angeles suburb , where her day consists of making cakes and being bored . She's whiny , they'll say . She has no right to complain because her life's so easy , they'll say . Easy to say indeed when you yourself are living a life constructed for you by the mainstream and haven't once in your life challenged a social norm . I personally know a woman who lives a life very similar to Laura Brown's , and she's suicidal , literally . She loves her little boy , but she's suffocated by a life so lacking in stimulation that there's nothing to get her out of bed every day . And she's not an unfeeling monster . " The Hours " is a beautiful film that gets everything right , and just may be the best book to screen adaptation I've ever seen . Maybe it would be more difficult to understand if you haven't read the book first - - - I'll concede that . But I think the movie is virtually flawless as is , and it frustrates me to read comments by so many people who have a total lack of sympathy for characters struggling with their own emotions . Just because you can't understand the emotions at play doesn't mean the work is at fault - - try turning an introspective eye on yourself and see how far you get . Kudos to all of the reviewers here who have seen and praised this film . We can take comfort in the fact that there are still film makers out there who are willing to challenge and exhilarate us .
A Brilliant Indictment of the Military Institution	Before indulging in the ponderousness that could mar his otherwise exceptional later films , Stanley Kubrick directed this terse , no-nonsense account of a group of men tried for mutiny during the horrific trench warfare of World War I . " Paths of Glory " exists mainly as a scathing indictment of the bureaucracy behind the world's wars . The accused men in this film are scapegoats for commanders who failed at their own duties , but in the military , as in the world outside the military , the power resides with a few , and the masses have little power against them . Kirk Douglas delivers a fierce performance as an officer who sees the injustice and refuses to tolerate it . There's a throbbing human passion in the way he attacks the character , as there is throughout the entire film , somewhat rare for Kubrick , whose later movies would tend toward the emotionally detached . A surprisingly candid film for its time , " Paths of Glory " would be tough medicine for people to swallow today , when everyone wants to believe that the military establishment has nothing but our best interests at heart . The film suggests that soldiers have as much to fear from their allies within as they do their enemies without .
The Best 40s Noir	There's nothing wrong with " Out of the Past . " It is hands down the best film noir to be released in the 1940s ( even better than " Double Indemnity , " high praise indeed from me ) , and it rivals " Sunset Boulevard " and " Kiss Me Deadly " as my favorite noir of all time . Robert Mitchum plays a regular Joe , quietly living an ordinary life in some out of the way sleepy American town , whose criminal past catches up with him and refuses to let him go . It's reminiscent of last year's " A History of Violence , " and explores some of the same themes as David Cronenberg's film : Can we forget the past if the past doesn't want to forget us ? Mitchum delivers a spectacular performance ; his craggy , mournful face is the very picture of a man who knows he's living on borrowed time . Jane Greer is the sizzling femme fatale who has his number . And Kirk Douglas appears in an early performance as a cold-blooded crime boss . What else can I say about the movie other than it's virtually flawless . Stark , moody cinematography ; haunting score ; terrific , sharp dialogue . This is one of the most quotable films ever . A don't miss .
An Unbeatable Pair	Watch out Fred and Ginger , Hepburn and Tracy , Bonnie and Clyde , because Nick and Nora ( or should I say Powell and Loy ) are hot on your tails as all-time great screen couple . " The Thin Man " was the first film to team up William Powell and Myrna Loy as famed sleuthing team , not to mention husband and wife , Nick and Nora Charles . A film like this could only have been made in the 30s - - I don't think there's a scene where Powell doesn't have a martini in his hand , and the movie's filled with those sarcastic bon mots that defined 30s screen comedies . Don't even ask me to summarize the plot , because it doesn't matter . The whodunit aspect of the movie is beside the point , and I didn't really care who the killer was , or indeed if the killer was ever even caught . What matters here , of course , is watching the chemistry between Powell and Loy , which practically melts the television screen . William Powell was a sort of Clark Gable with an edge . He looked remarkably like Gable , and he also had that droll way of delivering a line , but he wasn't as much of an everyman as Gable . Myrna Loy is absolutely adorable , one of my favorite actresses from this time period , even though I'm still convinced she was never really used to her full potential . Her appearance in this is as close as any film maker ever came to taking full advantage of her sex appeal , cuteness and comedic flair , but even at that she too often takes a back seat to Powell . And of course special mention must be made of Asta , giving one of the best performances ever delivered by a canine in a motion picture . The later films in the " Thin Man " series weren't ever able to recapture the magic of this first installment , but that would be a difficult feat for any movie .
Unforgettable	I can't begin to imagine what audiences made of this film upon its release in 1931 . The idea of having your protagonist be a child killer , and one the audience is meant to feel pity for , would be a tough sell TODAY let alone then . But that's exactly what director Fritz Lang gives us , and in Peter Lorre he found the perfect actor to create this wounded soul . Lorre , with his frazzled appearance and bug eyes , gives perhaps one of cinema's greatest and most chilling performances . He seems to be pleading for mercy without even saying a word . His child killer is one who is driven to do what he does by forces beyond his control - - not something audiences who turn to movies for black / white , right / wrong moral messages want to hear . His frantic soliloquy at the movie's end , where he pleads for mercy and understanding , is a triumph of writing and acting . In a period when director after director was handed the new technique of sound and then didn't know what to do with it , Lang seems perfectly at home with the new medium , and in fact one can't quite imagine " M " without sound . It's a deeply disturbing and effective film , and not to be missed .
There's Not One Thing Wrong with This Film	If you think a three-hour Japanese movie from the mid-50s about an ancient time in history sounds like one big snoozer , you'd be right . It SOUNDS like a snoozer . But just sit down to watch this film , and you'll realize how wrong you are . " Seven Samurai " is one of the most exciting , suspenseful films I've ever seen , and the running time passed so quickly that I wasn't even ready for the film to be over . I've watched T . V . sitcoms that felt longer . Akira Kurosawa displays utter mastery of every aspect of cinema . There's not a flaw in this film : it's flawlessly acted , paced , edited , composed , scored . It's an action film for thinking people , one that more than holds its own against any movie released today . Astoundingly good .
A Flawless Musical Comedy	" Seven Brides for Seven Brothers " just may be my favorite splashy MGM musical from the 1940s and 50s , and holds a place up there with my favorite movie musicals of all time . " Brides / Brothers " bursts on to the screen with the energy of a cheerleading squad on amphetamines , and that energy never dissipates . But it doesn't feel manic or overwrought in any way . The movie wholeheartedly embraces sheer ridiculousness in its plot about a bunch of hillbilly mountain men brothers who decide they all want wives , and kidnap a bunch of townswomen to get them . It's like " Snow White " gone all wrong . Of course the women start to fall for the brothers as they begin to domesticate them , taking copious time out for great songs and showstopping dance numbers , showcasing some of the best choreography ever put to screen . Of course leave it to a dopey , escapist piece of entertainment like this to give us one of the most productive representations of gender roles in a decade known for its straight-jacket treatment of both women and men . The men sacrifice none of their masculine identity in becoming a bit more cultured and sophisticated , and the women avoid becoming dewey , housewife stereotypes . Other movies from the same time period that tried much more earnestly to address issues related to gender studies don't do it as well as this one . If I had to choose one word to describe this movie , it would be " rollicking . " Hope that helps .
THE Ultimate Hitchcock Movie	" Rear Window " represents Alfred Hitchcock at his most playful . This is Hitchcock's most fully realized comment about the obsession with voyeurism that reared its head repeatedly throughout his ouvre , an obsession not only of his , but one shared by the characters in his films and the audience watching them - - for without the delight that comes in watching other people , who would filmmakers be making films for ? " Rear Window " is a nearly perfect movie : perfectly plotted , perfectly directed , perfectly acted . James Stewart could play characters like this in his sleep , but that fact does not make his performance any less entertaining . Some of the ice melts off of Grace Kelly's facade , and she gives the wittiest and sexiest performance of her career . And who can say enough about Thelma Ritter ? A truly unique character actor in the history of cinema , Ritter always played the audience's id , thinking and saying all of the things all of the other characters in the film were too polite or nervous to think and say themselves . She could recite a weather forecast in that sardonic , world-weary monotone of hers , and it would still be funny . Hitchcock was always able to blend suspense , romance and social commentary to varying degrees of success , but almost always better than most other directors could manage . " Rear Window " stands as an example of what happened when he struck a perfect balance between all three .
Visceral and Fabulous	" City of God " is an adrenaline jolt of a film that for once manages to find a balance between stylistics and substance . The director , Fernando Meirelles , stuffs his movie to the brim with machine-gun editing , swirling cinematography and pounding music , but while this reliance on fancy tricks has ruined other films , Meirelles is so expert at blending them seamlessly into an engrossing story that the viewer quickly accepts them as inseparable from the world of the film . He delivers a deeply emotional and human story that obviously owes much to Scorsese and Tarantino - - - but his movie feels completely original , never like a rip off . And underneath all of the action and plotting , there is a compelling message about about the power of art ( specifically the camera ) and a suggestion that , just as the pen is mightier than the sword , the camera is mightier than the gun . Can't recommend it enough .
Ang Lee's Last Picture Show	Perhaps the saddest thing about " Brokeback Mountain " is that , though the story begins in 1963 and ends roughly in the early 80s , Ang Lee's film could have been set in the present day and not much would be different . Homosexuality has become almost stylish in America's urban areas , but out in the heartland , where men are still meant to be MEN , I can still see how homosexuals could spend their entire life in the closet for fear of being completely rejected , if not worse , by the society around them . " Brokeback Mountain " put me in the mind of last year's " Million Dollar Baby " in its approach to controversial subject matter . Like Clint Eastwood's film , " Mountain " avoids becoming an " issue " movie . The point is not whether you think homosexuality is sinful , or that all gay people are damned to hell , etc . The point is about whether two human beings who share an emotional connection should be able to act on that . And I would think someone would have to have a heart of ice to come out of this film and not recognize how tragic it is that two people who obviously care as much about each other as the two men in this film do should have to live in fear of expressing their bond . The film also put me in mind of " Baby " in its style - - spare , quiet , unsentimental . The most important thoughts and feelings are conveyed through what remains unsaid . Heath Ledger and Jake Gyllenhaal give sensational and , for two straight heartthrob Hollywood actors , quite brave performances . Ledger especially is a revelation . Nothing he's ever done up to this point , with maybe the exception of his brief performance in " Monster's Ball , " prepared me for his work here . He has a tough role , as Ennis Delmar , the character he plays , has an instinctual inability to show emotion of any kind . You can see in Ledger's face that his character thinks it's unmanly to expose himself , so his Ennis is all clenched jaw and swallowed words . The only emotion he expresses is violence ; whether it's anger , grief , despair or even lust , his first instinct is to lash out and cause pain . Gyllenhaal's Jack Twist is the more gregarious of the two , and the more willing to take risks with their shared secret . Ennis is more grounded in the reality of his environment . He accepts an occasional escape with Jack up into the mountains as more than either of them have the right to expect . Jack , on the other hand , as he says at one point in the film , isn't able to get what he needs from a secret meeting every couple of years . He wants a full committed relationship with Ennis , and is too rebellious to let the cowboy culture in which they live prevent them from having that . His character comes across as restless and reckless . You're left wondering whether Jack is attached to Ennis specifically or just the satisfying of desires that Ennis makes possible , until the film's final moments , when you realize just how important a role Ennis played in Jack's life . Meanwhile , the two principal actresses , Michelle Williams and Anne Hathaway , deliver bravura performances in small roles , conveying loads of emotion in a facial expression or gesture . Watch Williams's face when she sees her husband , Ennis , locked in a kiss with Jack . Or watch Hathaway's when Ennis calls her near the end of the film to talk about Jack , and you realize that this wife who appeared throughout the film to know nothing about her husband's clandestine personal life seems to know a great deal , and has been hurt considerably by it . Ang Lee nails the good ol ' boy culture of the American west . One has to think that screenwriter Larry McMurty also helped in this department . Like his " The Last Picture Show , " " Brokeback Mountain " paints a desolate portrait of deserted Western towns . These are essentially ghost towns , even though they're full of people . Boredom and stagnation are the norm . Men are men and women are women . Gender roles are strictly assigned and there's no deviation . In fact , one wonders at times whether or not Ennis is strictly gay , or whether he forms a bond with Jack because he's the one person with whom Ennis feels safe to be freely emotional without the fear of judgement . At times , it seems as if Ennis is drawn to Jack not because he's a man , but because he's another human being who seems to understand him . It's really amazing and heartening that a film with this subject matter is finding such mainstream appeal . It remains to be seen how much of an audience it draws outside of the urban areas . It would be nice to think that Americans everywhere will be able to put aside preconceived attitudes and be able to appreciate what is essentially a tragedy about two caring human beings , but that's probably too much to hope for . But even if this film makes a few people across the country think twice about passing judgement on people different from themselves , it will have served a valuable purpose .
One of the Few Perfect Movies in Existence	On the one hand , it seems pointless to add yet one more comment to the numerous comments already here testifying to the greatness of this film , but I love this movie so much that it seems just wrong to not have it included in my index of reviews . There are only a few movies I've seen that I would be tempted to label perfect . " Bonnie and Clyde " is one . " Taxi Driver " is another . These films are unimprovable as far as I'm concerned . Add " Sunset Boulevard " to that list . " Boulevard " represents Billy Wilder at his most acidic and ghoulish , but it's a testament to his genius as a film maker that he could create a film as relentlessly bleak and cynical as this one and make it devilishly entertaining ( and even quite funny at times ) rather than unbearably depressing . There's a big fat heart at the center of Wilder's bitter pill , and it's one that could be easily missed amid the dark , film-noirish exterior . I think that ultimately " Sunset Boulevard " is about the love of movies . You can tell that Wilder loves movies as much as the sad and decaying film star Norma Desmond , played brilliantly ( and I don't toss that word around lightly ) by Gloria Swanson . But he understands with an insider's point of view that there's a seedy underside to every business , and that's what he sets out to expose in his film . Movies get made and stars are born , but for every birth there's a death . I don't know how much of Swanson's performance is acting or her just being herself . If you allow yourself to think about it too long , Wilder's use of her is almost cruel , as making fun of Norma Desmond the character nearly amounts to making fun of Swanson the actress . The whole movie is uncomfortable in that same way - - it's like a bunch of Hollywood used-to-be's got together and decided to let themselves be parodied for a greater cause . But the film stops just short of cruelty , because in many ways Norma is the most sympathetic character in the film , and every so often there's a glimpse of the vulnerable human being underneath that ridiculous getup that begs to be loved , and who can't relate to that ? William Holden is perfect in a non-showy role that it would be tempting to pass off as an easy one . But I don't think it is an easy role . Holden has to be responsible for tempering the audience's reaction to Norma - - he's the moral conscience of the film , and his steady presence anchors it and keeps it from sailing headlong into camp . There are so many quotable lines in this film , I don't know where to begin . Imagine this film and " All About Eve " coming out in the same year . It's a movie quote fan's wet dream . In an eerie bit of prophetic trivia , apparently Gloria Swanson thought this film would signal such a major comeback for her that she began plans to write a stage musical based on the film , starring herself . ( She might even have gotten as far as completing it ) . Of course nothing ever came of it , and Swanson sunk quickly back into obscurity . But she would be vindicated to know that a stage musical did eventually appear , courtesy of Sir Andrew Lloyd Webber , and it actually does quite a bit of justice to Wilder's film .
Perhaps the Best Costume Drama Ever Made	" A Man for All Seasons " is that rare treasure : a costume drama that actually feels alive and lived in , rather than like a meticulously detailed museum exhibit . Paul Scofield plays Sir Thomas More with tremendous dignity and without an ounce of actorly self-consciousness . Never once will you catch him Acting with a capital " A . " He immerses himself utterly in the character , and creates a wholly believable portrait of a man facing a profound , and potentially fatal , moral crisis . Wendy Hiller does serviceable work in the role of noble suffering wife , and Robert Shaw adds another to the long list of performances that depict Henry VIII as a loud , crass , obnoxious boor ( though in fairness , perhaps there isn't any other way to play Henry VIII ) . A very young Susannah York appears as well , as Thomas More's daughter . Director Fred Zinnemann takes a no-fuss approach to the material , and directs with a minimum of frills so as not to detract from the strength of the writing and acting . However , the directing style doesn't feel anonymous , and one senses that Zinnemann is in total control at all times . Everyone knows how the story ends , so the movie by default is a bit of a bummer , but it's still a bracing and exhilarating film nonetheless , and the depressing ending is offset by the thrill of seeing a story about a man who stands up for what he believes in presented in an intelligent way without a bunch of phony Hollywood hooey .
An Excellent War Film	A magnificent film . Samuel Fuller adds his voice to the countless others who have recorded WWII stories , yet manages to create a movie that's completely original in its vision . The largely autobiographical story follows the Big Red One , the nickname for an infantry rifle squad , through many of the war's major battles . Unlike other war films , Fuller's movie resists the urge to reduce each man to an easily recognizable type , and instead creates living , breathing characters who we very much care about by the time the film is over . There are no philosophical pontifications about the absurdity of war , a la an Oliver Stone film or " Saving Private Ryan . " These are kids being asked to fulfill a role for which they're not emotionally mature enough to fulfill , and they're wholly believable . At the center of the squad is its commander , played by Lee Marvin in a mesmerizing performance . Marvin's character is a career soldier ; a prologue to the film shows him serving in WWI as well . He utters few lines and resists any shows of emotion , but Marvin nonetheless conveys so much with a glance or a gesture that a full-bodied portrait of this man emerges . With his men he's crabby , grumpy and full of macho bravado . But the film is peppered with scenes involving assorted children that the squad comes across in its various military engagements , and Marvin's moments with these kids bring an aching warmth to his character . You don't learn anything about his character's life outside of the military , and yet at the same time you learn a great deal about the kind of man he is . He's a father figure to his squad , he's paternal with these kids - - - yet he's devoted his life to the military . . . . leaving you to wonder if there's a single person in his civilian life who feels any sense of loss at his absence . His is a portrait of loneliness in the midst of constant human interaction . The film has an episodic structure , and it's to Fuller's credit as a writer that he manages to keep his film focused despite the rambling existence of these soldiers ' day-to-day lives . There are countless moments that vie for most memorable : a battle set in the ruins of what appear to be some sort of arena , in which a group of North Africans on horseback come to the aid of the Americans and the ancient and modern worlds collide bizarrely . . . . . . Fuller's representation of the Normandy invasion , in which the progress of the battle is represented through recurring shots of a watch on the wrist of a dead man floating in the surf . . . . . a hilarious sequence in which the squad help a foreign lady deliver a baby in a tank . . . . a harrowing battle scene set in an asylum for the insane . . . . . and the film's final battle to liberate a concentration camp in Czechoslovakia , in which the higher goal of the war becomes apparent to these men for whom war has consisted of nothing but disconnected and seemingly purposeless moments of violence . " The Big Red One " was released after a decade of war films that criticized war and everything it stands for : " MASH , " " Catch-22 , " " The Deer Hunter , " " Apocalypse Now . " But it stands apart from these films , for while it acknowledges the horror , brutality and sometime absurdity of war , it doesn't offer a blanket indictment of it . Fuller understands that war is sometimes an unpleasant necessity , and it's no accident that the movie , which could have chosen any one of a number of endings , ends with the liberation of the camps , suggesting that perhaps there was a point to the carnage after all . A remarkable movie , an award-worthy performance from Lee Marvin , and further proof ( if any was still needed ) that Samuel Fuller is one of cinema's greatest unsung directors .
Colbert Can Catch a Lift with Me Any Day	" It Happened One Night " is an example of what happens when everything in a movie works just right . This movie probably had low aspirations when it was first released in 1934 , but everything clicked so well that it's now considered to be the supreme example of screwball comedy , one of the best movies of the 30s , and one of the best movies of all time . Clark Gable and the adorable Claudette Colbert could not have more chemistry together . Their sassy back and forth is a joy to watch . And though this movie came out in the first year of the enforced Production Code , their relationship is refreshingly sexy . Dig Clark Gable in his undershirt ( gasp ! ) . And check out Claudette Colbert's shapely gams when she uses them to hitch a ride in one of the movie's classic scenes . Though the film is light and frothy , the spectre of the Depression isn't totally absent . For example , in one brief scene , Gable pauses at a railroad crossing to watch a freight train go past , loaded with hobos presumably off to find work somewhere , anywhere they can . One wonders if this was even staged or if Capra happened to catch an authentic moment from a dark time in America's history . The screwball comedy is not a genre that's managed to survive throughout the years , so all the more reason to enjoy this funny , breezy , sophisticated piece of cinema magic .
A Movie That Actually Influenced the Way I Think	Bud Cort appeared in two of my favorite ( and two of the quirkiest ) movies from the 1970s : " Harold and Maude " and " Brewster McCloud . " He also appeared in a cameo at the tail-end of " Sweet Charity , " another of my favorites . Given that little resume of movie roles , he has forever won a place in my heart , as has this movie . " Harold and Maude " is a modest little masterpiece from Hal Ashby , and deserves to be viewed as more than just an eccentric little cult hit appreciated by an elite few . It's hard to think of another movie whose success relies so entirely upon its pitch-perfect tone . Ashby's film walks a tightrope between black ( almost too black ) comedy and sentimental ( almost too sentimental ) pathos , but manages to blend the two perfectly to produce something quite unlike anything else I've ever seen . Harold is a gloomy misfit with a morbid death obsession , who likes to stage his own fake suicides in order to win the attention of his dithery and oblivious mother ( Vivian Pickles , in an uproarious performance ) . He meets Maude ( Ruth Gordon ) , an eccentric old lady with a taste for fast driving and an unparalleled lust for life . Maude teaches Harold how to enjoy the world around him instead of letting it slowly pass him by , while Harold gives Maude someone to share her days with . It's an achingly beautiful movie , in a low-key kind of way . Ashby is the king of understatement , and everything , both the outrageous comedy and the tender , sad moments , are delivered simply and effectively . He's got great actors in a great story , and he trusts both enough to stand back and let them work their magic . Ruth Gordon gives one of my favorite film performances of all time as Maude . It would be easy to dismiss her role as easy , if it were not for those quiet moments when Maude lets her enthusiastic guard down and we get glimpses of some sadness in her life that she's made a willful decision not to let overcome her . There are moments in this movie that actually made me think differently about the world we live in . Just for an example , there's a scene when Harold and Maude are sitting by a pond , and Harold gives Maude a ring he won for her in a carnival . She clutches it to her chest , thanks him for it , and then throws it into the water . Harold at first looks outraged that she would throw his gift away . But she says , " Now I'll always know where it is , " and Harold's hurt look transforms into a smile of understanding . If I could think about life the way the character of Maude does in this movie , I know I would be a happier person . " Harold and Maude " is a shining gem from the 1970s , and one of those movies I just have to watch every once in a while . Along with the two leads , there's of course Pickles ' off-the-wall performance , and very funny support from actors in minor roles , like Harold's therapist ( " sagging buttocks " ) and his war-crazed uncle . Plus , there's the wonderful score comprised of Cat Stevens songs , which caps off the tone of the movie beautifully .
Perhaps a Perfect Action Thriller	Paul Greengrass's sophomore outing as director of the Jason Bourne franchise is the best yet of the series . This is a sensational film , exciting and wildly entertaining . For what it sets out to be , it's nearly perfect . The other entries were also good , but what I came away praising in those were individual action scenes . In " Ultimatum , " I was finally impressed with the writing of this series . They're very carefully constructed in and of themselves , but what's more , they're carefully constructed AS a series , so that characters and plot lines develop throughout the films , and little hooks in each film keep enough loose ends untied to make you care about what happens next . For example , though these movies are streamlined as can be , and stick pretty closely with Bourne , one of my favorite elements in this film was the expansion of Joan Allen's role and the battle of wills that occurs between her character and her rival CIA agent , played coolly and icily by David Strathairn . And though there's nothing in this film to match the sheer technical mastery of the car chase scene in the second installment , there's a hair-raising chase in this one set amongst the rooftops and maze-like alleyways of Tangier that should go down as a classic nailbiter . There hasn't been a movie this summer I've enjoyed as much as this one .
A Fabulous Study of Mob Mentality	Before " 12 Angry Men " there was " The Ox-Bow Incident , " a bleaker and never less than fascinating exploration of the nature of mob violence . Unlike " 12 Angry Men , " this film has no clear-cut heroes . It takes place in a more primitive , wilder time and location , and the principal question at the crux of this movie's conflict is whether or not three suspected cattle thieves should be punished without due legal process . A small group is in favor of letting the frontier town sheriff handle the situation , while a much larger group smells only blood ( and in some cases are motivated by personal vengeance ) and convince themselves of the suspects ' guilt without listening to any of the evidence . It's quite a frightening movie in its own way , and it has a stark look at odds with the average studio film being churned out at the time ( 1943 ) . Henry Fonda is quite good , as usual , in the closest thing the movie has to a main character , but it seems pointless to single him out in what is obviously such an ensemble effort , and in a movie that only lasts a mere 75 minutes or so and has such a large cast , each actor manages to color his / her character with delightful details , sometimes with no more than a single line of dialogue or one reaction shot . " The Ox-Bow Incident " is a fantastic film . I don't think it's well-remembered now , but I'm thrilled to see it on DVD and hope that it will be rediscovered .
A Highly Unusual and Exceptional Film	Can there be such a thing as a feel-good movie about marital infidelity and suburban ennui ? If so , then I believe this haunting , powerful and superb new movie from Todd Field may be it . A feel-good movie was not in the least what I was expecting from this , based on the trailers and on Field's prior film , the astringent and depressing " In the Bedroom . " And it's not like I left the theatre feeling the need to break into song . But unlike other films about the stultifying atmosphere of suburban America , and the prisons so many people seem to make out of their domestic worlds , " Little Children " ends with a distinct feeling of hope and optimism . In other domestic dramas , the characters are frequently unlikable , and they appear to drift through their worlds allowing things to happen to them without taking any responsibility for themselves . In " Little Children , " Field does not present us with a handful of caustic stereotypes , but rather with a cast of actors who create warm but flawed human beings . These characters don't drift through life . They have things they care about , and they want and feel that they deserve some of the small happinesses that all human beings have a right to . But they also screw up , make bad decisions , act irrationally . What saves them , and the movie , is that in the end they all wake up , realize they're chasing dreams , and decide to make something of the lives they have rather than the lives they think they want . I thought this was a hopeful message , and one that carries with it a tremendous impact in this post - culture , when the safety nets on which we've built our existences have been ripped out from under us and we're left trying to make sense of a scary world . This film , in its closing moments , states outright that there's no time like now to begin taking control of our own worlds and making of them what we want . The best weapon we can wield against an uncertain future are our children , who can learn from our mistakes and make something new rather than simply repeat an endless cycle . As for the acting . . . . . Kate Winslet shines as Sarah , the suburban mom who doesn't fit in and embarks upon a reckless affair to fill a void in her days . Her performance is one of those small triumphs of acting , in which Winslet builds a living , breathing human being from the ground up through a series of subtle and thoughtful choices . Patrick Wilson , such a limp noodle in the screen version of " The Phantom of the Opera , " is pitch perfect as Brad , the stud who attracts Sarah's eye . And the other actors take full advantage of their smaller roles : Jennifer Connelly as Brad's loving but distracted wife ; Jackie Earle Haley as the film's most tragic figure , Noah Emmerich as an ex-cop who takes homeland security into his own hands ; and Phyllis Somerville , who has a couple of beautifully heart-breaking moments as the mom of an outcast . The screenplay is thematically elaborate . There's hardly an element of one character's storyline that doesn't find a parallel in the storyline of another . The theme of parenting is of course central , but beyond simply focusing on the responsibilities parents owe their children , the film goes deeper and examines how parents ' behavior affects their children and the extent to which parents can change the world for good or bad through what they hand down to the children who inherit it . A bracing , fantastic film .
Altman and Trudeau Are a Match Made in Movie Heaven	After a contentious decade for Robert Altman , during which he was pretty much shunned by the Hollywood system and made some of his worst films , it's only fitting that he should cap the decade off with an absolute triumph , this absorbing mini-series made for HBO . I don't know why it took so long for someone to pair " Doonesbury " writer Garry Trudeau with Altman , because in retrospect , it seems like a match made in heaven . Both have the exact same sarcastic sense of humor and the talent for seeing the absurd in the mundane . They crafted a fascinating look into the world of political machinations , following the story of fictitious 1988 presidential candidate Jack Tanner but setting it against the real world of the democratic primaries . Therefore , actual members of the political scene at the time interact with star Michael Murphy as if he's a real presidential nominee , and the viewer is never sure what action is authentic and what is staged . Murphy is superb as Tanner , and he's perfectly cast . Tanner is handsome and charismatic enough to make a fairly successful run for the nomination , but he's too bland and too nice to make it all the way . The series examines one of the major conundrums about American politics : to have a candidate with conviction and good ideas isn't enough . He must also be a personality and be able to navigate the tricky terrain of the American media , with the result that those who go farthest are those who know how to work the system , not those who are most honest . " Tanner ' 88 " captured perfectly my own feelings about presidential elections . On the one hand , they're of supreme importance , because they determine who will be the leader of one of the most powerful nations in the world . But on the other hand , they seem like such pointless exercises , and it's hard to muster up the energy to care time after time . But one of the strongest and most serious points made by this series comes in an episode in which Tanner visits the slums of Detroit in his home state of Michigan . He realizes that he is completely out of touch with the very people he promises to help , and has no clue about what their lives are really like . That's painfully true about our own leadership - - it was in 1988 and still is today . There's a vast and probably insurmountable gap between the privileged few who ever have the remotest hope of being president and the millions of average Americans over whom they govern . All of the acting in " Tanner ' 88 " is sensational , to the point where I forgot I wasn't just watching real people being filmed by a documentary filmmaker . Most notable are Pamela Reed , as Tanner's campaign manager , Cynthia Nixon , as his overbearing and very young daughter , and E . G . Marshall , who makes a few memorable appearances as Tanner's awful father . This is a must see for Altman fans , or really anyone with an interest in American politics .
Preston Sturges Defends Mindless Comedy in a Film with a Big Brain and an Even Bigger Heart	Joel McCrea plays Sullivan , a big-time director of movie comedies and musicals , who decides he wants to direct a film with a message , and rides the rails as a bum to find out what it's like to be poor . He takes with him Veronica Lake , playing a Hollywood starlet wannabe who's just about ready to throw in the towel . Together , they find out that they can't really ever know what it's like to be poor unless they're actually poor , a fate that eventually befalls Sullivan through a crazy turn of events , after which he rediscovers the value of using film to make people laugh . " Sullivan's Travels " is one of those reflexive movies about Hollywood and the business of film making that can be wonderful when done well and entirely too self conscious when done poorly . I can't imagine writer / director Preston Sturges having done a better job than he does here with this simply marvelous film , easily one of the best of the 1940s and perhaps one of the best ever . Rarely have I felt that a director has made his point as clearly and effectively as Sturges does with this film . He manipulates his audience dexterously but not cheaply . When the film takes a dark and sobering turn , we fidget anxiously and wait for it to get funny again , which is exactly the reaction the studio executives in the film's opening tell Sullivan he can expect from his " important " film , and why they tell him to stick to comedy in the first place . The irony of course is that in making a film about the value of mindless comedy , Sturges at the same time made a quite important picture that more forcefully addressed the plight of the working man than any number of other films that treated the subject more seriously . I've never liked Joel McCrea better than I do here . His laconic way with a one liner is perfectly suited to Sturges ' brand of quick and witty writing . Indeed , the patter comes at you so quickly that your brain may have trouble keeping up with the jokes . Veronica Lake is cute and droll , and she and McCrea get on well together . The film's best moments come when the pair are learning how to be hobos . And Sturges fills out the rest of his film with a cast of regulars from his stable of character actors , with virtually every member getting some bit of business or a line to remember him by . However , despite Sturges ' wonderful dialogue , the film's most memorable and beautiful moment comes when everybody shuts up , and a montage of scenes showing McCrea and Lake experiencing life as it was for countless homeless and unemployed regular Americans at the tail end of the Depression plays out with no sound , accompanied only by a pretty musical passage . In a movie that will take your breath away with its pace and crack comic timing , this moment will take your breath away for different reasons altogether .
Garbo Laughs , and Makes Me Laugh with Her	The only word to describe this Ernst Lubitsch comedy is : sparkling . Tremendously sweet and funny in that gentle way that was unique to Ernst Lubitsch comedies , " Ninotchka " features a winning Greta Garbo as a Soviet envoy dispatched to Paris to check up on the work of her comrades . They have been sent to sell the confiscated jewels of a Russian countess , played haughtily by Ina Claire . She refuses to let them go without a fight , and enlists the help of her attorney and playboy ( Melvyn Douglas ) to win them back . Unfortunately for her , he falls under the charms of Ninotchka , as do we . I have never been a fan of Garbo or the moody brooding she was always asked to do in her films . Lubitsch completely understood the image she had in the public's collective mind , and so for the first half of this movie , Garbo presents a parody of herself , refusing to crack a smile despite Douglas's herculean efforts to make her . But then Ninotchka gradually begins to fall under the spell of Paris , its good food and fashionable hats , a pratfall involving Douglas is finally enough to make her laugh , and from that moment on , she's a delight . For an example of just how good a comedienne Garbo could be , watch Ninotchka's face as Douglas's character tells her corny joke after corny joke in an attempt to win a smile from her ; or the scene set in a nightclub when Ninotchka discovers the capitalist wonders of champagne .
One of the Last Anti-Establishment Films of the 1970s	" One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest " is about the triumph of the human spirit , but it's depressing as hell . Jack Nicholson gave the last of his great performances before he started playing parodies of himself , and Louise Fletcher plays one of the screen's greatest villains , the only role this forgotten actress was really ever known for . Their battle of wills in a mental institution symbolizes the battle of humanity against oppressive authoritarianism , and if Nicholson's character happens to lose this particular battle , the movie implies , humanity is determined to win the war . Looked at now in historical context , this film was one of the last gasps of anti-establishment film making . Vietnam was ending , American political corruption was starting to fade into memory , and the boom years of the 1980s were not far away . " Cuckoo's Nest " stands as one of the supreme examples of what made 1970s film making great .
The Perfect Cartoon	Is this the perfect cartoon ? Possibly . I loved the character of the Grinch when I was a kid - - something about his cynical , jaded personality appealed to me , and I shared his annoyed scorn for the syrupy Whovillians . Some of his facial expressions are classic , especially those that he aims directly at the camera , usually in response to something his dog , Max , is doing at the moment . And by the way , I've never seen a cartoon version of a dog more adorable , or more like a real dog , than Max . In some ways I kind of regret that movies like this are available on DVD . When I was a kid , it was a big deal when the Grinch aired on T . V . , and it usually was only on once during the holiday season . You had to sit through commercials and all to see how it would end , year after year , and the anticipation made it all the more magical .
I Loved Spending Time with Poppy	Another wonderful character study from Mike Leigh . Sally Hawkins is giving one of the best performances of the year as Poppy , an inexhaustibly energetic 30-year old who giggles and goofs her way through life . When we first meet her , we wonder if she's not somewhat deranged . She pesters a book-store clerk into conversation even though he's clearly put off by her ; when her bike is stolen , her first reaction is to lament the fact that she didn't get to say goodbye . But as the film develops , we see that there's much more to Poppy than her happy exterior reveals . She teaches grade school , and she's terrific at it , expertly handling a situation involving a young boy who's suffering abuse at home . She manages without bitterness to salvage a relationship with an uptight , suburban sister who harps on Polly for not being responsible enough . But the biggest revelation about Poppy's character comes from her interaction with Scott , a driving instructor who's probably the exact opposite of her . Vitriolic and angry , Scott sees conspiracy everywhere and spits out hateful generalizations willy-nilly . Played expertly by Eddie Marsan , the scenes between Scott and Poppy are some of the funniest in the film , until Scott turns abusive and Poppy is forced to drop her happy-go-lucky approach , and face down Scott in the film's most emotionally resonant moment . I always look to Mike Leigh films for excellent acting , and " Happy-Go-Lucky " does not disappoint . I haven't seen a performance as fresh and unique as Hawkins ' for some time . She makes it clear that Poppy's ebullient attitude is achieved only by constant and hard work . The unhappiness of the world is lurking around every corner , and indeed , in one unsettling scene in which Poppy tries to engage a homeless man in conversation , Poppy seems every once in a while to be drawn to it . Various characters in the film try to explain Poppy's behavior . Scott accuses her of always needing to be the center of attention ; her girlfriend claims that she wants to change the world . But to me , Poppy seems more motivated by the need simply to understand what makes unhappy people the way they are , and I was left wondering why everyone ( the characters in the film , people I know in the real world , myself ) feel the need to justify the happiness in others , as if it's either a scam or the result of some secret magic . The movie is as close to a feel good movie as Mike Leigh will probably ever get - - it's reminiscent in tone of his marvelous " Life Is Sweet . " Every once in a while I see a film that actually makes me think differently about my own attitudes to life and the world , and this is one of them . Wouldn't the world be a better place if there were a few more Poppies in it ?
Foxy Grier	" Jackie Brown " was widely received as a disappointing follow-up to Quentin Tarantino's " Pulp Fiction , " but I think it's actually a better movie , if less obviously so . It's hard not to be blown away by " Fiction " because of it's sheer audacity ; " Jackie Brown " is a quieter film that shows Tarantino has the potential to become a mature and sophisticated director . It's somewhat ironic that Tarantino , associated with the young hipster audience , made this film , because at the basic level " Jackie Brown " is about getting old . All of Jackie's motivations spring from the fact that starting over will soon become impossible for her . That the options available to a a middle-aged , lower income level , black woman in modern America are severely limited . Tarantino shows an amazing prowess for getting into the head of this woman . His sensitive direction coupled with Pam Grier's top-notch performance combine to make Jackie one of the most compelling and honest female characters to hit the movie screen in recent years . The rest of the cast is uniformly excellent too . Robert Forster stands out as bail bondsman Max Cherry , who becomes Jackie's partner in crime , as it were . Samuel L . Jackson does well with the kind of part he seems born to play , but his character is not as interesting as the others and so makes less of an impression . Bridget Fonda is a scene stealer as a California beach bunny , and the contrast between her and Pam Grier is used quite effectively . It's interesting to note that in the book this movie was based on , " Rum Punch " by Elmore Leonard , Jackie was white . Changing the race of the title character to black adds a whole other dimension to the film that the book lacks . This is one case where the movie greatly improves on its source material . " Jackie Brown " will take some commitment on behalf of the viewer . It's leisurely paced and more reliant on character study than Tarantino's other films , but these aren't detriments . They merely illustrate that Tarantino has some range as a director , and I hope he continues to explore that range .
My Pick for Best Film of the 1970s	" Nashville " is a whirling dervish of a movie that comes blaring out at you from the first moment of its opening credits and never really lets up . Like much of Robert Altman's best work , it's not necessarily about any one thing , but is rather about a bunch of little things . It's a film that is as much about a general spirit as it is a grand theme - - its anarchic tone manages to convey both what is best and worst about American culture . " Nashville " is so in tune with its time , and it feels so immediate , that it's been forgotten today , when other much more " manufactured " films from the time are fondly remembered . It's somewhat understandable - - it's an ugly film , though in this particular case I mean that as a compliment . The actors in it don't look like actors , and Altman incorporates real locations and real Nashvillians ( ? ) into his film in all their unattractive 1975 glory . The sets don't look dressed , the costumes are hideous , all of the interiors look like they're illuminated by unforgiving fluorescent lights and the exteriors exude humidity and sweat . Watching this film is like flipping through a family photo album and making fun of the leisure suits and awful hairstyles . But " Nashville " is one of the most consistently relevant films to have emerged from the 1970s , and I wish people would rediscover it . As the mysterious Hal Philip Walker , who provides the film with its running commentary , might say , " When more people vote for ' American Idol ' than in the latest presidential election , that's politics . " Our obsession with fame and celebrity seems only to increase , and , perhaps because of the sheer pervasiveness of our media , Americans seem less able than ever before to think critically about information and images being presented to them . Kenny , the assassin in the film who shoots Barbara Jean at the finale , seems to be attaching meaning to her that she doesn't warrant ; right before shooting her , he looks from her to a giant American flag behind her , back to her . He seems to be making some connection ; the way the shots are edited asks asks us to make connections too . What exactly does Barbara Jean stand for ? What does the American flag stand for ? Barbara Jean isn't a politician , but she has almost the same amount of influence , maybe more , over her followers . Under what obligations does this put her , if any ? I half way suspect that if Oprah Winfrey ran for President today , she could win . So is Oprah an entertainer , a politician , or some strange hybrid of the two ? Altman has never been interested in answering questions , only asking them . One of the best things about " Nashville " is its ambiguity . It " feels " American , but I can't put my finger on exactly why . Maybe because it's confusing and at times infuriating and at other times beautiful , sometimes sad , sometimes hilarious , but always glorious .
The Beauty of a Butterfly	There are few moments in film history as moving as the last shot of this film , when a soldier fighting in the trenches of World War I is able to shut out the carnage around him to focus on the unlikely beauty of a butterfly that has landed only inches in front of him . The power of this image is an example of what set this film apart from all of the movies that had preceded it and ushered in a new era of sophistication in the art form . " All Quiet on the Western Front " is one of the first movies to feel like a movie . The camera takes part in the action : it moves in and out , frames people in close up . Some of the most memorable images come when the camera tracks along with the soldiers as they charge the enemy trenches . And though sound in cinema was in its infancy , this movie makes terrific use of it . Compare this movie's version of combat to the films that would come out ten years later with the outbreak of WWII , and it almost takes your breath away with how ahead of its time it seems . Easily one of the best war movies ever made , and one of the best movies ever made , period .
The Only American Masterpiece of 2007	Once in a very rare while ( all too rarely , alas ) I leave a film instantly convinced that I just experienced an enduring classic in real time , and that's how I felt after watching " There Will Be Blood . " It is an amazing film with a performance at its center that defies description , and I haven't been as energized or excited over a new release since last year's " Children of Men . " I've always liked Paul Thomas Anderson , even at his most over indulgent ( " Magnolia " ) , but he's never seemed as mature a filmmaker as he does here . Where other Anderson films have sustained one long fevered pitch and burnt themselves out in exhaustion , this film is restrained and disciplined ; it builds slowly and inexorably to a powerhouse conclusion . Like nearly every Anderson film , it's a love it or hate it movie . It's virtually impossible to have an indifferent reaction to it . And I imagine the ending will be one of the most divisive aspects of the film . I , for one , thought it ended perfectly , and suspect it will be a long time before I get the film's final image and line out of my head . No review of this film is complete without mentioning Daniel Day-Lewis , who is nothing less than a force of nature at its center . His performance is so good it's scary ; what he does in this film can't even be called acting . I've seen other performances this year that I greatly admired : Tommy Lee Jones in " In the Valley of Elah , " Ryan Gosling in " Lars and the Real Girl , " Viggo Mortensen in " Eastern Promises . " But Day-Lewis seems to be working in a completely different stratosphere than these others . In Daniel Plainview , the oilman who's eaten from within by greed and a lust for power , he has created a villain that's one-dimensional yet extremely complex all at the same time . Plainview should be a boring character , because he's so single minded in purpose , yet Day-Lewis makes him endlessly fascinating . And was I the only person who actually liked him a little bit ? In a world full of hypocrisy and men telling one another what they want to hear the better to take advantage , Plainview is refreshingly honest and straightforward , no matter how abominable he may be . He's like the American system of free enterprise taken to its monstrous extreme . Though set in the past , the film is one of the most relevant I've seen this year . The battle over economic and religious domination is obviously one that rages today . Religious and corporate institutions differ only in their methods - - both are driven by a lust for power and control . And to top it all off , Johnny Greenwood provides one of the most unique and sensational scores to grace a movie screen in a long time . I can't say enough good things about this movie .
Davis at Her Evil Best	A gleefully macabre and intensely suspenseful movie based on the Lillian Hellman play . Bette Davis sinks her teeth into the role of icy bitch Regina Giddens with such relish that you can practically hear her sighing with satisfaction at getting away from the noble sufferer roles that had so recently made her famous in films like " Jezebel " and " Dark Victory . " She's monstrous here as the frigid wife of Herbert Marshall , waiting impatiently for him to die so that she can get her talons on his inheritance . A group of conniving brothers are trying to outsmart her and claim the inheritance for themselves , but they have no idea who they're dealing with . We ultimately can forgive Davis for her reptilian selfishness , because she's driven to it out of survival . If you want to play with the big boys , the movie seems to say , you have to learn to be one yourself . This is a lesson her sister-in-law , Birdie , hasn't learned , and as a result is a fluttering , neurotic mess of a woman , bulldozed by her husband and supreme example of exactly the kind of woman Regina refuses to be . Birdie is played by Patricia Collinge in a devastatingly heartbreaking performance . Just watch her in the scene where her husband slaps her ; you can almost literally see the life drain out of her as she accepts her misery as a cage from which she doesn't ever really hope , or feels she deserves , to escape . And as the moral conscience of the film , Teresa Wright plays Regina's daughter , Alexandra , slow to pick up on the treacherous games her own mother is playing . The classic scene in this film is the one in which Regina's husband actually dies . She's sitting feet away from him , watching him gasp for breath while refusing to get the medication that could save his life , and Davis's creepy , empty expression shows us just how little compassion or sympathy , or even any emotion other than greed and vengeance , remains in this grotesque , twisted creature . Marvelous !
Go , Tootsie , Go	1980s cinema mostly sucked , but one thing the 80s got right was the R-rated comedy . " Tootsie " is perhaps the premier example of 80s adult comedy at its best , and it's a dynamite film . Dustin Hoffman plays a struggling actor who lands a job on a soap opera under the guise of a tough-talking woman . Things get complicated ( as such things do , of course ) when he / she becomes a national sensation and has to face the prospect of pretending to be a woman for the indefinite future . Hoffman gives a master class in screen comedy , and the success of the entire film rests primarily on his ability to pull off a tricky role . At one point , his character says something about being a better man as a woman than he ever was being a man , and the movie , and his performance , conveys just that . He's ably abetted by a terrific ensemble that includes Bill Murray , Teri Garr , Charles Durning and Sydney Pollack , who also directed . Jessica Lange plays his love interest and won an Oscar for her performance , though I've always found Lange's mannerisms to be distracting and she's not comfortable with some of the more comedic elements . The film is so well written that you can sit back and enjoy it without having to roll your eyes at how implausible it all is . Sometimes clichés say it the best , and such is the case here : they just don't make ' em like this anymore .
An Example of Bergman at the Top of His Game	Bergman at his best . " Cries and Whispers " vies with " Persona " in my esteem as the best film Ingmar Bergman gave us . In this one , a group of sisters gathers at a country house to care for ( or rather avoid caring for ) one of them , who is dying of consumption . It falls to the dying sister's maid to step in and embrace this poor pitiful creature in her final days . This is an emotionally devastating film , with a death scene that is intensely hard to watch and seems to go on forever . Cinematographer Sven Nykvist makes brilliant use of the color photography , which put me in mind of the way Powell and Pressburger or Douglas Sirk used the medium back in the day . Profoundly affecting . Perhaps not the kind of film I would want to see often , but one I'm glad I at least have seen once .
Big Westerns Don't Get Much Better Than This	" The Big Country " is not a movie that held much appeal for me before I'd seen it . I only rented it because a guy I worked with said this was his favorite movie - - given the fact that he's about as conservative as it's physically possible to be , I had my doubts . But I owe him a huge debt of gratitude for introducing me to this magnificent film . Director William Wyler breaks from the women-focused domestic dramas that made him famous throughout the 1940s and heads out west to tackle cowboys , ranchers and the women who love them . And what a picture he paints ! Everything about this movie feels grand , but not in that lumbering , stodgy way that CinemaScope epics from the 1950s so often did . Crisp editing and compelling performances propel this story along fluidly , as does a glorious score that's perfectly utilized . I've never liked Charlton Heston better than I do here ( except for " Planet of the Apes , " but that's more to make fun of him ) , and Burl Ives anchors the film with his rich baritone and imposing size - - he's a force of nature in this film , and his impressive performance here is only one of two he delivered in 1958 ( " Cat on a Hot Tin Roof " being the other one ) . Highlights of " The Big Country " include a fistfight between Gregory Peck and Heston that each refuses to quit and a breathtakingly suspenseful final showdown in a canyon between Ives and arch rival Charles Bickford set to more of that pulsing , vibrant musical score . A treasure from an on-again-off-again decade .
Welcome to Chinatown ( You've Been Warned )	With " Chinatown , " Roman Polanski did for the detective crime genre what Todd Haynes did for the Douglas Sirk melodrama in " Far from Heaven . " Polanski created something that was partly an homage to all of those delightfully atmospheric noirs of the 1940s , but went beyond that to deconstruct some of the genre's conventions . Rather than simply making a 1974 film that imitated a film noir from the 40s , Polanski instead made a 1940s film noir infused with the cultural demons of 1974 America . The plot is byzantine and confusing , as any good crime thriller plot should be . But true to the genre , the plot doesn't matter as much as the rotten underbelly of corruption and violence that the plot exposes . No director can do atmosphere ( especially rotten atmosphere ) as well as Polanski , and he's at his best here . Jack Nicholson gives maybe the best performance of his career as detective Jake Gittes , a hard-boiled seen-it-all tough guy who isn't quite tough enough for the nastiness he uncovers ; Faye Dunaway is the elusive and beautiful object of his obsession ; and John Huston gives a frightening performance as a monster in everyday clothing . The film is magnificently shot and scored , and manages to evoke the look and style of an older time period without feeling dated . A mesmerizing and fantastic film .
This Ain't the W	An antidote to every phony show about high school ever shown on the WB , " High School " is another harrowing documentary from that most harrowing of documentarians , Frederick Wiseman . Once again , Wiseman lets his cameras roll and leaves it to the viewer to draw conclusions . But don't be surprised if the conclusion you draw is that this particular high school is a fascist , Orwellian hell for its students , where the faculty are dictators and the attendees their cowering subjects . No other moment in the film nails that point home more than the one in which a bullying principal needlessly humiliates a student . My high school experience wasn't like this , but regardless , this movie didn't make me want to revisit my high school years anytime soon .
One Man's Terrifying Vengeance	A perfect film . Martin Scorsese displays complete mastery over his medium in this deeply disturbing 1976 masterpiece , and to my mind hasn't yet made another movie as good as this one ( no , not even " Raging Bull " ) . In " Taxi Driver , " Robert De Niro plays Travis Bickle , a Vietnam veteran who drives a cab for a living . Isolated and lonely , Travis prowls the hellish streets of New York's worst neighborhoods , willing to drive customers anywhere they want to go , quietly nurturing vague fantasies of vengeance on what he perceives to be a sick culture . The whole movie is a nightmarish fever dream . I've never seen anyone capture visually what on the page would be stream of consciousness narration as well as Scorsese does here . And De Niro gives the performance of his , or anybody else's , career . His Travis is a fascinating creation , and one of the most frightening screen characters in the history of cinema . No one could keep me up nights quite like the seemingly ordinary Joe who's ready to snap at any moment and feels that his grisly duty is handed down to him from on high . Cybill Shepherd plays Travis's nominal love interest with just the right amount of vapidity , and Jodie Foster , in a small , sweet and wonderful performance , plays Iris , the thirteen-year-old prostitute who becomes the object Travis sets out to save from the rotten world that has turned him into what he is . And the late Peter Boyle has a couple of beautiful moments as Travis's fellow cab driver , who tries to give him some counsel but is so obviously out of his league . Shortly after " Taxi Driver " hit screens , Vietnam turned into a subject that film makers felt comfortable addressing directly ( " Coming Home , " " Apocalypse Now , " " The Deer Hunter " ) . But none of these , though so much more actually ABOUT Vietnam , addressed half as well as " Taxi Driver " the toll that that conflict took on the men it sent back home .
The All-Time Great Liberal Agenda Movie	I defy anyone to watch this movie and not be completely absorbed in the group dynamics on display . I could take points off for the overly tidy and convenient script with its TV-movie ending or some of the less subtle methods through which director Sidney Lumet drives home his points . But with a cast as uniformly excellent as this , why quibble ? Henry Fonda is just the person to play the liberal everyman , an extension of his Tom Joad character from " The Grapes of Wrath . " E . G . Marshall is excellent as Fonda's most formidable opponent ; cool-headed and logical , he's the only holdout who bases his verdict on facts instead of emotions . Lee J . Cobb's performance wears thin , and his character is the most poorly written . Ed Begley is almost too good in his role , so revolting is his character . Jack Klugman and Jack Warden register in smaller roles as well . This movie conveys the sweaty , tension-filled atmosphere of a stifling jury room but never feels oppressive , thanks to Lumet's fluid direction . My favorite moment comes when Fonda begins counting off paces around the jury table ( a key piece of evidence hinges on this ) , and the camera drops to floor level and follows his feet as he does so . Choices like this prevent Lumet's film from ever being static or stagy . An important film and a great one . If you haven't already seen it , put it at the top of your list .
The First Truly Great Noir	" The Maltese Falcon " is generally considered to be the very first film noir , but Billy Wilder's " Double Indemnity " is the first GREAT noir . With actors that perfectly understood Wilder's penchant for black as tar humour , this film is as seedy , dark and many times funny as they come . Barbara Stanwyck is a knockout as the classic femme fatale , complete with cheap blonde wig and ankle bracelets . Fred MacMurray makes a terrific dope , his silly machimso preventing him from realizing that Stanwyck is one step ahead of him through the entire film . And Edward G . Robinson shines as usual in a small but important role . For me , this film breaks new ground in the hard-boiled / detective / murder mystery genre . I believe it was a bit of a flop when it came out , but that's easy to understand . Films that in retrospect prove themselves to be cutting edge are frequently dismissed at the time of their release . " Double Indemnity " doesn't have the look of other studio films of its period , not even other gritty detective films of its period . The lighting is stark and grimy ; you can almost see every speck of dust in the shafts of light slanting in through the windows . Wilder gets the feel of a corrupt L . A . just right . But even more than its look , the film is years ahead of its time in its moral tone . Not only do the characters in this film not find redemption , they appear to be unredeemable . Each shows him / herself to be colder and more cynical than the other , and there's a " Bonnie and Clyde " - like inevitability to their eventual fates . Simply sensational . And watch for the list of " supposin ' " s MacMurray and Stanwyck throw back and forth at each other in one scene . It's hilarious and perfect , and those who've seen the film will know exactly what I'm talking about .
A Crown Jewel of 1950s Cinema	Samuel Fuller brings his customary playful and stylish direction to this seedy , pulpy story and manages to create one of the undiscovered gems of 1950s cinema . Richard Widmark plays a petty thief tough guy ( a role he perfected over the course of many movies ) , who snatches a young lady's ( Jean Peters ) wallet on a New York subway and with it a piece of much-wanted microfilm . This is 1953 , so of course the microfilm is property of Commie spies who will stop at nothing to get it back . When the girl shows up at Widmark's waterfront shack , sent by an abusive boyfriend to reclaim the film , Widmark senses the opportunity to shake her and her " comrades " down for big money . The plot thickens , people start dying , and Widmark and Peters fall in love . Fuller handles the love story clumsily , but more from a sense of indifference than bad writing or direction . It's as if he included a love story under duress , and so made it intentionally unbelievable , as love stories so frequently were and still are in Hollywood films . Peters gives a remarkable performance as a tough New Yawk cookie , part gangster moll and part damsel in distress . When violence occurs against her , we genuinely care about her well being , and it's typical of Fuller's renegade , ahead-of-his-time style that a happy ending is not necessarily a foregone conclusion . But the ultimate success of " Pickup on South Street " rests squarely on the world-weary shoulders of Thelma Ritter , who plays Moe , a feisty lady who makes money any way she can , whether that be selling neckties or acting as a police informant . Ritter gives the performance of her career ; in a breathtaking monologue , she conveys without ever directly addressing it the entire sad trajectory of her character's life , and the hopelessness she feels waking up every morning to a world of struggle , crime and hardship . It's as if every character Ritter ever played converges for one brief instant to give vent to all of the emotions they weren't given a chance to vent in those other movies . The scene is the highlight of Fuller's film , and a highlight of 50s cinema , period .
For People Who Don't Like Silent Films	For people who think silent films are antiquated , slow , boring ( pick your adjective ) , I ask you to watch " Metropolis " and see if your opinion changes . I think too many people think of the really creaky silent films from cinema's beginnings - - like " The Great Train Robbery " or those first experimental films by George Melies - - when they think of silent film . But remember that " Metropolis " came out in 1927 , the year the industry transitioned to sound ; so really , the only thing separating this movie from some of the most beloved films of the early thirties is the absence of sound . In every other way , technologically speaking , it's just as polished . As for the movie itself , it had me on the edge of my seat . Come on , I defy anyone to not get excited by this classic underdog story ; I'm a sucker for any story where the downtrodden working man revolts against the tyranny of the rich . It's difficult to discuss acting in silent films - - I'll grant dissenters that - - because there's such a different set of standards for it than we're used to . And this movie is as guilty as any other silent film of having melodramatic trappings . But rather than dwell on those criticisms , accept them as part of the experience and enjoy the movie for what it is . And what is it ? It's the granddaddy of every sci-fi movie ever made since . There's hardly a sci-fi film I can think of that doesn't in some way conjure up images from this movie . " Blade Runner " and " Dark City " borrowed its production design ; " Dr . Strangelove " took the crazed scientist with the black-gloved fist and made him a starring character ; " Star Wars " used the android as a prototype for C-3PO . " Metropolis " is a parade of iconic images , offering one memorable set piece after another . I quite literally couldn't find a flaw with it . And one last thing : the DVD version I saw had a magnificent musical score that added immensely to the effect of the movie . It's one of the best scores I've ever heard in a film .
Eat Your Liver , Rosemary	Quite simply , one of the best horror movies ever made . " Rosemary's Baby " is terrifying , and it remains terrifying every time I see it . I watch this , and then I watch what passes today for horror movies ( " The Hills Have Eyes " remake is an example ) , and I simply shake my head in awe and dismay at how far the horror film has fallen . Everything about this movie hits the right notes . The acting is expert , especially Mia Farrow's hugely underrated performance as the impressionable Rosemary . Roman Polanski's direction is perfect ; he eschews the shock horror approach used by directors like William Friedkin and instead creates a subtly creepy atmosphere , ratcheting up the tension gradually until you're ready to jump out of your skin . The production design and cinematography are off-kilter in ways you can't quite define . And the musical score , all plucked strings and jangling piano chords ( except for the sinister lullaby that opens the film ) , is nerve-wracking . Because every element of the film comes together so well , this supernatural tale feels as realistic as it could possibly be , and one feels that if there is indeed such a thing as the coming of an Anti-Christ , it would happen something like this . With John Cassavetes , superbly slimy as the sell-out husband ; Ruth Gordon and Sidney Blackmer , as the Jewish grandma and grandpa from Hell ( literally ) ; Ralph Bellamy as a crooked doctor ; and , most effectively , Maurice Evans , poor Rosemary's only ally . Any number of scenes could qualify as creepiest , but my personal favorite is the one in which Rosemary uses a Scrabble game set to make sense of an anagram . I get shivers just writing about it .
One of the Most Deeply Affecting Movies I've Seen in a Long Time	It's virtually impossible to summarize my feelings on " Synecdoche , New York . " This astonishing brain teaser from the mind of Charlie Kaufman affected me deeply , probably more than any film I've yet seen this year . I can't say it's necessarily enjoyable , because it's full of uncomfortable , brave truths about what it means to be human , and it goes places most movies don't dare to . But watching it is a bracing experience , and it's encouraging to know that there are still filmmakers willing to use film as a means of challenging their audiences and picking at scabs that most people would prefer to remain solidly in place . I can't begin to tell you what " Synecdoche , New York " means , and it wouldn't matter anyway , because I think it will mean different things to different people . A basic summary goes something like this : Philip Seymour Hoffman plays a morose , depressed theatre director who's convinced that fatal diseases are lurking around every blood vessel , and who decides to stage a monstrous , ambitious theatrical work that will leave him remembered after he dies . Soon , the work as he's staging it becomes confused with the life he's living , so that he finds himself directing a version of himself through a story that seems to be made up as it moves along . If this sounds like an act of mental masturbation by a pretentious intellectual with too much time on his hands , rest assured : " Synecdoche , New York " is not one of THOSE films . I didn't become impatient with Kaufman or his characters , like I have with some of his previous projects . In fact , this film made me uneasy because of how much of it I DID relate to . The conclusions it draws are that we are all alone in this big universe , life doesn't necessarily have any meaning other than what one brings to it , and there is not a higher power who is going to make sure our passage through the world makes sense . It was a bit of a wake up call to hear these beliefs , beliefs that I happen to share , stated so boldly , for while I'm confident in what I believe , that confidence doesn't make the beliefs themselves any less scary . But depressing and nihilistic as those beliefs might sound , the film is life affirming in its own way . It suggests that too many of us spend too much time trying to make sense of the world and not enough time living in it . We pull back in loneliness and fear when faced with things bigger than ourselves rather than turning to those who can actually help , namely the other human beings with whom we share our time on this planet . " Synecdoche , New York " will not likely find a big audience , as most people will either not want to work at understanding it or won't like what it has to say . But if you're willing to go into it with an open mind , you might just find yourself amazed .
The Price We Pay	" Syriana " is a blistering , powerful film about the degree to which governments and corporate conglomerates place the ambition to control the world's oil supply above the well being of their citizens and employees . In this game , there are only bad guys , and what separates the villains from the protagonists is not a question of who's good and who's bad , but rather how bad each is willing to be . So maybe " Syriana " doesn't tell us anything new . But that doesn't mean its points aren't worth making again and again . And though it is complicated , and I'm not going to pretend I followed every detail of its intricate plot , it's not that hard to follow . Stephen Gaghan is a good writer , and he provides a nice summary of the film's action in its final moments . What emerges from this tangled puzzle is a web of corruption and self-interest , all fueled by the need for oil . In one plot thread , the men behind two soon-to-merge oil companies will stop at nothing to make the merger go through , since the new company will be one of the most powerful in the world . In another thread , the law firm representing the company proves that it's eager to cash in on the company's new economic success . Meanwhile , a power struggle between the two sons of an aging king in an unspecified Middle Eastern country ( though Saudi Arabia is obviously suggested ) has attracted the attention of the American government , operating through the CIA . America ( read American business ) has a vested interest in which of the king's sons succeeds him to the throne : It doesn't want the reform-minded eldest son , whose priorities will be building a country to benefit his own people ; it wants instead the younger son , who will continue to relegate his country to a cosy spot in America's hip pocket and take its orders directly from the president of the USA . And in the film's most chilling plot strand , we see how the struggle for oil feeds the radical Islam movement in the Middle East , providing young men with a feeling of brotherhood and righteousness in the face of a region they feel has turned its back on them in favor of big business and Western corruption . " Syriana " is tense , fast and furious . Following it can admittedly be somewhat exhausting , but if you pay very close attention to the first hour or so , as each story is introduced and the relationships between characters become clear , the second half of the movie is easier to digest . I disagree with other comments here that the characters aren't developed or that the acting is unimpressive . On the contrary , I think all of the actors create extremely nuanced , compelling characters , a challenging task given the fact that none of them are allowed more than a minute or so at a time to feed us information about themselves . A movie like this could easily fall prey to filling itself with a bunch of stock villains , all cocked eyebrows and facial mannerisms rather than full-bodied characterizations , and the fact that it avoids this is a tribute to both Gaghan and the cast . And hats off to the editor on this movie , who had perhaps the most daunting task of the year . 2005 has been full of terse , important films , fresh in their immediacy . There have been a small number of sensational , tough , thought-provoking films instead of a larger batch of more mediocre ones , as has been the case recently . " Syriana " is one of the best movies of the year : it's angry , yet it's not hopeless . I hope Americans see this movie . At this time of year , when people are trampling each other in malls in order to be first in line for Christmas sales , I hope they remember that the vast wealth of America frequently comes at the sake of people all over the world who will never have a fraction of the comfort those in our country take for granted .
