awfully	This movie is done on a sorta drug or crazy man vision . It is disturbing and just plain stupid . One thing it does well is reflect modern violent society . It shows how sick people and the media can be ; However , they make the lead characters into heroes instead of bad guys , which bothers me .
Something that rhymes with it .	This movie is garbage to be kind . Do not waste your money or time . I thought it was going to be like True Romance by reading the cover but , it turns into this weird Gen x film . They try to make GenX look like 60's children but in reality we are too busy moving from one crappy job to the next . There was no real story . I fast forwarded this movie in spots because it was so bad .
garbage , Why did my wife rent this ? I've seen better acting on wrestling	Contains Spoilers If it wins an award it is usually a boring social message movie that has some artistic flavor to it . E T , Raiders , and other true classics will always be beaten out by Philidaphia , Ghandi , etc . Well , this film is an . Halle Barry wins an award ! Maybe it should have been an adult movie award for her performance . I mean this film was like those clips you see from the Pay TV commercials for their pornos . Billy Bob has progressed in his film career from making one weird film to another , and I think he has topped it . If he can make a weirder film than this watch out . Oliver Stone would have to write and direct it . What bothers me , this film is supposed to be anti Racist . Being of Polish background , if they ever need a jerk character , someone stupid , or a disfunctional family ( like in this one ) they use a lot of Slavic last names . They just add a Ski to it , and it will win an award . What if they made characters like this for other groups , blacks , jews , gays etc would it be socially correct ? It seems Poles , Italians and Catholics get it all the time , and they have to show Crucifixs in the houses in these movies often . Pole's have some bad sterotypes , but this movie hits way beyond that . By the way how many Slavs live in the South ? The part that gets me is there is no social message ; for the lead character is a jerk whose stupid son who just did not get in the truck and leave kills himself . It seems every time Billy Bobs character finds himself in a bind , he becomes a hypocrite and hurts someone . He hates his son so he drives his son to suicide ; doesn't need his dad's anymore and sends him off to a very awful care home . Hates his job so he quits its , instead of trying to reform it . All of a sudden he is lonely , he does a 180 loves black people and gets laid . It reminds me of many people in life who do one thing and change too another when it is convenient for them . There is no real spiritual conversion of the person here . I guess it was maybe to shock us or send a social message , where I find neither . No shock with this film , I have been so bloated with messages of violence and sex on film . The sex scenes where there only to create a rating , and an excuse for making a borderline adult film . All they needed was that NWO music from Wrestling during the countless sex scenes , and bad lines like I change attitudes lets have sex . Or hey baby its getting bigger , don't stop etc . This film lacks any direction , depth or entertainment value . I'd rather watch Stallone in Cobra at least it's entertaining , and makes more sense than this one . Maybe they call this art , I gave it a one . I would respect it better if at least they made this a sex film than hiding it behind a social message . At least Porky's did not do that .
Why can not I give this movie a minus 1	I will use a Adam Sandler line to explain how I hated this film . In the same voice and tone as Adam did in Mr Deeds . You sick you sick . How could you ? Again , your sick your sick how could ? How could you make such a bad film . The movie has crotch style jokes . Sometimes and I say maybe sometimes such a joke is funny the first time , but not a entire movie . Again you sick you sick how could you Adam ? The preview shows the few funny parts , and the real joke is on us the viewer spending $9 dollars on Sandlers latest production . Makes the infamous Weekend at Burnies look like the classic Groundhog day or Caddy Shack . I give this film a one . Run do not walk . Run run away fast from this film .
The Terminal Movie	A terminal movie destine for mediocrity ; this is the perfect . Slow describes the pace , and the film never picks up . The acting , and directing is good , but with no story these attributes were wasted . This boring film must be fast forward or I would have shut it off . Awful movie , avoid this one with a passion
I fell asleep during this one	This film could cure sleep disorders , thats how bad it is . The story dragged , and the bad guy is not that scary . You will not even see this one on TBS reruns . This film made me wonder about Chuck film choices . He work on a real dog with this one .
Awful	I rented this movie with my girlfriend years ago . I liked the cover at the video store . Unfortuanately that and the name were the only good aspects of this film . The first 2 minutes were good , and the rest of this film is one horrible ride . If he UN arm inspectors found this movie it would be labeled a weapon of mass destruction . I remember watching this films years earlier with my dad ; I for got about it because the film was that bad and I only watched half of it . The second time I watched this insomnia cure the second half made me remember this film forever . At least this time I got to cuddle with my girlfriend . This film is incredibly awful , and will haunt your memory . Not too many films merit a
Watch this one on Fast Forward I did	I knew this film would be painful , but my wife rented it on 3 for $5 Monday to Wednesday . This film is like the Morphin Power Rangers , except Lara Croft is a power ranger of one . The movie's plot makes about as much sense as a Morphen Power Ranger show . Stupid would be a compliment for this film . What I really hate is how they copy Raiders of the Lost Ark . How could a producer mix Morphen Power Rangers with such a classic . What sick minds did this ? What is next ? Lawrence Welk and WWE wrestling . There should be a suicide warning with this film
Starts with and S and ends with a T you can guess what I think about this film ?	Spoiler This film is a grave dissapointment after watching Dawn of the Dead . Lower budget , no script , and unbelievable characters . No one could behave this way a survive . Drunk , rude , very unprofessional army , and un logical doctor , and a 2 dimentional Jamacian character that is written not well . I could not relate with any of the character unlike dawn 78 or 04 . What is with the 80's Miami vice feel to it . Maybe if they had Mike Thomas and D Johnson I would have like it more . Just some gross out effect it the end that did not look believable . Even more unbelievable is how the Zombies got in the bunker . I hate this film . When their is no room in hell the dead will be forced to watch this movie . Rent Isthar it's a better film . At least Isthar is scary even if that was not it's intention . .
This film is awful	Well , I do not rate too many films a 1 , but this film sure is . I did not like anything about this film . Bad story , and the acting is not as bad as with some of the other Noris movie , but its not that good , and the ending too is awful . Well , its hard to sit through this one . Avoid at all costs .
A one I do not rate to many movie a one	This film is awful , the only part in it I remember is a guy melts . This stinker , which is direct to video , which should give you clue how bad it is , uses the Death Wish name for some unsuspecting fool , like my self , to rent it and be victimized . Thus making me a vigalantie towards the makers of this criminal act . No story , very little Charly , even less of a budget , and some stupid crime scenes equal a . Try watching test patterns they got to be better than this .
Truly Awful	Spoiler ! ! Another dream type film like Vanilla Sky ; just as awful . This movie confuses the viewer . It was in and out of reality . I do not like movies like this . There were some give a ways in the movie , but mostly this film was very confusing . I would not recommend this movie to anyone . Do not waste your time or money . Hollywood should come up with some better story lines .
bad	Over rated , if you expect a scare this movie will bore you instead . The movie is to bouncy , and will give you a headache . I hope Hollywood will not copy this format and make more cheapo's like this . When I spend 8 . 50 I would like to see a movie that doesn't look like my neighbour made it .
this movie is a stinker	This film is very by the numbers , sappy , with 2 dimentinal acting , wimpy people , with the typical stupied higher up managers . Everyone else in this movie is either to stupied to solve this case involving the bone collector . Except Denzel and I think its the country star Judd . What happens is the crime lab and a room of detectives should be fired for gross incompetents and Denzels can grab historical information and answer for clues as if he's psychic , and I think ashly judd ( I could be wrong ) can go into a room with no training and find clues as if she is robo cop . The ending is so predictable you can guess how this one comes out .
My wife rented this movie help !	My wife rented this movie help ! I would not have rented this film . My wife made me watch the whole movie and I suffered just like the victims in this film . Where too begin ! The film quality looks like a hand held camera , or camera phone . Yikes , the acting looks improvish ! The story is just shock value . Has been actors like Hooper , Madison and Rober Carridine who need the work are there just to suck you in like the victims at the ranch . Huge plot holes . Why would the bad guys give the forced worker a chainsaw ? I would be a very deranged victim and would have used the chainsaw . Stupid ! I give this film one for their is no minuses for the rating board . Soon to be in the 99 cent buy bin in a video store near you . Don't walk Run away from the box or face my fate . The crap is like the horror movie videodrome the real horror is not the movie but watching it . O the horror of being bored too death .
Too Long ! ! ! !	Too long , and not much of a story . There is scenes in this film , that one ask what does this have to do with the story . Good acting will go only so far , and with out a story the film dies . Do not even rent this one .
This is just plain awful ! Quit while you can save face .	Steven is packing on the pounds . This is one movie that should of never been made . This movie will kill his career . He did not even do his usual martial arts in the movie ; it was left up to the other actors . I can see why , he really has let himself go . He will be doing direct to video movies next or info commercials . He tries to be so politically correct while other movies are more real life . He really should find a new career ; I guess teaching in a dujo is out of the question unless he finally controls his increasing weight problem . This movie was like a rap video and made as much sense . Even the action scenes looked sloppy and one of the scenes was a rip off from the movie Soldier . Stegall is a has been like Chuck Norris , who can't do more than TV or Total Gym commercials , or even Jean Claude Van Damme , what has he done , he doesn't even do info commercials . Maybe Stegall should invest in the Total Gym . Don't waste your money , wait for video cheap days .
Boring	Taped this late night movie when I was in grade 11 , watched it on fast forward . I sugest you do the same . I though it would be and action film , but went to a cort tv type movie . In the end it fits in with the early 70's social activest type films . Glad I missed that era .
A movie must have a story ?	A movie must have a story ? I can not find one in this film . I like seeing all the lovely different locations of the United States ; this is the only positive element in a confusing film . Why is this film strange ? Where is the story ? Why was it even made ? Do not waste your time . Take a walk , go out on a date , enjoy life it is too short to watch this film . Avoid at all costs
A Canadian Stinker	This is another of John Candy's bombs . For such a talented actor , he did so many bad films . This film does not make Canada look good . I was insulted at how stupid this film portrayed Canadians and Americans . The problem is there are people on both sides of the border that behave like this film . The thing is this film was written by a Canadian . Is this what he thinks of his fellow Canadians ? Canadians always seem to write good scripts and this is what this film is lacking . The problem is the people who made this film show how silly Canadians can be .
2	This is another predictable action film , with a story done by the numbers . The typical mission impossible beginning , a plot twist in the middle , and the climatic ending . The other down fall to this film is Wesly Snipes lack of acting , he acts emotionalist , with a stone cold look through out this film ; maybe if he plays bad guys he would do better . His demeanor is more like a harden killer , bad guy etc . The part that bothers myself the most is Snipes represents the U N , when did they ever have power to do anything .
This film is bad , awful , don't watch	Well , I rented this film with my girl friend , and dad . I thought thisfilm would be cool . This is one of those 70's films , with a socialmessage , like Stegal's on Deadly ground and others . This filmhas a message and no story . What one see's in this film is 1People shooting melons , that has to be a film first . 2 Charlietalking a lot . 3 A bad guy who is one of dumbest in action history , with half the FBI looking for him he stays in the area to huntCharlie . The only good part , was during the gun fight Bronsonsays " Let's get this over with I got work to do " Don't rent , watch onlate night TV , leave this dog alone .
If you watch this film where the title doesn't sound cheese ball enough you deserve to endure this turkey	The only reason I did not give this film a 1 , is the beginning . After that , this film is bad as the title sounds . Out of desperation for entertainment I rented this one , believing the last sequel was the true ending . Minus the stupid story which drags this series on like Jason himself who just does not die there is many other weak points . What bothers me more is the low , low , production budget . I know the other films were done on low budgets , but todays low budget films look like I filmed it with my dad's camcorder . Over bright , video looking etc . Over acting , and extra plot twists make this film look like a low budget Show Case original ( that is a low budget Canadian cable channel ) . Awful computer animated special effects , could they get any more phony . The little creature running around described in one word cheap . The music is identical to Show Case's . This film barley rates a . Die Jason . . . Please just die !
Better than TJ Hooker	This guy is better than TJ Hooker . This guy does not jump on car windows , like TJ , he kicks threw them . Other than that this film is lamer than the 80-81 Winnipeg Jets . Not much of a story , but the budget did not help . I like the karate , but the acting was sad . I would suggest this film for someone I did not like .
Yuk . . . I hated this film	Yuk . . . . . . I hated this film . I know this movie is supposed to be sad . Ford's life was one of a guy who killed someone he befriended , and in a dirty way . I wonder why Ford thought people would think his action would be one of a hero . The lighting is dim and entwined with depressing dialog , which makes for ickey and messy film . The directing and script creates the mess of a life these people endured . Plays where Ford reenacted the sick deed of shooting Jessie in the back is painful to watch . Jessie and the clan were negative towards one another displayed in their self centered paranoid criminal lives . Gut wrenching too watch . What comes around goes around is the enduring theme for the viewers to watch . So enduring I fell asleep for twenty minutes during the film . Too enduring for me especially during a cold Drury Febrauary day . I give this film a . Like watching a slow train wreck of Ford's life . The end is ironic .
7 . 7 what is wrong with you voters !	My wife picked this one ! Boring , more boring , and even more boring describes this dog of a film . Why most the scenes where even shot is a mystery as they added nothing to the story . It shows one the different class structure which still exists today . I am glad I did not waste my money and see it in the theatre . The previews were deceiving ; it made it look like the game clue . I thought from the previews it would of been more exciting . I was sure wrong . Avoid this one at all costs .
Little bounce if any !	The Big Bounce , has little bounce if any at all ! All right , more like a big thud . Lame , and a bit more . Ok , extremely lame . This movie has this barter between Owen Wilson , and the lead lady . There is no spark or Jame Garnerism in the film . The story gets across as a cheesie 1970's film where everyone runs around , gets upset , and the plot twist conclusion is a thud , instead of a bounce . Owen Wilson bounced out this film with the money and never looked back . The producers bounced a bunch of big names , and give the viewer very little to watch . I bounced this movie quickly back to the Video store . This movie bounced out of the theater quickly . I give this movie 2 bounces out of 10 .
This movie is bad don't rent it .	Chuck was losing it when he made this one . Flimed in Canada , and on a low budget with out a story , I ended up disliking this one . I like action films and found it hard to sit through this one . It had Al Waxman from CBCs King of what ever , and Bruno form the Beach Comers . Any over the age of 30 from Canada know this to be a bad cast . All they needed was Mollys reach . Sorta Spoiler ! At least Bruno gets kill , but that does not save this film .
This movie is crap !	This movie is crap . I saw this with my wife at the drive-in , I forget what the second feature was , maybe Planet of the Apes . I remember how bad this film is . They try and throw some shock , good actors , and direction with this film . If there is no story you got crap . Roberts was just annoying doing her bit , Pitt had no material to work with , and James had a crappy villain role . Did I mention this movie was crap ? Oh I did ! Well if you like crap watch The Mexican , but if not flush this one down the toilet where it belongs . Flush , I give this film a . You might need some draino , or liquid plumber to flush this film down the toilet .
Some movies don't age well .	This movie doesn't age well . It is dated , with a 70's social commentary . Anyone under 40 will not get it , and that includes me . With the way crime is , no one laughs at justices or feel sorry for criminals anymore . It is like saying a James Bond plot is to unbelievable after . No one jokes about drinking and driving or drugs anymore . I guess I found the movie long , except for one or two scenes .
Sappy	I gave this film a 2 , and I watched about half of this sappy film . The Rocky who over comes great obstacles films ie Mask , Karate Kid , and the Jessie Owens story , have been done over and over to the point of over kill . Like action films which have the reputation of seen it , did it , done it before approach , this film has the originality of Rambo 6 . Maybe , the movie industry should go back to 1970's ending where everyone dies , or things don't work out , for a change . I love plot twists or a memorable scene I have never witness before , but to do a film where I can predict to the last detail what will happen next is boring . Maybe , thats why people cheer for the bad guys in wrestling now because of the sake of change , the Hulk Hogans , with their white hats on , is a event of the 80's . Like heavy metal , and Rambo this film belongs in the 1980's .
This movie is awful	Spoilers ! ! My wife picked this movie , and now I will pick the next one . You will need prozac after watching this depressing tripe . I know this movie has a social message etc , but I believe that gives the producers no excuse to destroy reason . I do not want to be mean to Hopkins , but how can Hopkins play a black man from two black parents . Genetically this is not possible . With this reasoning they could of had Jackie Chan playing Hopkins role . The reverse would be having a black child from two white parents . When this plot twist finally arrived , I said to myself " I don't get it . It's not possible . " Hopkins did play a good self absorbed in love with himself University Prof . I guess the film was trying to say that race made him that way . I think he was just a jerk to begin with being so selfish . It is hard to have any sympathy for this person seeing that he was ashamed of his family and community and wanted nothing to do with them . Usually , people have a sense of comfort with their family or community . If a person runs from one's family , there has be some dysfunctionalism . Nicole Kidman plays white trash to the tee and no one wants to see this . I have to put up with this at work daily . Ed harris plays a wacko . Everyone blames their problems on other people and takes no responsibility for their own actions . Everyone believes that it is okay to behave in a selfish manner . I had no sympathy for any of the characters .
Yuk	What a disappointment after the first one . I guess when they put part 2 on a movie it usually is bad . Well , this one is choppy , and by the end of the film one can not believe they sat through this . I argued with my friend Fred about this one , but he could not change my mind . I found the Karate , which is trade mark for his films , not that great . Well , I guess we can see why he's on TV now , the steam started to run out in his film career . Good luck Chuck , I hate seeing you in Turkeys like this one .
This movie is so bad you know not to watch it !	This movie is so bad you know not to watch it , and my wife rented it not me . After Sunday dinner , at my mothers . my dad and I watched it . I could not believe that someone said Washington should have won an award for this film . A stupid story , how could this guy come to life ; this is like the Holldeck in Star Treck . Why did they keep using such a dangerious device . The best part of the movie was the credits . I though it would never end .
Stupid Dot com	I hate horror movies that evolve into a waste of time . The plot becomes too unbelievabe , and gets across as stupid . This film starts out all right , and is a cross between 8mm and Videodrome . The idea of a virus invading the mind threw the optic nerve , and attacking the eletormagnetic impulses in the mind is scary , and I hope will never become a reality . Instead of following up on this scary idea , the movie become too unbelievable . It contains idiotic scenes where the viewer says to himself you got to be kidding ! I wish I saved the $15 for my wife and myself , but it has been a awful summer for movies .
Worser than the trailer .	Worser than the trailer . I know good idea bad English . Well I watched this stinker off of pay per-view . If Lost Boys 2 were a normal non pay preview movie I would have fast forward it . A long movie , dragged out in spots , predictable plot , with a predictable anti climax ending . To further insult the viewer was some of the lamest humor in the history of direct too video movies . Film in B C I knew no way is the location California , the producers could have tried a little harder the mask that fact . A 3 surfboards out of 10 . I like the police station scene or the rating would have been worse . A fake copy of the real lost boys . If one wonders what ever happen to Corey Fieldman watch this movie and you will find out what happen to him . Corey is the real Lost Boy being in this stinker . Even the special effects were bad . I mean bad ! Did I say I did not like this film .
Awful	I watched half of this film on TBS , and rented it to watch the other half . This is a weird mystery , that is more like another one of those , boring TV movies . I should not have rented this one . Well , avoid the mistake .
Could they let this series die please	Does the film industry have so little originality , that it must kill a 20 year old film series with beating this dead horse to the point of patheticness . No story , the actors did well considering this film , and a film which no one really cares what happens to the actors in it . I wonder if they will make an Alien 5 , and if they do maybe it will get to compete with Rambo 8 , Jaws 12 , Friday the 13th part32 ( Jason works at McDonalds ) , and other sequels that should just die like the evil Alien in this film
Like theTV show	I only watch 23 minutes of the movie . I will give it back to my boss tomorrow . Just like the TV show . I can watch a half hour show , but not a whole movie . More of the same old same old . I think they are trying to milk the series for all its worth . I can not give a fair review , but I was not overly excited . donuts for this one . I would rather watch Old School or Semi-Pro for 2 hours than this . To TV ish . At least I did not have to pay for it . Reminds me of the X files movie . No one went to see X Files either . Go see Drillbit Taylor instead . I like Owen Wilson . Maybe even rent Wedding crashers . The Simpson did it even last a week in the theater .
Saw it on the space network	This is at my guess a good book , but translates into a bad movie . Low budget , and good acting make this film a 3 . What happens with the Roaches is interesting , and thats about it . The ending is disappointing . My wife hates this film so much she makes me change the channel when ever its on .
Ganster movies have improved over the years	We have come a long way with shows like the Soprano's or movies like Goodfellows . This movie is cornball , and unrealistic , compared to todays shows . I wish this film is remade , a good real life story . Bronson does a good role , but unlike wine this film ages badly .
An art house film .	My wife and a our friends decided to see Funny Games . I came along . The Golb movie house shows more art house style films . You bet your saving Funny Game is a art house movie . Funny Games twists and changes in the film made me wonder if the film was just a demented dream . Slow , pace kills the movie , and the country club killers behavior was just to weired , annoying and not scary . Two guys with white gloves who look like they play tennis is not scary . I think a baseball bat would have been enough to take care of the antagonists . The tennis killers could never survive in a bad neighborhood . My wife liked the move and gave Funny Game a 6 . I will give the film a 3 . is fair . If you are a horror fan do not see this movie . Funny Games played on horror movie fan where the game is played on you . Not a horror film .
This movie is awful	Spoiler Big budget , special affects , etc . where great , but this movie has no story . 1 . How could John Conners be born if they erased all the future events . 2 . Watch Linda Hamalton run around like some 60's activist , not real . 3 . The black sciencetist who suddenly decides to help them with Skynet , how sappy , and kills himself . 4 . The kid in the movie is annoying , you wish the Terminator got him . 5 . If Skynet did not invent the chip it would have never existed . This story is too melodramatic that it kills the science fiction end , and creates some sappy feel good movie . Not for me , or any science fiction fan .
Disturbing and sick	If you suffer mentally for example from anxiety this is not the movie for you . I must say I felt some anxiety from it , I was under a lot of stress from work at the time and it replaced the work related stress with the movie's tension . The film is stressful or unpleasant to watch . I give credit to the Italian director for creating evil , for evil is unpleasant and destructive . For evil would go after a dysfunctional family and rip it apart . Rape , murder , personal torture and the vile of evils quest is to destroy man . A movie that would disrupt sleep ; however the movie is so far off the real case from city confidential on A & E . The movie isn't even close to the real life story . The story is a scam or lie . I would give the movie a 7 for showing what is evil ( ie the director ) The story with this ending lowers the mark and the acting . High mark for family fights as good acting , but seeing the Jerry Springer show regularly at the local mall and working with dysfunctional coworkers and people is unpleasant like watching dog poop for an hour . Viewer enjoyment I would give it a one . Screaming yelling , not very pleasant , this movie is a 3 . I am not that morbid to enjoy this .
Aviod this one	I gave this movie a 3 , and the shoot out at the end is the only reason it did not get a 2 . The story line is hard to follow , choppy , and make little scence . James Caan did not look to healthy in this film , and finding him playing a heavy in a shoot out is quite unbelievable . The characters were very unlikly bad guys , and why would some women who is about ready to give birth have security like the president . Not to ruin the story , would a mobster really use a security firm to watch over someone instead of his own people . Well if you can follow this story it reminds me of one of thoes low budget 70's films that did not make alot of sence . This is a b movie .
Tortured is what happened when I watched this stinker .	Why did they make this movie ? Tortured was what happened when I watched this stinker ! My wife and I rented this stinker off Video on Demand . When you rent a V O D you end up watching the whole thing . This movie could be the new weapon against terror . I would tell the guards anything after watching this movie 2 or 3 times ! The only reason we rented this movie was Cole from Dazed and Confused was in this one . Tortured will torture Cole's acting career . No story and done on a low budget is the jest of this film . A straight for V O D for you . Please do not rent this movie a . Well when the weather is an - 30 you try to hard to find stuff to do at home . Well the Pizza we ordered was OK . mmm Pizza .
This one is pretty bad .	Spoilers ! ! I hate this one , but it is better than the others after this , they just keep getting worse . I hope Gibson has the smarts to stay out of the next one . A lot of the same with humor , ie the toilet , kids , etc . How much farther can we watch their relationship evolve . Drugs , bad guys why South Africa ! I found that unbelievable , maybe South American , some country in the Golden Triangle would have made the script better . It seems the late 80 ' early 90's had the blond bad guys ie Die Hard , the mighty Ducks play Ice Land Gary Busey in the last Weapon , etc . Hollywood repeats itself over . This one with a similar story has to go over the top . The attacking the police , the beach condo scene , and the fight at the end , and way over the top Gibson's girlfriend killed by the copper attack were too much . Like many part 2's , they get worse , and 3 or 4 in this series picks up speed downhill .
There is bad movies then there is really bad movies	This film is really bad . There is laps in the story where the viewer wonders for what benefit is this scene added in . The characters , all of them , are extremely unlikeable . The fat guy , and the rapper wanna be could they not die soon enough . No one likes these people in school , and later on in college . Who cares about the fat guys sex life . The girls where ugly in this film , I could find better at the local bar . Maybe , that is why they hooked up with the losers in this film . The effects where ok , along with the ending . There was way too much for shadowing for the ending . What this film needed was another re-write . It could have been made very scary if they wanted it too be , and a litte more believable .
boring	This film is boring , I gave it a 3 . The idea of the dream world being entered by another individual to solve some problem , is undoubtably overdone . Nightmare on elm street , Dream scape and I missed a few film here , defines a formula done over and over . This film is sort of a cross between Silences of the lambs meets dreamscape ; which is the strongest attribute of the film . One dream world in a movie is similar to any another . In the end , found this film similar to the movie Dream scape
Should not have even mentioned that I rented the stupid movie	The beginning of the movie is surprisingly okay , but it goes down hill from there on . A low budget Italian film , which needs another rewrite , and better acting . The director did a decent job with the small budget , and actors for this movie . He set a mood , and tries to artistically convey some of the scenes . Like many other low budget horror films , they add a lot of cheesey to it ie . gory effects and nude swimming . In the end , I hate to admit I watched this garbage , and should have avoided it like a pack of Zombies , but boredom made me rent it .
Social commentary , not that funny !	This film has a couple funny moments , but that is it . It has a social message , about adult immaturity . Maybe , that is why this film loses its humor with this social epidemic ; we see it on Ricki Lake , in the mall , at work , and regrettably at home . People have no shame in public , and fight about stupid things . There is no shock value of this , and that is how it tries to entertain . It is like watching an hour and a half of Jerry Springer . For me 2 minutes is what I can take . The dad had a good message in the end about being an adult and working on things . .
Crap , garbage , the toilet , awful , bad etc .	Great series , bad film , if it where not for the series this would be the one and only film . When I was 10 my friend Dwight , and sister went to Garden city to see it . I was excited , and thought of people melting , goo oozing around , and weird stuff . What did we see a group of people flying around a cloud for 2 hours . Boring , the only thing that keep me awake was this stupid kid who went to the bathroom 6 times and another 2 to the snack bar . It was like doing the wave everytime we had to get up . The kid was the only highlight in this awful movie . Please avoid this one
Anchor garbage	Stupid comedy done well is funny . Stupid comedy poorly executed is stupid . This film tastes as flat as a 3 week open bottle of coke in the fridge . Most people in the theater laughed , because they expected a funny film , but the the laughter was contrived not the pee your pants laughter of a funny film . Will took the money and ran . A couple more films like this and Will will become another Chevy Chase , or maybe Will will be just a good support actor with performance like " Old School " The supporting cast comedy adds nothing , and the only gem of this film is the cameos of Vince Vhaughn , Luke Wilson , Tim Robbins , and Ben Stiller . Unlike the supporting cast these seasoned actors know facial expressions , mannerism etc . Charisma goes a far way , but this script should of been turned down by Will or Will will become another Burt Reynolds , Cheve Chase , and John Tavolta who excellently act but kill their careers performing in b rate movies . Will should get a better agent , or read his own scripts , don't kill your careers for Will can make people laugh and that is special . Stay away
Saw this one during horror week on tv .	This dog won't hunt is a saying down south , and I will abbreviate on this saying . This horror movie won't scare . This film is lame more lame than Doug Smail missing on a break away . ( All Jet fans know what I am talking about ) Anyways , this film has about 2 scary moments in it , and the ending is predictable , and disappointing . I would rather watch PBS , than this movie again .
Stale rider	This film is like eating a stale donut ; it is a long and difficult experience . A rip off of the movie Shane , and a bad one at that . This is the worst Eastwood western bar none ! I wish the preacher got shot in the first fifteen minutes to save me from the horrible experience . It shows that budget and good acting can not fix a horrible script . This movie should be put down , like the dog it is .
Pancakes	Well , that was funny if you seen the movie , but that is about it forthis stinker . The scary part is I spent 17 dollar for my wife andmyself to see this stinker . Low budget , no script etc this was comparable to a 70's college movies . The only good part is themissleading trailer . Except for a few laughs I would give this filma 3 . There is some social message about helping people out andhow their problems become your problems . Simple solutions willnot fix them .
This film helped kill action movies	In 86 , Cobra came out , and many claim that this movie was the end of action films ! Wrong , Raw deal was ! Bad script , acting , and an ending that looks like a made for TV film make this a stinker . By the end you wish they killed Arnold . Good thing he did not say " I'll be back " for a sequel to this film .
Over rated	I heard about the legendary violence in this film and rented it , back in the 80's when I was about 16 to watch it . I heard it was banned in England , so I thought watch out . Times change , and with horror movies where peoples heads get cut off ( Friday the 13th ) , bodies get ripped apart ( Aliens ) this movie is tame . They could show most of this film on prime time . I do not know what it was like in 71 , but the envelope is pushed way futher now . Baned in England ? Why ? It did not make the people in Scotland or where ever look good in the film , maybe thats why . It has the same effect as Deliverence did to the South . They never lived it down .
L - - - leftwing as they come !	If you are a Liberal or leftwing this film will be great . We all know Oliver Stone's view point , and he never would vote for Bush . The movie kind of leaves the cold war part out . The war of the West against Moscow . When the Sandinestans took over in neighboring Nic this place became a hot spot during the cold war . Communism was gobbling up one or two countries every 5 years . Carter was out after such a result and Regan came to power . The west suppoerted many dictators , they now never would , in this fight against communism . I believe this movie only show half the story , of how brutial and oppresives governments can be , and left the cold war aspects out . The rebels were ill equiped , badly trianed , and portrayed as old western style people . If my memory sever me right the Soviets must a gave over 300 million to the rebels , and I can not remember what the States gave to the other side . These rebels shot down choppers , and had idology , education and suported villiage to try a win the harts and mind in this war , and countroled parts of El Salvador . Rebels were brutial with kidnappings , and other attacks . Funny how when it is not shocking to bark at the west that no one cares about this place and its problems . This film is hard to like for there is no one to like in this film . No would behave like the people in this film in a dictatorship , everyone would be too scared . Yuppie style or art house film
Ran out of ideas after the first one .	Harlod ( SCTV's Moe Green ) took the money and ran with this script . After writing , Vacation , Caddy Shack , Ground Hog Day , and Stripes one expects better . All the good ideas died with Analyze this . The acting and directing is excellent , but nothing can save this script . There is a couple funny parts , but this film never delivers . Over time this film we be forgotten , and rightfully so . I give it a . Don't even rent it .
C R A P	Ever watch a film and it did not jive right or had no flow . I can not name what is wrong , but you can feel it . This films lack of continuity is a model for other films to avoid . This film starts out well , and slowly loses steam , instead of building up tension . The characters were awful , especially the cop , and the not very attractive female lead . Why would Bruce get involved with her in the first place puzzles me . This is no Fatal Attraction ! Rent Fatal instead . I give this a .
Forgetable movie .	No matter how strong a cast , without a script , the story falls apart . Russel , and Gibson perform strongly , but have too little to work with . One word can describe this film , boring ! I could not rewind the tape fast enough , and get it out of the vcr . Do not rent it , even if there is nothing else watch .
What an ordeal will this series ever end !	Spoiler Long , dull , repetitive tv crap . This PC diatribe with all its social messages . You see them throughout this film . They always claimed the right believes in big bad government , but after watching this its the left , and its hippie 60's people . This show is part of the hippie culture . You see the bad system , and bad government , with the people banding together . Ohh please , we have seen this before . Everyone and every thing is one big misunderstanding . How often do we have to see the very strong mother , as a drummer . How often do they have to add her drum playing for the story . I got the point 3 shows earlier , and how does it add to the script . Why is everyone in the government cold , evil , we have seen this before , and kills people all the time . When does the government kill people all the time ? Guys late with the coffee I guess we got to off him . Let's pick on Red Necks too ; there is always bad people with plaid shirts around . Why do all aliens have to be blond like the little girl ? The alien self help discussion group knows more and has more insight than the government experts . All the people gathering around at the end all we need was a campfire and songs for a big love in ; we watch like all these episodes for the little girl to get beamed up what a rip off . Why is always a child leading the way ? There is more drama in this than special effects , or science fiction . They give you the odd alien shot after 1 half hour of relationship talking . I get the point already ; those anal probes hurt . No cities get blotted , or people melted or something new or exciting added to this already one time done too many story . Don't be TAKEN of your time watch this rubbish . My wife totally disagrees with me , she liked it . My wife says it is more of a chick flick .
Poorly made	This film stinks , and it is the worst of the dirty Harry saga . The beginning is entertaining , and the robbery scene is great , but the rest of the film is slow , and lame . They have a foot chase scene which kills this film , its so long you could go to the bathroom , and then get a sandwich , and when you come back it would still be on . The running around , the arguing , and listening about how bad police management gets a bit much . To top it off the female co star is the worst , she kills this film , there is nothing to like about her , she makes you want to cheer for the bad guys . After the viewer suffers the middle part of this awful film , nobody cares about the conclusion , which becomes very anti climatic . It looks like they did not have a script , and forced this film to copy the success of the first 2 .
I give it a 3	Do not get me wrong this is not a bad film , and it is not directed or acted in a bad mannor . Then why did I give it a 3 ? I have seen so many reditions of this type of film , over and over and over again , that it looks like a by the book 80'S movie . Go see Beverly Hills cop and you can understand the principle . Anyways , this fish out of water flick is over kill . They try and chance the story line with a social message thinly put in . Problem is we also seen this in every 90's movie made , over and over and over . By the number bad guys , and disagrement by the lead actors , a predictable ending . To many skits I seen in other movies made this a bad film , it would have been a good film 15 year ago , but this film is not fresh .
Not good !	Not a good movie ! Mr Woodcock is another soon to be forgotten comedy . Comedy is the hardest medium to perform . What is funny and why something is funny is hard to describe . Action or horror is easier to describe it just is . Mr Woodcock takes a funny idea , but makes the humor too cruel . A funny joke for 2 minutes , but not for a entire movie . The movie is like a bad joke which drags on too long with a bad delivery . The preview make the movie look way better . The preview shows the first two minutes which makes the movie look like a good joke . My wife rented the movie because of the preview , and I was suspicious . Regrettably my suspicious were right . . A joke of a movie in a bad way .
I'm getting sleepy more sleepy watching this film .	This film will drive you too sleep , I stayed up to watch this one with my wife . This show should be called boredom instead . B actress katie Holms could destroy her carrier like Michael J Fox did in his youth if she is not carefull . I liked Teaching miss who ever , that was a great film . Turn down the money next time katie or you will be like John Candy getting bad role after bad role .
A solid 3	Some people will calls this film a chick flick , I prefer to say it is geared for a teenage women audience . With this in mind I fould it awful . Too sappy , predictable and reminds me of the low budget Bartell Drive inn movies . The all girl band headed out too the beach is toooo predictable . Their characters at best get across as cardbord . The tough girl etc . Even for an escapist movie , where the viewer turn his or her brain off , this film's script is too thin . I watched this with my wife late night , and could not care less for the conclusion . I left not really wanting to know about what happens too the band , or their love interest . For a film I found soaps have better wrighting . This film probably was done quick , on the cheap and it shows . Stay away unless your only other choice is Isthar at the video store . 3 Out of 10
3 . is right	This movie ranks low with Weekend at Burnie's . The author who said he wished that there was a product that would make bad comedies like this vapoorise is right . Only reason I gave this movie a 3 was the excellent acting of Christopher Walken as the J man . Why was this movie made could be a comedy ? Most of the film is just not funny . I was looking for a joke that was never there . Was the script better or did the actors just took the money and ran ? At least it was a double feature at the drive in . At $7 . 50 that's 3 . 75 a movie better than a video rental . At least the first feature was shrek 2 , which my wife will review . check for the review on my movie list . This movie is atypical 2nd feature at the drive in . . Miss this one . Mike
sick	Spoilers ! My wife did not appreciate this movie at all . This has got to be right up there with Boogie Nights . All they needed was Dino Velvet from 8 mm to produce . The beginning was the dorky guy's next door fantasy . The blond would not give him the time of day in real life . Then the movie turns into sick humor , ie . the lap dance with the neighbor . Then it just tries to get shocking with making a porn movie in the school . I thought that it could of been a romantic comedy , but it was more of a shock movie . The only part that was good was the porn producer . His role was believable . My wife thought it was a total brain dead movie .
I hate this film	I appreciate a think positive feel good about yourself film , but this is too much . In the end they look like a bunch of loonies . This film is one of those finding yourself 70's plots , I know the film is made in 1980 . A lot more of Clint and girl friend movie . This movie is a .
The more I watch this film the more I hate it !	Why is Morgan freeman in this ? Why is Costner in this , he sounds like John Wyane . The romance and the story drags with these 2 actors . Christan Slater in this you got to be joking ! Worst casting ever . My sister tells me she loves this film , and I bought it for her , and I do not think she ever watched it more than once . Forget this film .
Why did they make this one ?	Number 3 , why ? How far can they wear out this formula ? I started routing for the bad guys and maybe this way the series would be finito . Joe Pesci plays an annoying character . It makes me wonder what he is like in real life . This is a typical shootout hollywood ending . It is so predictable . The humor between the two main actors is getting old .
Great preview = bad movie	When I saw the preview I thought it should be a great car movie . Problem is the preview looks great , but the movie is awful . There is a couple of good scenes in the movie , one involving a truck , and the other which I saw on the preview . Give me a L and a , and a m and a e and you got lame . This film is so lame if it were a dog they would shoot it . The casting is terrible , all the thieves look like they came out of a boy band . No one could hijack a truck the way they do it with out every member being squashed . Hey , a small Honda is not my fantasy racing machine . Maybe people shoot lower for what they expect in a car . The lead girl in the film looks homely . Watching a car on nitro go in a straight line does not excite me into believing that is great driving . I see that everyday next to the highway I live by . Except for two stunts in the film there is no furious car chasing in this film . The script is a bunch of situational scenes put together with no overall story to tie the film together . This film is so bad its not worth renting .
Saw it on TBS	This movie is Mc Cloud before the TV show aired . I remember Mc Cloud when I was a little boy , and saw this movie last year on TBS , and bingo this is where they got the idea from . Not one of Eastwoods better films , on that how many hours of Eastwood , where they show all his movies . He does beat up the dad from " Happy Days " in this movie . Either a movie with age gets better like wine , or turns into vinegar . This one turns into vinegar
Why can't TV make better movies ?	Why can't TV make better movies ? No wonder the the big 4 networks lose viewers to TBS , HBO , and A & E . Their movies entertain , have originality to them , and have fresher writing . Another leftwing the US government is bad conspiracy movie where the media is the only true hero . This makes me sick , because I wonder how many times the media has destroyed careers , caused riots , ruin investigations , and caused deaths by unethical reporters . We need a media , but some of these tv movies are like a commercial for the nightly news . Conspiracy movie of the big bad gov and CIA have been around for 30 years ; they need a new angle . After some of these crazy government conspiracy theories , people have become leery of these stories . The same formula , an Alan Alda type hero , a sex interested for ratings , a stupid Frank Burns right wing guy who does something stupid and gets killed , and as always CIA plot , everyone has to be good looking , idealistic , and all the world's problems simply can be blamed on the US and the government they support etc etc etc . . . Nothing new here , they even try to do the Vietnam flashback imagery , with that same Stones song used in everyone of these movies . War dirty , and evil nothing new there , except they get a big name b actor , Goldblum , to make you waste your time watching this crap . I think the ending left little for the viewer .
Dreadfully Awful	Being Canadian I have seen many made in Canada film development tax ride off films . This is one of them with 1 a low budget 2 Questionable acting 3 choppy sound etc 4 replace story with shock . Well , I rented 3 films for 5 . 95 and the price make me feel not to be bad about this wate of time , I would avoid this one if I had to wacth it again . This is a twisted film but with todays special effects nudity etc and sick stories every where there is no shock value at all , I see more watching HBO on cable . Sad comentary for how low we have sunk down too .
Low budget	Low budget , wooden acting , and sappy make the basics for this film . Not awful as other Norris movies , but it is a stinker . The Karate fight at the end is ok , but the rest is boring . The Karate is not that much special now with all the other action films , and the part with his foster son is over the top sappy . Well not bad with what they had to work with .
I thought the Cannonball Run was awful !	You think one would learn , after the first film . A lot of people got sucked into watching the first one , and it did have a good trailer . This time my friend Dwight rented part 2 , when I went with my parents to his house , we watched this one in the basement and I thought maybe it could be better than the first . I few good car chase scenes , but this one is a real over the top film . Too , over the top , it is like one of those Jim Carey films . If Jim Carey was around they would have him in the cast too . I give this one a 3 or .
Boring why does TV have to ruin good ideas	The first 15 minutes were good , but the usually low budget , too much dioluge , and sappy made for TV quality . I watched 2 showa and the ending I could not stand the boredom this film produces . Who would have gussed in 87 that the Cold War would be over in 2 years . I guess when they open a Mc Donalds in Moscow the signs where there !
Raders this show was not	I remember being a kid , waiting for summer to be over to watch this show . Hey , the commerical made this show another Raiders of the Lost Ark . In the end , this was another cheap telivision rip off . Maybe , the build up was too much . I found the stories too long , and draged out . The action too tvish . The lead actor was no Harrison Ford . Maybe , if I watched this show as a adult I would like it better , but I only watch a couple of them , and half the movie . My friend Marco liked it , but I found the series to be a big disapointment . In the end , the show did not last that long either . Is it even on in reruns . I can not believe I even rememberd it . I guess it was because it was such a bad memory .
Bad Bad Bad	Warning spoiler This movie is one where you love or hate it , and I hate this one . My wife considers this film " one of the most stupidest films I ever seen " . We remember it , because it was our third date in collage , and after the film we decided to start going out together as a couple . This movie moves back and forth from Tim Robbens life as different people , which is haunted by these demons . We find at the end the struggle is in his mind , and the tricks the minds plays when one is dieing . Except for a scene where this head shakes at this party , I jumped out of my seat to my girlfriends delight , this film pack very little punch .
What a dog of a movie !	Spoilers This movie is like an ugly prom date , a very unpleasent experience ! They would say , but the movie has great personality , a selling point for its missgivings . I like the sic fi concepts , but this film is for the hippie times . The 60's type cult zombi people , and how Heston dies , with the children around is too much . It seems movie from this time area always needed children , and negative ending where the hero dies . The part that gets me most , at least when the hero dies it should be a shock , like in To Live and Die in LA . Drop this one like a bad date .
Saw it years ago it was so awful I forgot about it .	Saw it years ago it was so awful I forgot about it ; then I rented it again and lived to regret it . This film is predictable , boring , and looks like a tv show . By the time this films ends you will know the ending before it happens . This film is so anti climatic I fast forward about 2o minutes and that was a blessing .
Another shootem up	Well another shootem up . Typical run around film with guns , revenge , and violence . Not much of a story . In fact I forgot most of what this film is about . Don't rent this one . I think the exercise infomertial would be more entertaining during late night .
Sappy	This film is so sappy I gave it a 3 . It has all the cliches , I have seen before . Bruce Wills as the hard hearted leader who did it all for his men , the air man who just wants to make a difference , the officer who tries to make up for past mistakes , and the evil German commander . This film is so sappy ; it is time to get out the crying towel . Everyone wants to sacrifice themselves . The lead character is too preachy , and righteous , and I find the reason for this is too hide the lack of story . I left the theater and found no real point in the movie , it did not rap up into a big conclusion . Moreover , the court scene and the talking with his client was over kill . When we finally find out the plot twist , the movie dragged what should have been 15 minutes into an hour and an half .
TV crap before its time	TV crap before its time . I really hated watching this show , and movie . I could never watch more that half a show an be able to digest it . At least the A team was meant to be unbelievable and half acted intentionally . The acting is just horrible , along with the scripts . Not to rain on anyones praid , but the lead actress is always a b actress , and on the annoying side . At least police women was athletic and looked like she could run , to add realism to the show . There was to much personal baggage which dragged down the story's plot . I remember the guilty kid with the family story and she new the kid would phone , but when the add the personal bagged which takes away from the plot the creators lose the audience . A mortal sin in writing . Mid-life trouble and police work do not mix . One has to be spliced or intertwined the concept or the story drags . Make's the lead protagonist look unprofessional , and hurts what the character is about . The female lead in Hunter was hard as nails , and professional which gave realism to the show . There is no such inter play or humor with the lead actress with this movie .
Boring	I can not sleep through too many of Eastwood's films , but this is one of them . It has him in this 70's anti bad system Western , which has little story , and event less direction . This film has no tension , or acting ; everyone took the money and ran with this film , John Saxon has to be one of the most forgettable b actors every . One can remember the face , but never the name . John does it again with this film . If Joe Kidd got killed early in this film it would have saved me the time of watching it . .
What a disappointment !	This is not a bad film , but it lacks something . Maybe by today's standards this film has no shock value . There is no juice or jump to this one . It is a film my wife does not even remember . I will not call it a bad film , but with all the build up after the classic TV show this film disappoints .
Too long	Movies from unreadable books for unwatchable movies was said during the movie True Romance . This hits the mark ! It is more of a play then a movie . In this respect , it sould never had been made into a movie . A short play made into a long movie . At least in the moive we know they had sex , but in the play you have to guess . It is hard watching Jean act like a jurk for that long of a time .
gag me a bag , run from your tv !	This film is awful , the film portrays the women with so many issues , you wonder how balanced she was . Sort of discredits the story , I wish they just went with the part at work , and stayed away from her personal life . My rating on this film is gag me a bag , run from your tv ! This film is like videodrome it will give you hallucinations .
Boring boring boring is right	The person who posted on the message board , boring boring and boring is right . Hard to follow , and the slow pace bogs down the movie . Well acted with a strong cast which have too little material to work with . The Hollywood left is never taken seriously with the conspiracy theory concepts . Too many conspiracy theories because of the internet . Why would the royals want a pipeline through Iran ? What would happen to the world's economy if oil was left to rise with new markets ? The ending is typical of such a film , and anti-climatic . . I guess the Mike Moore people will have spin off movies . My wife says I cannot enjoy such films with my critical mind for I always ask the ancient Greek question why . I ask such questions and this drives my wife crazy . Skip Syriana , even on 99 cent movie night .
This movie is so bad its hurtful to watch	No story , sums up this no brainier action film ; I forgot about this film until I saw an old pay tv trailer for this film . Linda Hamalton does her usual non acting , and uses sexuality as her only acting tribute . She is not that good looking either to play that role . In the end Tommy Lee took the money and ran with this film . There's worse films out there , but they sure are hard to find .
This movie is like week old stale bread	This film is stale , and misses the mark . It is far off compared to the 89 Batman that it tries to coppy . That women singer whats her name can not act , and we see why her film carrier died . Notice how this film died in the box office no one see this film on tv either . My uncle and dad were expecting Batman , and the films impression is more like Cop Rock . Not worth renting
I rented this one because It was suggested from a IMDb viewer	Yuk , eek , blah , and cheeses describes this film well . This film portrays perfectly the bad 80's horror / slasher flims . It has nudity , gore , and shock in order to replace budget , and script . At 19 , I would have laughed at this as a joke , with my maturing I see this film less laughable , and more lame . Three point seven is right for the rating of this film , it would be lower if the beginning was not strong . Pass this one by .
Awful	My buddy Wilfred likes this movie , and explains the concept . I like the concept , which is too close too reality . An over crowded earth , which puts strain on the economy , resources , living conditions , and most of all food , creates a hellish society . Maybe the social planners in North America could learn from this ! With their need for population growth . Anyway , our buddy Chuck goes on a mystery he has too solve which involves the new food Soylent Green . The movie is just not directed well , sloppy editing , a grainy film quality . This films lags in spots , and the obvious conclusion is dragged out .
Great concept , but poorly executed	I love films like this , and what a great concept . Regrettably , this film has no continuity and drags until its conclusion . Too long , and too many senseless scenes . There is a few good action scenes , and that is the only grace for this film . Costner's performance is awful , I do not know if the script was intended to make his character look wooden or withdrawn , but the audience lacks any sympathy for the man . Huge error for the script ; maybe , they were trying to copy the Road Warrior . This film is an example that a high budget can not replace a good script , or a good rewrite . I find this sad , because with one more rewrite this film would be a classic , and give Costner the long last mark of his film legacy . I like him better as the bad guy with his silent approach , instead of the hero . Do not watch
another stinker	This one sits on the shelf besides Double Impact and gathers dust . Its a toss up for which film is worst , but I give it to Death Warrant . A few exciting fight scenes . He never would have made it out alive , but its a movie . Reminds me of Tango and Cash , and I did not like that one either . Don't even rent this one , but my dad seems to like this one when he watch it late one night .
Well I had to do at least one 70's Truck driving movie .	When I was a little kid they had these Trucking driving country and western movies . The great smokie Road Block , Convoy , etc . Many years later I watched some of this crap on TBS , boy did I not miss much when my mother made me go to bed early . Well , I have gotten older and watched this dog on TBS , and I still could not keep awake . Some movies like a bad wine will turn into vinegar with time , and that is what this film is or at least a sleep aid . Keep on Trucking , I am happy I missed the 70's .
Fine line between funny and sad !	Comedy is hard to do . There is a fine line between funny and sad . I work with my share of mentally ill people , and with a girl who is a lot like the one who sleeps around in this movie . The movie is more sad then funny , and a little to close to real life . People like to bully and pick on the weak , which the film portrays quite well . The other part were people are delusional describes around quarter of the people I work with . A few funny moments , but the rest is just to realistic . I payed 9$ and got to see a fat naked man run around . A bit too real for me ! I will never want to see that again . The movie is a . Do not even VOD the movie .
Worst of 2003 , so far	The movie plot , was so smart , that it turned out being stupid . Watching this film with not giving away the story I was saying yeah right every ten minutes . The casting is very PC , it looks and acts more like Star Trek the next generation than real rangers . Watch Black Hawk down to compare . The ending is awful , and John just keeps the money and runs . Will he ruin his career again ? Jackson has a strong performance . Not worth even renting .
video = bad movie	The last 2 or 3 video game / movies have a bad translation to the big screen . Silent Hill is a prime example . Thin storyline with no character development and an over reliance on special effects . Hollywood has a anti Christian message lately . The Tom Hanks ' film and Slient Hill seem to portray Christians as burning or beating , and hurting people . I personally have not seen other groups picked on in this matter , maybe a anti Passion reaction ; I know no group is perfect , but the agenda is over the top . The ending came as no surprise , and the viewer sees the plots slow ball coming way too soon . ! Soon to your 99 cent rental on Wednesday . Save your money and watch The Sniper 3 on Spike TV or watch classic pro Wrestling re-runs . I know I would . The summer has been void of any good movies so far . I hope the new Bond film will be good .
Gene Hackman will work on anything .	One thing for sure Gene Hackman will work on any film regardless of script , size of roll , etc . This guy makes more money then Tom Cruise , not pur movie , but in volume . The Wallmart of actors . Anyways , ignore my tirade , this film is awful ; six point six rating some people , must have seen a different movie . I know , the makers tried , may I repeat tried to make an intelligent film , but in doing so they forgot the mechanics . The dialog is awful , lines like , " As long as a Chinese last name " and " As cute as a Chinese baby " etc what criminal talks like this , so they throw a few F words in and it only makes it worst . The dialog and acting looks like actors are trying to be bad guys . I blame this on the director , and script . The movie tries too many plot twists , which makes this film unbelievable , and stupid . How many double cross , can a film have ! Watch Goodfellows , or Heat for more believable acting or the The Game for plot twists . If this film was a dog they probably shoot it . A few years from know when this film ages it will only look worse .
is about right .	I agree with the other users comments that this film is pointless . I found this movie lacks any feeling , or emotion . No one cares how this movie ends . I do not know if it was the directors fault or the script . My wife likes it , and it could be lost to the male audience . This film is neither scary or tense . I did not like the preview , and it represents this movie well . Another forgettable movie that will someday fade away .
Doesn't make sense .	Spoilers ! ! ! ! This is one of those English literature books . Being a English major I decided to watch the movie . I know there is some deeper meaning to the film . Maybe , tension with colonialism , or how a naive person with the best intentions could go into a situation and agitate it . In the end , this movie leaves some lingering questions ? Who attacked the women in the cave ? Was it the guy , or the guide , a stranger or maybe a monkey , which is foreshadowed in the movie . Did the women go crazy and do it to themselves . All the viewer knows is the aftermath . I find this disappointing for the viewer or reader . After watching the movie for over and hour and half the viewers needs answers . Like the briefcase in Pulp Fiction the viewer never finds out the answer . Everyone went on with their lives , but the truth never came out
I love the song , but one of the Duke's weaker movies !	When my dad rented a VCR , back in 84 he picked out a couple of movies ( 82 ) The Thing , Officer and a Gentalmen , and this one . I remember him marching around with a canoe paddle to the song , and the Family laughed . John Wayne had a lot of resolve to make this movie against the media left . 68 a lot people probably screamed about this movie , and John tried to support troops who had a hard time when they got home to some unfair critism . This film shows the cruelty of the VC , which is left out of alot of other Vietnam film , however this film is bad . The pace , acting , and even action scenes apear dated , and awkward . In fact the whole film is awkward . I love action movies and this one drags and is slow . The chopper scene is legendary in bad special effects . In conclusion this is not a extremly bad film , but bad .
I did not mind it , but my wife did .	A rip off of Maximum Over Drive , but not that bad . I found the movie entertaining , with a strong ending . My wife hates this film . King writes a story that keeps my attention , and that is key for any good story . I warn the viewer this is a made for TV film . The better half , describes this in one word : Stupid ! Myself , a good b film . Between , our conflicting views this film rates a 3 or .
Liked as a child , but as an Adult I put my childish thing away and reconsidered .	Went to this movie with my dad when we were in Minnesota . I loved it years ago , but seeing it again changed my mind . Maybe it was being a kid or styles change with time . ( ie 80's action ) This movie is too over the top for me . I will watch a bit of it , but not rent it .
Seen it before .	This is a great movie if you did not see WW II movies before . I have and this film is unoriginal . It is not that bad , except the part with the Jewish American fighting with the German over the knife . I never seen and American lose the knife strugle before in a movie . I guess that is why they do not make TJ Hooker shows anymore they have been so over done , who would watch . In the end I like Hanks but that is about it .
Over rated !	I expected much more from this film , after hearing all the hype . Ilike science fiction , I never thouht Rod Cerling was that good of aSci fie writer . Maybe , it is the age of the film and it does not shocktoday , but in the end I felt dispointed . Heston plays a good role , and its funny how for bush human's Heston ends up with a veryclean , well dressed , done up female one . Don't bother
	This movie is a . The movie is not bad , but these factors kill the movie . The story is a did it done it before film . The acting and quality of the film is a made for TV movie . Reminds me of ABC film of the week movie . To be honest I feel asleep for about an hour of the film . Butterfly on a Wheel might be a better movie than what I saw , but I did not want to watch another hour of it . . I think the movie is a direct to video film . I never recall seeing this movie at the multiplex . The direct to video movies always uses a notable name like Steven Segal to suck the viewer and if one is lucky the film is above average . My wife was not luck getting sucked into rent B on a W . Avoid this movie !
Doesn't age well	This film is well acted , and the scene come off as real . Especially James Stewart's anxiety of heights , but and there is a but here , the film shows its age . Much of the film came across as cheesie or cornballish . Awkward or abrupt would be a better description . The script becomes a bit stupid in spots , but a ground breaking movie fore its time . Not one of Alfred Hitchcock's better films .
Commence firing	This film is one of the dumbest ever . Spoilers If Clint fixed a few Grey Hounds in Black Hawk Down , I am sure all the troops would have made it . This is a 70's the system is bad movie , too the extreme . How corrupt can a police force be to have hundreds of cops shooting at an armor plated bus with a mob informant witness in it . I like escapism , but this is unbelievable ! There are a few good scenes in it , like when the house collapses from bullet holes , but nothing , and I mean nothing could save this one . Even Rambo ! I give this a .
Better the second time around .	My dad and I went to see this film at Garden City . We were disappointed , and I saw it recently . A bit better than the first time I saw it , but do I like it ? No ! There is nothing special in this forgetable film , but not awful like Pale Rider ! This film could be a sleep aid ! .
John Candy took another step back	This awful film , has no story , originality , or interesting characters . The only part I liked of this film , was the date that watched it with me , my future wife . That was better than the time I saw Planes Trains , and automobiles when someones date was talking to me and her guy was getting angry . Well , I better not get too off topic , but there is not much to mention about this film except it total sucks , and is forgetable . Forgetable is the best discription for this stinker .
Not worth seeing	No company would give this movie a theatrical release , which is smart . In a Howard Corsell metaphor : Can Sly still deliver , nothing is worse than someone who does not know when to call it quits . Has Stallone hit has been status along with 80's stars Jean Claude Van Damme , and Steven Stegal . Will Sly be the Burt Reynolds of his time . Back to the movie review Michael . Thanks Howard . A strong beginning , but predictable , then this movie deteriorates into a water down version of the 1982 classic the thing . I wish Sly luck , in any future roles , if he does not choose carefully , he will become a direct to video actor .
cobra meets ashley judd	Crap , this movie is crap . Ashley Judd wears a leather jacket , drives a old mustang , beats up everyone and sleeps with everyone . She tries to be a Stallone / Cobra knock off . It just does not work , period . Ashley Judd's acting is the disease and her not acting anymore is the cure . Once you get away from the unbelievable character , the story is interesting to follow . The way the character acts would make one wonder where she would fit in at all . what is she trying to compensate for ? Too cool is not cool at all . My wife liked this movie , but she likes Ashley Judd's movies . My wife also liked Kiss the Girls . Put the plunger on this one .
Out dated	Spoiler This movie must have been a shock in 69 , but tame by todays standards . I found it predictable , and the characters as did that done that before . I guess the movie has been copied to death . It has the typical late 60 early 70's downer ending . Watch something more happy .
higher budget	It seems each movie is better than the last , because of higher budgets , better directing , editing , etc . However , this one was one too many . How many times can Jason live . This gets pretty ridiculous . I was hoping Corey Feldman's character gets it but no such luck . The teenagers were nothing but cannon fodder . There was no character development . Save yourself some time and do not rent this one .
Direct for video	This is a direct for video job that rides on the reputation of the predecessor . The story keeps the viewer's attention . The low budget effects hurt this film , and makes the film into a tv movie . All no name cast , with ok acting , but weak dialogue . I figured the story's twist too soon , but wanted to see the ending of this predictable film . No actors , or story line that connects this film with the original . I believe I have seen some of the props used in other sci-fi movies , and the helmets look like they were from Robo Cop . I gave it a 6 and my wife rates this film a 3 . This movie is a 4 . . I like the concept , but this film fails to deliver . Worth renting as a second feature , for 2 in the morning .
Lame Big time	This film is predictable ; it is more predictable then a Vinnie Testaverdi pass , when he huts the ball for the Jets . One saw the ending coming up halfway through the film . The politics reminds me when I was back east . Many people know when the fix is in . I gave this four because of the acting , but the story is lame .
The movie made no sense	Spoiler . . . This movie is directed well , and George Clooney acts as his incredible self . This film has this 70's feel to it ( ie The Terminal man ) and confusing script . People's memories come to life , and Clooney has to deal with this emotional impact . Drawn out story with little explanation . Why would Clooney not freak out , and I believe his character is too strong to live in this little delusion utopia . I believe the hippie message is one of delusional utopia . I am glad I did not see this one on the big screen . Why would Clooney do such a dud ? .
Mindless crap	I do not want to be over critical , but this movie is mindless crap . Spoiled goofs act up as they head towards Europe . This has been done before . The usual shock , where they use it for humor . Shock is a bad substitute for humor . Nudity , running around , getting on sexually etc the geek suddenly becomes cool after this etc . When the viewer watches this he or she can see the joke before it happened . After the shock is over there is no real story to speak of . Ground Hog Day , and Vacation had good writing . This film is sizzle and no steak . They try to add a bunch of naughty sizzle to replace the writing . Besides being unbelievable , they take a big swipe at the Vatican , in today's troubled political times religion is a risky issue . Probably what they intended to do for shock value . The part that bothered me the most was the editing , there is a number of scenes where the actors lose their accents . The movie was done on the fast and it showed where the old 80's smart jerk humor gets across as lame . There where 2 good scenes in this film . The robot part , and the Manchester United scenes . They make this film some what more watchable .
Pales in comparison to the original	I think this movie had a hard time to beat the first as the first was so entertaining . A lot of the scenes were from the first and rehashed . It was a lower budget movie and was filmed in Alberta Canada . I do not know why they even bothered with this movie . They obviously could not contend with the first . I did not see this in the theater , I think it was a direct to video here . There are some tense moments . The one bright spot was the crazy acting of Jake Busey . He sure takes after his father . It is too bad that he didn't have more of a story to work with .
Ex Saturday Night Live = bad movie	This film has it good moment , and a few comedy classic scenes . The music part of this film is like eating glass . They forced the old SNL blues skit into the film . One see John Candy in a bit part , and Steven Spielberg only acting role . ( tax office guy ) Over rated and out dated .
no budget	This was not a bad story but it had no budget . the directing was done well , but they had so little to work with . The lead actor plays Dr . Craig Wesley on Days of our Lives . It was hard seeing him in this role as I am used to seeing him in a soap opera . It is a believable story . I rented this movie as I just saw Wrong turn on the big screen . It was the same type of story . It looked like it was just put together .
mindless TV	Before reality TV they had sitcom's from ell . Other mindless TV I liked as a child . With TVland and Deja vu channel in Canada viewers see what once was . I can not believe some of the crap I watched as a kid . This show was a big deal on Friday night with my sister and I eating popcorn . Some of it is funny , but the rest is just mindless . At least it is done on a higher budget than today's who is gonna get voted out of the toolshed . Watch them make a reality TV show out of that idea also . I believe this is another part of the 70's and the early 80s that is forgotten . How could they make these shows last so long . This show like Happy Days was on so long , I could not believe it still was on the air when they ended it . I find TV could end a few TV series about 3 years earlier .
Too bored to scream	Well , the film is not that bad , I would give it a four . It has a few interesting scenes in it , and shows a lot of nudity to cover its low budget . Nothing great here , but watchable . It is like a Manix rerun , I would watch it out of boredom . In the end I give it a .
absolutely stupid	My wife says this film is absolutely stupid , and I agree . It started out slow , but picked up halfway through . She gave it a 2 , and I gave it a 6 . I guess that makes this movie a 4 . Anyways , I love the part where he says , " how do you expect kids to learn in a school that small " is funny . The change in music at the fashion show is funny , in a stupid way . Very 80's , a good decade for high tech style .
Take a look at me now	Well , that was a line form Phil's songs for this movie , and the song which was a huge hit , is 20 times better then this film . Well , I liked James Wood , but the story was lacking , and the characters were wooden . Not likeable . This film needed another rewrite . This movie is against all odds and did not favor well . Pass this one by .
Cursed is a stinker	Cursed is a stinker . Well , I ask is this movie scary ? No . A few tense moments . Why is the gay guy in there ? Comic reasons . Why is the lead brother in Crused ? Comic reasons . The lead actress ? She was scary when added with the werewolf . Not a scary movie , but a commentary about Hollywood . When the movie goes on about Hollywood parties , and the Killborn show it is entertaining . ' Cursed ' has tension at the party part with the cops , but is less serious with the ending more comic . The Hollywood part I give a seven for entertainment . Scare I give the film a four . Special effects I give this film a seven or eight . Ending I give this film a 1 for being silly . I believe this was the film maker's intention . Hollywood is a silly place , and not to be taken seriously . Maybe , the formulated ending could be a mocker of Hollywood culture . Cursed will be on the midnight show two years from now . Cursed is comparable to cabin fever , but less campy . Not a Dawn of the Dead type of film .
This is not a good film	This film has its moments , the big karate fight with John Kurby , the biker bit , but the rest I would not recommend . The acting except for John Kurby is awful . The budget is too low , and the director makes this film very choppy . John Kurby plays a good role and you could see what drove him crazy , after listening to this women and her kids , it reminds me of a shift at the post office . Anyways I give this film a 4 .
Stupid	Ever see a horror movie and say stupid ? Well this one is . It was on Show Case ( In Canada ) A forgettable movie , don't waste your time . A typical low budget late 70's early 80's Canadian movie . When the government was giving out grants . Many horror movies around this time where awful cheap , bad acting etc . Reminds me of that movie with the water tank I can not remember the name , but also is stupid . Do something better with your time like hang around the paring lot , and miss this one
This movie drags	This movie contains great scenes , but the majority of it , is slow , and over acted . A typlcal over serious 70's film , with long winded characters , that the viewer wishes they get hit by a hail of gunfire . The Indain cheif , Joesy grilfriend , the dieing person , and the conclusion griped withered , and lasted too long . The way it ends and the people who die at the end becomes very anti climatic . The bounty hunter scene , the gatlen gun scene , and John Vernon character is golden . They save this film form being a 1 to a 4 . Eastwood has done better westerns .
wimpy pc garbage	I thought this would be a hard hitting Martin type movie . In the end , a movie about social content than an ugly real film like Mean Streets . The film is sappy ; the scene where the gangster lends the car to the boy . I wish they put this in the preview , instead of how they fraudulently portrayed this mean hard hitting film . It is still well acted , just misleading ; the preview made me feel ripped off . It is more of a social conscious film instead of a gangster movie .
the cast was misleading	I was surprised at the cast for this flick . I thought it would of been a bit funnier with Owen Wilson and Bill Murray . It was not . I hate to watch a film that shows disfunctionalism ; even the well too do families have their problems . What has happened to Bill Murray ? He was not his usual character in this film ; no humor what so ever . I expected more out of Owen Wilson and Ben stiller . It was disappointing . However , Gene Hackman can play any role he puts his mind too . He was probably the best out of the other actors . Rent it if you have no other choices .
Wife say two I say five so it must be a 4	The first half of this movie is good , and I found it very interesting , but as the film progresses , it becomes less of a story , and more of a low budget film , that misses a story line . The lack of a story in the end hurts this film , and I would guess the makers thought well lets just end the thing . After the film was , over I said and what's next ?
Bad acting	This film had a good script , but the acting was awful . I like the ending , and how the story transgress from the beginning to the end . With the awful acting , one can understand the reasons many members of the brat pack did not evolve from b movies and tv . Charlie Sheen did a good job , but they killed him off in the middle , and Jack Palance gives a scene of style in his role .
Soon to be in the 99cent sent bit !	Soon to be in the 99 cent bin in a video store near you ! Paul Walker is a great actor who gets bad roles . I love Paul's stage presents , mannerism , and humor which creates great acting ability . The directing and acting is excellent . However , the story is grade b junk food for the mind . Turn your brain off for this movie ! A unbelievable and stupid story , balance by Paul's character who is a likable looser , which finally catches a break . A lot of eye candy for both sexes in Bobby Z , along with explosions etc . Bobby Z tries to be like Pulp Fiction , and one could call Bobby Z mini Pulp Fiction . . Worth watching while drinking beers with pizza .
What can I tell you this movie is awful	Spoiler I mentioned this movie is awful here is a few reasons . The acting and budget is ok , but there is no way to cover the bad story . These dudes go back in time to retrieve another historian . Problem , besides draged out story line , useless dialog , and unbelievable actions of the cast , is the cast does everything possible to destroy the time line . ( maybe they could have include necular weapons into the story ) I was waiting for a parallel universe to happen where the future is change ie the Butterfly Effect ; doesn't happen and no time line ulteration weakens this story . Wouldn't having a historian being left behind be the most dangerious option for time travel . The guy would become another psyhchic reader who could greatly ulter the future . Like what Marty did in Back to the Future . Stay away don't even rent this one . Do something else with your own time line for that next hour and half . Mike
Awful	One actor can act , the other can not . You guess which ! One guy give a performance of 8 and the other a 4 . The script is a 4 and I give this movie a 4 . I never heard a worse southern Florida accent ever . This film ends so stupid . The Devil must of made this film to torment people .
WOW What a disappointment !	I was excited about seeing this movie . When I was in grade 6 I wanted to see the king of burnt rubber Burt Reynolds . This movie is based off the Cannonball , and the Gumball Rally . A big budget , and big name actors alone can not make a movie . Great idea but no script . The first movie I saw on the VCR was this one , I waited 2 years to see it , and my sister's boyfriend Blake was right this film is flat .
yuk	Well , it was funny in spots . This film is a 4 or maybe a 3 . Its a film that sits on the video shelf and gathers dust . Rent this one after you seen everything else . Beats boredom , but not by that much . My wife like like this film better then I do , maybe its not that bad .
Gator before Gator .	This film must have done well in the box office , in order to give Gator the budget it deserves . This film had no budget , needed a script rewrite , and a better ending . There is flashes of brilliance in this movie . The boat ride scene , Burt driving the mean machine , and his chat with his parents . You can tell Burt is a Southerner , and not a actor . This movie shows what Gator would be like , Burt's best film . Too , bad this film did not have the same funding and was done on the Rush .
Stupid movie	I found this movie stupid . For one thing they has a black man disguised as a Nazi ; I do not think this accurate . The plan of using death row inmates to do a deadly mission is too unreliable . The few that managed to escape is unbelievable ; Rambo is more believable that this . The only good thing in this film was Lee Marvin . Not worth watching .
New Wave and stylish .	This film reminds me of the early 80's New Wave infusion . One can see how Punk evolved into 2 high breds of Heavy Metal and New Wave . This film reminds me of the ' 83 film " The Hunger " with David Bowie . It has the grainy , blue light film quality with most of it being filmed in the dark . The synthesizer music and the character Marius looks like the singer of Human league ; dresses simular to the guy in the video . The cool Lt Cosello ( Miami vice ) acting style is done in true 80's fashion . The concert , with the flames in it , reminded me of Blade Runner . A lot of style , but all vampire films become redundant . I give it an 8 for style , and originality a 4 . If I was younger , say 14 , I would give this an 8 , but as I march into my 30's I give it a 4 or 5 because second time around I seen this before .
70's Western	A stupid 70's social film , with a mean anti hero as a lead character . This film is about revenge , it has rape , murder , and a hard edge to it . A little to hard for my taste , Eastwood literally paints the town red , and creates his own hell on earth . ( you will get what I am saying if you saw this film ) In the end we do not know if the character is from hell , or someone who knew about the events that happened . There is one really good scene in the barbershop with Eastwood , with the local gunfighters .
This film kills the other 2	What is worst than Alien 3 is Alien 4 , they ran with the money on this one ; by using the name of a successful film series they suckered people into rent this one . Low budget , but directed well considering the poor script , this film should be on late night at least it can compete with the infomericals .
Sucks but not that badly	This film is awful , but has its moment . Stone as a gunfighter , well I don't take this movie too serious . Hackman makes a good villain , and a no name Crowe does an Ok job . Who could have told . I would watch it on TBS .
overuse of weapons	The seriousness of the first two films is thrown out the window with this one . The beginning of the film was serious , but degrades into a Sly / Arnold movie which was popular in the 80's . It had plot twists and surprises . His choice of weapons has a lot to be desired ; you need a rocket launcher to shoot someone . Bronson's acting is dry and unimaginative . He should quit while he's ahead .
Ring 2 is crap !	Ring 2 is crap . Spoilers ! My wife and I went for dinner and a movie . The Chinese's food was nice , and at least we got out for a movie . After a month of being sick , and having family engagement their is peace in spending time alone . The Ring 2 is crap , did I already mention this . None of the originality of the first . Using the first success to rip off the public . No scares , or suspense . The Ring left a warning of the evil being unleashed upon the world . The 2 survivors trying to warn humanity . The story changes from several tapes being made to warn the world to just one copy . With the only copy , depending on which ending of the first one sees , get destroyed one see the girls motive . Which is ? Suspense ! Supposed to be scary ! The girl want a mother . Augh ! That is not scary . Add some special effects to the ending one has a very dry and boring movie . The really scary part about this movie is people will rent and buy the tape . After watching it a phone will ring and the message will be Augh you just got ripped off . Let us save humanity and burn every copy , before like in the original a unaware public has this tape unleashed on them . . Please say away ! I warn you .
John started to lose it with this one	When John's acting carer hit the skids , this movie was the start of it . He was fresh , funny , and new . Then action films in general have became over done , and he became boring , tired , and old . This film has all the typical plot twists that ever one has seen before . I wish him luck if he does anymore like this one .
I liked it the first time I saw it	Years later this film runs out of gas . The acting is choppy , and the film quality is grainy . The kung fu is excellent , but the budget and time constraints hurt this flick . This reminds me of other early 80's horror films like the Hallowing , that where good then , but lame now . I believe time does judge all things after the hype die down .
this film had potential , but nothing else !	This film had no point or purpose to it . The viewer has no idea of the motive of the bad guys . Why were they doing this ? The film was slow and took forever to unfold . I kept saying " this movie is so slow and boring . " I do not know why I went to this one , maybe to compare it to the Franker's version . I wouldn't waste my money , save it for video . Then at least you can forward through some of the boring movie . I should of known better than to go see a Denzel Washington movie . I do not like any of his films . A lot of the scenes did not make any sense and seemed to be out of place . I do not know if this was the director's intension , but some scenes ended so abruptly . In the original , at least you get to eventfully see what happens . Be ware of men who have such close relationships with their mothers just like Psycho . The viewer is left not understanding the ending . It was a stupid remake .
Lame film	My mom would not let me watch this film when I was in grade 2 , because she said it was too violent . Well , years later , and the only reason I remember this film is because of my mom , I stayed up and watch it on PBS . Well , maybe the build up after all these year lead to the big disapointment of this film , but I found it lame . It did not age well , and this made the acting choppy , huge unbelievable holes in the script , but there is a few cool scenes like car chases , and a big gun fight . I will not stay up for this film again .
The beginning of the end for Burt	When Burt's run finaly ended it was with this movie . The tough guy part did not sell well . This movie had no script , believability , or good characters . In the end , Burt did not evolve with the 80's . The 70's where his decade . It was time for Sly and Arnold . One can see the same events unfold with Arnold's last movie Colaterial Damage . It was time for somthing new .
The Missing in Action that should not have been made	I went to this movie with my friend Randy , and we could not believe how bad this film was . I like the first 2 Missing in Actions , but this one is awful . Yuk , well the only good part is when it ended . I did not even rent this one to see I missed on anything . This one will gather dust on the video shelf at Block Busters , if they even have it .
Over rated	Williams runs at the mouth in this over serious comedy . Rude and crude , and insulting over humorous dialog . Maybe , Andrew Dice Clay could do better . Over rated , his comic bit , like in a club , sounds more like a tirade at the post office than humor . No Caddy Shack , with the cholate bar in the pool humor . Instead , the movie reminds me more of insults at work . The ending is serious , and one needs to see a comedy after watching this film .
Looks like one of this cheap movie they make for the office	When I went to Red River Comunity Colledge they use to show you business films like how to handle a business interview . Well I heard from my friend Tony that the 2 companys that did these low budgets but at leat respectable videos made no money , so the company from Denver decided to do a porno and made lots of money and the other from California does horro films . I guess the one from California did this one . What they call acting is right out of how I do a interview , and they did not even change the sad music from the busines videos . Even the cheap VHS camra is used . This film is bad , I gave it a 4 becuase they did surpringly well with the low budget , and non film experience , meaning this film was watchable , but awfull . In the end if you seen any of these office films at school or work rent it and compare it .
I did not like this film	I did not like this film compared to the other Nam films , its quite borrish . The training camp segment is to long . I did not care for the characters , and it took too long for the arrival of the combat part of the film . The only redeeming aspect of this film is the sniper scene . So much potential and so little done for this film .
You would watch it on TV , but not tell anyone	5 . 1 is right for this movie , interesting enough too watch on tv , but you would forget about this movie in a day . Lost in the 70's type of film , out of style . The biker gang gag fails in this one . Why would the guy go back with that horrid women from the first film . Well I liked the heavy Clint had to fight in this one .
Not one of the better episode	An American tourist goes by accident to Dog River . The show is not too funny . Nick plays the rude Canadian with tells too many American jokes . We have a few rude were I live in Canada , I get the joke where you wish the person would just shut up . Every work place has one or where I work many . Hard to believe how Nick never quite gets things right . The other story line with the fire wood just dies . I guess every show has a bad episode . Not worth watching . I give this show a . Just drive through Dog River and miss this episode . Not even Chuck Norris could save this show . Chuck we need you . Watch this one on fast forward .
I do not know if this film is a drama of cemedy	Spoiler This film is diluted the viewer does not know what to make of it . Maybe , I miss the humor because I am not a New Yorker , but I understand it . It's a storie about how phoney people are , how platic there lives are , how the press , social activest grounps , and society lie to get ahead . In the end , a good man Hanks is ask to tell the truth to hurt himself inorder for the liers to hurt him . Of course he doesn't . A good views of are society has evolved too ! Depalma kills this one with his directing .
Watchable but sad	This film could have been much more than the unimaginative generic PC crap that comes out of Hollywood . They do not use the nuke on the invaders until half way through the movie . Is the president slow or what , and the advisor that makes sense gets blasted . Area whatever , the ugly Aliens , Will Smith's stripper girlfriend , and Jeff Goldblum's dad was too sappy . There really was no magic , mystery , and strange science fiction in this film . They could have done a lot better than this .
could be a tv movie	This film could be a tv movie , its budget , script , and acting ; I've seen better made for tv movies then this one . It not bad , but I would rent it , there is a few laughs . I was happy I went on cheap night , this movie is not worth $8 . 50 times 2 when I head out . In defence this movie is not bad either , the movies story did not make me drift off and the cast played a very entertaining role , and I even laughed a couple of times .
This movie is starting to smell ; it's a stinker	Donnie Stinker would be a better title . I know some of the stupid stuff in this movie I heard in the news , but the rest is time space crap . I understand the ending and Donnie Darko is a hero , and I like that . Time lines or fate , can affect ones outcome , and this is what the script is about . .
Did not like this episode	I agree with the other commentary , that there was too much social message and not enough story . I did not get a feel of the story or characters . Dean did not seem to be Dean , more like a Invasion of the Body Snatcher Dean . A lifeless Dean . No humor or a feel of a ghost story in the script . The music was not even the same . No hard driven edge of the other episodes . Sam did not get much time on this show either . I liked the truck . The show was well acted and directed . Not one of the better ones . I like the airplane one better . How can the truck be hunted after they burned the body ? That is like opposite of the whole show
Misleading	I hate misleading previews . The movie shows Tom Cruise in a major role , while he performs in a minor role . My wife and I were disappointed . The irony of ' Lions for Lambs ' message about the political right misleading the public is hypocritical when I spend 8 dollars for a preview of a Tom Cruise movie , which the film is not . Shame ! Shame on the people who packaged ' Lions for Lambs ' . Directed and acted OK . The message has a few accurate points , of inactivity , and mistakes made , which is part of life . However , the films easily blames other while never coming up with any solutions . A real bummer of a way to convey a message . Just makes people feel good too complain , but maybe the film was saying answers are in all of us . I relate more with the disillusioned student . I am like this guy . The I did not inhale answer of politics , and people buying it or not goes along with whose political beliefs one believes is why the kid is the way he is . I like the Redford prof for who cares for his students more than teaching for himself . I wish there were more profs as portrayed in this film . 5 out 10 .
Canadian films have come a long why .	The lead acting is great , the story is good , but could use another rewrite ; regrettably , the other intangibles kill this film . I would not have watched this film except I was suffering insomnia , when I was unemployed , and started watching this forgettable film that I forgot about until my second viewing . The story is neat , a bank teller who keeps some money after a robbery , and this sets in motion the events that come . Getting rid of the body was neat too ! Regrettably , this film is a chore too watch . It needed to cut scenes , has lame characters and dialog , horrible extra bit actors , awkward directing etc . Watch for John Candy and his bit part . This was the start for the Canadian film industry commissions attempts to create the now successful Canadian movie industry . Watching this film I saw my country learning its movie trade . If they remake this story today in Canada wow what a great movie . Christopher Plummer was misused as the bad guy , but what can he do with a rushed script , and one take acting .
is about right .	I saw this film on my 15th birthday , it was ok then , but many years latter it ages badly . Acting , and directing has evolved to much higher levels . The story is not that bad , but I hope they never do a remake . Stay away from this . I guess when I was watching this film back then my friend Dwight fell asleep .
Bad awful etc	Spoiler ! ! ! I do not know why so many people like this film . The begainning of this film is great , but the story deteriorates like depleted uranium . The story follows a pattern of unbelievable to more unbelievable , to totally stupid . A few flaws in this story , one would the FBI let it self lose 750 , 000 dollars , two Tom Cruse is not gangland executed , three Gene Hackman show up and tries to pick up Cruse wife for no reason , four Tom's brother can get out of jail for no reason , and five Cruse can walk out of the law firm with evidence for a rico statute , do they not believe in locks . I watched this film again and its still a 5 , Cruse is a great actor who picks alot of average film , no wonder he has not won best actor yet .
better than half past dead	This is a direct to video film . I do not recall this one being released in the theatres . I found this movie better than half past dead . It looks like he lost weight for this one . The location shoots where not bad . I like the European feel . It is no Ronin though .
Better miss this one	Better miss this one . The viewer gets the busy signal . ' One miss call ' is an inferior version of ' The Ring ' . A complete copy of ' The Ring ' storyline . Watch the tape and die in 7 days is turned into answer your phone and die on a set time . Find out the mystery and end one's awful fate . Not as well directed , or acted , but the makers did well considering the script . A lot of cheese in One miss call , with the eye candy at the party , and the macho hero cop . The ending is totally like ' The Ring ' . I hope this is not because of the writers's strike . I could write a better storyline . A date movie soon to be on pay-per-view . . My wife likes these types of movies better . Maybe like the movie ' The Ring ' instead of seven days something bad happens , one buys a ticket and two hours later something bad happens they see the ending to this cheese flick .
Walker Texas Ranger before his time	Lone Wolf McQuade is Walker Texas ranger before its time . A very gun ho 80's action flick , done in the spaghetti western style . Listen to the music , and watch the camera work , and you will see the similarities . Its good in spots , and over the top in others . Good movie to watch drunk , I give this film a 5 .
Not worth watching	I hate when a movies trailer is better than the actual movie ! Watching the trailer gave a misleading idea of the movie . The acting , directing is OK . The story ? Why would anyone watch static all the time . Enough with the static , and who could interpit the static . I found the static theme hard to understand , and unreasonable force in order drive the plot . The movie is all build up with no ending . One expect a scary event , which never happens . What a let down for an ending . That is the best the writers could come up with ! I felt like yelling rip off in front of everyone . I wonder if the makers did not know what to do with the ending . Build up with no actual scare . I would call this movie a tease . This film makes false promise , and can not deliver a decent ending . Two thumbs down . . Do not even rent this one . A 4 . 99 DVD at Wall Mart in two years .
crap , but my kind of crap	Saw it years ago , and then recently on the space network . Watchable , but crap . William Shatner , been in alot of B movie , and is entertaining in this one also . If not for Shatner , this film would be forgotten . Give the guy credit for being the most famous Canadian , considering the scripts he has worked with over the years .
Slow paced , dull .	I found this move is slow pace and dull they could have called it Stick 2 . Form the crowd of did this done that before . Very 80's action film , with very little to see here . Don't rent this one and watch another film .
If you have nothing to rent at the video store well this is it .	Searching the video store for a movie that is watchable , I came across this . After seeing parts 1 to 3 , I decided to rent this one ; the rest of the series appears to be a repeat of the older movies . Jason takes Manhattan , this sound different , I wondered what changes where in store . This film started out not to bad and has Jason on a ship , but the film turns very redundant in the second half . The New York part of the film is not exploited well , and this makes the title misleading . The ending is disappointing , but this film is better then the made for tv films I have been watching , after fishing out the video store .
Another suckie made for TV movie	Spoilers Made for TV movies , unless the movie is cable , is usually low budget , quickly made , lacks imagination , and very formulated . Fires never have smoke , cars always explode when on fire , and people behave very irrationally . I remember watching this film , with my best friend at the time Dwight , and found it interesting for a 13 year old . If anyone , has a vindictive evil sister , this film would make sense . A prank goes bad , as always in these revenge horror film , but this time the , twisted , sister gets here misdirected revenge from beyond the grave . Not bad for TV , but would I watch it again ? No . Except for HBO and Showtime , I barley watch made for TV movies . I guess Denis Weaver could not figure out this murder . How stupid was the younger daughter in this film ? As dumb as one can get for a made for TV movie .
cheesey	This is one of Slys chesser films , which had both bad a good in it . Here is one for the Stalone fans . The song in this film was actualy sung by Sly , and I think this is the only time he has done it . Lets start with the bad parts in the film . The tied up monkey , and Sly chasing the cockroaches with a bat is a little too much . The song with the bird in the morning was very annoying . I think it is Bella eat your seeds , my wife laughed , but I almost shut it off . It's 1947 right and Stalone is dressed like he's in the 80's , with his ear ring , yeah right . The race for the dollar bill at the beginning , was pretty lame brain . Here is what worked in the film . The wrestling was good , and the part where Sly drives the truck into the bad guy's bar is funny . When Sly is training his brother , and tells him to throw a toilet into the river I just got a kick out of it . Its a bad and good film so I gave it a 5 .
Another midlife crisis movie !	Another midlife crisis movie ! My buddy Tony bought Sideways for me last Christmas . Another Larry David style movie , without the Larry David bite which David does well in his show Curb your enthusiasm . The movie is a . A few funny spots , and some potential , but the movie becomes impotent like the lead protagonist . The movie is more depressing than funny . However , the makers of Sideways did their home work . The scenes from the Nappa valley are nice and reflect the culture of the area . The details of the characters were well developed . People who make their own problems . Self-absorbed people , who only think about themselves and the results of their behavior is a good theme from the film . Other than that , I would bypass sideways . The movie's title is right . There is no vertical direction here one feels trapped watching this one .
Dated	Spoiler . I remember this film when I was a little boy . I always loved action thrillers ; films that my mom thought were a little too violent stuck out in my mind . I remember this film along with the 7 ups , and Race with the Devil as a few on my mom's nasty list . I thought they were great , but as I watch them now , they seem so dated and do not age well ! The Japanese and female comments would never be allowed now , but what really got me was how they did it so over the top with the bad behavior of everyone . I work at the post office , and even there with its new lows every year , no one screams and shouts like that . This made it cornballish , and how could they escape so easily , and the idiot who tries to get on the train , and the other idiot screaming during hostage negotiations is just plain stupid . The great part of the film is the performance by Robert Shaw , and Walter Matthau were exceptional considering the script they had to work with . This film is no God Father , or The Sting , so I gave it a five .
My wife said it was OK	I did not mind the movie , but I know who killed me is like watching instead of reading ' The National Enquier " . The acting is bad in spots , and the script was lacking , but in a ' National Enquier ' way . The movie had the swank girl counterpart to the good girl . My wife figured out too soon who the murderer was ? Way to obvious . Movie geared for a female and teenage audience . I would of liked I know who killed me when I was 17 . The twin part with Art Bell is way too much for me too digest . A ' National Enquier ' too much ending . Wort renting . 5 or . Way better than renting Perfume . This movie will not save Lindys career !
70's cheese	The decade of cheese the 70's , brings out one of the cheeseist movies of all time . The Towering Inferno's over acting , social message , and script is enough to gag on . This is a triple cheese pizza ; they keep building them higher and higher when will they learn . What a cast , the lesser actors never last in these film . OJ in this a saves a cat , this is the first time I seen him not on the News or Hard Copy . My opinion
It passes the grade !	This film is a direct for video production , this fact gave me low expectations . Use the name of a succsessful comedy , and create part two usually equals an awful movie . I was wrong , this film is not bad , and not good either , but ok . It drags in the middle , has a few bad one liners , but the story is fresh , and some of the scenes work . I believe Dave Babitch ( I know I spelled it wrong ) from the Winnipeg Jets / Hartford Whalers / Vancouver Canucks is in this film , and the old Hanson brothers . Alex B's brother plays a believable role of a hockey captain , and the team everyone hates makes this film worth renting .
If you like stupid this film is for you	This film has so many spots that do not make sense . It has so many characters jumping back and forth to different sides that it was unbelievable . Lewis stoled the show . He was the only watchable element in this film . Di Caprio did his usual C acting . I do not know why this guy got into acting ; maybe he's related to someone . The audience is just waiting for the film to end . A very weak movie to join 2002 long list of weak movies .
Good acting , but weak script	The acting in this film is great , and the casting is excellent . Al gets better with every movie , but has nothing to work with here . This is one of those the 70's the system is bad movies , that makes no sence . To unbelievable would anyone act like this . Well , I work at the Post Office , and it flake central , and I still find this film hard to digest . Too bad the performances here were wasted .
Burts last big movie and I can see why ?	The beginning of this movie is great , and the last quarter that starts with the part where Sharky gets his thumb cut off is exciting . The middle is awful . Could it be script or director problem , I can not answer this . The film is destroyed with the middle , too slow for what should be a fast movie . It should have been one big build up until the climax with the office tower . This had the potential to be a classic . This project must of hurt the studio , along with the Canion Ball run , because Burt never got an A movie after these two . Watchable , but ruined 5 or .
Doesn't age well	Warning spoiler sort of This film probably was exciting , and fresh for its time . I finally rented it because its the original , and sequels most of the time become so watered down , why make them . This film does not age well ; like most action films it follows a formula of building up tension , knife in the head effects etc . Done so many times before , and its a rip off of Halloween , a much better film . It bores the viewer with seen that , done that before approch . Special effects have improved so much in the last twenty year and gore is done a lot better . Decapitation is so common in movies to day , but in 1980 that was probably a shock . We live in the time of exploding bodies and computerization . The film shocked the hell out of every one in 80 , but tame by todays standards , the only real tension starts at the end , with a few twists and scares . I gave it a 5 . 2 at the start 4 in the middle with the typical lets make out theme , and 7 for the ending . The ending gave me a nightmare so thats not to bad , but doesn't save this film . /
Done on a higher budget than Dr No	This film is done on a higher budget than Dr No , but did not have the blank check as the future Bond films received . It's a bit dated , and introduces characters for future Bond films . It introduces the Bond gagets , but they are lame compared to the newer films . The beginning is excellent , but like in a lot of old films , the story drags trying to over explain itself . Robert Shaw plays a good character , and introduces the watch strangler gismo . The viewer is introduced to Specter , the criminal organization which is involved in the early Bond trilogy .
Not bad but not good	This film is on A & E all the time . While having the flu and not able to sleep late one night I finally watched it . Not a bad performance by Frank , but a weak story . Shocking in its day , but tame by todays standards . It begins strongly , but bogs down in the middle . A few tense scenes near the end . A good film to watch drunk or if you have the flu . 5 or .
Not as good as the second movie	This film is okay , but the more I watch it the less I like it . The film does not age that well . This film must have been a real shocker in 79 , but very average in 02 . I guess the build up from Aliens 2 gives this film a big let down . A creature runs around the ship , and we have a bunch of hack and slash . It is worth seeing the first time , but I would not want to watch it a second time .
Expected more ?	I expected more after seeing a movie that made as many sequels as the Bond series . I did not find it that scary , but my wife did . Maybe , its the mood I was in . Why did they not leave the house sooner ? I would of , its not worth the payments . The ending got a little scary , but not much of a build up too it . The event were too random . Books sometimes do not translate well into movies . All the actors did well with the script they had to work with . The story is unbelievable . When I was a kid these movies scared us , I could not watch the whole film . When one gets older they mature and I guess what scares changes . Maybe , all the years at the post office has harden me . The haunted house is probably is easier too deal with than my co workers . Do not bother watching it , rent another DVD . I give it a
First half of the film is scary	The first half of the film is scary , and I mean scary . With the nuts running around , nowadays , this film is not far fetched . ( Be careful who you play games with on the road ) This films stars out strong , and the second half is silly . Silly in the meaning that it ruins the film . The part where one of the crazy starts babbling to the Radio DJ is , out right , scary . I work down town , and how some crazy people ramble can be scary in a nervy way . This is the best scene in the movie , to bad the rest of the film did not follow up on this .
10 , no just joking , more like 5	This film has a great story , but the budget , acting , and music are awful . The screen writer wrote some extremely lame dialog , one will laugh at it . The strong point , I like the story . The story keeps the viewer watching , but can not save this film .
Have to take Hamlet to understand this film .	# 3 of the films I have to watch for English litature . Confusing for my wife who never studied Hamlet , and the movie jogged my memory . One would miss some of the jokes if one never read Hamlet . The probability joke was funny at the beginning , and other parts leading to the middle were excellent . The movie bogs down in the middle , and reaches it's predestine conclusion . out of if you never read Hamlet and out of if you read Hamlet . I personal find I can get more out of 2 hour movie than 2 weeks with a book .
Demented humor is either good or bad .	Humor is hard to do . Humor is much harder to preform than horror or action . Try telling a joke , performing a comic routine , or writing a comical script is a difficult task . Even harder is telling a off color or insulting joke . There is a fine line between humor and bad taste . Demented humor can easily make one look like an idiot . ' Big Nothing ' attempts at creating dark humor and regrettably becomes a cable TV true crime story where a group of armature small crime criminals get into bigger trouble . Years ago dysfunctional was funny , now the world is plagued with larger numbers of Hommer Simpsons and other weirdos . Sometimes , I say something funny at work and some idiot actual does it . I found ' Big Nothing ' is more like watching the Jerry Springer show funny for a few minutes , but annoying latter on . . If you like dark humor Snatch is way better movie .
Stale	There has been too many cop films , but I can explain why this one dies . Not a bad film , but it's a copy of Lethal Weapon formula ; of two different types of police partners . It's a did that , done it before type of film . With no surprises , and the typical big ending . It's well directed , and acted , but the story kills this one .
They showed all the good scenes on the trailer .	Spoiler ! ! The problem with this film is that they showed all the good scenes on the trailer . It was not a bad movie , but they ruined the surprise of the funny scenes . It had a lot of stupid humour in it . I would not say it was a kids ' movie . I especially liked the part where he disguised himself as Tony Montana ( Scarface ) . This is one for renting not seeing it on the big screen .
Like a made for TV movie	I let my wife pick the movies out , usually at a chain called Rogers . American cousins is of the quality of a made for TV movie . My wife rented the movie for they had one of HBO's ' Soprano's ' on it . That is the hook to rent the movie and the ' Soprano's guy only made a small appearance in it . OK acting and directing . The viewer learns more about Scotland from watching the film . If you are going rent 2 movies this is the second one when you watch when you are tired and want to get sleepy . Entertaining enough , but not memorable . . There is a romance in it , which my wife liked . This is not ' Snatch ' . I think the lake they visited in the movie was used in a couple rock videos .
I expected more !	This movie I understand the concept . It made people look mean and hard to live with . I understand this with some people I lived with in the past . Life can be unpleasant . Nothing worse than coming home from a lousy job , and arriving at a worse home life . Selfishness , greed , and immaturity , is in my religion considered great sins , and creates great carnage . This movie hits the issue that God never made us robots , but gave us free will ; the robots were not real people . No choice , like in ' A Clockwork Orange ' . This would be a very dry relationship . I don't think that either the control freaks on both sides were happy people . I found acceptance in whatever my fate is , a better way ; for my life has been one of misery , and I found control and illusion . One can just plan and do their best . The humor lacked on this heavy subject , and this movie got across as a TV movie . Christopher Walken is the only saving grace , as usual I give it a .
Indecent movie	Ever watch a couple you know will never last . Well that is how I felt about the couple in this movie . Redford , was not likeable , and maybe none of the people where . Movie makes you feel dirty watching it , just like the people should . Chemisrty problem or just the idea is what I find wrong with this film . Just another movie , with no feeling . Like the one night stand in this film . This movie's cold like 1 day cold KFC , but doesn't tast as good when you get that KFC out of the fridge for breakfast . 4 or . Hey , order the chiken , but skip the movie . My wife , hates the KFC , but I love it , Maybe get Kramer form that TV show to play Redford next time .
believable	This movie is very believable . It would not surprise me to find out this actually happened . It seemed a lot of films from Britain are done on a lower budget . The film dragged in spots because of the budget . I found the ending anti climatic . It was interesting in spots but overall it is a forgettable movie .
Unoriginal	This film is a good film but done by the numbers and that is why the Western died out . Kenndy plays a great bad guy , but this film is dated . I wish they changed the script a bit . Cool gun fight . Could have used another rewrite !
Some good Some bad	This film has some good , and some bad . Parts work , and other stink ; this film is a 5 , not that bad , but not that good either . It is watchable , but I would not miss the bar on a Saturday night to see this . A young Stallone , and the Fonz in this film makes it a curiosity .
Comedy is hard to do	Comedy is hard to do . This movies has its moments , but over stay away from this one . It drags , and drags in spots . Pryors carrier is ending in this film and Candys is beginning . Too bad they did not give the lead to Candy .
This story hits all the sterotypes	Hollywood can get away with certain sterotypes but not others . This film like Caddy Shack has the old established people ( people off the May Flower ) mixing with the ethnics ( Irish , Polish Greek etc ) I am from East Kildonian , the ethnic part of the city , and can relate with this film . Sure some of us can be loud , along with crazy , but not thin skinned and can laugh at our selfs . Many of the 80's comedies play on these sterotypes . My friend , and I remember events from the old neighborhood when we watch this film . IT's fun to watch but no classic , like most of the 80's films it too cheesy .
Watchable	Lot of good actors in this B rate film . Not a bad film , but lags in parts , and nothing out of the ordinary in this 1960's WW 2 movie . Some good flying , and stunts . Stay away from this one , but if its on TV one can watch it .
Moore leaves on a bad note	This movie was almost a 4 , if the beginning did not start out good I would have never watched the second half . The ending was not that bad , the second half just plain stupid . I wish Moore left on a better note . He saves what he can of this film , but he shows his age in this film . Too bad he did not leave after his second last Bond film he would have left off on a positive note .
average	Like all the other disaster movies . Nothing special in this one . Dated , and gets across as a movie that doesn't age well . I had trouble watch this one when I could not sleep one not after being unemployeed after 3 months . Heston , Taylor and Greene act well , and one can see why they were A actors .
I saw this film when I was young , and its not that scary now	If you remember back in the early 80's the Canadian government gave tax breaks to create a film industry , up here . These early films where usually low budget horror or teen party comedies or varations of these types of films spliced together , with interesting scripts that need another rewrite , choppy acting , grainy film quality , a big name lead actor with a no name cast , and a generic way of directing that makes one film look and feel like the next one . When I see a HBO film or show I can tell if its made in Canada in the first few minuties by watching the directing . In the end the tax breaks payed off with a well developed film industry , and a legacy of these horrible Canadian stinkers . This film has all the qualities of these stinkers , goes well with other un rememerable Canadian films such as , Scaners , Bells , Up the Creek , and Hog wild .
This film is a 5	I like Chuck Noris , and when I was sixteen I really liked this film . As I got older this film does not age well , it gets cornballish . There is a few good fight scenes , and I like the prowler . It is not a bad film , but not a good one either .
Don't pick up the Phone	Well this Canadian stinker done by the Canadian film development corporation had a great concept . I remember watching this film , after I finished grade 11 , with my dad , and I thought what a great concept . I think of all the movies I've forgotten over the years , and this film is burnt into my memory . Electrocute annoying people by the phone , this would be great for thoes annoying telemarketers who usually phone during dinner . Well , that's besides the point , like most of the Canadian Film development movies of that era this film has an ok concept , but lacks in budget or effects . I like the opening scene with the kids running in the subway , its a good mood setter . It has a great concept like Scaners , and it looks like it too could have been filmed in Monteral .
Low budget	Here's the story line , spoiler . The book for this movie should be great , what a concept . KGB agents brain washed into believing there someone else , then they hear this Robert Frost poem and bang they go on a suicide mission . A great story with too low of a budget , the film quality is grainy , bad acting , and a choppy script . The concept and Bronson could not save this movie . I like a few scenes in this film , ie the snake , the mom serving pancakes , and the beginning . The film dragged , and watching it to the end was a chore . This movie is a 5 , but could of , should of , been a 10
The Fourth in the Series	I have rented all four in the series . They are all well done films . Nick plays Lucifer in all three and his role is believable . The story was surprisingly good . It seems the more they make of these films , the better they get . Mr . T . is in this one and his role is small . His role is not like the other roles one would see him in such as the A-Team . It had good court drama and a logical discussion about God . The series is starting to run out of steam , but it will be interesting when Left Behind 2 comes out .
Badly made movie with a few good scenes .	Not a great movie , but better than other films . The Soldier is about the cold war between the Soviets and Ameriacans . This movie is similar to James Bond but is more violent than the Bond films . Ken Wahl is the C I A's version of James Bond . However , I find the movie is inferiorly made compared to the Bond series . I hate seeing a few good scenes wasted in a film which has choppy directing , an unbelievable script , and bad acting . I like these kind of films but this movie is like a HBO style , low budget film . I wish the makers had more time and money to make this movie the way it should have been made . The Soldier is an 3 or . Watch it on late night TV .
Not bad not good just dated	This film was cutting edge special effects ; it scared me then , but now the effects have become the standard for Buffy the Vampire Killer . Why do early 80's films have such grainy picture quality ? It appeared 100 times to dark for my TV . They have the guy from the old A-1 steak sauce commercials , I keep waiting for a commercial plug about the sauce , before he ate one of his victims . The story is scary in spots , but copied to the point where this film is a seen this done this before film . I still like the wolf's howling in the woods . 5 or depending what mood I am in .
Flater than a board	This is the noise dive that the Director never recoverd from . Whats his name peaked with Pulp Fiction . This film has the actors , and budget , but not the script of Pulp Fiction . In the end , a disappointment . Too long , and no one cared how this film ends . I never hear from Quiten what's his name anymore .
I could never get into the show or TV movies	Can't compare to today's low budget tripe . Budgets for several sets , car chases , and explosions is too much for today on the cheap TV shows . Who cares what loser is going get voted of elimidate , or voted off the island , house or even tool shed . These real life shows are done on the cheap . Even cheaper than the sit com Friends which used a whole two sets where there was nothing but self absorbed gabbing . TJ Hooker had high production values compared to the future of TV , and was fast paced with action . The only problem was the delivery of the show's formula . Predictable , every chase the car has to explode . TJ , hung onto the hood of the bad guys ' car . The final fight where TJ uses the night stick . Zimmerman and Locklear were added beef stick for the show . I believe the predictability of the show's formula and delivery helped kill this style of show ; along with the high budget which todays on the cheap tv will never do again . .
Disappointing	I found this movie more anti Vietnam war , than what really happened . When I saw this film I expected more of what the war was about , and got satire instead . Platoon with it hollywood story is a much better film , and gave a gritter feel . Rent something else this film is forgettable .
Miami Vice busted	Miami Vice busted ! The bust of the summer ! A huge disappointment ! Miami Vice , the movie , just like the drug dealers who got caught on the TV show got busted , and this dog is a bust . The film makers dropped every plot outline which made the TV show successful . Miami Vice had no plot outline , just one continuous character development with the character connecting very little with the story . The two protagonists had very little material to work with . What did the Aryian brotherhood have to do with any of the story ? How did the leak happen ? What did the FBI or the Vice department do ? Instead , the viewer sees a very anti-climatic shoot out , with a few gory spots , unless one is used to horror gore . The lack of story has an elongated , and boring sex scene , which tries to compensate as filler . The sex scenes do little for character development , there is no relationship between the characters . One would not even know that Tubes ' girlfriend was a hostage at the end . Why would the brotherhood take her as a hostage ? The producers miss the point if the viewer wants an elongated sex movie one would rent a more graphic porno . ( ie sex whatever part 3 ) Miami Vice is not even a good rental . My wife thinks they just used the name to promote the movie , and regrettably I was sucked in with the marketing . . Where did the city of Miami actually appear in the film ?
Ben and Owen need each other	Ben and Owen need each other . They make ok comedies when apart , but together they have an unexplained magic . The film has some funny moments . Just another run of the mill comedy . Ben , does his usually physical humor , and the out of place trying to get it humor . Facial expressions are Ben's best asset . Jennifer plays an ok supporting role , nothing special here . Alec Baldwin has a surprising funny bit part . Too many comedies follow the " Weekend at Bernies " format . Comedies try to use the " American Pie " gross or cheap laughs now . There has to be a new direction for comedies . Real life comedy would be an idea . We need new ideas ; movie's like " The party " had a zing to them . Maybe even a remake movie of the Party with Wilson as the waiter , and Ben as Sellers would be fun to watch . I give this film a 5 or 6 out of a 10 . Nothing special .
5 , but a good five	I took , my girlfriend , during my college days , to this movie . I enjoyed the date more then the movie . This movie is sappy , way too sappy , but the fights scenes were way cool . I like the big fight at the end , this is a good late night film to watch .
Boring	This is another boring film done by Rutger Huger . His career has been on the down slide for many years . I think he should just call it quits . He played a good weirdo but the story was lacking . The rest of the cast were no names and desperately needed acting lessons . Do yourself a favor and bypass this one .
It looks like one of those films when the canadians where learning how to make them	When the government was helping create a film industry here in Canada , it followed this pattern b film with a named actor . This time the name actor is William Shatner , and the b action film is about terrorist grabbing the president . Unbelievable at the time , but after James Bond plots become more believable every week . It is entertaining , and I like Shatner in it , I forgotten abit of the ending . Entertaining , but a B film .
Jensen Ackles shouldn't done this one .	Jensen Ackles should have given a pass on My Bloody Valtine . I saw the movie in 2d so some of the fun was gone . I love b style horror films , but I have my limit . Poorly acted , bad script , and just not much material for Jensen to work with . My wife though what a bad move by Ackles this movie makes Ackles look like a b actor . The movie has it share of over the top gore and sex . Not for the kids . Not very scary either . Maybe scares for me . A very predictable ending . Do not even rent My bloody Valtine . Oh well , at least I got out of the house when it was - 30 . Ask for a refund with this one . They use Ackles name to suck you in .
Better than the first !	This film has some strong and weak points . It has a plot right out of TJ Hooker ( for those people in the 80's ) and some stunts out of the Duke's of Hazard . One does not have to think hard to watch this movie . The beginning part of the movie is lame , the characters , 70's style , wow look at this acting , and multi cultural cast resembled perfectly the 70's PBS show the Blood Hound gang . How lame , and dull edged , along with no imagination could they make this . They try to grab the younger audience with everything rap style , which is in stark contrast to racing NASCAR Burt Reynolds fans . This rap I just don't mean the music but lingo is so 90's , and been around since 88 is losing its shock , its become more of a fringe . It reminds me of the PoP tart commercial we see in Canada , I was waiting to see a PoP tart in one of the cars and the lead actor make that weird noise . Some of the stunts where out of CBS , Dukes of Hazard , ie . the bridge whatever the guy won in cash would never cover the cost of his under carriage or axles . Then the movie turns into Grand thief auto Vice city , I am sure they had this in mind . It picks up and becomes a little more believable . Then the 70's driving film style took over and saves this film , movie like Cannonball , The Driver etc , and I really enjoyed the fun of it . Especially the 2 stunt drivers in the Charger , and Camero who look and act the real deal . It was real ; they could not beat these cars with today's toned down imports , but the import could handle the corners better . Then the movie turns into Smokey and the Bandit style with its trick at the ending , along with a very Dukes of Hazard ending , they even mention the name Dukes , where just like in the show surprising no one gets killed . 5 or 6 out 10 .
SCTV never made it on big screen	This film is an example of bad comedy writing , and lame humor . The acting make this film passable , but one can see the jokes coming a mile away . Do something more productive with your time . It's not a stinker , but avoid it .
Not enough football in this movie !	When I watched this movie again I did not realize how little football is actually in this film . This film shows the reality of the football business , and price one pays both physical and mentally in pro sports . I would call this film more a drama then a comedy . The personal side in Elliots life drags in this film , and kills it .
Flat	Inspired by some of Cliton's embarrassments , this film hits a nerve . However , it never reaches the true potential of the inspiration . Too over the top , and get across as stupid . I wish they did more . This film is flater than open 7 up out of the fridge for 3 day .
Not bad not good .	The unborn is not a bad movie or a good one either . The movie is based on some old beliefs mixed with new thoughts on evil and can it exist . There are a couple of themes the movie addresses . What if evil haunts a family or kid ? How do we deal with the primal evil which exists before time ? I love the science part of the movie where the professor explains about other dimensions . If one can not see does that mean it does not exists ? The movie goes overboard with Hollywood effects . Typical movie style too cut and dry of an ending . The script has a way too thin storyline for such a deep concept . I did not mind some of the movie but the movie is not scary , but more creepy . Not a bad movie , but not a good movie either . The movie is a . Maybe , watch the movie on video on demand .
Well I seen worse	Not a bad movie , but his film was lacking something . I find when Brian DePalma directs he creates , sometimes , very cold and sterile movies like this one , and Snake eyes . Better then the second one in story , but colder in character then the first . I hope they do not make a mission impossible three .
Dr No can answer how good this film is .	Here is a few question we can ask about this film . ( Doctor No ) Was it done on a high budget ? No . Did it have the same action sequences as in other Bond films ? No . Is it the best Bond film ? No Thank you Doctor No . This film is the first of all the Bond films it has a different beginning than the other films . There was no Q in this one , or his gagets , along with the dramatic action scenes . This is not a bad first time out considering the low budget in this film ; compare it to 71's diamonds are forever and one will see how the budget grew . You can tell that Ian Fleming loves the islands , and did some spying himself when they made this film . This would have been another b movie if it was not for Sean Connery , whose humor , and sarcasm made this film memorable ; I also liked the Hawaii Five O guys role in the film . A older guy at work told me this was one of the first film where a women was killed in it and that was a shocker for film , but not TV . What can I say this was the first , and if not for Connery it would have been the last .
Hanks saves a lot of films	Hanks saved this film from being just plain awful to just watchable grade d material . Hanks , early in his career , did have the choice he has in scripts today . He played in many b rate comedies . He saved a lot of those comedies ; but , and there is a big but , in this one Dan however you spell his last name along with his other Saturday night live buddies , Chevey Chase , and Bill Murray can not . Dan annoys me in this one , and so does the film . I remember seeing this during its release with my sister , and friends JD , and Erin when they came in from Edmonton . They asked what did you think and I said Okay . Many films for these Saturday Night Live cast can be described as such . Unless there is a great script , say Harold Ramius writes it these actors will not save the movie . Dan went down with his ship .
More of a female movie	This film is a female comedy ; I thought it would be a mobster story . My wife enjoyed this film , I thought it was more hit or miss . I believe this film was direct too video . I would not be surprised if this film is on Show case Diva , I would not recommend this movie . But I would give it a .
It's not about the baseball team !	I give this film a 5 or 6 . This film is not bad , but it's destined for the 99 cent bin at the video store . Very low budget ; it looks like a TBS original film . The black actor , the guy off Dawson creek , and the other guy form That's 70's show , all have forgettable performances . The saving grace for this film is the acting of the two older rangers . Especially the guy form the X Files , and T2 , he always seems to do an excellent role for the little B material he's giving . Worth watching , and easy to forget .
Well my wife liked it	My wife love this film , she thinks this relationship movie is great . I found it ok the first time , but second time its more soap operish . They do this big dance at the end of the summer for a bunch of campers , after both lead character live becomes messes big deal . The movie seem hopeless , and pointless . I might be wrong , but this movie will not age well .
Great cast no story	This film has a great cast , which follows up with strong acting . The story drags this film down , like a weight tied to my leg while I am trying too swim . The story is weird , and confused . The movie has no point . I never seen a Polish wedding like this one with my relatives .
Entertaining , but lame	Ok story , but lame . Back in 81 the special effects were amazing , now they represenet how movies start . With realistic computer graphics , better models etc , and the pushing the envelope on FX , this move is the stone wheel compared to the all season tire . Not a bad movie , but by todays standards it ages poorly . Rent it if you want , but I warn you this film will be disappointing .
Second half saves this not really .	My wife wanted to see this James Bond movie , because we saw all the others . With hesitation I rented it . The first half of this movie is awful , yuck , it has a few funny , Brithish dry wit spots to it , but horrible . The second half saves it , if you can actually endure the first half , it's stupid funny . The British humor is actually good , it is so over the top , especially the ending with the bubbles and cowboys . Better than Austen Powers , and I see where they got the idea from , with this film . In the end
Potential , but thats it .	This film has strong acting , and directing , but the budget is too small . A lot of potential , and no money to utilize it . The story is ok , but the film becomes theater drama instead of a film . A few years later no one will know of this films existence .
Poor mans Raiders of the Lost Ark	I rented this film when an old buddy JD came in from Edmonton . This film is a poor mans version of Raiders of the Lost Ark . I gave it a five , would not watch it again . Its funny in spots , and I may watch it for 5 minutes on TV . This film is no Indy with the crack of his wip .
A 5	Not the best of the batman movies , but far form the worst . I noticed they stopped making now , and with out Jack Nicolson they never equal the first . Its a ok story , but a bit boorish . I find the movie predictable , and tired . The comic book hero story wore thin with this film .
Over Rated	Film making has improved over the years , and this film is choppy like Death Wish . Alot of 70's films appear grainy , compared to the work done today . This film dragged , maybe it was the mood I was in , but it dragged . I found it slow paced , and not over the top . In the end this is just another movie .
Why did I watch this ?	This film is bad , has its good moments . I ask myself why did I watch this ? Because there was nothing else on late at night , and I just couldn't sleep . In the end , I ask myself why did they make this film ? Passable , but not a good film .
Passable , but not great .	I rented it with the wife one day after remembering seeing it as a child . 5 . 6 is about the right rating for this film . Not a failure , but not that entertaining either . Many other sub movies like Das Boat give a better feel . Heston does another great role , it is hard to name many bad films he has been it . In the end , rent something else !
Cornball	Well , this film is like a Stallone moive before its time . Action packed , with a huge gun fight conclusion . Better than the Wild Bunch , but this film ages poorly . Not a classic Western , but a TBS late night movie .
That Would Drive Me Crazy	This movie is dated but holds up well . Joyride got a lot of its ideas from this movie . Dennis Weaver plays an excellent part . One can actually relate with his character . I do not understand why the trucker was so unstable . Big deal , someone passes you on the road . At least , Dennis didn't cut him off like a lot of drivers out there .
Funny but average	Has its moments , but the movie sucks . I hate the relationship part of the story . The antics in the movie make me laugh . I would watch it for 15 minutes , but not the whole movie . Tim Robbens plays a very stupid guy .
Lame	Give me an L ! Give me an A ! Give me an M ! Give me and E ! What you got ? Lame , and what you gona do ? Not watch this . The film industry comes out with film craptogarphy all the time . Flatliners is one of many forgettable films of the past and regrettably many more to come . I was dating my wife at the time , and found the date more interesting than this . At least I got something out of it . A very undeveloped idea with by the numbers acting . Not a awful film like ' Day of the Dead ' , but lame . Destine for the 5 . 99 DVD sale . Don't waste your time , unless you have time to waste . My Flatliners nightmare would be have to watch this film again after I die . Many notable actors that were under used : Roberts , Sutherland , Bacon etc
Okay	5 or . A bit contrived . The cast looks more like a PBS after school special . It is not like a more real life army movie . If the viewer has low expectations the movie is not bad . A good message about team work , and how bad family / community support can effect the individual . I can relate with the movies ' main character . Like Rocky , the protagonist overcomes the odds , finds character and leadership while the story unfolds . The captain in the movie makes the main character stronger . He knows that there is more to this person ' s ability than he is showing . The boxing matches were fine . Worth renting . . Soon to be a TBS late night movie . I like the John McCain story faith of my Fathers better .
Heavy handed social message , and a lame sci fi film	Spoiler I was expecting this to be a interesting Sci fi film . First time around I would give it a 6 , and the second time around I would give the film a 4 . It has a heavy social theme of government oppressing the youth , and the unwanted by using auto violations that keeps them in the drive inn . Then a anti-racism theme that is very over handed that start the ball rolling with the anti hero . The shoot out , and the car crashes , along with nudity tries to keep this one alive . In the end , violence , T & A , and a caring liberal social message usually equals bad science fiction . People watch Science Fiction to escape life , not face it .
Saw it with my Dad	I saw this film , when I was 12 , with my dad . Not a bad movie , but when I saw it earlier I thought it was good , but my recent viewing of this film I find it cheesy . The beginning is ok , but the rest gets a little unbelievable . My dad read the book , and said this movie is far off from the the truth . In the end , I give it a
Well OK	I watched about 2 or 3 shows and a few bits and pieces of other shows . As the rappers say don't believe the hype . Funny in spots , and the acting is OK . The show loses my attention span very quickly . I find the show a little too close for real life . Sex in the city make this viewer happy he is married . The moral or thesis of the show is the female characters are too self-absorbed with their own feeling , jobs etc they leave no room for a real relationship . Throwing oneself sexually is never going create a healthy longterm relationship . I believe the show either displays the selfish silliness or that the characters really do not want a man . Either way I find the characters too hollow to watch for a long time . They do not even treat each other too well with some of the games they play on each other . . Some buddy please help these people .
Artsy	The Reader is an artsy film . This movie is not for kids . The Reader is a very sexually charged movie . A young boy loses his youth to an older manipulative woman . The affair causes the protagonist pain with his future relationships . The woman is a Nazi with a sordid past , which comes full circle with the story . The viewer learns that the woman cannot read , and her shame or pride makes the character go through many painful and distasteful acts to hide her illiteracy . A sad train wreck conclusion is inevitable . A sad story about a sad part of history . I give this movie a . Interesting story , well acted , and directed . However , the story left me bothered .
This film is a double edge sword	This film makes fun of fat people , but has message that beauty is skin deep . How complex , but laughable . The wiskey I drank give me the feeling , that all of us laugh with our dark natures at our own or someone else expences . Be it physical humor , racial humor , persons with bad luck , or event at with a violent acton like a kick to the groin we laugh at someone else expecese . We all do this , I do not know if this is a coping mechinism but this movie does this . It's saving grace is it show how we are brianwashed in self absorbtion of what is beauty and belief in what acounts for a winner . It's not what we drive , or how much money we make , or beer comerical looks that make the person . Character gotta count for the person also . Its and ok film , but a little too serious for a comedy .
Better than the other two .	One of my few day shifts at the post office , so I was able to go ! The theater was right across from the plant and I met my buddy , Danny , who got free promo tickets for opening night or my buddy Dave won them but could not show . I can not remember , but I think it is the latter . It was exciting going to a premier showing ; they had draws , local celebrities , save the Jets campaign , etc . The movie was ok . Another typical action movie , but I like the water Jug part . I hope many of you can guess the mystery , my mathematically inclined friend did , and myself a little after the movie . Bruce Willis does not do the over the top annoying borderline jerk character , and I like the more realistic role . Typical ending
Just Ok	One reviewer calls this movie sick , but I guess my years at the post office has twisted my mind , that nothing affects it anymore . I can relate to the Sinban character , the job can drive you drink . A lot of the people there behave off centre . The movie lags in spots , but is entertaining . It is a family movie , like the Santa Clause .
Predictable	Ever watched a movie where you figured out the ending at the beginning ? This film is it . Everyone knows the Clingons were the Soviets , and the Federation was the Americans . With the end of the Cold War they decided to end the Trek War , where the walls came tumbling down . The big surprise twist at the end has no shock value at all ! What saves the film is Shatner's fight at the Cligons prison . In the end , worth watching , but more of the same . Will Star Trek ever die like other shows they keep remaking the same idea with new series , and films .
Run of the mill action thriller .	Run of the mill action thriller . I did not mind Eagle Eye , however I found the movie predictable . Parts of the movie were great other parts were lame . The movie has the Hall 2000 computer problem . One has to see the movie 2001 to see the connection . When I saw the ending , I thought you had to be joking . Lame ! Just not lame but super lame . The movie's ebb and flow is a . I would never buy the movie , but I would rent it . Go to the cheap theater to see Eagle Eye . A date movie where you are more interested in your date than the movie . My wife enjoyed the movie . I guess she didn't see the movie 2001 . Julianne Moore's voice is quite recognizable as the computer . Can you imagine a computer that could control everything . I think the world would be in big trouble as computer have no grey areas .
Not bad for direct to video .	This film is one of those direct to video movie . They get a middle weight name like Tom , and try to sell it using his name . Well this isn't that bad like most direct of video movie , actual it's ok . Tom is a good actor , and the script is ok . It's not a high budget , and they got a scene that looks like one of those West Coast Canadian Rock video's . ( ie Chalk Circle ) Well , rent it , it won't kill you .
Bust of the Summer	Bust of the summer . Not a bad movie . Dark water's story drags , and not in a slow burn way , but in a bad movie way . Not scary , unless one finds a slow pace scary . The director still manages to keep the viewer interested in the story . I do not know if the story was lost in translation of the book to film , but the movie was lacking a push . The actors and director did well with what little meat the script provided . Too much fiber and not enough red meat for me . The end is like the ring 2 with the need for a mother in the film . A let down after watching the whole film . Watch it on video . Not bad for a late Friday night by yourself . Not a movie for a group . . I bet the book was better and hard to put on screen .
Average	I expected Gabrial Byne to play a much better role than this . He was excellent in the End of Days . The beginning reminded me of a college movie than ship hands . It was a bit PCish too . It finally picked up on the boat . There was some scary scenes . It had a predictable ending . The leading lady should of stayed on TV , ; she is not that great of an actress . I used to watch her on ER . If you are going to a scary / horror movie , go and see the Ring instead of this one .
Not a bad TV movie , but still a TV movie .	I wonder how close the movie portrays reality . Did his wife have the influence this move enacts ? Was he a hot head ? The people were right about him marrying a loyalist , and the governor of Pen did the Job that was required , or this great nation and the republic it stands for would not exist today . Well acted and casted for a TV movie , but it is TV of quality . ABC , and the other 3 should watch out or there market share with cable will continue to dwindle . Tape it like I did and avoid the commercials .
Not a bad movie	Watching the preview I did not know if I wanted to see this movie . After listening to much whining at work , leaving early on a Friday , my wife and I caught the late show . Not bad , the beginning is strong , and the middle is funny . The last quarter fades , and the film's direction is fantasy oriented . Probably a better book than film . Matthew is going be a great supporting actor , only time will tell if Matthew will hit it big . He is a 80's version of James Wood . A fine actor for certain parts . Fraility was Matthew's best . A relaxing stress release of escapism . Believe me I needed it . A Star Wars or Raiders type of escapism no , but a good second movie on rental night . 6 or depends on one's mood . Pulls no punches with the Hollywood PC stuff dare to be different . I like the ship out in the middle of the desert idea .
I remember this one when I was 11	I remember this one when I was 11 . Not bad , they never explain how Mars becomes livable . I like the only 2 people left part . The part where the aliens use mind type thingies . Is it been on TV lately ? I wonder how well it aged ? A little too long if I remember right . They use too make better science fiction . Too PC now days . I hate the modern Star Treck plots . Not enough escapism . I believe there was a novel of the book . My teacher read of parts of the book . Would like to see it again . . Not too many mini series like this one . Big budget . I can not remember if they explain what happen to the Martins ? I bet the movie will be on the Space Network .
Not a bad show	Not a bad show , watched as a child in the 70's , and saw it again on A & E years later . Some of the shows became corny , but others aged very well . Written from real stories , which is much better than what the networks do today . Kurt Russel is in a few of them . . If anyone complains of TV violence today they should catch a few of these shows . They have an episode where the bad guy gets blown threw a glass window .
Comedy is hard to do !	Comedy is the hardest script to write . How can you make a film continious funny . Action paced is easy , but jokes tend to fall flat . Candy raise this film too a , but the script lags in places . It is not a bad comedy , but is no Home Alone either .
Worth watching	This is not a great movie , and will age badly ; I liked this movie ; it makes me laugh , but it is done cheesy in a 70's way . Michael Douglas is a great actor and saved this film . The other lead should not quit his day job . The restaurant scene is great , especially the part where he describes his copier business . Rent it ! Do not go to the theater for this one .
Rambo before its time	This film has more action in it than a Stalone flick . For a 60's film wow . It has all the World War 2 stuff in it . Nazi's , the warning buzzards , and a castle . Kind of like Wolfenstien the video game . Enertaining film , but not a classic . A bit dated , but stunts , film quality etc gets better with time . Good late night movie !
The Rock Is Not An Actor	My wife , friend Dan and I saw the movie . We all liked the Mummy series . We all discussed it and found the movie okay . However , it does not have the strong acting like the Mummy . The movie tried to be a cross between the movies Conan and the Mummy . I expected a bit more from the action scenes . The ending was the typical Hollywood formula ending . Nothing special about this one .
Big hat no cattle	Spoiler ! ! ! This film is all sizzle and no steak . I watched the preview and expected more . No bigtime special effects ; UFO'S burning things , people melting , etc . This film is done on a low budget , like the writer's other film Unbreakable . The writer has some weak dialogs ( ie the army guy ) but the majority of the script is strong . What works in this film results from the lack of special effects ; not seeing the aliens , things that run around in the night , moving door knobs , noises , etc . The locked in the basement scene made my heart race , what tension , but the ending is anti climatic after the basement scene . I left the theatre wanting more , maybe part 2 ; Maybe my expectations were too high .
Not a bad movie .	Not a bad movie , but I have to watch it another time . I thinks a second viewing will give me a better opinion . The story is a bit weak but Mat is a good actor and makes the film better . Mike D as uncle Wayne adds much comic relief . We see that Uncle Wayne should have never brought up kids , and this is the thesis which drives the story . I would wait and rent the movie or Video on demand it . The movie is not for kids . I would give Ghosts of girlfriends past a . Maybe , I would like the movie on a second viewing . I found the characters a little to sleazy for my liking . There was not very likable character in this film .
ok movie	This movie is ok , it had a high budget , and interesting characters . Except for Ed Harris the movie's line up is full of no name actors , with no name performances . I hate it when a movie is filmed ie like this one where it is suppose to be in Russia , and everyone has a British accent . At least Ed Harris , gave and effort to sound German , and culturally act as one . This gives a movie believablity , and the director should of gave this consideration . Then they have to add all this personal crap , and phony heroics to all ready interesting true story . All these negative factors weighed down a film that could be a 8 , but instead is a 6 .
I give it a	Not a bad movie , but average . The story is not that bad , but far fetched , and done like a Diehard film . They got too do something new with this series . One do all the Bond films need a count down in them ? Do the vilians all ways never make sure Bond is dead ? Does everything have to explode in these films ? Its redundant ! If you are the makers of a Bond film here is a few pointers . Maybe , have Bond hunted for a change ! Have him fend someone off in time for some help . Make a harder edge to it and add some new style to it like in Snatch or Pulp Fiction . The bad guys in this film where forgetable and not very scary . That Blond guy give me a break ! M her , aid , and the Admerial drag this film , they annoy the viewer with tripe . Roger Moore added humor and charm , Bronson had nothing to work with in this script . Bruce Willis could have played the British Gentalmen with this script . Its not a bad film , but if they want to continue with the series , they need some new blood .
I don't mind the show	I do not mind the show . A left wing slant , but not a overly left view . I only watch Nightline when they have an interesting guest or investigation . Nightline is mostly a run of the mill news show . The usual panel discussion , special guests , and the commentators own summary of the news topic . The special investigation segments is Nightlines saving grace . The investigation segments are usually about what the public should watch for . Nightline proves a News show can inform and alert the public . I love the heads up about scumbags and their evil antics . . Not bad for late night TV . Tom is a decent anchor .
Good film , but it dies in the ending	Most College movies can be described as lame or stupid . This is one of the few that stays out of these two categories . This film starts out stong , and for the 90's I give credit for handling real life taboos of drugs , drinking , student radicals , and eating meat . Crap goes on all the time , but when I was in University in the 90's the radical fringe made the place more like a jail than a learning establishment . Being resented for your background , or life style of wearing leather , eating read meat , and drinking beer . I never could understand why everyone else has to live their way , and why they have too name call and shout all the time . ( Sometimes , I found some of the students turn the place into a kindergarten . ) ( EQ vs IQ ) Anyway , this movie is a protest to the PC establishment , and is funny . When one pokes fun at another , and these PCers can not take a joke ; you get the huge reaction that the prankster wants . The problem with the last quarter , unlike Animal House , the movie wimps out , instead of having one very big prank at the ending .
Average action film , very Hollywood .	Well , I remember more about what happened after this movie than about it . My friend had a bad incident with me after the film , and I believe this soured my view of this film . A very bad year ; don't let others choose your high school for you . That is besides the point , but on second viewing , years later , I still found the movie disappointing . The beginning is exciting , and Gary Busey's role is excellent with the cig lighter ; sort of a copy of Miami Vice with : buddies who don't like each other at first , black / white , machine guns , drugs , etc . Some of the other did this done that before ideas where , the old Nam team , car chases , the Dirty Harry jumper stunt , and the Rockford type of trailer Gibson lives in . It is still entertaining enough to watch , but I could never understand how this film brought on three or four sequels to it .
leans towards the left	I found CBS news leans towards the left . The news is a bit better than the other 3 networks . I find Rather entertaining . I love Rather's presidential election spin comments . News is much more responsible these days for we have many more news outlets , which create counter ideas and keeps the broadcasters honest . The old days the media could get away with more . Free radio , and the internet has change the media . Rather left with the 60 min's story , which will hurt him . I think he still will be remembered as a decent newsman . Rather personally felt pain over the Regan shooting and showed a side we do not see today . .
Thankful , Dalton's last Bond film	This movie is James Bond meets Miami vice , how 80's . It is not the worst story , but gets unbelievable during the last quarter . Dalton improves as Bond , but still makes this film humorless , and has no charm with the ladies . Great stunts , especially the water skiing scene , but Dalton kills this film . Worth watching late night , over the ab tonner commercials .
Good film , but it drags .	What I like about this film is how gloomy the Soviet Unions looks ; one gets a feel of what total government control is like in a police state , well done . There is tention in this film , but it drags . Just get on the plane all ready ! What disappoints me , is the climax . Eastwood steals this super secret plane , in the heavily over armed Soviet Union , and he only runs into a couple of planes . Boring ! There should have been more action , and by the conclusion you start to wish something would happen .
Entertaining but I give it a six	This film is entertaining , but lags in parts , and is a bit stupid . The action scenes are incredible , and some of the dialog is entertaining , but there is some boring stretches in this one . The best part in the movie is when Cyres gets shot , he was so annoying ( can you dig it ) I could see the motive behind the shooting . My friend Tony cheered at that scene , anyways this movie is not to be taken seriously it is sorta comic book style . When the subway caught fire and they did not get home I would of called a cab , but then we would have one very boring movie . They got to fight there way back with these comic book dressed type gangs , one of the gangs look like a cross between alternative music Nervana and farmers . The bad guys in this film did a very entertaining job and I was sorta rooting for them . If you like foolish movies ie Repo Man rent this one .
Better than the first	This film is an improvement over the first . The acting improves , and William Peterson shines in his role . The writing , and directing remains average . Nothing stands out special in this film , and I would rent it on a 99 cent day , at your local video store . .
Knock off of Dawn of the Dead !	Spoiler Zombie movies , what can one say , I can only describe them as zombie movies . It begain ok , but the special forces actors where too much . When one acts too over macho one looks like a wantabe . The million dollar question is if the virius only effects the dead why did the computer kill everyone . I keeped asking myself that question through out the movie ! The films ending is interesting , but why do the zombie's always take over the earth . Worth renting
Well made movie , but not for entertainment !	Well made movie , that has a message ; not an entertaining message , but one of bleakness . I have to read nine books for my college lit course , and this is movie 3 . Much better than the ' The Others ' but less entertaining than ' Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead ' . What I like is the portrayal of a repressive government , and how a government lies can be truth if that is how they become perceived . How much does the media , and government manipulate the truth is what I gain from this film . Being a literature classic some of the film is dry , and complex . I believe this film is a crisism of communism and the super state . Where the elimination of the family , and all other loyalties must be repressed . In the end , whenever I hear something is for the greater good watch out .
goofy but watchable	This film entertains , but it is run of the mill . Would I buy the film no , watch it on tv yes . I do not mind it , but the writing is goofy . In conclusion , the jury says goofy but watchable It will be on tv again .
Rent this one first	Rent this one first or it will ruin part one . This film is where I waste a Saturday drinking beer eating chips and watching this on TBS . Well it will at least relax me . That is what escapism is about . Spoiler Super macho Chuck is a POW of 15 year , or what ever time , and is treated cruelly . The rat in the bag seen is pretty good . Anyways he gets out , and its his turn .
Lower more PC version of Snatch or Pulp Fiction .	This movie pales in comparison to the two others I mentioned . It is an average film , with some bright moments . Would I buy it no , would I watch it on TV no , was it a bad movie no . This film I probably will forget about it in a few years , but its was worth renting , and better than the alternative of late night television . I would give it a C or in marks . Tim Allen won't jump form TV to movies with this film .
Disturbing	This movie tries to be like Mothman , and fails . It's a low budget film , which is sick , but I have been so twisted over the years I warn you it takes a lot to bother me , and slowly drags out to its conclusion . It is well directed , and portrays a X files style . The bad part is how thine the story is . We do not understand why this is done . If and who is evil , and why it needs to be stopped . We can not understand what is good and why , and how what appears good is bad . This film lacks sense . In the end it is too smart , and makes it self look stupid and sick .
Good episode	A good episode , but not the greatest . I wish there was a little less drag time with the show . The Jenn and Rallings people were at it again . I feel this is going to be one of those right-wing conspires plots . I find that a little too politically correct . Easy plot device to blame people in suits . I could be wrong and the show has me in for a loop . I hate predictable TV . The end of the show hit me for a loop . Wow unpredictable . Like Supernatural the show changes cast quick enough which keeps the story fresh . I wonder what Beck will do with the new information ? . My wife thinks the Ravenwood bad guy plays a good antagonist .
Filler episode .	I like Jericho , and all the shows are entertaining . However , some episodes are filler for the series . Why would G & R not want the town vaccinated ? I believe the producer of Jericho is creating a build up for how evil G and R is . A sick town would be a drain on the new government . The J & R episode is a character development episode . Jake is becoming more of a hero as the show progresses . I wonder how Beck will play into the storyline ? Beck is tough and hard as nail , I bet he will be trouble . 7 or for the TV series . This episode , however , is a 6 . I did not mind it . Now onto the exciting conclusion . I bet there should be some new character added soon .
One long movie	Spoilers ! ! ! ! Well , I remember Mr Capatani used to read us the novels in grade 4 . He took Sean O'Conal , Mike Lazeruk , Bernie Pazaluko , my very good friend Tony Pietrafesa , and myself to the movie . It was a cartoon , I watched while eating Tony's popcorn , and we thought it was the greatest film since Star Wars . I loved these stories that were read in class , and looked forward to the movie . This type of film is usually not my thing . I was disappointed , not with the movie itself , or characters but the length . Many scenes should never left the cutting room floor , and the ending leaves you hanging . I wish they added more to the end , and some from the middle . Don't get me wrong , it is a good film , maybe my expectations were too high , they could have erased 45 minutes .
CBC's version of The Soprano's	I guess CBC is trying not to lose anymore viewers to HBO , and came up with this . Most of the budget is spent on the first episode , and the show hurts because of this . Watchable , decent budget , good acting , which is a big surprise for the CBC . Michael Ironside is a strong actor and it was nice to have a realistic watchable show on TV . I still can not believe I watch a CBC show , other than Hockey . Maybe , I will watch PBS next . Worth viewing .
Good show	I was in grade 4 at the time , but I remember a bit of this show . I used to laugh at it all the time . Kind of like the Rockford Files , with the Angel and Jim mix , but on every show . Show did not last long . I remember the one guy's car taken the abuse all the time . The other guy would con some poor person in thinking , ie Beverly Hills cops style that he was with some organization . Maybe , too ahead of its time . Would like to see it again to see if I grew out of it . Never on reruns . My Uncle and Dad loved the show . I guess it too short of a series to go on re-runs . ABC used to be a good network at one time . At least the low budget reality shows craze has left us . The budgets and quality will rise . Who wants to see someone order golf culbs by the phone . like on The Appentice .
Under rated	This movie is geared for a young audience . With the young audience in mind the movie makers left out much of the gore , and tension that a harder rating and smaller audience would bring . With the previous comment in mind one would rate the film in a PG 13 light instead of an R rating . Horror fans have change from my day in the 80's . No longer geekie guys , with there dads , and hard core horror fans with the glazed look . Mostly younger females , in the audience , with a few guy friends . A few of the older hard core horror fans . No " Dawn of the Dead " , but a script that follows hard and fast which follows the past sleep fear of the lead actor . The directing speeds up the pace once the movie develops a story and takes on a faster pace ; similar to the " Nightmare on Elm Street " films . A closet scene is done well . The movie could hit harder , but the Boggieman effects and directing keep the viewer from yawning . I would rent it again . . Notice the film makes the lead actor look like the killer if anyone investigated the people who disappeared
A bench mark for the 80's	This TV series is an icon for the 80's . Set , style , fashion , directing to new heights . Influenced my clothing style for about 3 years . The movie or pilot episode has some wrinkles , and drags in spots . It took the writers a few years to perfect the show . Watchable , if you watch today's TV friends or survivor , one would be amazed at the show budget . Boats , choppers , suits , $300 000 cars , big cast etc . Situation comedies about someone's midlife crisis , or who is going to get voted off the island for eating too much fish is boring ; tv sure went for the cheap . No directing , script , maybe two room sets . It is nice to watch on TNN , I give the movie
Good trailer , but a run of the mill movie .	Mirrors has a great trailer . However , the trailer is misleading ! Poor acting combined with poor directing and a bad script makes Mirrors a run of the mill movie . However , the movie is entertaining . I watched the movie for the conclusion and the ending has a big surprise . I hate part of the climax . I will not ruin the climax , but I though you got to be joking with the mirrors exploding . Maybe that is just me . broken mirrors for me . A forgettable movie rental . Go rent Ironman if your looking for entertainment . Not a good year for horror movies . Not many good one out there . More of a action year for movies . Did I write 10 lines yet .
6	It's ok , but you must like Woo's directing style to like this one . I gave it a 6 , no real surprises , by the number action film . Rent this one , it's nothing special . The casting could have been done better , but when a actor make like 12 million a movie it seems to hurt casting usually . If I watched it a couple more times I would like it more .
Not as bad as I heard it was	This film is supose to be so bad , I never rented it for years . I sure was wrong , I gave it a 6 , when I heard this movie was a 3 . James Bond comming out of traing to the live field is a ok concept . The film is on a lower budget , but they did well with what they have . This film shows how good of an actor Sean Connery is . Bronson with three time the budget never gets across in the mannor , or humor which Connery can . Connery makes this movie worth watching he adds so much to the scenes ; when he gets into a fight he gives it Bond magic . Connery delivers a one liner in a James Bond way . He maybe old , but there was still some gas in the tank .
Funny , but not a classic	Funny movie , but not a classic . This film takes time to build , it is a slow burn , and the humor builds as the film progresses . Worth going to the theater , and good rental when it hits video . It is hard to do comedy and I give Deveto credit for pulling this one off . This movie is done in true Deveto style . 6 .
Not bad .	I expected more for an A & E production , and I found the budget lacking . After watching other A & E productions , I found the producers cut a few corners with the high standards of previous A & E movies sets . Faith of my fathers has an excellent message about character , and going the extra mile . I find with my studies , work and my sick wife the movie is inspirational . It shames me into not feeling sorry for myself . The story is lacking in spots . I have never read the book , but I bet it is a long one . When you compress a long book into a hour and a half the viewer only gets a glimpse of the event . I love the part with grandpa and when John talks to his father and the reply is that John left nothing behind . God bless him and his character . I have no idea what I would do in such a situation . I give it a . The movie left me looking for more . I think I will read the book after finishing one of my majors .
Seen better and seen worse .	I rented this film to see Russell Crowe , and found this low budget film okay . Crowe doesn't steal the movie , and the film is strong in parts . After watching it , I found the film unrememberable , because it is neither great nor awful .
Definitely from hell	This film started out well , but continued to get unbelievable . Johnny Depp plays a good role considering the script . There is a hidden political message one will notice in this film . Some parts of this film do not make any sense , but I will not say for it will ruin the film .
Dark , gloomy , depressing film	Spoiler ! This movie shows a man who does not have much to work for in life . He is bored with his life . It was well directed . This movie reminds me of the little chances one has in life to do what one truly desires to do ; missed opportunities . This movie is like many peoples ' lives ; ie . they go to a job which they hate , but they go because they need a paycheck . One event leads to a tragic ending .
Not a bad film	Wesly Snipes usually ruins films with his 2 d acting , but this film he acts the role . De Niro is perfect as an Postal type salesman , who takes America's past time a little too far . I love the ending where the game becomes more than a game . Worth watching on TBS
A solid 6	Spoiler This film is a solid six , not a little less or a little more . I know this is not a serious movie , but it is a bit lame . Steve , ( Mr Pink ) I can not spell his last name is great comic relief , especially with his space what ever you call it he got . Bruce Willis did his best considering the script . Anyway , if a meteor nearly miss the Earth it rips away the earths atmosphere , I know I am picky , but that is a technical glitch with the ending . The story drags in parts , but its not a bad second feature at the drive in .
Great concept	This guy is before his time . The Russian mob must of seen this movie . Charlie Sheen is the scum bag in this movie . He does a great role . If you like cars then you will like this movie as it has a lot of different cars in it . This guy knew how to make money , but it catches up to him .
Look at the budget	Look at the budget , not a bad film . Not a bad film for the budget . Night of the living dead is done on a shoe string budget , and I mean cheap . The producers could help with the US budget ! Chilling but the acting is sort of Death Race 2000ish , awkward , but believable enough . Speaking of Death Race 2000 , I bought Night of the Living Dead and Death Race 2000 for 2 . 98 at Zellars for a cheap movie night last weekend . The DVD's were cheaper than renting at Rogers or Block Busters . Enough off topic review , the directing and story save the movie's short comings . The survival concept keeps the viewer interested . I noticed a few events I would have done different . Why would they turn all the house lights on , would that not attract more Zombies ? The windows get boarded up , but the kitchen window is left unboarded . The ending is effective , how the protagonist thought he survived . Well , you'll see if you watch this movie . A . Hey a lot of the new computer generated movies create inferior films . Not bad for cheap 2 for 1 dvds in the clearance bin .
My wife likes this one	Well , the story gets a bit much for myself , being socially conservative , but one could say I am guilty of watching American Pie , so call me guilty for watching my wife's movie , which is like a romance novel . Not a John Wayne or Sylvester Stalone film . Tuscan Sun is entertaining , my friend Tony has told and this film repeats the love of life Itialian culture embraces . I watched Tuscan at my uncle's shown on his new TV set , hey Sony makes great sets , and my wife found the movie interesting . Diane Lane plays a financially rich person who can throw caution to the wind , and goes on a crazy path . I get to see how one with money can live and think . Even Chuck Norris makes a guest appearance , No just joking . I give the film a . This movie reminds me of the Hilton sisters that they show the jet set life styles .
The Rock is getting better	Compared to the Scorpion King the Rocks acting is getting better . This is not the best film , but for action I would watch it again . The Rock from his wrestling days is a good physical actor , like Stallone , and Arnold . This is a must , not many people can do physical acting , and that is half of what makes a good action movie . That action film with the guy from Cruel Intentions shows how awful and action movie is with out good physical acting . That movie had 1 ) too little believability . 2 ) emotions of pain , physical stress do not look real 3 ) the action looks phony and out of place . If people think Stallone did not take some real punches for Rocky they would be mistaken , for Rocky would loose it realism with out physical realism . That part said , I find the story line good , but inferior to the original . I like true storys better than fiction . Bad events like this story shows really do happens ; I would bet this movie is going be on TBS ' Guy who like movies ' week . One thing I notice in this film is the Rock seems to have a real nice streak in him , I wonder if that is ture or more to do with the movie . 6 or depending if you seen the original Walking tall , for the film becomes more believable if you see the original .
Confusing	Spoilers This movie is confusing ! Why Africa , and not Iraq ! When did Sara change ? What was the deal with the kid ? Who was the French guy with all the money , and why did he send the Father there ? The movie was a mix of Raiders , the Mummy , and the original all in one . The film has it moments . Where ever evil is abound , evil will have its negative effect . What is the dig based on ? The movie builds up , but does not answer ! Entertaining in spots , and shows the specter of evil . . Maybe rent it . The acting , and directing is ok . did the movie build faith , because of evil , I found the story left this out .
Not as bad as people lable it	Spoiler The plot of this film is great satire of action films . It pokes fun at them , and has a twist in them which involves Arnold . They show the real Arnold as a showman , self absorbed , and his action character says ' he is an a hole . The bad guy tired of losing tries to kill the real Arnold , in order to win in the movie world . This film is about 5 years too late , it would have been great back in the 80's , however the crash , chase , gunfight , blowup , action film has been so overdone , it hurts this film out of repetition . Like an old joke where you know the punch line . I love the satire part of the film , where it pokes fun at itself . When action film go full circle this type of film will go back in style , but with new twists . The script itself is original , but they could have cut a few things out or poked more fun during the gunfights etc . This movie is a 6 or 7 .
Not bad for the Canadian Film board !	Not bad for the Canadian film board ! Actually watchable , and not its usual politically correct attack on the Catholic Church . I remember watching this film with my future wife while on Christmass break during collegde . This film give the viewer the feel of what Notre Dame Sask school was like . How the tourch was passed , how the Priest tried too instill toughness for the people to survive the difficult time they faced in the 30's and 40's . 6 or .
Still not enough Jack Sparrow	Still not enough Jack Sparrow . The last two films miss the leading protagonist charisma . If I watch the first film I see how Jack Sparrow carries the film . The conclusion is interesting . The movie deals with the second installment conflicts and provides the series a final resolution . The humor and special effect is their , but lacks heart . I think there was a need for new character to inject some humor ; a Jack Sparrow antagonist is a good idea . The movie could be scary for small kids like my sister in-laws five year old . The audience in Grand Forks during my hollidays gave the film mix reviews . I like the film . The movie would be a second feature at the drive inn . . Do not buy the film just rent it . Did I mention not enough Jack Sparrow ha ha .
I thought it would be a horror movie ?	My wife picked out the movies two days ago . I thought Blood and Chocolates would be a Horror movie ? I was wrong , I believe the movie is more female oriented . A soap opera meets ' Super Natural ' film . The acting and directing is excellently executed . However , I can not be to critical for I feel asleep for about 30 miniutes during the film . My wife enjoyed the movie , which I believe is ' The days of are live ' target market . Predictable and sappy , but OK . Not a Amittyville horror type film . . A good date trade off movie . One rents ' Die hard or live free ' and the other this film . I like the European settings . Wolves always look good on film . They needed Christopher Lee !
Party Movie	This movie has its moments , and would be hard to make in the 90's with poltical correctness . It is a mix of locker room junior high antics , and stright out macho hot dog ski types . There is funny moments and the movie is choppy , but what do you expect for a 80'S party movie . I enjoyed it , but this movie is not for every one . I think every one knows a few people who behave like party animals , and if you don't like party animal types stay away from this one .
Not A Red Sox's fan	I think if one is not from the Boston Area one might miss the movie's theme . I visited my relatives in Ayar ( spelling ) Mass , and my cousins were huge fans of the Soxs . Being from Canada , I can only relate with my relative with Hockey , but the Jets left many moons ago to Phoenix ( sob ) . I know who Buckner is , but still miss the part with Sox's fever . My wife liked the romance part of the movie . The comedy is forced , and could use anothor rewrite . Too many comedies appear to be made on the quick . Not a bad second feature for the drive inn . Mr and Mrs Smith was the headliner . Rent it on cheap night . Mike gives Fever Pitch a . Mike's Boston Area family would probably give the movie a . I do not blame the fans for being so crazy if the team has not won since 1912 .
Not bad , not great	Hey is that the real Wil Clinton who did that movie review ? I tried to email , but there is no forward adress . That is besides the point , Primary Colors was not liked by the critics , I believe the media likes Clinton and viewed this as a swipe at him . If the media likes you they will help out , but if they hate you like , ie Dan Quale watch out it gets very relentless . In the end , I found the story silly , and entertaining ; what saves this film is the acting . Bill bob , and John's performances where exceptional ; John is the most charismatic actor in Hollywood , and his charisma makes him the idea politician . He shows the Hypocrisy of politicans , their self absorption , drive for power , and belief they can be above the law . Lie and hide their baggage , and expose others . The film is a 3 , but John turns it up to a 6 , my wife likes it more , but I find the tongue and cheek direction too much . This film hit a never with me , about the distrust of politicians , with their lawyer answers , flip flop on issues , and hidden agendas . This film reminds me of a Eastwood movie saying " Don't ps on my back and tell me its raining " . In this light , the satire plays well .
Not a bad film	My grandfather said he was the greatest baseball player ever . My grandfather came from the maritimes and I find their mannerisms quite similar to Southerners . This movie portrays Cobb as a great athlete but a lousy person . A guess sports has not changed much . This movie shows how diverse and complicated people can be . The movie shows the man's life and the fruits of his actions on and off the field . It was sort of a sad movie in the end . How one can waste so much .
not bad	My wife and my friends did not want to see this movie last Saturday , and I wanted too . So sad ! We saw a awful movie instead . On Sunday my wife and I went to the movie , and it was great . The movie had a great theme were one fights in order to have peace . The antagonist fought for the wrong reasons glory , and attention . The mix of mixed martial art , a love interest , and the kid who got over his anger is a great story . Never Back down also show why the characters act the way they do . I hope the antagonist learned some humility from his defeat . . Decent Karate movie . I love those movie and the crowd which attends them even more . . PS I will never grow up .
Not bad , but not good either	Not bad , but not good either , the movie Next is OK . The story maintains the audiences attention . OK acting , and directing , intertwined with a science fiction ( Minority report ) theme of changing future events . Cage's character is hard to catch for his psychic premonitions make anyone pursuing him two or three steps behind . A scare with a twist changing time ending was neat . I will not totally give away the ending . On a lighter side , Jessica looks totally different from the Texas Chainsaw Massacre . I did not know that it was her . I have a premonition Next is a five , no I see a seven . Just wait the movie is a . Good rental .
all right	I watched with my late Grandfather and Grandmother . My Grand mother liked stumpie , and my wife hates him , and I did stumpie impersonations for a couple of years until my wife made me stop . You see Bart do them on the Simpons too . Temmue Salanis favorite Movie ! Anyways , to get on topic , this film is ok it has Dean Marten as a drunk , not much of a stretch with his drinking reputation , and stumpie . The film for its age is surprisenly watchable . The big ending shoot out is lame compared to todays big budget action films . Worth watching late night . Before Stalone there was John Wayne .
Good story , but everything else sucks	I liked the story for this film , but everything else sucks . The acting well Ice cube I do not know why he gets so many roles playing the tough guy , the model from Canada she can't play some one tough , it is almost laughable when she does this , and she can not fight very well either , the other 2 actresses from the prison guard film do some b acting . The only actor was the guy from Snatch who did an A acting job . I guess they had no budget for actors and you notice it . Some of the fight scenes look fake , and the only attribute for this film is the story , but the ending sucks .
Watchable	Tom makes this film , and it is a decent late night film that was intended to a b film , What surprised me was the budget , what the US dollar can get in Hugary . I mean they got tank , choppers , lots of troops , and a believable military actors . This is still a B movie , but watchable . PS they leave room for Sniper 3 with the ending . It was a power one .
My wife loved this show .	My wife loved this show . I always hated it . My wife thought the dolphin was cute . I just could not understand how the kid knew what the dolphin was saying . EEEEEEWha just sounded like gibberish . Anyways as a kid I liked police shows more . My wife is a animal lover . If you love animals then give this show a 9 . If you love police shows give this show a 3 . A is a good rating . Many people like the Flipper song . Was the show filmed in Florida ? My Cockatoo Teddy would like the Flipper noises . My bird probably could make those noises too . Maybe they will make a show about a Cockatoo next ? Who solves mysteries ? My wife would watch it !
Not bad not good	This movie is not good or bad , but okay . I wanted to see a 3-D movie since the early 80's craze . My dad said we would go , and put it off and off until we checked the paper , and there were no 3-D movies left . I waited 20 years and when we were going to see it last Monday a transformer blew and the movie theater was closed . We drove across town , and it was too late the movie was on . The next day Tuesday we got in and finally the wait was over . Some of the 3-D effects were awful , and others were wow . In the end the 3-D was just okay . The video game story was okay , but I like video games , and Stallone played a good cameo . Go see it in the theater , 3-D is much better there than on the TV , I remember when I was a kid 7-11 sold the glasses for some cheesy 3-D ape movie and yuck . They also had a bud bowl in 3-D but the Canadian commercial content law blocked it out , those jerks . I always wondered what the commercial was like . I give this movie a .
Entertaining but loses the steam of the first film	Spoiler This film is worth watching . Some notable actors , but has beens , they do an A job . Does way better than most made for video shows , actual the only non HBO made for video show that I found well done considering the budget . Left Behind is not close in quality too this series , and I found the video strong threw out . They could of cut a bit out of the middle , and how could the house be the same after all those years . Other than that ok , this video is like an interesting TV show , I'll rent 3 and see how this continues .
Good movie but slow in spots	The film is entertaining , and the White squall part is excellent . However , the film is slow in spots , and drags it down from a 7 . Jeff Bridges is a good actor , and I like him in this film . The end the film is a bit of a downer , but where would the interest be if no tragedy occurred . Worth watching on TV . 6 or .
Best to rent Vol 1 and 2 and watch it together !	Volume 2 like Volume 1 is lacking , and the story misses that special sauce . This movie in reality is 1 cut into 2 , thus watching 1 leaves the story lacking , and too silly , and watching 2 the movie is serious , but lacks depth , because the viewer loses continuity and background from the 1 . If I watch the 2 films together , the movie would be a 7 or 8 , but separate the viewer loses the film's rhythm , making the film awkward , giving the film a less deserving 6 . Kill Bill is outlandish and entertaining enough to compare with Dusk til Dawn . Rent the two films together and watch them one after the other so that the story makes sense . I would not have minded if the movie was long at the theatre , they could of just had an intermission . For example , Scarface and the Godfather had intermissions . I hope the studio did not cut this movie in 2 for revenue reasons . Imagine how awful the Godfather or Scarface movie experience would of been if the audience had to wait 3 months to see what happened after Sonny got killed or Tony got arrested for washing money . possible 7 or 8 if the 2 volumes were watched together .
This film is sappy	I liked this film the first time I saw it , but it gets more sappy every time I see it . Great concept , a game show that blow criminals away , but the story is weak . I like how it begins , and the way Arnold is caught . The sappy feel good ending , the 2 other prison breaker good guys , ( one looks like the guy from U2 ) how big of a jerk Richard Dawson ( much different from his Family Feud days ) and lines like stop trying to teach the kids about the constitution spoon feeds the audience in a simplistic way . Like Soil and Green this film dies with age , I give it a 6 .
too hollywood middle of the road	This is not a bad film , but it ends like most hollywood films end , and the car chases remind me of other car chases . Nothing new here , except for the propane tank shooting around during a chase scene . The acting is ok , and the police investigation part looks real . This is the second feature you watch , at the drive in , after seeing a great movie like Gladiator . This movie is a 6 ; for the car buff a 7 .
Better than average mystery	Al saves this film , a good actor can do that . I can't blame him taking 4 years off after acting in Revolution . That film no one could save , but this one he could . This shows you how good of an actor he is . I like the plot twists at the end . Worth renting
Just Ok	A bit too fantasy , but a few good tributes . There is some homage to a couple of Frankenstien movies , and Christopher Lee vampier movies . I did not mind some of this film , and some of the story , but this movie gets dorkey like Harry Ptter , The Matrix , and Lord of the Rings . I like the pace of this film , very fast like the Dawn of the Dead remake . When I compare Van Helsing to the Dawn remake the story becomes fantasy / dork and lose a bit of the grit or realism that scares me from the Dawn of the Dead or Chainsaw remake . This is a good rental , but a little too over explained story line . Should of keep one guessing , and a little more nastier , instead of shocking . Remind me of the Batman movie , I mean Batman one from 89 . The effects were ok . Too many by the number type film out like this , but better than others
Second time around this film is better .	I was not to crazy when I saw this film the first time . Wow the second time I found the time travel cool . This film is cool when one looks at the plot twists . Not the greatest of action flicks , but a lot better then most . Watch it twice if you rent it and you will catch a few extra things .
Cronenberg meets the BB	Not a bad movie . Eastern promises has the BBC style of British films . Crisp , and straight forward is the movie with a mix of Cronenbergs brutality . Hands being chopped , violent fights , and the ugliness of prostitution is portrayed in this movie . I grew up in a Slavic culture , and the movie address the frankness , hardness of the culture with the mix of joking and friendship . The film reminds me of the many family event I have attended . Brovo for the films research ! The film unravels a few mysteries , but has a disappointing ending . The reaction I had for the ending is That's it . What a disappointment . I knew the ending was for dramatic purposes I guess I am so use to the more TV style of rap up endings . . Maybe 7 . A good rental .
Creepy	A very original idea , but stupid like most horror films . You would have to be totally demented to do what this guy does . The film has a lot of tension and is totally creepy . I would not want to be in a house filled with tormented souls . The father played a believable role . I am glad I didn't waste my money and see this one on the big screen . SPOILER ! How does the nanny find the control room ? This part leaves you hanging .
It's OK	I like Charlie Sheen . People say we look and act alike . The show is funny and entertaining . However , yes there is a however Charlie carries the show . Situation comedies have become so dated and predictable . Like cop show's with the car chase , with the guy on the hood who rolls off just in time before before the car explodes sitcom's have become very formulated . All sitcoms have 1 ) the annoying ex 2 ) the annoying family or in laws 3 ) the protagonist get into trouble doing a stupid act and 4 ) the protagonist use sharp one liners to get out of trouble . I know what is going to be said before the line is delivered . A producer needs to turn the sitcom upside down , on its head , like Trailer Park Boys . Give Charlie a few twists and new spins to work with . Still a good show Charlie . .
Ok hollywood come out with this shlop all the time	Its unoriginal shlop , but done well . This movie is not rememberd today , but when it came out it was ok . Hanks plays and annoying character , and some of the comedy is not funny . Gives the viewer a feal of what its like on stage .
Movie is like a video game !	Death Race is like a video game . I found the format and style of the movie similar to a Rock Star games computer game . Even the dialog is similar to the video clips in today's video games . I believe new technology like computer games is now effecting Hollywood's film style . The action and pace of the movie is like playing Grand Theft Auto . All we needed is Tommy Vincetti in the film ! Death Race is nothing like the predecessor Death Race 2000 . Death Race 2000 has to be one of the cheesiest films of all time . One of Stallone's first films . Death Race the remake is interesting , and I like how the evil warden gets it in the end . Turn your brain off before watching Death Race . 6 death racers out of 10 for this rendition . The movie is soon to be a video game near you .
Just Ok	Not a bad film , but there is so many action hero films out there . This film has some neat fight scenes , and cool bad guys . It is too much at the ending , but what the hell . I give it a six , what is Van Dame doing lately anyways .
A good made for TV movie !	Spoiler ! ! ! Reading all the different opinions got me into renting this film . The IMDB reviews sounded like the Jerry Springer show ! I did not find this movie's message heavy handed , and started to wonder why all the tirades . It has a Christian message in it , I could not understand why some of the reviewers rented it unless they wanted to rant . It's not heavy handed and conveys the message slowly . I grew up Catholic and heard a lot of hell and damnation from others , and found other non Christian religions condemning of non-believers also ! The movie starts out before the Rapture and people disappear as it begins . I believe not all Christians will be taken up like in the film , but the film is fiction guessing on what might happen . It is interesting , but a bit long this part because I believe they spent most the their budget at the beginning of the film with the air attack . I guess this would disturb some , because the Bible is not PC , it condemns , has opinions and if I remember rightly the wide road to hell is taken by the majority , and less traveled path to heaven is taken by few . This reporter goes through this mystery which winds up in the conclusion . I like the portrayal of evil by the anti-christ's deception ; his evil ways had me stumped and ended the film strongly . The acting was ok , but the anti-christ actor , and his strong ending saves the middle of this film . Worth renting .
It's ok	We went and saw this one , with my familly when I was in grade 3 . One of Burts better films , its where the Duke's of Hazard got the idea for there show . Years latter , some of this films looks pretty 70's , with old gags , some of the stunts are so standard for today . Other parts still age well . Like when the beginning , bet with the beer , and the people laughing at the sherif . I sure do like Coors beer , and wish they bootlag some down here , because the Canadian version suck . 6 or , depending on how many Coors you drink while watching .
Watchable , but flawed	Good special effects for 81 , but nothing special for todays computer graphics ; one can see the influences in present movie making . The idea is sappy , and the acting is ok , but the effects is what I like in this film . Worth watching , and this film has a message about over development . Ahead of its time . I would give this film a . I find a lot of the early 80's film quality gritty , this film and the Howling appear very dark on my VCR .
Okay to watch	This film is shown all the time on the history station in Canada . It is not a bad movie . It is long , but interesting to watch . The cast was strong . It is a bit dated . It is a true story . I wonder how accurate the movie was to the book .
Very average	Epic films have made a come back in the last 3 to 4 year . What killed the epic film is the drag with the long story line . K of H is slow in spots and kills the film . Not a bad film , but far from a good film . Bloom is a fine actor , and the supporting cast is strong . Scott directs well . I wonder how accurate the story is with real life ? There were less battle scenes in this movie and the trailer is misleading with this aspect . The king Henry is great with the ending . Many people have a feeling for a need for purpose in life , and the film gives a reason for events and wars . K of H is a movie . Forgotten with time , like historical events . A movie rental . The second movie rental after one watches Troy .
Not bad for its time	I remember when I was in grade 8 , people where starting to buy VCRs , and owning one was a big deal . Dad rented one , and we picked out movies . Borderline was one of them , I thought it was pretty cool . Watching this film 19 years later I found it predicable , and a little lame . No way his truck could keep up with a Trans Am on the highway , why did the guy , with the T A , go off road where the truck has the edge . My friend Gord mentioned this , and I thought yeah . Anyways , no surprises here , but watchable .
This movie breaks all the rules	This movie sure does , I mean if you offend easy do not go to this one . It insults everyone , and this movie is a back lash to the standards of political correctness . I have not been around humor like this since junior high . Name it ie drug etc it has it . Either you laugh or curse at this one , but don't repeat the story at work . I laughed and released alot of tension watching this one , but I felt a little guilty laughing at some of the humor afterwards .
Not one of the better episodes	Food is running low so Jake , Stanly , and Mini go on a deer hunting trip . I wonder if the eco-system is irradiated ? Why one would eat wild game with radiation in it ? Would the deer be contaminated ? Was the food out of the radiation belt ? A truck disaster happens , and bandits run off with all their possessions . In the middle of nowhere what will the 3 do ? The town is still in personal turmoil and the other half of the show has Jake , Stanly and Mini face personal term-oil too . The Stanly , and Mini too . The bickering gets to be a little too munch . I feel asleep for part of the show . The show wraps up positively as usual . . ' Heart of winter ' is a filler episode . A more forgettable one too . Watch in anyways .
Dated , but ok another one of those 24 hours of Eastwood movies on TBS	Many of the actors in this film are dead , and the anti establishment theme is a bit dated . Another one of those 24 hours of Eastwood on TBS , between them and CBC ( in Canada ) showing this film all the I can say this film is over kill on tv . The first time I saw it I did not mind it , except for the Oddball guy . Anyways not one of Eastwoods better one , but not awful either .
Interesting but not a great episode .	Series have formulas . Quick answers , condense stories , and a hook for next week's show . Jericho does not follow all the plot devices of television . The character of April dies giving birth ending the affair soap opera show subplot . ( A quick answer and even quicker story ) I find April's death is a device which ends a subplot that slowed down Jericho's fast story line . When one character dies ( April ) then another rises ( Hawken's ) . The death of Hawken's co-worker is a question . Is Hawken's a terrorist or savior ? The hook for next week's show . Jericho and the other town demands more ? No quick answers . A slower episode which asks question , but a important episode which is a turning point for future events . . Jericos story climax will be good .
BlairWitch / Reality TV / Supernatural	Blairwitch , Reality TV blended in with Supernatural . What did the blender make ? I found the show to be funny but also annoying . There is funny parts . One gets many laughs off Dean's behavior . I found the young kids annoying , and a drag on the show . The producers had to try something new . Is Ghostfacers funny in spots yes . Is the show annoying Yes . I did not mind Ghostfacers , but I did not like it either . Maybe I have to watch the show a few more time , and it will grow on you . The parents garage part is great . The magnet part makes a lot of scene . Those Winchester boys are smart . I bet the magnet idea was Sams ! I will watch the show again . I like the Amrican band song with the bad Impelia at the start of the show . Way cool !
Disappointing , but jury is still out !	Disappointing , but jury is still out . Music , childish behavior etc is a bit too over the top for this episode . I know the writers are trying to make a reckless Dean , but Dean has no heart , unless that is Dean's new character development ? Sam and the rest of the characters , just go through the motions in the season 3 opening . The writing for episode 1 of season appear exhausted . I could be wrong , and more character development could evolve in other episodes . Will the new characters add needed life for the plot twists ? Will the world besaved ? Can the show be saved ? Let's keep on watching . . Maybe , they can have evil twists of Sam and Dean with a differentlooking car for a episode ? Mike
Just OK	I was taught by my history professor to never praise Sparta , but the Athenians instead . Sparta's militaristic , autocratic and closed society hurt growth more than it helped . I kept this in mind . I found the military strategy , planing and organization of the film excellent . CGI was way too much making the film like a comic book . Persia grew from the growth of other societies and won by scale according to the movie . I did not understand the king's denial when the deal was offered for Sparta to keep its own land and expand in exchange for use of services like their army . I guess there is a need for politicians . Gladiator , Troy , and Alexiader were better movies in different ways . There was a need to show more of the drudgery of Spartan life in the movie . Not a bad movie !
Not bad	It is like watching a documentary . I watch the History Channel all the time . I love watching War documentaries . This film is like a War documentary with acting . I found it quite accurate on the accounts of what happened . I love the raid . They even have the fake Edie on this one . Way too Cool , what a raid .
Believable	Spoiler ! ! I thought this film was better than Left Behind . It was believable . It makes one wonder what is really in store for us . I like the idea of the virtual reality . The dog visiting all the hydro poles when he was being tracked was funny . There is real evil out there and I guess the actor who played the messiah represented it very well . There was lots of action in this movie believe or not . An interesting guess into the book of Revelations .
Costner doesn't destroy this one	It is funny when he doesn't direct the film , the film actually turns out pretty good . The beginning and ending was strong , but the middle had too much filler material . Don Johnson plays an excellent role . He looked and had that sarcastic attitude as he did as Sonny Crockett on Miami Vice . I enjoyed this part . This movie was worth renting , but nothing to scream about .
well done considering the budget .	One loses a bit of the feel for the movie with the subtitles . It was not a hard movie to watch with subtitles . It was filmed like the old Spaghetti Westerns . The film was interesting and artistically done well . The budget hurts this film . I could just imagine what could of been done with a larger budget and more time . This film was surprisingly well ; I have seen worse done on bigger budgets . It shows how talent can overcome low budgets and no name actors .
It's okay	This film is more of a comedy than action . I like this film , but when I watched it again on TBS , I found it a bit dated and slow . It is funny how taste and attitudes evolve . Worth watching on TBS . Notice how Clint performs physical comedy with his facial expressions . I give this a .
not bad	Not a bad show . Grey the new mayor is very irrational , and handles the Jhona murder trial badly . Grey think in a hot headed manor , while Green the old mayor is rational and look deeper into the problem . The 16 year old boy find out who is the real murder , and resolution is resolved . Green's son handle ever week crisis as usual , the only difference is with out Hawkens in the picture . a good show . A bit on the soap opera side . Trouble with marriages and who lives where . I think desperate time would create a show like this . Watch this show . I like it . I can not wait for the show to start in Feruary . What will Hawkens do next ?
crazy but my kind of crazy	Spoiler I was watching this film years back , young and unemployed . This is a hard to accept , especially when other close too you call you a bum . Emlio's character felt like a loser also . This drives him on a cray trial . Unblevable , yet crazy , but likable . I could relate , and becomes a robber hood . Then we find out it's all a dream , which makes a logical conclusion . My wife says hey Mike this is just like you . Very 80's with the FBI guy who understands etc . I like the part where the hero is on the vistors stands in the ending . I won't take this film too seriously , if you don't either ? Killing some time while I down load Black Out game from the Dawn of the Dead movie sight , and thought about reviewing this film . Watch it . . I wonder if they show this one on TBS .
THIS FILM SURE IS SHORT 91 MINUTES	HOW FAR CAN YOU STRETCH A FILM ABOUT a PHONE BOOTH ? NOT LONG ! What did I like : Well it is original , something fresh . Believable , anything is possible after , and it today's hi tech society no one ever know who is watching . What I did not like : How much can you do with the script . Having it done in a Phone Booth restricted what could be done . This film , done on the cheap . The message at the end is twisted . My conclusion is the viewer gets to see the dark side , or the Jerry Springer version side of Joel Schuemecker .
Good concept , but lame story	I seen all this cheese in the 80's , and this film is not original . The film's funny moments make it enjoyable , but one loses interest in the story . Funny , but not that funny describes this movie . Worth renting , but I would never buy the film .
I just saw the movie ! Does the movie make the cut ?	I just saw the movie ! Does the movie make the cut ? I found Saw 2 a dull blade compared to the first . The first movie is built on suspense which the second maintains , but saw 2's repetition loses the tension of the predecessor . The lack of character development along with too many characters , and the unlikable characters ruin the re pore with the audience . The elevator ending was stupid . The moral judgment of a sadist on other is a hard and de-humanizing display . Jig-saw lecturing the cop on morals is like Stalin lecturing Hitler on governmental responsibility . I cannot buy this ! I like the first movie when the killer is just sick with a twisted logic . The doctor is a likable man a good formula , hard for the makers to improve on .
This is hard one to describe	I'm on holidays and went to this movie yesterday with Dan , and my wife . Dan said this movie is a cross between The Road Warrior , and Dragon Slayer ; you could also add Aliens and Life Force as influential movies from the 80's . This story is very original , and not a copy of the others . Cutting to the chase , and not ruining the film for the first time viewer , I found the film hard to grasp . Maybe , it's the mood I was in , or the film dragging at the beginning . A well made film , I can not pick it apart ; it could be the concept of Dragons flying around that diminishes my view . In the end rent this one .
Like a 70's Hong Kong action flick !	This movie is comparable to an 80's Chuck Norris film , or many of Bruce Lee's films . I would not call it bad action wise , but not good story wise . I thought it would be like The Driver , but it evolves into Bradock Missing in Action , and then into a remake of Return of the Dragon . Entertaining and gets rid of anger , which I needed to vent out yesterday , but I kept saying to myself you got to be kidding with some of the story . Go see it if you like martial arts , and rocket attacks . Notice the heat seeker goes after the warm oven , I appreciate that detail . I give it a .
Somewhere Between PCU and Sorority Boys	This movie is funny , but not that funny . A PC or tamer version of Sorority Boys , and more vulgar then PCU . I went to college , and the PC people don't like college party movies or those type of parties any ways ( one PCer told me those parties where oppressive , but that's besides the point ) so let's say it's tamer than Sorority Boys . The lead character is too wimpy , and the director misses the feeling of college life ; where Sorority Boys achieves this . There is a message , and moral in this film that kills the story . Reid does not look that good ; I wonder how she gets such good roles . What works is the gags ; sick , funny , and bizarre . The bad people play the snob role well , and deserve what hatred they conjure up . This movie is a
Better than average 60's WW II movie	They often show this movie on the Canadian History channel . I do not mind it , I remember , when I was 6 , my dad made me go to bed after watching the beginning of this film . For years I remember that , I guess it just stuck out in my memory . A few months ago I watch the whole film . Not a bad film , but far from great . B actor Rober Vaughn is a bright spot . Worth watching , and for a older film it ages well .
Strong start ends week	The Seatle remake is better . Well they had more money , and a second chance to improve on the ideas . I found the 2 movies simular at the beginning , with this fresh concept , but the last quarter runs out of steam . The buckets , and what to do with the tape etc is a little too much . Fresh , and watchable with subtitles . I give it a six .
A little too close to reality	Spoilers ! ! ! ! ! My dad retired recently , and we watched this movie together . The retirement party , what people say , and how Schmidt reacts to his new life makes this a reality movie . My guess its influence is reality TV . The humor is every day reality faults in people . Schmidt's job was his life , and without it he lost his existence . He finds out how mundane , and empty life is . How spiritually , and emotionally empty life can be when we do not work on these needs and he notices these inequities . He finds out realities , like most of us will not be anything special , what we build decays including what if any legacy we leave behind . He finds out the office can easily replace him and shows him the elevator when he visits , which my dad mentioned . That his wife had some secrets , he needed her and the house falls apart . His daughter looks homely , and has social behavior issues . Why at an older age does she marry who she does ? This is the best she can do . Instead of being happy , he gets to see a really social dysfunctional Hippie style family ( the writer must have some real life experiences ) . Good humor in this part with good details . The hippie family's ex lives in denial , mother who can not cope with age gets weirder , son in law balding with pony tail . How many people go to weddings with dread , with the same monotonous ceremony with no heart involved . Jack is great speaking at the wedding , and how one lies in life . Hey it not so bad most of us have to deal with this junk . It's just life . In the end this movie is funny , but a little too close to real life .
Late night TV	Many years back , I was watching TBS late night , and this surprise was on . Do they still have TBS late night ? Not bad for a 70's low budget film ! The film is about bullies and the cycle of violence . How bullies hurt , and the level of violence increases . Others , just replace the bullies as opportunity rises . The comment about todays society is no one would even dare release such a movie in the double 00's , with the crazy high school violence of the past few years . The world was much safer , were such event were in movies . The guy from Death race 2000 brother was in this film , and has appeared in many 70's low budget films . Cheesy story , for a low budget film . Interesting to watch on a late night . I give it a
Trailer misleading	The trailer is misleading for this film , it conjures up a ghost story . I went into the theater with the wrong expectations , and left disappointed . The story is interesting , like a tv movie , and developed well . Dennis Quaid is a remarkable B actor , and Stone seems to have rebounded from her mishap , strange my wife had a stroke on the same day . Worth renting , but do not get fooled by the trailer like I did .
Has she put on the weight	I can not believe how much weight she has put on unless the camera added the weight . The story was like Fatal Attraction . This movie has been done over and over . I think Hollywood needs to come up with some original stories . Maybe he should of just gone out with her and then there would of been no story . I do not really care for her acting abilities . The actors were all B actors ; there was no big names in this film . I would not waste my money for the big screen , save it for rental . Maybe they should have added something new too the script like a UFO picks up the bad girl at the ending . HA HA H
Not bad !	I remember going to see realatives in Kimberly BC , and the movie was on at 2 am which is 4 am central time . I missed it , and they have better TV out west to boot . Years later I got to see this film . Swank for its time , and entertaining for a long movie . A young Gorge Pepard plays a swank hot shot pilot , who is an out cast , because of his lower social class . In the end his attitude , and escapades catch up . Worth watching for a 66's war movie .
Watched it on the History channel !	One of Heston's better performances , and overall watchable . Well directed , but the effects , script , and acting is dated in spots . I would watch the whole movie on TV , but would not stay up for it . Average movie nothing special here .
It made me laugh	This movie is funny , and the humour is presented stupidly . I like the gross , visual sick , jokes . Every one should know someone who goes out with the wrong person , and saving silvermen presents this concept beautifully . It is far from a classic movie , and five years later you wonder why you found this funny . I say go to the movie now , and enjoy it , forget how stupid you will feel about it later .
Entertaining	This film is ok , and Bill Paxton plays a good role . However , this film steered away from the facts . The explosions were too close , it was the British who actually did this mission , and the story gets a little too unbelievable . There is tension , drama , and a message of what a good leader is . These attributes save an otherwise unbelievable film .
Not bad but sad	Well , a OK movie . I did notice some old USFL footage from the 80's the NFL would not want to be tied with this film I guess . I recognized a few old USFL teams if one looks closer at the film . The Boston / New Orleans Breakers , Mephis Show Boats , L A Express ( I believe the quarter back was Steve Young ) , and The New Jersey Generals ( I believe the quarter was Doug Flutie ) . A couple of teams I could not recognized . Back to the movie , directing at a good pace , and well acted . The gambler Pacino is a sad and unlikable character . The movie is a down beat film with the message of gambler appetite for destruction and pushing life too hard . It is never winning 20 its losing 200 . The end is about life choice and one is what the protagonist does .
You lose something in the subtitles	I saw the new version with Al Pacino and it was great . This one was good but I do not understand the language and lost the feel of the movie because of having to constantly read the subtitles . You miss little things like mannerisms and voice tones because of the language barrier . This film is a bit darker than the remake . It seems European films are always a little bit darker than the American counterpart . I hate the word insomnia because I suffer from this sometimes . I like the trailer part " No rest for the wicked . " I can relate with making a mistake due to lack of sleep which gets one in a pickle . I would of rated it higher but like I said you miss something with the subtitles .
Not a bad movie	Not a bad Christmas movie . ' Fred Clause ' was well directed and acted . The story is OK . Vince is funny at times , similar in style to a 80's Bill Murry via Stripes . Fred Clause is funny for moments and also serious with the family message . I like the part where infamous brothers talk about their famous brother counterparts . Frank Stalone , S Baldwind etc make cameo appearances for troubled brothers . I like the ended which shows a trouble Kevin Speacy , and why the villain has it in for Santa Clause . The presents do get delivered and Christmas is saved is a predictable ending , but a lovable ending . . OK Christmas movie .
Better then the new one	I did not like the new version . This film has a low budget , and the acting along with the story suffered . The whole budget had to be spent on the last fourty minute car chase . The begaining of the movie I give a 6 the middle a 2 , the begaining of the car chase a 3 , and as it went a 8 . This movie is the car chase , and the whole story is nothing more then justifying the car chase . The begaining of the the car chase is very run of the mill , and done so often on tv please . BUT , as it progressed with the camera shot from the front of the car , the purr of the engine , the apeal approved . What sticks out of my mind in this film and saves it is the secene where the car jumps and they do a 3 way replay of the event , and choreographed it nicely . It is a thing of beauty . Especially when they put one scence with the car in the air and splice it back again with another . This part of the film is true brilliance . In the end I gave it a 6 worth watching if your bored and love cars .
Just ok . More of a video game than a movie	Spoiler ! ! ! The beginning of this movie was slow . It looked like a Euro Dance Party off MTV . I gave that part a . Then the action scenes I gave a , it got a little long , but interesting effects . Then when the story downloaded , it became more of a interesting movie , and turns into the old intelevision's dungeons and dragons video game ; With opening and closing of doors . Then the action became interesting , but it evolves into a video game like Double Dragon ; I wished I had a Joy Stick or they showed points on the top of the screen . . Then they explained the Matrix , and I took it in Math recently and found the explanation of how it fixes itself logical . . Then the ending I found to be the biggest jip of all , like leaves me hanging , that is no ending at all . It is like , when you program the VCR and it cuts off 10 minutes early and one never sees the movie ending . ( ending ) Overall . PS Is there a video game out of this movie yet ?
Twice as good as the original	This film is an improvement over the original . Thus again , my friend Dwight , sister , and her boy friend Scot McDonald went to see this one . I thought Kahn was great , and the attack on Kirk was excellent . The worms in ears , and the big blast for the ending where the right ingredients for this film . In-between battles , the over stretched dialogue , and sub stories bog down this film , but do not kill it . Worth watching
Not bad	Well , this movie has a bad preview . I hate it when a preview misleads the public . The movie is better than the preview . The acting is OK . the realism pulls no punch with this film . Not a happy go politically correct film , which Hollywood is noted for . However the realism loses momentium with the ending . How could anyone not get into bad trouble with how the ending is ? Hey , you know what I mean when you watch the ending . The acting is OK . The directing better , and the story well I like the first . Rent this movie . A different role for Sean Penn . . There is some suspense in this movie . Kidmon sure is playing darker roles .
Don't rent this	Spoilers . The movie is a real downer . The ending is a downer . I found the movie goes back and forth too much . Why is there so much confusion . Even the happy moments , have tension of some bad event . With all the build up , the ending makes the movie have too much of a let down . I find Sandra never gets good parts . She should pick better movies . My wife like Sandra and we got to watch all her movies . Please pick more uplifting films . I found no message in this movie . Not badly acted or directed . . Rent this film if you dare . The dark color of the film set the dreary feel of the entire movie . The pace makes the dreary feel grinding
Different from the others	This film is different enough from the other two , and has originality . This is not a classic , but entertaining . The more I watch the 78 version the less I like it and the 50's film holds up well . The film's tension is a slow burn , and differs with the other two by having a teenage female perspective , and a new location at the military base . I give it a .
Just Ok	Spoiler ! ! ! Toilet junior high humor . I like this sort of humor , but such humor is either hit or miss . The grandma on speed was funny , along with the cops part . Other stuff was gross , or like the dog scene stupid . I heard so much hype and found the movie not able to live up all the praise . I hated the band , I was wondering if the bad singer getting shot was ment to be funny or relief ? I will let you the reader decide . Rent it , if there is nothing else left in the video store . Better than being stuck with Ishtar ; I still never had the nerve to rent that one . Comedy is hard to do , and I found this style of movie gets graded the hardest . PS The Pizza guy was a twist , and was funny near the end ; they should have used him sooner . The end , was weired as they come .
Watch it on tv if you are bored	There is nothing special about this film , and it is not a bad film either . It is just there . A forgettable film , but it has a few bright spots . Sean Connery is a believable character , some of space colony sets hit the mark , and the film has a bit of a mystery to it . In the end I give it a six .
Terrorist in New York	No this is not a movie trying to make a pay off from the events that happened on September 11 . This movie was done way before we ever thought terrorists would attack North America . This movie is a by the number cop show , which is better than average , but not a great movie either . The hitcher in this film , and Stallone plays one of his better characters , but the story lacks no matter how good character development progressed through the film .
Not bad , but not the Soprano's either	Not bad , but not the Soprano's either . The script is over the top , with a few good scenes , which is well directed and acted . Paul Walker is a excellent actor ! I have never seen Paul's acting hurt a film which is an accomplishment for working in countless weak movies . If Paul had Keanu Reves agent and films I believe Paul would be a mega star . Running Scared has great supporting actors , the actor who plays the mobsters son is great , the Russian mob and children actors save a weak film . The hockey climax is original and powerful . Soon to be in the 99 cent rental as a second feature on rental night . . I love the Mustang at the beginning , and ending ; Powerful film work , visually , and emotionally .
too artistic	Not a bad film . The acting was great . The film tries to have a huge impact style . It is so artistic that it is over done . They try to make the ending so shocking that it leaves you wanting more . It is like eating a dinner and still being hungry afterwards . The film was a blend of 70's cop stories and Miami Vice in one . I would suggest renting this one .
Average	Tom Hanks makes a bad b film into and average film . The story is nothing special , but I understand the concept of the daily depressing grind , I feel like throwing myself into a volcano somethimes too . This film is not that bad that I would throw myself into one or so funny it would prevent me from doing so . There is humorious bits , but it never took off . Whoever heard of brain clouds ?
Different !	Different is the polite word my wife used to describe this movie while we left the theater . Like most people , we went to see the legendary Sean Connery . Sean plays his excellent , action adventure character , but we have too many comic book movies today . Hulk , DareDevil , and Spiderman , and Hollywood is become redundant with seen this done that action sequences , and special effects . Maybe in the 80's and early 90's when Batman came out this film would be more original . Ever notice , ALL these films follow the Bond / Raider formula in their stories . The film was okay but I think one should wait for video .
Nothing special	Nothing Special . OK movie , started out strong . The film become too artish with the ending . I know the anxiety's were reflected , but I like the documentary feel of the beginning . Acting is perfect . The ending , what is with that ? The dinner comment ? I believe the actor wanted to escape his past at the ending . The commando part is good . A movie rental . Nothing special . OK film . I would not buy it . I wonder how real the film is ? Not a date movie . Film in a dark tint , I wonder if such a back ground was for the mood of this film ? No humor or release in the film . Comments about the policies and ideas of the people , in a political way .
Not bad but not good either .	Not a bad movie , but not a good movie either . The Haunting in Connecticut started out strong . A family buys a house in Connecticut because one of the boys has cancer and needs to be close to the hospital for treatment . The family buys an old funeral home and go figure the place is haunted . Strange and bad events happen at the house . The events go from bad to worse . The first third of the movie is scary , but the bottom third of the film made me think you got to be joking . The story has a strong build up for the last third of the movie . However , the bottom third of the movie ends in a whimper . I though the explanation for the haunting was lame and lazy . I give the film a . Better rent the film or video on demand it . Just OK .
Not bad	The Pacifier is an okay movie . What I personally dislike is not the film , but the preview . When a preview shows the best material in a movie , then the viewer sees a flatter movie . The preview basically tells the ending of a joke . When one hears the joke the listener loses the joke's effect . Thankfully , the movie is good enough to withstand the preview . I went with my wife , and younger family . Everyone enjoyed the movie . Disney knows how to entertain the whole family . The film was directed and written well . Vin and the rest of the cast do a good job . Violence , but of the A Team kind . You do not see anyone get killed . I give the Pacifier a . I wish they did not show so much in the preview .
Not bad but disappointing .	Not a bad movie , but disappointing . The cast and the trailer created high expectations for the movie . The acting was just OK , not one of Crowe's more memorable roles . Scot's directing and the movie script was interesting , but not revetting . Maybe , I have to watch the movie another time . I get the movie's message , that we need troops on the ground who know the area , just not spy planes etc . The other message is no one is innocent in the wicked games that are played with the war on terror . I would rent the movie , but not buy Body of lies . I like the part where Jordian intelligence guy knew what the CIA operative knew , but either could not tell the truth . With intelligent people you can not fool them all the time or most of the time . I give the movie stars . A OK rental .
Average	Spoiler . . . They say this film influenced others ; well it is average by today's standards . This film builds great tension but is dated and laps over periods of time . The relentless tension build up is what makes this movie . The scare factor is very tame , and predictable for today's standards . Plot twists , this is before call trace and shows the age of this film , where they have to wait to trace the caller and find out he is calling from the house . I could see this one coming right from the get go . The comic relief is awful , the 70's must have been the I don't care rude and crude generation that reflects today's social decay . The swearing , perverseness , drinking , and rude comments had a shock humor element then , but in today's Jenny Jones , Jerry Springer society make one's eyes roll . It seems in that era of filming everyone has to yell , for many of us who work customer service just find it idiotic , not funny , or even amusing . ( explains why so many disgruntled customers have the 70's styled mustaches , leather vests and boots ) . I work at the Post Office and see this daily , and with my experiences with unbalanced people I find the caller's messages scary . They must have experience with these phone calls or studied mental illnesses . The caller rants , rambles , repeats himself , and goes on a senseless tangent . A different sense of reality . Everyone in this film has a problem , the drinking bit is too much , and builds little character development . The unbalanced boyfriend ending , and the cops too stupid to check the rest of the house is a little too much .
I don't know if it is the mood I am in ?	I don't know if it is the mood I am in , but I found the movie average . Good acting and script . Nothing wrong with the sets or production values . No political correctness re-writes of history . The moive has some brutal realism too it . I had a very bad week , before I went into the movie , maybe this add to my bad reflection on it . Sometimes , I love a movie and hate it later on video , just maybe the reverse with this one . It is entertaining , but long .
Good story . but Newman can't play the heavy anymore .	The story is good , but Newman can not play the heavy anymore . Physically he looks like he can not run around the block . My wife , and parents went to see this and mentioned it too . Newman can still act , but this film is lacking .
My wife liked it , but I did not .	Spoilers ! This movie reminds me of my wife's soap opera . Unbelievable in spots , with added drama for entertainment . Unbelievable movie ? Yes . Parts of the movie were interesting and keep the viewer watching . Who has sex with the hotel door open ? I found that and the next few plot twists too Jerry Springerish . Would I watch this movie again ? No . Did my wife like this movie ? Yes . Did she pick this movie out ? Yes . The ending is a big surprise . I will give the movie credit for this . My wife would give this a 7 . I am giving this film a 6 . Not that bad . I have seen worse , it's watchable , but not that watchable . Ethan Hawke was in this one and my wife can not stand his acting and I have to agree .
Disapointment	Boy , it is hard to make a post , with my firewall going up all the time some jerk must be trying to hack me . Anyways , that is besides the point . The guy who wrote and directed this film , I believe it is an East Indian name that I can't spell , has a bad tendency of writing films that have great previews , but disappointing endings with no conclusions . Another film like signs . The story dragged , and the characters were over evolved . This would be a great short story , but not a full feature film . The movie is plausible . Maybe , they should have an aftermath at the end of this film . Like Signs were the aliens could not open doors , but travel from another planet the Village is another hard too digest film . A DVD at home not a outing . .
Not bad	Not bad , but one of the slower episodes . Character , and plot development is part of this episode . Disastors , trouble , and family problems are a device for character development . The viewer learns Hawken's has trouble being a father . Skeet is developing character and leadership skills . The show give us the primal view of humanity as people struggle for survival . Cooperation and humanity is balance with the brutality of people . Will the town lose it's soul . I hope not . . I think the town is headed for some bad times . I see no sign of God or spirituality in the show . There is a battle for survival . The battle is also of who we are as people .
not bad but a b movie indeed !	Not a bad movie but a b movie indeed ! The sexual comments and bad acting at the beginning makes for a b movie . Then the movie becomes another version of the Blair Witch Project . The first part of the movie is slow with sloppy acting then boom we got a scary fast pace horror movie . With the running around and confusion going on the script become believable . I found the first half of the movie is a . The movie's second half is a 9 on the scare meter . In total I give the movie a . A good movie rental or pay per view . The ending is very Blair Witch Project ! This movie is done on the cheap and will make a mint .
Disappointed	Disappointed ! I hate asking a question and only get more questions as answers ! I had a university professor who did this and drove me crazy . What is the deal with the yellow eyed demon or the demons plans for Sam the viewer never knows . Disappointing and frustrating for myself to watch a entire season with such a whimper of a climax . Dean selling out never , I found that plot twist so out of line with the character development of Dean in the last 2 seasons . The railroad tracks , and the crypt are little too over the top . I like the part with the dad , but the rest is too much . Maybe there should have been 3 parts too this . If there is with next season I will re-write my review .
watchable	Not a bad movie , the company I was with at the movie wasn't . I found the movie tense . The story is believable , there is some very cold people out there . Help and wit is sometimes needed in life . Moore plays a very mean person , perfectly . Her most believable role to date . The more times they show it on TBS the more times I like it . Sutherland does a good creep also . I wonder if these actors behave this way in real life . The movie is a bit graphic , not for kids . I wonder why Michael Douglas always gets into these bad sex situations . ( Fatal and Basic ) Watch it on TBS . Give it a grade of 70 % I would love to see part 2 . Maybe Moore gets her revenge .
Ok	Spoiler ! ! ! ! I am getting a little tired of the series , they lose originality like Star Wars , and James Bond with number 4 . Like Man Hunter , the original , some parts work and others do not . I like the Hannibel off of Man Hunter better , he scares me more . The ending of Man Hunter is a lot better ; Red Dragon show's how Hannibel is captured , and more details of the Tooth Fairy . If you watch both films , many identical lines , and scenes , while other have slight variations . I never read the book , but I hear Red Dragon is closer to the book . Michael Mann's Man Hunter is more a Heat / Miami Vice style . Worth watching , but do not watch Man Hunter first .
Cheese movie	I remember watching this film with a Alamo aniversery . After all its years the film still is interesting , but the acting is cheesie . The ending saves this film , I like the big fire fight with the Mexicans . The slaves , and women where left to tell the tale . Watch it late night when you can not sleep .
Surprised	I thought this movie would be awful , but I was surprised . This film is not great , and done on a low budget , but has some entertainment value . They have the James gang portrayed as good guys in this film , not a realistic version . Timothy Dalton plays a good role as Pinkerton . In the end this film is a little like Raiders of the Lost Ark .
Not bad , but slow in spots .	Dean Martin and John Wayne as brothers what a laugh , I guess Charlie Sheen and John Malkavitch will be next . Good film that has its moment , and a bit dated in spots . It still holds up tho . Watch it on Duke week .
Not bad	The Left leaning can really ruin a film , and I was expecting the worse . I was surprised with this film , except for the dramatizations of Haig , this film is somewhat accurate . Panic , disorganization , big time mistakes ( ie the ex midterm ) do happen . Agency in-fighting , phones not working is part of our imperfect world . The devil takes advantage of us when we are at our weakest . Maybe , someone can answer this question , but I do believe Weinberger , and Haig did not get along ? How much of this is overdramatized I do not know . What I did like is they showed at the end , Haig loves his country , and did his best to help and lead in a time of crisis . What I really hate is that they left out that the US had to show that Reagan was strong , for the cold war sake , Bush and the rest knew this . This is part of the art of war . Did they really ask the secret service to leave the operating room , some many facts I did forget . I could imagine the stress the oval office has and what could be done in a time of crisis , like . Mike
Very 80's	I do not dislike this film , and some of it is very 80's . It is no Caddy Shack , but it not Vacation 2 either . I like the Don Johnson , and Billy Idol part . The Van Halen shirt bit was good also . It is an okay comedy , but has it slow parts . Worth watching on TV . Survey says
a second or 3rd movie rental for the night .	a 3rd rental for a movie night . T L Y is a by the numbers comedy , and performs the comedy by the numbers well . Enertaining movie , but no GroundHog Day . Very MTVish , and has a bit of the MTV style message with the film . The viewer will notice a few named actors , and a few named wrestlers , and football players . The Radiers Romanouski is in the film along with Stone Cold Steve Austin , and Kevin Nash . The football is executed well . Better than what the preview shows . A few parts could be cut on the floor . Well directed . Adam Sandler does a decent job , and finally stops doing the weird dumb and dumber humor . ( the weird humor got too much after the 3rd movie ) Very close to the original movie . Do not watch the original first before seeing the remake . Over all I would suggest renting The Longest Yard remake , but with another movie with it .
A poor version of Ironman	With Ironman and the Hulk we now have Hancock . I did not mind Handcock , but the movie is just OK . Humor plays a huge role for the movie . The humor saves the movie from being forgettable , and the scripts kills the movie with a sad storyline in the 2an half . The Hulk and Ironman had the huge climax , while Handcock was more anti-climatic . Not the worse movie , but I would not buy the film either . My friend knew the guy who wrote the comic or story . I went to see how the film played out . 6 dollars out of 10 for movie entertainment . Why is there so many superhero movie out there ? I wonder if there is going be one too many superhero movie out there . Batman this week ? I wonder what will be in the next 2 weeks .
Profanity alert	For those with kids or my case renting this with my mother in mind don't do it . When I rent a Quentin movie like Pulp Fiction I have a good idea of what to expect . This movie is too much ; my guess is people look for the shock value , well I don't listen to rap , and the writers use some of the shocking language for the movie's script . Enough of my tirade , and on with the movie review . Hanks ' career has been in the dumps for the last seven years . More roles like this one , Tom will hit the skids like Bill Murray , and Chase . Tom Hanks should do an epic type role , for this would be fresh and would fit into Tom's acting style . For comedy to work there has to be a flow to it . The shock attitude and elongated scenes hurt this flow . There are a few very funny scenes , usually with the ex Viet-Cong general , and the garbage boat . I guess the boat is used to dump garbage into the ocean . The story is interesting to follow , I bet if they made this story into an action / drama there is a script too work with . Mike's review is . Rent it with your girlfriend or wife , but not your mother .
Typical rich preppies	This movie is a typical 80's comedy . It is another college movie . Some of the humor does not age well . The overall story is interesting . It is the typical losers versus the rich preppies . The preppies always had to be rich , blond , jocks and total jerks . The losers always consisted of the obese guy , geek , partyier and the smooth talking leader . Tim Matheson seems to be king of these movies . Of course in these movies they have to exploit the female anatomy .
Not bad	This film fun B schlop , but lacks enough testosterone . It tries to be like a 50's or 70's B horror film , and many parts they copied some of it well . What they lacked was a macho , over the top hero B actor like William Shanter to make it so bad its good . David can not do this and it lack something because of this . Too bad Shanter got old I really miss that over acting , but the special effects have improved over the years . Ok rental . .
Not bad not good	Funny in a dark sort of way . I like the ending , and Burt Reynolds is funny in a sick way . This film is dated , and looks very 70's . The material is older , but still has some laughs . I caught about a quarter of it , after not seeing it for 10 years , and found it ok , but it depend what mood I am in when I watch it . I would watch it again on TBS but probably chanel surf at the same time .
Insomia reliever	Late night yesterday I could not sleep , and TV is usually awful . I hate infommercials , bald paint hairspray etc . Anything half decent is a relief and this film is half decent . What scares me is what was once a movie script and laughed off is now believable . Too many random crazy people around . where do all these evil people come from ; as a Christian I pray for this world for I fear what the future brings . Back too the movie , what hurts the film is the flat character roles of the fans . 70's movies not all of them , have people with nasty attitudes , what is with this . Was it like that with the 70's ? I know people have worse attitudes with all the springer people around , but usually going to a game puts people in a good mood , or until their team performs a stinker . Hey , Joe Kapp , the BC Lions president , is in this film . Great football coordination the game looks real . Once the focus goes off the bad attitude and flat characters the move gets interesting with what is Chuck and the swat leader going do . I believe they would of got rid of the guy sooner before the assailant caused the humane stampede . Charles Heston we need hero's in this world and I like how he handles the bad guy .
Dated , and one of Clints weeker ones	I would not call this a bad film ; it is dated for the 70's which creates lame humor for 00's . The films weak points is a weak script , his girl friends lead role , and the annoying mom . ( She is part of the dated comedy ) What saves this film , and makes it 6 instead of a 3 , is the bar fight at the beginning , the monkey , I love watching the bikers get chased thourgh the driving range but the rest of the chase is too much , and the fight scenes . ( Except for the motor cycle gang one ) I do not know why this road movie script drags Clint taking his brother and girl friend around , but it is added in order to provide the plot twist with cop , and meeting Tank whatever his name . In the end , you can see why Clint make a smart decision .
Started out strong , but became sappy .	The Last Samurai , started out strong , but like the Samurai in the movie it faded away with time . The ending was too sweet , too sappy and too much . I never understood why the man who modernized Japan , became the villain . The Industrialist fulfilled his obligation to the Emperor . In conclusion , Cruise fits well with the movie , but I hate the character Cruise evolves into . I give it a .
Run of the mill summer movie	Run of the mill summer movie . Action , flesh , and romance in a summer movie . The staple of any summer movie . Stealth has Biel and Lucas as leads , and both actors perform well considering the material given . Foxx why did you take that role ? I hope Foxx's answer is money . What worked is the plane look real , and I could see pilot-less planes one day . What did not work . Why would a computer download music ? Answer for the movie soundtrack , in order to sell CD's . Why did the computer go haywire ? The question should have been answered . I like the Alaska and North Korea bit , but a little too Ramboish . . It is an okay movie , save it for a rental on a rainy night .
Too much like the first and third	Too much like the first and third installments . I liked Jarr Jarr , and the young Obe-One , and the older guy , but the story lacked . The race scene did not get across well on the big screen , but was a good idea on paper . Why did they kill Darth-mall , he was the best character in the film ! They always kill the good bad guys ! I thought Obe cheated in the fight , with that little dirty trick of picking up his saber , and cutting the guy when he is looking down , but I guess he could not beat him any other way . If you watch the film you can see who the Dark Over Lord is , a bit of foreshadowing . I gave it a 6 .
scary concept but believable	Spoiler ! This film has a scary concept to it especially if it was true . I guess people will do anything for money even selling human organs . I can't imagine going in for a simple procedure and ending up in a coma . If you have health issues maybe stay away from this film . It makes you not trust the system . The medical equipment looked so old ie . glass bottle iv's . Thankfully we have come along way from this era . I wonder if this movie did well back in 1978 . Neat concept about hanging from wires to prevent bed sores . The acting was not the best . Tom Selleck has a cameo appearance when he was younger before magnum PI .
Good but not Great	Hearing so much about ' Shaun of the Dead ' built my expectations high . ' Shaun of the Dead ' is a parody of zombie movies with ever day life ; any generation Xer will get the factory / service industry humor . Xers live a very left out , hard paced , brain dead Zombie existence . I can relate to this humor with my job , and the people around me . Over educated Xer's expect more , and have seen a depressing decline in the quality of life , while parents and other generations sometimes do not understand us ; the family part of the movie explains this perfectly . Life seems pretty bad after college were one makes all their contacts . There is a lot of social humor about gen X in this film . Many people who live in such situations need a childish friend like Shaun has which Shaun needs for stress releases . No one else understands why Shaun hangs out with his loser friend , but this friend keeps Shaun sane . The Zombie humor would not work if done on this side of the Atlantic ; the British have a flair for dry ( in a good way like dry red wine ) foolish humor . The she's drunk scene was great , along with the dad turning off the car radio . Comedy is hard to do , and the film's makers got away with making a funny movie with such a hard concept . Worth renting the DVD over the going to see it . 6 or , but I probably buy the movie . I love dry humor . One part of the movie that surprised me is how similar the service industry is marketed with North American style Best Buy and Wal-Mart shops .
More the same !	More the same . Lots of eye candy both human and auto in this film . A thin formulated by the numbers script . However the stunts were OK . Paul Walker saves this movie . Paul Waler is a good actor . However Paul always play in b movies . Maybe , Paul should do b horror movies for a career change . If one includes Walkers acting and the stunts The Fast and Furious , is it four or five , is entertaining . My wife like the movie . However I found the movie just OK ; A movie rental night film . I give The Fast and the Furious a . I hope the producers of The Fast and the Furious do not make a part six or seven . Enough already .
No Black Hawk Down	Spoiler This film lacks the realism of Black Hawk Down , but Black Hawk Down is about real events , and this is a Hollywood script . I do not believe , Willis would ever be given Comand again after almost killing his chalk . I give the movie credit for fighting the PC Moore crowd and showing the truth of the brutiality that exists in the third world . Maybe , Willi's character defies his orders , because of past guilt form other missions . There is some syrupie , Hollywood , scenes with the locals , and the lead actres that makes me laugh . This film trys to show another end of the Americian specturm , with out the Moore crowds out dated they kill children , and the CIA is behind a dirty White House back stab conspiracy . America is dammed if they do , and dammed if they don't dated scripts get more boring , each and every year . Funny , how a book in France has a story where is a conspiracy of the right wing military contractors , would such a conspiracy book be published about the Hollocost or other tragic world events . This film is worth renting on a Friday night after a long week of work ,
Candy saves this film .	It , ok to watch . A low budget rewrite , that is slow in spots . It has its moment . The way John Candy acts in some of the scenes is so stupid its funny . I love it when Robert Wagners is added into the mix . Worth watching late night .
hard to say	If you like these kind of movies , then its funny . My wife loves these kinds of movie , and enjoyed this . Its amazing how well they can train bears , some of the stunts are incredible . The voice overs couldn't be done better . My opinion of the film is its cute , but not many surprises in this one . I laughed at this film , and comedy is the hardest thing to do , but I did not find this better the average comedy . Its funny , but not ps your pants funny .
This film is not as good as the second !	The second film had a great car crash , and a strong beginning , but got weaker as the film continued . The first film is wimpy , and the lead is a wimp also . The film get stronger as it progresses , as if they where learning as they wrote the script . I love the ending , and the films ending fit in with it philosophy . Watch the second one first .
One of the better ones .	This film I saw 9 years ago , isn't that bad . A bit dated , and the acting looks old . Still a strong story , that could be retold today . Must have been great in 74 . One of the better disaster movies , I remember as a child in the 70's . I would rent it , but not get over excited about it . Good cheap night film !
Not comic bookish enough	I love the comic book style movies . Rambo , Judge Dredge , Batman , had a comic book style . The other Punisher movie was unbelievable , but had the non-seriousness for making the movie digestible . This film is too dark and serious for the genre . The movie is not bad , but not great either . My wife liked it , but this film is not for children . I found the build up took too long . The first 10 minutes were great , but the movie's build up gave little room for character development . I do not know if the director intended on the viewer knowing little about the Punisher , but I wish the director gave us more . It has good action sequences . In the end , I would rent this one over going to the theater . Mike's pick would be
Drags in spots , but not bad .	This movie drags in spots . The Irish soldier and the cook were dead weight , and Stonewall's wife is another aspect they could do without . Robet Duval plays a minor role , and they should have expanded his . What works with this film is the battle scenes , and Jeff Daniels . I love his Rubecon speech . " We just passed the Rubecon , no turning back . Hail Ceasar , Hail vitory " ; and I sort of hail this film . I hope part 3 is better than the first 2 .
Ending was awful .	knowing was OK . The first 3rd was OK . Who were these people ? What was with the predictions ? Did Cage lose his mind ? These subplots made for an interesting story for the first two thirds of the story . However , the ending is so stupid . 1 hour build up for this ending ! No thanks ! The story needs a rewrite . The ending is the most depressing I have seen in years . Everyone dies . We all get fried by a solar burst . Why was there no high winds at the end ? For those who know astronomy that would be a good question . . I would not even rent this movie . The movie was not bad ; I can name many worse movies . However I found the move too out there , and the ending way too depressing .
Not bad for a HBO made for TV movie	This film is an entertaining watch , not bad for a HBO movie . Denny's performance is good as usual ; has a made in Canada feel , my guess probably Toronto . Toronto seem to substitute for many American cities . The film has a gutsy , realistic feel to it , and is made honestly . It you like reading books on these issues , you will like this film . Not a great film but I would watch it again .
It was OK	My wife and I went out to see 30 days of night . Monica , my wife , says the movie was OK . It would be awful to have 30 days of nights , and worse to have vampires around , which is the premise of the movie . How could the survivors live if the vampires could smell the human's blood ? Well directed and acted . 30 days is similar to ' the thing , with the gross vampires , gross effects and the winter isolation which give a gloomy feel . The vampires wanted to leave no survivors so people would believe that vampires was just a myth . Hence , the vampires could continue on their feedings . I hate the end , but the end was original . My wife give a 5 , but I give the movie a . Definitely a rental
I find the movie sad !	I find the movie sad . ( How bad people want to fit because of peer pressure . ) The movie is like a university sociology course . When one watches the story of people wanting to fit into a group , which is a human need , and others trying to be the Alpha male . I say find another group with out phony conditional friends . I have read about people doing unthinkable crime and other things because of peer pressure , either to look good or fear of ridicule . The one who does the evil deed of murder is the most ridiculed and most desperate . The leader ( of these not harden rich wannabe boys in the hood run social group ) runs into a harden , who did time , criminal . The prove yourself to the group leader of these silly events , conflict with the harden ciminal , fuels the movie . Even the victim wants to fit in . I found the movie sad because of this . I don't want to just hang out with the crowd . Sometime being the Old WCW wrestling character Raven who walks away from the everyone is a good thing . No one had the courage to stand up . I don't know if the movie is good or bad I just found Alpha Dog hard to watch .
The Die Hard that started them all .	I hate this one , but the story and action saves this film . I believe it must be Willis character . Reminds me of a jerk in high school that is popular , but everyone only pretends to like him ; Or someone at work who has to over prove all the time , and you wish he would just walk away ! At least Willi's character can back his actions , which is better than alot of 30 an 40 year olds who run around living in denial . I guess this over macho 80's bi-product is the shame of my generation . It has a lot of sappy Hollywood cliches . The over syrupie cop who can not fire his gun , and why did they have the Run DMC limo driver in this film , what did he add to this film . The boring over done gender conflict the action hero has with his wife . I do not know if this is because of Raider of the lost Ark , but the late 80's early 90's where full of blond bad guys , how over done . Every late 80's action film has to copy 48 hours swearing to prove how macho one is . Despite this baggage the action saves this film . The fire fight , the chopper explosion , and rocket attack make this film exciting . I would watch this film , but probably route for the bad guys .
Not bad but I did not like the ending	Land of the Dead is not a bad movie . The first of Land of the Dead is interesting and the director's pace is great . The city and the concept of survival is great . The flat character is cartoonish . I hate this . Dennis Hopper is too evil , the burnt face guy is too side kickish . The only believable characters are the Latino character and the lead blond character with the two characters interaction gives a round character personalities . The troops and the union guy , please give us a little more stimulation . What bothers the viewer in the last of the film is the ending and plot holes . 1 How did the Zombies cross the river with the current ? Low current season . 2 My wife mentioned the black gas station zombie was he really a zombie ? The gas station Zombie never eats anyone , and looks less like one ? 3 I find it hard to believe the Zombies just march on through the city the way they did . Was the city overwhelmed . The soldiers look too stupid . 4 the city's defence looks too much like a joke . 5 With the 3 rivers why did they not call the city Pittsburgh ? I know I am being a bit hard on the Land of the Dead , but the film has so much potential . I would have liked more Zombies in the film and they swarmed the city ( ie like Starship Troopers ) The machete zombie is a nice tribute . . Good rental
Funny in a 70's way	Funny in a 70's way . This film I enjoyed as a kid , but seeing some of it as and adult , the move was too much . I guess as a child I seen movies in a childish way , and as an adult opinions change . There still is a few funny moments , but this movie is dated in a 70's way . I give this one a 5 or .
Saw half of it ten year age and watched the other , when I finally found it at a video store	3 for 1 night at pick a flick , what a deal for $5 . 49 . I rented 3 80's college movies . This one , Up the Creek , and Revenge of the Nerds . I saw this film 9 years ago when I was unemployed , on late night . I finally could fall asleep , and missed the second half . I wondered how it ended . I found this old beat up coppy , and second time around it was ok , I found the movie 9 years ago a break from Political Correctness . I don't think Hillary Clinton would like this . Around that time some films where portarying male jocks as retards , who owed an apology to everyone . I realize growing up in the 80's alot of these beer commercial guys where shallow , self centered , and lacked depth , but it is nice that this pc craze died and we can breath and laugh again . With movies like American pie etc . What I like about this film is the music , the attitude , and juvenile fun . It reminds me of my friends , but this film has no great humor here . A scene that hurts your stomach with laughter ; a light hearted film
CBC's attempts for rating with something other than hockey	Other than Hockey Night in Canada there is not much to watch on CBC ; most of there Politically correct shows have a boring theme like ( a ) someone writing a book , ( b ) some cultural crap or ( c ) a overwhelmingly left wing news show that riddles the viewer with guilt and blame . I took a chance and watched CBC's attempt at the Soparno's . Quite , watchable , I was shocked , Michael Ironside in it , and that got me watching . I found part 2 lacked the steam of part one , but over all its just as good . The ending , is awkward like they did not know how to tie it up . I would rent it , or tape it from TV if they play it again . Ironside is one fine actor .
Interesting	Not the greatest film , but I liked it . Better writen then most of todays horror movies , and a great concept . Problem with the length of this film , they could of cut 15 minitues off , with Donald relationship with the other lead . Good f / x Spok & Goldblum , where entertianing . A little less running around , and more tention would have helped this film , but the ending is great .
Better than the first , but I do not like the series .	They try and make Ollie North look bad in this one . The film is entertaining , but I do not like the series . I do not know if it is Bruce Willis , or the PC hobnogen , but the films appear tired . Good action scenes , and interesting fights , but I would say Under Seige 2 is a much better comparable film . Watchable
A good stress reliever	Wes Craven is good at directing suspense . Red eye's style is a retro 70's made for TV , but on a bigger budget . I love the social message about rude and demanding idiots with the service industry sector . My wife worked in a casino with the gambling addicts and I see the message loud and clear . A good movie to see before my Canadian English Literature exam . I will use a few of the literature terms in my review . One can feel the pathos of the lead character in Red Eye . The epiphany is revealed with the lead antagonist message about what he is doing is for being well paid to send a message to the US government . The only flat character is the bad guy in the BMW . If one watches TBS late night which I do out of insomnia , the guy from chips is in this movie . Many of the screen pictures have a form and balance to it with cheer leading stuff and the mirror and the toilet in the plane's bathroom . One feels the ambiance with the props and the film's blue tinge surreal color . A good foreshadowing with the field hockey stick . Taking this course has changed the way I look at movies . There is a rhythm like in a poem where the viewer sees a cautionary message . Airplanes , a security adviser , and high tech gizmos . In the end , I give Red Eye a 6 or . A Friday late night movie .
Okay	A six or . The actors did a good job . Vince and Owen were okay . The movie dragged in spots , I expected the movie to be stupid , but the movie dragged in a couple of spots . Will Ferrell appeared in the last third and saved the film . Will can be funny , but in a strong way like Ajax . To much much Will can kill a movie , but Will is great in a supporting role , and Will saves the Wedding crashers by himself . The last third of the movie was dying , and Will gave it fresh material . Typical low-end humor , in old school style , but not over done . Christopher Walken plays a very small role , and does not perform any humor . Walken can be very funny , like the Jayman in Envy . Not a bad film .
One of my better movies from my English Lit course	Taking Dr Morton class in English lit / philosopy I found this the best book in the lot , and movie . The movie transends the book well . The story in the movie is better with the missing chapter , but the book is more complete with the extra chapter . The extra chapter makes my essay on what is evil easier . Read the book for the extra Chapter . Now , on with the movie . It is interesting , and the director get the feel right . I like how they ended it , and it shows that violence be gets more violence . Not for everyone .
A pale comparison to the movie Troy	Oliver Stone's ' Alexander ' is a pale comparison to the movie ' Troy ' . ' Alexander ' is not a bad movie , but not good either . The acting is excellent with the cast , and a story one can follow . When Oliver Stone make a film , 20 minutes can be cut out or the movie drags . 60'd type drug effects in parts of the movie , like Stone's other film ' The Doors ' , not needed . Too much of Alexander's wife in the film . I give Stone credit this is a hard task to create . ( Epic films have to be though and history left to interpretation ) Stone's ' Nixion ' was a better film , but of course personal interpretation leaves room for error . I did not mind the film . There is a but in here , and the but is . Even with the big screen I would suggest wait for video . . I might like it more if I watch the film a second time and pick more up . I wonder what their wine tasted like back then ?
I thought Get Smart would be funnier !	I hate Hollywood when they show a trailer with the funniest parts of the movie and that's it . I thought Get Smart would be funnier because of this . Funny in spots , but not like the more funnier scenes where show en in the movie trailer . Not a bad movie , but not a good one either . A movie rental . Soon to be on a pay per view near you . Predictable , by the numbers comedy / action film . I did not mind the movie . Worth watching after a week of work . I wonder if there will be a Get Smart 2 . My wife thinks the film is just OK . My wife also though the show would be funnier because of the TV series . Keep it real everyone . I hate having to write 10 line . I think I have 10 lines now . Ha Ha .
I hated this film . Perfume smells like a fart .	My wife wanted to rent this film . A guy makes perfume off dead girls and because of the smell can memorize people and get away with murder . After watching this film , and the guy eventually dies the viewer feels riped off emotional . The film is so silly and stupid I wish they did something more with it . Too much a art form and not a movie . Maybe they could have used a UFO in it I don't know . . The film is watchable enough , but why waste one's time . I should have worked out instead . Film was kind sick and slimy . Perfume smells More like a fart ! Leaves a bad smell in the air . I can see why I don't remember it in the movie house .
Doesn't get better with age	This film is ok I give it a . Looks cheesey know when I watch on cable . Tom Hanks play a good role , but John Candy steals the show with his Johny La Rue character . " It's not that you drank too much , but you don't weigh enough . " Darral Hanna had a short carrier , but this is her second best role after " Pope of Greenwich Villiage . " Watch this one on TV , nothing to rent .
I like it	I like it . I agree with the other person's views that Fox is more entertaining . Williams is a good anchor . The news leans towards the left of the political spectrum . I think the personal opinion criticism journalism hurts the media for no one knows when the reporter is right about an issue or is just giving a opinion . . I guess the what is truth issue has been around since Plato . The media is more honest these days . Williams at least gives you an opinion and lets the viewer know where he stands . I like the up front opinion of Williams . I like when a anchor say he or she is a Republican or a Democrat . Williams did a good interview on Conan . Hurricane Forget about it , funny !
First half a 9 and the second half a 3	The first half of this film is fun to watch . It has humor , action , and does not take itself to seriously . I like the scene where Stegal goes to a anger management class , but and there is a but in this review . The film loses steam in the second half . Unbelievable plot twists , the usual by the number action sequences , which tie up the movie in a boring ending .
Not bad not good .	Quantum of Solace is not a bad movie or a good movie . The movie is a mix of the older Sean Connery James Bond movies and The Jason Bourne movies . The action is identical to the Jason Bourne movies . On a personal note , I like the Bourne movies better . Quatum of Solace is only a 1 and a half hour movie . A little too short for my taste . I heard the reason for the short running time was the last Bond movie would be too long and the 1 and a half hour movie Quantum of Solace is the continuation the last Bond story . The movie is based off the book Casion Royal and books usually make for long movies . Craig , the new Bond lacks the humor of the older Bonds , a part which is needed to relieve the intents action of the films . I give Quantum of Solace Spies . OK to go out and see , even better to rent .
Movie ages poorly	This movie ages poorly , they can do so much better camera work , acting , and script writing today . It's not a bad movie either . If the movie is that accurate about the police , we can thank Serpico for its reforms . Question I asked myself during the movie is why have a police department if everyone is on the take . Good thing internal affairs was created as a result , even the good cops were afraid because no one policed the police .
More the same !	This film is nothing special , it is just more the same . With some new twists . The shark is very hungry and Broady's older son wants to hang out with the teenagers they all are into boating , and take the chance of becoming potential shark food . I was rooting for the shark in this one . Its not bad , it's watchable , but far inferior to the original . I would give this a 6 out 0f 10
gave it a 6	Low budget and stupid , but liked it . Sick humor and its a sick movie . I can watch it , but it has flaws due to its low budget . Viewer gets to see Stalone act in one of his earlier movies , and he is one of the more interesting characters in this film . Aka Machine gun Joe Vetaturbo who add humor to the film . Well rent it with some friend and you will laughf , but other wise its a stinker .
Better then the first , and third movies	I rented this movie after see parts 1 and 3 . This film is alot better then part one considering its on a higher budget , better acting , and it looks like they had more time to film and edit it . As a result , the acting , editing , and directing is less choppy . The mechanics of this film is done well , and a few scenes cause you jump . No surprises in this one , it is a done by the numbers horror film , better then most low budget films of the 80's . I give it a rating of six .
Not bad , but done before .	I went to this mob film with my dad . My girl friend was working and my dad jumped at the oportuinity , because my dad loves mob movies and my mom hates them . The surpirse in this film is Nichole Kidman poses nude . I believe she would do anything to be famious , and being early in her carrier before she met Tom she did it . I do not think we will ever see her do that again . The film starts out well with Bruce Wills in his cameo , but the rest is your run of the mill 20's mob story . Hoffman plays Dutch perfectly , and I like the small antics . The ending is great with Andy Garcia playing the leaning meaner Scillians who become tops in the food chain . Great moment but not a great film .
Boy did they make Fred into a dummy	A bit PCish , and that kind of destorts the show from when I was Kid . Despite that the character were close to cartoon , except fred . A good movie for the kids , and entertaining in general . Watchable , and interesting , but I feel a little bad for whay they did to Scrapy Doo . This film kind of tarnish a few childhood memories , but still a good film .
Spoiler and the winner is ?	Spoiler and the winner is ? I would say Freddy , Jason isn't the sharpest Machette at the camp site . If his IQ is 70 that's about it ; Freddy can talk , and articulate a plan . This is why the movie focused around Freddy . Freddy gets the worst at the end of the movie , but the not too bright Jason gets the brunt of it throughout . In this matter the film is comical , like Bugs and Road runner . ( all they needed was the anvil and hot air balloon ) The story is original with Freddy needing Jason in order to create fear on Elm Street ; and I never knew Elm Street was so close to camp Crystal . The crime stats must have been high for that state . Entertaining in a stupid way .
Not bad for a TV movie !	This film is not bad for a TV movie . B actor Richard Chamberlen king of 80's TV mini series does a fine acting job . The casting is fine , and the shoot in Europe is excellent . Not as good as the higher budget theater released movie , but this is expected . The TV version has filler in it that drags the show on . Watch the newer one first .
Watchable	One summer I went to see this with my sister . Another early 80's comedy . Keaton when he did comedy , and had a carrier , made this film laughable ; Otherwise it would have died . Kevin Costner is in it if you look carefully , and one of Winkler ( The Fonz ) few movie appearances . This movie will surly fade away like many others , but not a bad one .
Good story	Good story for a horror movie , but the movie slowed down in parts , so I gave it a six . The concept is great , and the special effect hit the mark . The film could have used a rewrite or , maybe a better lead actor . Michael Ironside makes this film , and carried it .
Not a bad disaster movie .	Spoilers I remember watching this film with my sister when I was 10 years old . I thought it was cool how the plane submerges into the water . How they end it with the water rescue procedures is excellent . The heist turned into disaster was a good idea also . The movie is dated , but has an interesting story . I would like to watch some of it on late night again . Viewer thinks it a
Not the best or worst either	I saw this film with my dad when I graduated in 87 , and then we went to this Polish club where some old guy took a run at me and said you know what this mean and gave me three fingers . I never knew what the three fingers meant , but I sure remember the movie ! I expected much from this movie , and left the thearter disappointed . Average film at best , not bad , but not great . The final fight in the movie is intense , but with the direction , no one really cares or remembers the characters . I never forgot the evening , but I should have forgotten the movie .
Watched the movie for a course .	I am taking a course at Athabasca University , and ' Smoke ' is one of the movies . I was told the movie is about stories and how they shape and fade like smoke . There are 6 characters and each sub story intertwines with the other story creating the movie . Each story like the character Auggie's photography around his store tell of the progression of time . As each story unravels the viewer sees a flat character develop into a round character , with complexities and dualities . One sees the camera pan in to close ups as the viewer begins to know each character better . The message of the Christmas story is the thesis for movie . If the Christmas story is true or not or exaggerated the main theme of a good story is to be entertaining and bring joy to life . This film does such . Entertaining 6 or depending on what mood the viewers in . Bad mood a 6 and 7 in a good mood .
James Bond meets Star Wars	Cashing in on the success of Star Wars this Star Wars type of film is the highest budget of all Bond movies ; and only one of two which lost money . The beginning was good , but the film is like a comic book story . Jaws is in this episode , he was only in two . I loved the space marines , but my wife found them farfetched , but this film stretches it so much why not . I would not call this a great Bond film .
does not age well	This film is from the 60's and you can tell this , by the evolution of acting and directing . The movie has a choppy feel to it , and looks dated . However , Bruce Durn has a great cammio playing a crazy cattle rustler . Eastwood has another strong performance , and the story underplays a 1960's anti death penalty message . Like the hanging judge form this film I have a verdict . .
6 . 6 is about right	This film is not great , but not bad . Better than a I like the actors in this film . Very Ron Howardish , he make good films . The story is ok , but would I buy the video . No not a chance . My rating is
They show this film around every super bowl	Minor Spoilers . I watched this on A & E recently . Film making , and directing has improved over time . I found the pace , and story awkward , plus slow in spots . After anything is possible , and the James Bond stories do not appear as far fetched . Bruce Dern plays a perfect disgruntled ex-air force pilot . They cheer on court marshalls , divorces , and big game people , with 2 weenies and a coke is great . I work at the post office and this guy could play a disturbed postie . Anyways , back to the review . Robert Shaw misses a blimp with his hand gun ! No way , unless drunk at the time . The 2 best parts of the movie is watching those Steeler and Cowboy clips . Terry Bradshaw , without Alf , and Roger were great to watch , and the blimp come over the stadium was great . Just an average run of the mill film . For all you people who cheer the big game with a coke and 2 weenies I give this a . Good role by Bruce .
Security Cam modern problems	Not a bad show . Security cameras cause many problems . Is someone watching you ? What did you say about someone . Watching your parents making out and other endless possibilities involving security cameras . I hate to see what the supervisor would do with it . Obvious bad acting in order to try a save Hank and Brents friendship is the storyline when the security camera caught Brent talking him . When the camera caught Brents parents making out ! The viewer knows the camera had to be destroyed . American top videos for Security Cam . Watch it ! One of Corner Gas better episodes . The cop who want in the play is funny . Did not qet it .
A good show	The dad on the show is paranoid . I love how they take the theme of the shows isolation and paranoia for a small town . Of course the tax man is from the big bad government . The man is telling him what to do . The free coffee for the police at the dinner is hilarious . The two storyline merge together well and the silliness is counter balance with another character Brent who's logic cool down silly situations . Hank is good for a laugh . Another character Hank is the likable guy in town who is the brunt of the town's jokes . wheat field for this show . I just started watching it on Showcase . Rent the season at Block Buster or wherever . Worth seeing ! Corner Gas's just keep getting better as the season progresses .
Worlds biggest Thing .	I liked the Corner gas episode Worlds biggest Things . A better title would be worlds biggest Hoe ! The inside joke of worlds biggest hoe was played over and over . The town meeting etc were great to show the mundane , but entertaining part of small town life . I do not think I could live in a small town . Reminds me to much of the small squabbles at work . Back to the main point . Anyways , Dog River find out after they build the worlds biggest hoe , that some other town has a bigger hoe , and they got the second worlds biggest hoe . Where the residence go see and buy gas and nuts which is intended to bring money in for Dog River . A full circle story . 7 bags of nuts out of 10 . I did not mind this show . Watch it live it and be it or whatever .
Like Seinfield	I agree with the last guys comment . The show is like Seinfield . A lot to do about nothing . Bad and strange predicaments and how the lost characters deal with the weirdness . I love the flashback about the belt . The greecer hair and jackets . I bet the missing the Grey Cup due to lost tickets had to happen in real life . I been through missing tickets before . I would feel enclosed living a small town where everyone knows everyone . The dollar store jewelery prove such ! In the end , I wonder why they throung in the Lacy part of the show . Maybe a little real life there . People love gossip . I guess you have to be careful who you kiss . poges for the Lacy episode .
Big news for Dog River .	Brent and Lacy keep busy with cute sign slogans out side of there 2 places . People need there moments of fun to keep sane . Dad has a nasty trick played on him about his memory . Brent can be so evil . I guess the dad can be a jerk so he asks for it . Hank is so cool a poetic when he fishes . Did he sleep with her ? I guess that would be a small town worry . We find out Hank does not want to be known as the town slut either . I guess one can catch more than fish when fishing . I personally find fishing boring , but never hear of fishing like this . 7 fishhooks out of 10 . I would watch this show over . My birds like the outside shot of the show when watching Corner Gas . Did I write 10 lines yet .
Solid show	More of life in a small town . Lacy is having a hard time adjusting to Dog River's social life . I notice how Lacy way over dress for the towns life style . Very Toronto style clothing . No one likes her free class idea . The town wonders what's up with the free class ? Hank is Hank in this show . Brent is the only guy who understands the whole situation . 7 dogs out of 10 dogs for the Dog River show . I love the theme song . It took 3 days to find your dog etc etc . I wonder if they Facebook a lot in Dog River . A good show . Did I write 10 lines yet . I hope I did . Now I got 10 lines . HA not yet . Nope not yet ! Almost got 10 lines . Now I did . Ha Ha
Brent has no money !	Brent has no money from buying a large screen TV . Brent tells no one so Hank will not come over to his house everyday to watch TV until 2 pm . A Signfield episode in Saskatetwan . A lot to do about nothing . Everyone listens to Hank's rumor about Brent being broke . The humor is where the town tries to help Brent out . Eventually Hank finds out the truth and Brent has people over watching pay per view sporting events on Brents new TV . I give ' Poor Brent ' a . A good look at small town rumors , and how such rumors start . I would hate have people over everyday until 2 also . Let us hope Brent get some sleep . I bet Brent would not mind Lacey coming over to his house .
Bad kid .	Bad Kid . Everyone knows one and no one wants to babysit one . Brent ends up having to babysit the kid from , and is having a hard time doing so . Hank's budgie story is hilarious . Hank's story scares Brent even more . Lacy can not help when Brent is overwhelmed by the task at hand . Brent's mom comes to the rescue . Using the voice and threat authority mom saves the day . for this show . Hank is good supporting humor for this episode . No one has a good thing to say about the kid ! I wish e could have seen him . Maybe not seeing him made the show better . Well I won't babysit after watching this show . Rent season one . Oh baby is one of the better show for season one .
I like this one .	Its fresh , exciting , and funny . This film after Blood sport made his carer . A simple story , but wow its true escapism and that's what action is about . I really like this one the fights could be described as incredible . A really memorable bad guy is in this film . Rent it .
	How a rumor starts in a small town is what this show is about . I found you have a character like Hank who is crazy and makes crazy decisions we got a good story . Hank hears of Lacy's ex coming to town . A simple plain story . Hank deducts the ex is stalker , which is the reason Lacy moved to Dog River . In the end Hank's pretends to be Lacy's boyfriend . Funny concept , and is almost like a Sociology course on how rumors start . Brent is as usual the calming man of reason who provides balance for the show . I give My Ex's episode a . A very interesting , and funny show . Catch the reruns on Showcase . Corner Gas is like a University Sociology course on small towns .
A tie is a win .	Brent is such a good goalie that he saves the bad Dog River team from being worse . The rival team challenge Brent to leave the team with a bunch of endorsements . The story is interjected with a woman coach theme . Humor done Dog River style ! Brent stays with the loyalty of his town . The Dog River what's there name ties the game , which is as good as win for them . A decent story . 7 gas stations out of 10 . Hank is very Hankish in this story . Have I wrote 10 lines yet ? Nope I have not ! Now have I ? Nope I think they need a budgie as a regular character for the show ? Maybe a parrot ? I love the show believe I got 10 lines now . Darn not yet ! Yes and Cornor Gas rules .
Comedy	I go to the comedy club all the time . The person who wrote Comedy Nite knows comedians . I like how the comedian steals Brent's joke . Brent get mad when the comedian steals his joke . Comedians borrow from others all the time . Brent gets back at the comedian . Most comedians are on the road so long they forget what town their in . Brent told the comedian he was in the evil rival town . The comedian insults Dog river and we know the rest . Good show ! I like how Hank tries to be a in your face comedian . Bad at it , and way to insulting . The crowd chants we want Hank . Funny . 7 laughs out of 10 . I think watching this show I could never live in Dog River .
Good acting	Ford and Oldman have strong performances , and the script is incredible . Unlike most action movies this film is fresh , and the Russian villains act as believable terrorists . Too bad Ford is not the US President , I would vote for him any day . The director , who did Das Boat , directs this film mechanically , and it is a pleasure to watch the mechanics of this film unravel .
sick humour	This reminds me of the 80's party movies . The characters were likeable people but sick . A lot of this humour could be described as offense . My wife and I like this movie ; we laughed all through it . It gave males an in depth into the female behavior . It's good for a laugh . It is not a serious movie .
On par with the original	Spoiler ! ! I rented the original first , before I watched the remake . I suggest not doing this ! The story is so good the makers could not change too much , and I would say watching one spoils the other . The directing and camera equipment are far superior to the 1976 version . The atmosphere was great . The icy ground at the coffee shop before the protagonist finds the truth at the cemetery resonates the harsh atmosphere of evil ! No one can out preform Gregory Peck for acting , but Liev Scrieber plays a good role of any character in a suit . One question why did the makers use a black German shepherd instead of a rottie for the one scene ? The young Damian is better than the original for the remake shows Damian causing fear amongst his fellow man , and the tormenting of his step mother . I just wish , I did not rent the original first .
Won't be on movies for guys who like movies	Won't be on movies for guys who like movies ! The antithesis for Magnum Froce . No Client Eastwood or Hal Halbrook in this film . Hey no one even gets killed . Saw this at my sisters former boyfriend house . Did not mind it either , than I saw it again years later , with by wife , on late night . My wife like this film , and I found it aged well . The acting is alright , but its the story that keeps , this action movie junkie , interested . The story reminds me of a few of the interesting conversation I would have with my female friends at the university . Funny how a jucie story can transend gender , age and other demographics . The end is a bit sappy , but it had too have a downer ending that would have killed this movie . I wish they had a litte more about the Pizza . Funny , right about this movie makes me want to order one . I give this film 7 pizza's out of 10 , if it is 2 for 1 then . Mike
The more I watch this film the more I like it	The first time I saw this film I did not like it , I thought it's unbeleivable , stupid etc . Many years later watching it on T V I changed my mind . It's a great concept , of what if a Soviet invasion of mid-america happens . The cultural differences between the 2 communists and middle America , or the heartland . Its nice to watch Jed's character , represnet the heartland , and how hard of a time it would be to take over a country where there is gun in every household , and alot of ex military , bushmen type of people around . You would have about as hard of a time pacifying America as the British did . In the end the movie boiled down the culture , values , and bonds of these people , that is what this films about more then how accuratly such a event would happen .
Good , but a little different	One of the first shows where the brothers go against humans instead of the supernatural . Benders storyline was too condensed for a one hour show ; a possible second part could have been warranted . The writers could have given more character development of the deranged farm family . The motive or build up of the family could create great story tension . Benders is a homage of The Texas Chainsaw Massacre and other similar films such as Wrong Turn . Every time the viewer sees the chilling farmhouse , he or she can remember a similar movie / story with the vacant and lonely rural house . Dean and Sam show the brother's bond growing stronger with Dean going out on a limb to save his brother Sam . In the end the female officer lets the brothers disappear to carry on with their important mission .
Eastwood makes this film or it would break	This film would be forgettable , if not for Eastwoods performance . Eastwood is a strong actor , and the character he plays is made for this film . Its funny , exciting , and very military . Peebles , and one the combat scenes is too over the top . I guess this is for contrast in the film . I will enjoy watching this film a second time , and give it a
Satire of society	SPOILER ! ! I like satire , and this movie's satire of society is great . A director who replaces the human element with computer imaging graphics creates a rift in society . I never could understand why someone would wait 8 hours to see Harrison Ford , or Jane Fonda . They may be good at a trade , but doesn't mean poop for people skills . I might be able to paint my fence well , but does that mean I am a great person . This movie takes a kick at this . People believe what they see in a movie or in the public image the agent creates , it is not real . Just because OJ smiles nice for car rental commercials had nothing to do with the trial . He is trying to sell you something just like the actors in the film . Matlock may be a great show , but would you use him in real life , or is all mystery really that complex . Usually who did it is probably a lot more obvious . Everyone knows Simone and loves her , I think people need there delusions , but she is not real . They have a lady Di scene with an outpouring of grief . How can someone grieve about someone they never knew , who is the real person , and what is public image . There is a shot at Brittney in this film . I guess the euphoria of the public can easily be manipulated by the media is this film's message .
Stupid very stupid !	Spoiler Be warned this movie is stupid , but entertaining . The director trying a comeback after the disappointing ' Jackie Brown ' does better , but seems unable to hit his zenith of ' Pulp Fiction ' . Slow parts of this film , and over the top violence hurt ' Kill Bill ' , but unlike ' Jackie Brown ' the story with over the top comedy makes this a watchable movie . I was disappointed with the ending , but I should have knowing with the term volume 1 that it would leave you hanging . I give this a . See this one before volume 2 comes out .
What Goes around comes around	This movie has the old saying , " What goes around comes around . " This movie shows how other cultures differ in their beliefs . You see that one's beliefs are accepted by one and rejected by the other . One will also see the hypocrisy of the culture . Things are okay to do as long as it is not in your own backyard or to your family .
Good summer movie	For Canada Day my wife and I had a retro date weekend . Like many moons ago we went to the KFC and then to an action movie . I enjoyed Dieharder . The story is interesting , while the stunts were over the top , and I enjoyed the doses of humor . Dieharder had computer hackers attack the US . Bruce picks up a hacker and the wrong place wrong time story unfolds nicely . I say right place right time for America . The bad guys are bad , and the good guy is solid . The solid good guy Bruce Willis adapts and overcomes evil encounters with over the top stunts . The jet freeway deal , the traffic tunnel and ending stunts were great . I love the ending . Willis's sarcasm in dealing with the stress is a great tension reliever . I liked when he talks to himself in the annoyed tone via the tunnel scene . The humor is done at the right time for the wrong place plot . The directing and acting meld together well with the above mentioned Die-hard formula makes Dieharder entertaining . . Worth seeing this summer . I wonder if this is the last of the 80's style action movies with Sly and Arnold out of the picture ?
A good show	A good show . I never would have guessed the ending . Dean and Sam try to stop a nasty spirit , and Deal with a frantic girl . The car is always cool , and Dean's cold demeanor give a serious style for this episode . The special effects of the farmer were great . Cool setting of the old farm House ; similar to 1000 horror movies . The ending is great , but I will not ruin it for you . Wow . What a plot twist . I wonder if they can keep the writing up for the next season ? . My wife believes this episode is geared more for a female audience . Worth watching . Sam is very smart and figure the problem out for RoadKill . How many time does Sam do this ?
Ages well	This film ages well , and is still entertaining . However , one can see the evolution of acting and it's improvement over the years . Great script , excellent casting , and the chariot race is unbeatable . This movie is spiritual , and the ending is spiritually motivating , leaving the viewer with a scene of hope and faith .
Kind of like the old movie Scanners	If anyone reading these comments has the TV channel showcase , they you have probably seen the old movie Scanners . Supernatural Nightmare is a mix of Scanners and the movie Carrie . The plot is a mix of what happens to mom and trying to stop a unbalanced person with telekinesis . Supernatural has the usual balance of the two lead protagonists . A blend of the good looking girl , and the realism of the price the protagonist has to live with the sacrifice of dealing with the supernatural . How do they live ? Are they rich as they do not need jobs . Do they get down time ? I hope next season the show answers these questions . ! I wish they just keep showing the show on the same time slot in my area ( Winnipeg ) .
Good but not great	This movie is well acted , and has an incredibly high budget . It is worth seeing , because of these 2 factors , but the film ends negatively , and the viewer leaves the film on a downer . Well , they have to do this , in order of having a historically accurate film . This film is about operation Market Garden , and what happens to a military operation , when Murphy's law comes into effect . Everything did go wrong and even Sean Connery could not save the day .
Not bad	Not bad . I hate shows that do not have a conclusion but tune in next week for the ending . this episode is like that . It leaves you hanging . Sometimes with TV series , the shows get bogged down with too many subplots . You didn't really learn much from part one . Maybe part two will be better . Instead of dividing the episode into two parts , they should have made a two hour episode . What's with the shadows or the girl ? I guess I will find out next week . I do not know why they introduced a meeting with the boys ' father . You have really no character develop because he is never in any of the episodes . They should have an episode where they introduce the father and show what he was like before he went away . The audience has no reference with the father , but more with Dean and Sam . Can't wait for next week's episode . 7 out 10 .
The more times I see it the less I like it	This film is a good film . but the more I watch it the acting appears choppy . It a great story , about people who only die from decapitation . They don't age and sword fight each other through out time . For a time will come when they have a reckoning and must fight for the prize . Sean Connery is the mentor for the leading actor , and plays a great role . Its a good story , and it is written as a original , the sequels destroy the whole concept , and look silly . The acting is ok and the story is great , I give this movie a 7 .
Well done .	The new testament has so much about Jesus what does one include , and exclude ? How long can you make such a film ? My wife was taking her Catechism , and I rented a few film's about the Lord in order for her too understand the Bible better . She likes this film , but not as much as the 77 version . This film is inspiring for any Christian , and gives a message of hope for all of mankind . I love the casting , especially John Wayne as the centurion . Charalton Heston plays his best role , as John the Bapatist . Repent ! He plays the crazy with passion John better than anyone else . Worth renting around Christmas to remember what the season truly is about .
A Movie that ages well	I usually do not like long movies , but this one did not drag . A good movie about obtaining one's freedom . It had good acting and realistic battle scenes . You can see were Gladitor and Braveheart got its influences . This is the first movie that I seen Kirk Douglas act . I can see where Michael was influenced . This is one of the best epics .
Interesting story	Interesting story , we do not get into details with this film , but just the bare bones of it . Directed well , and no one misses the point of the film , because we can not really understand why ? Good acting and watch for Jim Rockford he plays the sherif well . My only question is why did that guy get out of the truck ?
down to earth people	Spoiler ! ! Josh Lucas did an excellent role . He reminds me of Matthew Maccoughney ( can't spell his name ) . I think he will get some more interesting roles in the future . Reese Weetherspoon did an okay role . She sure has lost the weight that she had in Cruel Intentions . The town was of real people not phonies . It took a swipe at the Northeast democrats that talk about poor people , but in reality they only care about themselves and their image . The character discovers that she is not in for the phonies and goes back to the real down to earth people . It is a girl movie , but can be enjoyed by the male audience of well . It reminds me of what you would see in the rural areas here in Canada as well as the States .
Good film	When I first saw this film , years ago , I found it unbelievable ; Now this could happen anywhere . There is more armed robberies , acts of violence , and crazies running around . The film starts out very creepy , with a nut phoning the house asking if you she checked the children , and the first 20 min is a tension build up . ( I will not ruin the shock to this scene ) Then the middle gets a little bogged down , but the end is a true shocker , when the crazed man goes after the women 7 years after the incident ; after he escapes the mental institute . Worth renting for date , it is entertaining and done well considering the budget .
Not a bad film , but	Not a bad film , but Dalton is no James Bond . You can see why he did only two films . The story is done well , but lags in the middle . This would have been one of the better films , but Dalton can not deliver a joke , and makes this film humorless . He plays a good agent , but has no Bond charm . Connery , and Moore , do laps around him . In the end , this should have been Bronson's film , but he still had contrack obligations with NBC .
spoiler I tell the ending	Warning a spoiler I tell the ending . This is not a bad movie I gave it a seven . The first part of the movie sets the seen and thats ok . There is a but here and the but is , when they head for the bar after a long time on the boat , the personal life character development stuff starts to get boring . When will they get back on the I was thinking after about 5 minutes to much about there sex lives , girl friends , and talking . When they get back on the boat the film picks up , and the interest of them getting a good catch , along with the riggers of job . The best part of the movie , and what I spent the money for is when the storm starts . It's a story like Jack Londons " To build a Fire " will they survive , and over come the natural problems nature throws at them ? Will the rescue team arrive in time ? What makes this film interesting is they turn the boat around and try to save there lives . Like Jack Londons to build a fire , they die in the ending , and its a good change from by the numbers hollywood endings , this adds realism . They tie the ending up nicely with a wall where the history of fisher men lost to the sea honors them , and shows there a part in history . Coming from Nova Scotia roots I can really appreciate this story about the sea .
Dark excellent movie !	For a movie to be good the casting has to be excellent . Baldwin , Sizemore , the British nerd , and Wayne Grow from the movie heat were excellent creeps . The viewer really hates these guys , just like when Bruce Durn shot John Wayne in the back . Baldwin plays the not to bright scum bag as an art form . The plot is simple , and formulated well ; similar to an 80's action revenge or horror movie . Many cameo's in this movie . Bet the farm , that some of the scenes were based on real life . The British guy running in the back yard could have been on the news . The movie gets across the message that paparazzi misinforms the public , and harasses the celebrity . Many want to use the celebrity as a commodity , and thus the reason for security , and the want for privacy . For a good time see it in the theater . I give it a 7 or .
One should be happy with what one has	Richard Gere never ages . He seems to have a problem with his wives in movies ; they do not fair very well . I would not be surprised if this was a remake of a French film . It had an European style to it . Richard Gere plays the loving husband and Diane plays the wife that has too much time on her hands . The reverse of fatal attraction . A bit long . When events spin out of control , it leads to a tragic fate . This film is suspenseful which Richard is great at .
worth renting on a summer evening !	Worth renting on a summer evening ! My first two days of holidays I always rent movies and order in pizza , while I sit on the couch . I first watched Alpha Dog and The last King of Scotland is a far superior movie . The acting is great ! Forrest has done is best performance ; I believe Forrest will never be able to out perform himself . The directing is at a good pace . The story keeps the viewer enthralled . . I wonder how close the story is to the real life experience . This movie is not for the faint hearted . Who every plays the nasty security agents hits the mark . Forrest is a under rated actor . The protagonist in this film sure is stupid .
Great movie !	I stopped myself from chanting USA USA in the theater , because my wife would have left , but I still got emotional and raised my hands up when the US scored . I still miss the Jets leaving the Peg , and still have the game reflexes when I watched the movie with a hockey crowd . I remember watching most of the games when I was eleven . Everyone hated the big Red machine from the Soviet Union , that killed the NHL all stars , and team USA afterward in a pre-Olympic game . Part of the cold war fever taking place and this movie showed the importance of the game back in 1980 . I was chanting USA USA while watching the game , live at home and remember Craig with the flag , all the players standing on the podium during the medal ceremony . This must of had a huge influence on Hockey in the USA , and turned a lot of youngsters onto the game ! Being a hockey nut I remember watching the US during the 80's and they would lose in the first round at the Canada cups but with the younger players coming up they got better in every tournament , and finally made the cup final in 1992 . This event and the infusion of Canadian junior hockey coaches into their college system makes the US , the hockey power it is today . Is is no longer just Canada and the Russians , I figure there will be many Canada , USA olympic gold medal games with maybe a movie about it one day . Great hockey movie the advisors made the goaltending , and puck movement so real . Russell looks and acts like a coach , from the coaching view , not the fan . Brooks later became the coach of the Rangers , it was classy of them showing his picture at the end of the movie .
My wife liked it	This is a good movie , the more I watch it the more I like it . When I first viewed this movie I thought it was ok , but when we bought the video it began to grow on me . The acting is excellent , and the story twists along at a good pace . Douglas is a good actor and his performance alone is worth renting this film .
TBS Late night	This film kicks and punches . I have seen a lot of action films , and this one has the best direction for action sequences . The karate is just excellent , the one scene with the neon lights with the two dark combatents is way cool . The big man fight is interesting , and the story melts well with the action . This movie is about the action . The scene with the toilet almost killed Chuck in real life .
Not bad	When I went to the theater I thought this was going to be bad . Well , I was happily wrong , this movie is so stupid its funny ; thats hard to do for a movie . Stuped uually gets across as anoying , but not in this case . Hey if you want stuped laughfsrents this one . I guess we all need a little insanity in our lives
This film is funny	Joe however you spell his last name is funny . I mean real funny . I love the part where he plays these fantasy bad guys . The best part is where he makes a fool out of himself when he fights Chuck in a tournament . The other part I get a laugh out of is the biker and the hot Chinese soup . Well the rest , of it is a bit sappy , but oh well .
The Shinning meets Darkness	The Shinning meets Darkness ! If one has seen the other 2 movies they will understand how this movie is made . The first of this movie is scary . I found the last 25 % a bit over the top . A nastier version of the first with a more meaning feel to it . Evil lies , devides and leads to insanity is part of this story . The acting and directing is perfect and believable . A couple of scares in this film that made me jump and I never jump . at least in the last couple of years . Is it scary , one girl cut infront of me when leaving the movie house biting her nails and headed for the bathroom . Entertaining . 7 screams out of 10 . What with the test pattern ? Did anyone get it ?
Alex's best	Alex plays Hitler so well , I do not think anyone played Hitler as well . Maybe , tomorrow's CBS movie on this will give such a accurate portrayal . The sad part of this movie is its budget . It's done on the cheap , and is more like a play that is set in his bunker . This makes the movie a bit long . The strong acting makes up for this shorfall . Worth watching on the History Channel . .
I like science fiction and this film does it well .	Sorta spoilers This film is alot like total Recall ; the film has its weak moments , but has over strong concepts . The envelope part is great , what he lost from the mind wipe is great . Some idea of future events for him self is great , and the story melts all 3 together . Worth going out in January for .
Twilight Zone meets the Outer limits	If you like the Twilight Zone or the Outer Limits , you will love this film . The film can be described as a Twilight Zone or Outer Limits episode expanded to a full length film . It was great , and had a 80's feel to it more then a 90's feel . I guess the makers where trying to recreate some of the 80's horror magic in todays world . With the good looking hero , and clueless adults . ( which I find real life sometime copies film ) It's a film about adolescence , and its a hard time in life , with people who take advantage of this vulnerabiltiy . This part of the script hit me very hard , you see that message vaguely . Is the USA networks version longer or shorter the my VHS copy , what scenes where added or omited ? In the end I give it a 7 like adolescence I enjoy a cheap thrill now and then !
Italian humor	This film is bad , but my kind of bad . I remember this film after watching the end ; I must have seen it when I was 6 . Some of it is dated , slow , but the golden parts make up for it . Hilarious , the scene with the arm poll guy , and the shoot the beer before it hits the floor is great . Well direct , the scene at the beginning , and ending gives the story closer . This is a tongue , and cheek western , and the music score emulates this . A good film .
My wife loves this movie	My wife also likes Richard Gere , and that helps in her opinion . This film is about forbidden love , and is geared for the female audience . With Richard playing the lead in this historical soap opera . It is a good movie , and balances the romance with action scenes . I like the idea of brotherhood and Camelot , to bad the world could not have such honor .
Good film but a bad ending !	The beginning , the training scenes , acting , and suspense where great . Colin Farrell , can act with Al Pacino ; there is a chemistry . I hope they do more films together . This film has many twists and turns , but one too many . The ending is a joke , I figured it out , and said you got to be kidding . Far fetched . Still , a good film in spite of the weak ending . The Bourne Identity is better . Hey how can I get a job with the CIA ? I give this a .
About as good as the original !	Ocean's 12 is on par with Ocean's 11 . Both movies jump around on the emotional level . The viewer finds parts of the movie boring and would rate Ocean's a 3 . Then other parts of Ocean's become a 10 . Once the viewer averages Ocean's 12 out the overall rating is a 6 or . The story is weak in parts , and strong in others . The Julia Roberts bit is the highlight . Bruce Willis is great . The director's 70's or late 60's European feel is too much . Looks like a cheesy film they show on the showcase network with a low budget feel . The use of camera angles , and trickery takes the focus off the film . If a film lacks budget they use these tricks , and Ocean's 12 has no reason to use this . The acting is excellent considering the script . Brad Pitt was misused , could have added more for his character . My dad felt the same about Ocean's 12 . I would rather go see Flight of the Phoneix . Wait for video or on demand . 7 or .
Build up for the final episode .	I like Jericho . Jake Green gets to redeem himself form his past . We all knew Green would take the blame for the J & R retaliation . Beck creates marshal law . Revolt is beginning . I hate the disgruntled J and R employee sub-plot . Everything happened because of this employee . I hope we get a better explanation after two year of watching this show then that . What a rip off ! The build up is great . I bet the new J & R guy is in charge is gonna cause trouble . I hope this is not another right wing conspiracy theory , but a much deeper episode . The season final has to be big budget . Looking forward to next week . . Hawking , Green , and Beck have to play a major role for next week .
Decent season ending	I must say this was a very short season . I just started watching the season , it was getting good then it is finished . How many episodes were there ? Maybe 6 or 7 ? Decent season ending . The ending is predictable with the bomb going to Texas , with Green and Rawlins playing the heroes . The flat character of Beck sees the light , and a civil war has / may erupt in the next season . I wonder what is going to happen to the town of New Bern . A high budget ending to a excellently casted , directed and written show . . Will they have enough material for season 3 ? A new script will take a lot of imagination . There will be a need for new characters and sub plots for a extra season . The protagonist Green and Rawlins characters are exhausted . I can wait for season 3 .
Not bad episode !	Not a bad episode . I wish they showed more of the fighting and what happened . The viewer will have to wait for future episodes in order to understand who won the battle . I like the realistic military characters especially the portrayal of the captain . The captain is emotionless , logical , and pragmatic which portrays his military training . Vendetta killings with the invading town and reconstruction of Jericho is a realistic portrayal of what would really happen . The mayor / sheriff of New Bern is in lots of trouble . Green is chosen to be sheriff . A logical step for the transition from military rule in order to ease peace and normality to Jericho . Amnesty is given for war crimes in order to provide peace between New Bern and Jericho . If not there would be a lot of future counter revenge killings . The script writer's story displays what really happens in a war zone and how the military tries to defuse future hostilities . The Hawkin's subplot is slowly unraveling more to come on this front . stars for the reconstruction episode . I wanted a bit more maybe a 2 hour episode would have been better .
Silly and Stupid	This movie is both silly and stupid , but I like it . I like silly and stupid , and this is a great movie to watch on a Saturday with a couple of friends . It has demented humor , and I can be a twisted sort , so I got a few laughs . It has it all humor , action , and a very ruf edge . This is not a terms of endurment type film , for what its worth the acting and directing is very good . It is a unbelievable film , with a stupied concept , like Repo Man , and just as entertaining . If you want to be entertained , watch this one for the fun of it . This film is not for the serious at heart .
Crap but great crap	Like True Romance , and Pulp Fiction this film is movie junk food that I love to eat . Film purest will classify this film as crap , and so it is ; but this is crap that the masses want and the movie elite hates . For action films this is great , a few slow parts , and the action scene at the end got a little predictable , with the high kill counts , but rebounds with a great ending . An old western show down , and being a road movie it gives the junk food escapism I love and need . The acting is great , Costner plays such a great jerk in this film , his attitude makes the viewer dislike him , like a bad guys in wrestling . Costner should keep playing bad guys . I believe this is his strong point . Russell plays the hero or the not too bad bad guy . Russell character is the all American type he acts too the tee . Stay at the end of this film for they have a bonus with the credits , an Elvis video and a funny out take from the film . Taker easy , and give yourself a break and watch this film .
See part 2 before you see part 1	I heard both movie where filmed together , but they mixed up the releases and put 1 as 2 and vis versa ; that was what the video store clerk told me . So watch 2 before you see 1 . This film is not bad . I love the Karate , and Chuck finely has a high budget for some great stunts . The story is interesting , and the action just rocks . If you want to watch a movie with a pizza , and beer this would be it . Very 80's and I chant USA to this one with my friends , we do that because we remember thats what the crowd chanted at wrestling for the American good guy , when he fought the forces of evil .
Realistic	Spoiler ! ! ! ! I found this movie realistic . I know the critics will hate this . When I was a teenager , the media and boomers hated heavy metal ; it did not reflect the Beatles culture of the past . In fact it destroyed it , like what Rap did to metal . I grew up in the 80's and wondered what it would of been like to live that Rock Star dream , of over excess . This film is great as a almost documentary on the life . This film shows how much fun fame , excess , and the continual high is , but shows the realities of excess , like too much water for a plant one starts to rot , and burns out . It would be fun to rock on 15 000 fans , and live with the adulation of millions , but it has a cost . The cost of excess on personal relationships , on one's values , what one is really expected to do in order to fit it . The pecking order of the band , and what the members really want . The lead character finds out the old lead singer is gay , and lived a quiet life , not this heterosexual full steam , party and die image . In the end , the Roadie told of his chance at normality , and how he gave up a wife and kids for these demands . Chris ( Izzy ) chose to live normality , instead of being with some stripper who wanted her turn on the ride before she had to go to work . As in all scenes , we see that the fad of metal die and a more wimpy grunge era begin . Instead of fading away with it , he choose to be with the one he loves .
Better than average	Dan does a good role , and John has a script . This film is great . A little sappy the love story , but the water ski scene makes up for it . I like this film , its worth the rental price . It was a great drive in movie when I went out with my parents .
violent	This film broke a few rules in violence when it came out . The first scene in this film is pretty graphic , and gives the viewer an idea of what to expect . TBS has to edit this movie extremely . I like it , not the best acting or script , but the concept is great . Eastwood is great and is the only one to pull this story off . The action scenarios have been copied to death , but in 73 it would have been ground breaking . The feel this movie projects of vigilantism make it a bench mark others have followed . If imitation is complementary this film is a standard other action films follow .
Good film	Well casted and directed . The movie has a strong cast . Many of the minor ( mi 5 and the cops ) characters have very anal attitudes , which get across as very analytical . The minor characters behavior and facial expressions show way to up tight attitudes . Being so wounded tight all the time everyone creates a need to vent sooner or later and that is why those picture in the vault were so incriminating . The movie is about dirty secrets . The pickle these people were in . Nothing is so easy and when the robbers were found out by mistake and even bigger pickle is created for them , and the robbers created a bigger pickle for the others by their reaction . I get the film's message . Brilliant ! Stay clean and stay out of a pickle . M5 bought the robbers off in order to stop the damage . .
Not a bad episode .	Family remains is not a bad episode , but not a great episode either . The creators of Supernatural were trying to give a new angle for the show . Instead of ghosts the Winchester's were dealing with deranged people . Family remains is a tribute to the movies " The Hills have Eyes " , and " The people under the Stairs " . I saw special effects influences from the movie " The Ring " added in this episode . We learn about Dean's experience in hell . The Winchester's save another family . Entertaining but I believe the creators are running out of ideas . I give this episode scares . How will Sam handle Dean's problems ?
Better than average	We missed this one in the theater and ended up renting it . We were quite surprised . It seems that so many of these horror / suspense films start out from a prank that goes wrong ; do they not ever learn . It shows what happens when you have a stupid family member . The voice of Rusty Nail was creepy . The suspense builds up well . We gave it a 7 .
Running out of ideas !	The Supernatural series is running out of ideas , but the episode " Chriss Angel is a douche bag " is good . The script writers , on this episode , blended two running themes together . There is a magician who uses his evil powers to destroy people , but the flip side the magician tries to help his friend with these powers . In the end , the friend must do the right thing and stop the evil magician . The story is interesting , and blends into Ruby trying to make sSm use his powers . Dean warns you cannot stop evil , it just grows another head is a forewarning for the series . I wonder if Dean will be alone like the aging magician and will have to stop Sam . Why does Sam never learn ? I think the show is trying to stretch out of ideas . The first two seasons were a little more slicker . I give Chriss Angel .
Not bad	This movie was done by a University in Texas with student actors and a very low budget ; comparing it to the Blair Witch Project this one blows it away . For what they had to work with its not a bad film . When it came out in 74 it must have been a fresh and original film . It's been copied so many different ways by other movies and I consider that flattery . My wife jumped a few times and she never does that with movies , and you could see where the Blair Witch got the scary idea of running threw woods from this movie . Cutting to the chase , what scares the viewer is some crazy chasing you with a chainsaw . Its been done before with guns , knifes , and masks , but a chainsaw threw the woods , at night ads extra for the film . Its low budget , there is no Michael Cane in this film , and by far its not a 10 . This film compensates with camera angles ( close ups of eye balls ) and urban stories about events that happen in different parts of the country .
I thought it would be better !	Being the last episode I thought the show would have an conclusion . The show must have been canceled . The show was like any other episode . Vincent was charged by a D A for murder then the D A finds out the truth about the invaders . Vincent and others go on to fight the invaders . Not much of and ending ! That is it ! What a major disappointment . In the end , the show looks like and end of the season show . I bet the producers where thinking about making season three . I guess the invaders won . There never was a season three . I give this episode a . For a final episode I this show an .
Didn't mind the show	The most non-serious of all the episodes of Supernatural so far ! I repeat so far ! A tongue and cheek homage towards the throwback of black and white horror movies . Wolfman , Dracula , and The Mummy are characters in Monster Movies . The camera angles , acting style , character names , credits and even the awkward acting take you back to the old time black and white horror film . I love the shows comic parts . Dean is overly silly , and Dracula is just as silly with the pizza coupon scene . Does he kill because he is lonely or is he lonely because he kills , is another silly line from the shape shifter . One problem with the concept . Doesn't a shape shifter have to touch someone gain their form ? OK show .
Good solid movie	Living in the cold March weather of Winnipeg , Canada I found the sun and surf a relaxing break from the cold weather where the wind chill freezes my bones until July . A good solid movie . Great cast Hudson , Sutherland , and Matt . The actors can bring the best out of a script with their facial expressions , and mannerisms . Sutherland is like wine and gets better with age . A natural actor . The script is a good mix of humor , and action . The rapper sub-plot is added comic relief and action . The lighting and location shots bring out a feeling of adventure . The wide open spaces created by the camera angles give a feeling of freedom . All I can say is please take me away from this cold weather I want to be there in Florida . 7 start out of 10 . Great to get rid of those winter blues .
I don't trust Hawkens .	Not a bad show . The subplot of the character Hawkens is interesting . I wonder what Hawkens is up too ? ( He's lot smarter than most of the town ) . I believe the town will catch on . Outside of the town is anchory , and I would not want to be the guy who is looking for information . The societal breakdown is turning people into animals . The writer for the series must use sociologist about the human factor for the show . . Interesting plots , and subplots . The show gets a little bogged down , but over all good . Rent the series . I saw one show last summer and found watching the series interesting . Fresh ideas for their has never been a nuclear fall out style show before .
Old Movie that still kicks	This film has a few weak spots in the script , but I sure like it . A heist movie , with a mean Kennedy in it . Jeff and Clent never made another movie , and they could be like Redford and Newman ; they have movie chemistry . TBS edits this film too much , its recomended watching on video . Worth renting .
One of the better 1960's WW II movies	Good acting , big name actors , and a lot of Tanks make this exciting to watch . The Panzerline March song adds to the film . Some dated scenes and effects , but overall a good picture . Robert Shaw shines in his performance . It will be on PBS again .
Interesting	There is some real life experiences in this film , about a group of guy who grew up in little Italy in New York , and this makes the film fasinating . Some of the story is just too weired not to be made up . Johnny the boy , played by De Nero is too crazy and owes everyone money . This guy has gotta be real . With the conversations about women , religion , and the crazy personal behaviors of the characters the viewer finds himself listening to story from a good friend . What puts this film over the top is the details , for example when Harvey De Nero and friends get into a fight in a pool hall you can tell they watch not to rip their suits when they stand on the table , and fight of the bad guys with cues , probably because its the only suit they own . You will have to watch this film a few time , but it grows on you .
Whooooa What a movie	Spoiler ! ! ! This is a story about desperate situations , and how the 2 character need each other . One facing academic destruction , and the other blindness . One plans to kill himself , and the other will live a shallow life never being able to seek his real potential . Their need for other is based on the strengths the other does not have , which helps both to face their own weaknesses . One realizes he lives a better life then most people , and will adjust and continue on , while the other is helped out of a bad situation . In the end this movie leaves you feeling good , and thankful for the hidden potential we all have inside .
On the long side , but still good !	" The dark knight " length is on the long side , but still a good movie . I see a lot of post 9-11 in " The dark Knight " . The Joker is like a terrorist who destroys without motive . Harvey Dent is the out of control administration which has to appear strong and good to keep society's hopes and aspirations balanced . " The dark night " is the CIA , secret and clandestine , who's role is one of protector . The cell phone tap is similar to the Patriot act argument . When is too far too far ? Batman never kills , unlike the Joker , in order to hunt a monster one does not become one . Self-sacrificing Batman chooses the good of the people over his girlfriend . The Joker loves to test people resolve . Batman is a unsung hero who's successes have to be unknown . Like Iran / Contra Batman takes the rap unfairly . Secrets are burnt for the good of everyone . " The Dark knight " rides again lurking into the shadow combating the chaos evil brings . covert operations for " The dark Knight " .
Not a bad movie graphic in many ways	The film is about a study in violence . A man with a good standing in a peaceful community is throwing into a violent situation , and his violent past catches up with the media attention of being a hero . The film has many levels of violence . The true evil violence of the 2 individuals that kill rape for violence sake . The protagonist who try to avoid violence . the protagonist son who deal with violence at school , and professional criminal who control and respect violence . All the sub stories have the same theme violence creates fear and fear controls people . The son's situation and the two criminals at the dinner enjoy the control and fear in a sadistic way . The higher criminals respect violence for the real danger that violence represents . Business for the profession , is what comes first and violence / fear is a part of business even when approached with personal insults the situation is handled professionally . Is violence instinctual or intellectual ? The final question can a violent man change ? Is asked in the film . Go see the movie and answer the questions for yourself . The film gave myself yes to both the answers .
OK movie had me guessing	The Ruins preview is dishonest for portraying the movie as awful . A interesting storyline entwined with good character development . Amazing special effects which make the film . I like the surprise problem , of what or who the movie antagonist is . Why was it there . To protect the sight ? What happens when someone leaves the sight . There is a whole lot of questions . Too bad the viewer could never understand what the villagers were saying . The Mexico vacation bit with the drunk girlfriend is way too real . I like how the movie ends . tropical drinks for The Ruins . Rent the Ruins or go out on date night . A lot of fun . I think we will see a few of these actors in many more films .
old school	Not a bad show . When society breaks down the system goes back to bartering . The town has Representatives go down to a trading post in order to get much need supplies . The young kid break a rule , and stealing is punished by dark ages law . The ending is interesting . A few soap opera plot twists . . This episode is a crux in how societal breakdown is effecting America . What is next on the scene . I bet the future is bleak . One of the better shows . The guy from Simon and Simon is a great actor . Watch this one . Reminds me of the Road Warrior . This show keeps it real . Maybe . I cannot wait til February for the next season . Skeet has turned into not a bad actor .
Cartoon PBS type movie	I like the cartoon Rambo / Batman movie when they are done well . This one is , and I can watch it no matter how many times TBS shows it . The comic book goes over well in film , and I get laughs . I like his death wish destructive side , because of the murder of his family . If you run out of ideas ; rent this one . PS The music score is good .
Surprised	This is a good movie , not a great one ; What would happen if you where framed for murder , in a strange land with strange laws , compared to your own . Fear is what this movie evokes , Richard Gear feels like an outsider , who is viewed of having western decident values , in a society where his lawyer states the groups importance over the individual in society . Admitance to guilt is considered aceptance of society's morality . This film gave me a sence of reality about communist society , and what its like in the comune part . Its a interesting movie . I read some of the reviews , and did not find this movie offenceive , it showed a side , but was not preachy . With movies like " The Texas Chainsaw Masacure , and Deliverence you see very few people complain that this is a bad sterotype of the south , most people find it a small picture of extremes not confused with the whole south . Thoes two movie went much farther then Red Corner .
This film will not age well , but its entertaining	People looking for a great Jack Nicholson film , with an incredible story should stay away from horror movies . Is the story believable no , or even plausible no , but is it entertaining , Yes . After having no sleep and working a ten hour shift , I was in prime condition to jump a few times during this film . When the theater is zoned into the movie , the movie is entertaining . Funny , that the horror crowd is female , and very young . I always thought it would be young and male . The adage that horror movies make for a good first date must be true . My wife likes this film , the ending is predictable , but the story is fresh , and has the support of strong acting . The days of bad acting , Friday the 13th horror films is hopefully over , except for those awful direct to video slasher types .
One of the better movies this summer	If anyone reading this review can remember Space 1999 , which was on the space network for awhile , one can see where the Island got the set and costumes from . Not a bad movie . I like the idea of the island to keep the people under control . The rest of this is interesting like the movie Free Jack of many moons ago . Good acting and directing . The producer ( Bay ) makes very surreal movies . I don't understand the black guy , who is a hired gun , actions at the end of the movie . Bean always plays a bad guy . What would one do if they met themselves ? See The Island in the movie house . . Better than stealth a weak summer for movies . Wasn't there a movie called The Island with Michael Cain , which was on TBS a while back ?
Samual L Jackson steals the show	Spoiler ! ! ! Barre and Washington win awards ha ha ; Jackson is 100 times the actor . He makes this movie , I like the part where he say the 3 X's match three strikes . Vin Disil , will become a bigger actor , this guy is smart . Turning down big money for the awful Fast and Furious 2 for this film pumps up his career . The role is perfect for him and is marketed for the Y gen crowd . The sticker skateboarding is a crime is a dead give away . The film is entertaining , and cheesy all in one ; you'll see with that boat thing . Disil will eventually get his big role , which will either involve military or Jail . Maybe both , a remake of the Dirty Dozen .
Fresh Style	I like documentaries , and the documentary style of Greengrass is fresh ! The only negative is the bouncing camera work , I find it disorienting , and the bouncing gave my wife a headache . Using the real life people gave a documentary feel . No PC or political agenda just the actions of real people . The heroic behavior of everyone trying to save the country from the attack had to be told . The part with the controllers in the tower and the J Sac command gave realism similar to Black Hawk Down . Worth renting . I will never forget that horrific day , with the death of so many . I was shocked to see a few people at work happy about it . I guess this shows the evil in this world and how ugly evil is . . A movie onto itself .
Dated , but still a good film	This film is a bit dated , but is still enjoyable to watch . Spoiler This is the volcano James Bond film . Neat concept , and Donald Pleasent plays a small but effective role , as Bolfield . Bond has a few cool fights , but must the bad guys always kill people with trap doors .
Get me thinking	Finally , I watched this movie in it entirety . This movie made me think about what is evil ? Evil is vile , upsetting , and destructive . The movie showed this . The ending could have more than what it did . Not much bothers me , after what I have seen ; Working at the post office I have seen vile , upsetting , and destructive behavior . I wonder if some of that behavior could be the results of demonic influence ? Evil must be the free will choice of good . The viewer sees the absences of good in this movie . Hate and hate for God , I have seen too much of these destructive habit and this movie portrays evils attack on good in its true nature .
Very 80's	This film is very 80's the writers must have growen up in the 80's . Music , Ben's style , and the jym is very much 80's . Add chuckNorris and the humor style from Johnhy Daneriously you got retro . The jokes were funny , and the story is stupid , but it all works . Alotof knee in the midsection jokes , and jokes about American pop culter . I like the ESPN 8 idea , and the Jim McMahonanchor . This film is all right . I hope it last the test of time , but itcould be another comedy that is forgoten in 2 years . I give it a 7out of 10 . Worth going to the movie theartier . Any movie with William Shanter in it can not be that bad . He has got to be theworlds most famious Canadian .
Ok story , but the lead actor is no James Bond	I liked George's acting as James Bond , but my wife thought he lacked the charm , and humor of Roger Moore . The story is great , and we can see why Bond should not get married . I liked the music score , and Telly plays a bad Blofeld ( I thought he would be European ) but my wife differs on this . I would not poop on this movie like many others do , but I do not like the beginning .
Not bad , but could have been a better ending	I believe the movie is about the randomness of life . All the random events , and choices lead to each character's fate . Order through chaos is the movies theme ! That is why the antagonist flips a coin , and gives people the choice of head or tails . The coin toss reflects fate and fates effect by choices one makes out of free will . That is why the antagonist went after the other characters wife , even when there was no reason for it , because the antagonist gave the character the choice to come in or his wife will die . The movie is interesting , and the story is good . I like how the two characters who let's call trouble shooter are disjointed with the world . Good at what they do , but are a Little out of touch . Just like this movie . . A good rental . Maybe that is why the ending is so disjointed .
Surprise ! It was funny .	When I saw Eddie Murphy as De Niro's co-star , I thought this movie was going to be awful . I was pleasently surprised . When Eddie Murphy does not produce , director or write his own material , he can be funny . Robert De Niro does comedy very well along with his action and drama movies . William Shatner does a cameo appearance . He has put on the weight . Rent this one , it is rather funny .
reminds me of the movie hell in the Pacific	Warning a bit of a spoiler don't read . Tom Hanks plays a stranded Fed Ex boss on a Island . The movie shows the contrast between his busy every second counts life , to the very mundane what time is it life on the island . In fact the push against the clock pushes him onto the plane and into the upcoming events . The choices his jobs requires changes plans which effects his personal life . I can relate well with this for my job and many other peoples job do this daily . On the Island there is very little dialog , but the viewer follows the story by his actions , very simular to the movie " Hell in the Pacific " with Lee Marven . He make the choice to leave the island or go insane , the twist in the story is what happenens to the environment he left 4 years ago . The movie ends quite nicly with him at a cross roads on a highway , which symbolizes the cross roads in his life . A good film , fresh , and a story that you could see once , and any remake would be very redunant
I like it !	Interesting Science Fiction . I found the story interesting , and not too unbelievable . They find a star gate , and the military must find out what it is . I will not ruin this story , it is too good , and would be too big of a jerk for that . Russel and that other guys performances shine . Watch this one on TV .
Geared for children and child like minds	Spoiler ! ! ! I do not like how Harry's family treated him . It is surprising that a lot of families are like this . The parents spoil the one kid and mistreat the other . He was much better off at boarding school . I like the seeker game that was kind of neat . I like how they used owls to deliver the mail . Harry just looks like the ordinary kid next door . The roles were cast well . I thought the creepy looking guy was the bad guy but I was wrong . It shows you that one can not judge a book by its cover . It will be interesting to see the next one in the series .
Looks better second time around	I was in a stressful mood , while watching this film . It may affect my review , but I found the movie not that bad . Bronson's performance was much better then Daltons , and creates a upward movement for Jame Bond . M is a women now , and the series shows signs of change with out being too politically correct . Bond is called a dinasor by the new M , but is a likable one . The story jells well , and the action scene with the tank is interesting , but I believe they had to retake the ending of this film because its ending was to simular to True Lies . I could see this with the ending , and it took away from the film . One we do not see if the Russian generial was killed , ( a bad guy ) and M showed the stinger missiles in his car which is never used . Bond movies never leave these holes in them . Well a good first start out .
Eric Bana is a good actor .	After , a bad week my wife and I went to the Drive Inn to relax , and it rained . This ruined the movie experience , and might of affected my review . Parts of this film where great , but with the rain , and the windshield fogging the special effect parts where impaired . The film was slow in a few spots , but overall enjoyable . I enjoyed Eric Bana's acting after his debut in Black Hawk Down . I can hardly wait to see the sequel . I give this one a .
Kind of slow but improves with progress	Movie starts out OK , but slow for a while in the middle , and picks up pace at the climax . I was hoping the movie was not going to be another Stay or Jacob's Ladder , with all the in the mind plot . One feels the pathos of Jodi Foster's character . I never have been a big fan of Foster's , but Jodi picks up the pace in the second half . I just can not see anyone not remembering Jodi bringing a kid on the plane . I know I would have , but there would have been no movie without the plot twist . A few more plot twists . Were the people in the window the same people on the plane ? The movie does not answer this . Maybe not the angry guy , but the 2 others looked similar . I guess one will not know . The end is very over the top and makes the movie . Worth seeing or renting . I like Sean Bean , he reminds me of my grandfather .
Worth going to the big screen	The effect for this disaster movie should be seen on the big screen . I love the effects . The story itself is based on a theory that the ice age is induced by weather pattern changes from the ocean's currents . Sorry no meteor in this one . A little sappy and preachy but not the pc rubbish the left coast can create . The film is some what believable of how the United States would react to a New Ice Age . The next new world power would be Australia and Argentina if the Northern Hemisphere is wiped out , and everyone moves to Mexico . This movie follows all the disaster movie's topics such as people learning to adapt and improvise or die . My guess for " The Day After Tomorrow " if my science is right . Some of the coastal areas would be ok because of the Ocean's ability to absorb the cold . The US could do some ice blasting and moving and Paint the snow black in order to melt the ice faster and have the sun's rays absorb instead of reflect the heat would help with the battle with the new glacier . The U S would be the Gulf states and what is left around the Mexican border . Not a bad movie , one worth watching
Saw this one on the history network	Not bad for an older movie . The 60's is full of WW2 movie , and the Devil's Brigade is better than most . Fast paced , interesting , and the strong ending gives this film 7 stars . I wonder how much of this film is actually based on the true story . The movie appears realistic .
More humor than the others	This film is not as silly as " The man with the Golden Gun " , but not as serious as " For your eyes Only " this film is in the middle . I thought the film drags in the first half , but my wife disagrees . It has all the Bond saves the world excitement , with huge explosions at the ending . This film introduces the Jaws character to infuse some new blood for the Bond series .
The movie grinds down	I like Grind House , but the second film grinds the pace down . Too much dialogue , and build up for the films conclusion . What work's with the 2 films are the weird tales which keeps the viewers attention . Kurt Russel really had fun with the role of stuntman Mike , which reverberates on film . The smoke meat secret in the first film is great . Tom S does great special effects in the first film . Robert always injects dance artistically well into a movie . One day Robert and Chirstphore Walken should do a film . The fake trailers were hilarious . Hobbo and a shot gun is my favorite . Cage's spot in the SS wolf movie is a laugh too . Well acted for a film which is too fun to be taken seriously . Here is a question is Stunt man Mike a throwback for Snake in Escape from New York ? . Worth rent . However I would fast-forward a few spot in the second film
Dated but funny	This film helped ruin hockey , most people don't understand that fighting in hockey is usually done to protect the better player from getting hurt form a cheap body check , but enough of the hockey lecture . I seen this movie too many times , but it still makes one laugh . Some of the humor is dated , goes back to the 70's , but its still enjoyable too watch . I love Doctor Hook Mc Craken in this film , he plays a 70's hockey goon perfectly .
very Arnold	SpoilerA fresh change for Arnold over predictable , seen this done this , action flicks . Arnold plays a character never seen before ; a suicidal , depressed person who does not want to go on in life . Driven by anger , and his job he becomes involved in a duel with the devil . His character has no faith until the end when he sees the light . Arnold battles the Devil in the only way he would , with a machine gun , if you like his movies this one will not disappoint .
too many snakes	If you do not like snakes do not see this film ; there are a lot of snakes . This film was exactly like the show that is on the discovery channel . Steve Irwin has a lot of energy . I really liked the little joey part . I wish they would of had more parrots or cockatoos on the film as they have lots of them in Australia . The story is entertaining enough . They even have a George Bush look alike in it . If you like the show then you will like the movie . It is nice to see someone who enjoys their job .
Good	Spoiler Will will be the next Bill Murry . Not to many actors could pull this character off , and Willy did it ! Funny film , geared for the kids , but entertaining for adults too . The Santa is coming part is very good , and the fight with the department store santa is the best . I wonder if Willy can be this strange in real life too . Maybe he could play a movie about me if they ever did a movie on me . Well go out and watch it this for Christmas . Mike
Miami Vice meets Tom Cruse via Hitchcock	The story is very strong , and has the Michael Mann " You belong to the city " feel for it . Tom Cruse is the lesser of two lead actors in order to fit the role of Vincent . Tom , if I can call him that like I really know him , is a high mileage actor . Tom is good at his trade , but after using up similar characters over the years needed to re-invent the Tom Cruse persona . Maybe , next movie one might see an even darker Tom ; ( AKA a Nazi in a war movie , or as a evil spirit in a haunted house ) only Tom will know . " Collateral " has a Miami Vice or Heat feel that mixes a Alf Hichcock story with plot twists to it . A great date movie , when I was 17 or 21 and dating say my wife , as the girl friend of course , this movie would be great . Too be fair I need to watch this movie another time to give it a accurate rating , but I would tell everyone to go see it at the Drive In or Theater before Collateral is ready for on demand or DVD rental . 7 or . Tom email me and tell me what your going do next I am excited .
Comic book movie	A comic book movie , like the Punisher , and Batman . People will hit this movie for its story , acting etc , and I beg to differ on their opinion , this movie is a comic book movie and is meant not to be Terms of endearment , instead its a fantasy flick . Stallone know fantasy or comic book films with his creation of Rambo , and does a excellent Judge Dredge . This movie has a strong cast , of many recognizable faces who create strong performances . The story is along the lines of comic book , backed up with great special effects . I went to the theater expecting this , and give this one a thumbs up .
It is OK	Many people live their lives around the computer ; without having much human contact . Lives drained of real human contact . I like going out and wonder if the idea of the electronic world sapping ones soul of real living experiences inspires this movie . The preview is awful , but actually watching the film is a better experience . The concept and acting are great . The movie is comparable to an outerlimits episode . I love the doomsday style ending . I find the ending not to scary , for the electronics would die out after a while without proper up keep . The female actress Bell reminds me of that Buffy girl from the Grudge . I wonder if this movie was done in Japan first ? Pulse reminds me of The Ring and The Grudge ? Rent the DVD on cheap night like I did .
A good twist !	The story for Skeleton Key does not leave any holes . The tension grows throughout the film . The viewer learns vital clues throughout the film . However , it is up to the viewer to put all the clues together to understand the vital plot twist . The acting and pace were great . The film was an original idea which is quite refreshing . The picture of the black servants with the white children is unusual and odd , but the ending will tie it up for you . I do not want to ruin it for anyone . It is too bad the property and house were so run down . It probably was something to see in its better days . The film will keep you on your seat . Do not go to the bathroom like I did because you will miss some vital clues . See it in the theater .
Just as good as the first	I thought this sequel was just as good as the first . Michael J . Fox is great as the voice for Stuart . I could not figure who was the little bird til the end . Melanie Griffith did a terrific job . I was surprised to see James Wood as a voice of the falcon , but as soon as I heard the voice I knew who it was . He always plays a great bad guy . The story is great as it continues from the first . It was different enough from the first that it was a good sequel . I believe kids will enjoy this film . It is great family entertainment . It has something for everyone .
Getting better	SuperNatural is getting better after the last three lack luster shows . Sam and Dean investigate freak accidents and Dean looks for a old flame . Was the woman's child really Dean's ? I believe so ! There were too many similarities between the boy and Dean . The boy was a little Dean replica . The impostor children were interesting . However , the storyline and directing lack the slickness of season one and two . It was nice to have the show centered around Dean and Sam and not their dad's friends . This episode introduced a new character ( the new demon ) . I wonder why this demon helped these two out in the first episode . What is the motive ? She says she can save Dean to Sam , but at what price ? Will this turn Sam evil and for the dark side ?
Something missing this season	Something is missing in season 3 of Supernatural . Maybe the flow of this episode ? Too many story lines ? Too many characters ? Running out of ideas ? Killing the father and Y E D and replacing with weaker character has hurt the show ! Sin city has a mix of problems . The Sam and Dean characters never shine , as in season one and two . The Sin City story is weak , and has too many subplots . A less complicated storyline has better flow , and is less confusing for the audience . Sin city's complex storyline would make a good , and easy to follow , three part episode . Too much information for one episode . Sin city has a predictable storyline , I could see the plot twists a mile away . I like too see the brothers fight the swamp monsters for a change in style . I would also like to see more Cursed objects or FBI using the brothers for a cool twist in a other episodes . . I am sure the build up is worth watching next weeks show .
Eerie	Spoiler My wife thought this film is eerie , but this film drags a little at the beginning . Scary , and confusing , with a slow build up of tension . I found a few parts lame , but I believe the director wants confusion in this story . My wife finds a weird twist for the ending , but ( spoiler ) I found it too similar with The six sense .
Starts out strong ends gory .	The Supernatural episode " Fresh Blood " is one of the goriest episodes the series has made . The acting , directing , and script is intense , and excellently executed . The film makers could not vilify the Winchester brothers by killing a human Gordon so the script's plot twist turns Gordon into a vampire . The second half of Fresh Blood goes into overdrive . I found the second half less story and more gore , and tension oriented . A little over the top , I am sure over the top was the maker's intentions . I will have to watch Fresh Blood a couple of times to make a fair opinion . The show slows down , with a more serious side . Sam finally asks Dean to let him be part of Dean's life . Sam knows Dean is hurting and Dean's hero , suicidal risks taker in order to prove his worth attitude is a false front . Dean never lets anyone really get to know him . Finally , Sam saves Dean's life , and shows his stones with Gordon . Gordon never had the heads up for Sam . Sam beats Gordon in shear might , for Dean . Dean finally let's Sam be part of his life . He tries to teach Sam how to repair the Impala .
Star Trek's attempt at comedy	I saw this movie in grade 12 with my friend Moses . I found this movie funny . They added many humorous time travel scenes . This is not a serious film . I found Kirk and Spock's antidotes funny . It had an environmental theme before its time . Worth renting not owning .
Typical Adam Sandler movie	Adam Sandler does not play the moron in this flick ; that was left up to Jack Nicholson . Humor seems to get crudier every year . If Jack Nicholson was not in this film , it wouldn't of been so funny . Good job on casting . Joe Turtorro plays another weirdo . This seems to be his mainstay . This was worth seeing . It was nice to see a film where there was no social message just outright humor . The theatre was packed and it looked like most enjoyed the movie .
Scary and smart	Spoiler . . . This film is scary with , a belief that if people read a book it will effect them , and the common will of the people will bring on horried events . Sam Neil , never lived down the Omen 3 it wrecked his career , and type casted him . His preformance is great , the ending of the film goes full circle , I wish the ending gave more .
Hughes saves Candy's Career again	Hughes has done most of John Candy's good movies . Candy plays this off the wall Uncle . I like the line : " Did you ever hear of a tune up " and Candy's reply : " Did you ever hear of a serial killing " . Must see to get joke . Well not to ruin the rest rent it , and enjoy .
Well , Candy steals the show	John's voice is great for animation , just like it's Bacon comerical . He is the comic break , in a well crafted , cartoon . It is a happy story that kids will enjoy . Notice the non adultness this movie has over many so called children films .
Jake Green and Hawkins	" The day before " episode thesis is about character back ground and development for the shows main characters . The two main protagonist Jake Green and Hawkins are centered on this show . One learns of Jake's past with Ravenwood , and Jake trying to help his friend out . Jake's troubles direct him to Jericho in need of money . On the other hand , Hawkin's we no little of except , he is a highly trained weapon , who knows about the upcoming disaster , and wants to save his family . I like the show . A few slow spots . . The Ravenwood incident will always haunt Jake and he will have to face the past in a latter episode . Jake's problems are small compared to what ever Hawkins must face . Next season will be interesting .
What IF ?	Spoiler ! ! ! This movie is based on the concept of What If ? Of course Mr Destiny will be able to answer this question . The main character goes through a bad day , like many of us , and asks this question . Chaos Theory states a butterfly in China could have an effect on someone over here from a chain reaction . The focus of this movie is based on one event during a baseball game . This event sets into motion one's Destiny ; Just like Ashton in " The Butterfly effect " except Mr . Destiny uses comedy over drama . The results make a fresh , somewhat original movie . If one's philosophical are in tune with " The Butterfly Effect " one will likely enjoy Mr . Destiny . I give it a . Amazing for I have seen the first half of this movie 3 times , and finally watched the ending on TBS .
Better than expected	Not a bad film , but is confusing and loses focus in parts . This film is European Chic and has nudity , and shock aspects . Parts of this film copies the European plot twists , what ifs , and style . Like many European Chic style films it's plot becomes too smart . Over all , I like this movie , but they could have cut 2 or 3 scenes out and tried to clear up some of the confusion .
a scaled down version of Good Fellows	SPOILERS . Not a bad film , worth seeing at the movie house . The film is done like Casino , and Good Fellows , music , pace etc . Its about a guy who is worried about money his whole life , and his mom would leave his dad for periods , because it was a big problem . He never listen to his dad's advice about money that its not as important as people . With the idea in his head about making alot of cash , and not having to work for it he became engrossed with greed . Money , does not solve all his problems , and the film shows the life of a non violent drug dealer . How much was left out of this film I do not know , but it shows his problems of back stabbing , phonies , bad relationships , ruined families , dishonesty , and incarceration , and it catches up . ( to the point where his wife complains about money just as his mother did ) This guy gets betrayed several times in the movie and for the damage he does to society he get a 100 years . Very solid !
Cosner could not ruin this film	Cosner's films usually stink , but with the right script he acts exceptionally well . This Eastwood movie is a solid ; with Eastwood playing his usual character role . A Perfect World title is a irony , for life is not black and white but grey . In the end , this film gets that message across .
Worth watching a second time	I was watching this film , on the history channel Eastwood is great , and one never loses interest with the story . A done it , seen it before film , but a pleasure to watch for its craftsmanship . I give it a . Rent it , if nothing else is at the video store .
Good movie	Subtitled movies are hard to watch sometimes ! When a movie is made well like " The Passion " one finds the movie's subtitles not a problem . ' Letters ' is well directed and the viewer does not notice the subtitles for he or she is entwined with the story . The director's development of continuity of the story with the acting creates a chemistry for entertainment , while the story unfolds . I like the idea that mercy is decided by the fate of the character who captures you . One ends up killing someone they may have liked in normal life shows the insanity of war . Some of the officers in your own army are more dangerous than the enemy . I wonder if they filmed ' Letters ' at the same time as ' Flags ' for being at the same location with all that gear ? worth renting .
good movie	The surprise of 2008 , the critics downplayed this movie . Surprisely the movie is much better than the reviews . The only thing that would of made this movie believable is they needed German accents . Cruise was just too American sounding . The part I liked best about the movie is that it gave the viewer the feeling of what it was like to live in a police state . The better movies are always the ones that follow the events closely . Real life movies are always better than fiction . This movie is a 7 or . Worth seeing in the theater . The actor ( Tom Wilkinson ) from Emily Rose is in this movie . He plays the German that plays both sides . A lot of British actors in this film . If the plan would of worked , I wonder if the war would have ended sooner .
AAAAAAAAAAAAAh !	Possible spoilers . " The Grudge " is about the grudge that happens whenever a person enters the house where an evil event happened . I believe , it is a theory where the negative energy remains . Misery loves company , like some of the people I work with at the post office . ( I know that's off topic ) The director knows how to create tension . This film is one long slow burn . Anticipation of the event maybe worse than the event itself . The grudge lives for fear , and fear it creates . The Japanese director adds a new feel for the film . A ghoulish and mysterious feel . Fresh film , and strong story line that unravels in the right order . Made for the younger crowd , but a true horror film fan will love it . Worth seeing in the theater . I give it a .
A good summer comedy !	A good summer comedy ! Yea ha . A good comedy relaxes me and makes myself laugh . It did both . Turn your brain off before you go in . I like the south , and how the south can laugh at itself . That is a sign of good character when one can laugh at oneself . I get the inside joke about hotdogs and sundaes , but I never been there to see if that is part of the Nas Car experience ? The movie is very close to the show in plot and characters . a bit more adult oriented and Rosco is a meaner , lynchier Sheirf , unlike the show . Reynolds plays a good boss , but has a small , with a small s , to it part . The car is the best part . The Atlanta reaction to the car is great . A rowdy Winnipeg crowd loved this movie . . Watch the end credits for the out takes .
Better than average	Boy , did this guy have a great relationship with women , he could single handily start the feminist movement . At least this movie is honest . The guy's demons where rage , and jealously . This movie is better than average , but drags in parts , and a few scenes were of little use to the story . The acting was not the bad , but Goodfellas is the evolved version of this film .
New Idea	It is nice to see a new idea in Hollywood . The warewolf concept is over done , and this movie does a fresh twist to the concept . The movie is original and fun to watch . Jack is one of the best and does this film justice , and the story's twists keep the viewer jumping . This has the businessman bit by a wolf and shows the affects it has on the individual's life . I will say no more or I will ruin this film .
Disturbing	My wife likes this film and gave it a 7 . She found it disturbing . The characters had a early 90's feel to it , it brought back memories when I was at the University , and the director does this in order to make the film unravel like a urban legend from the past . The sub stories or legends make this film shine . If you are a fan of the Nightmare on Elm Street saga , you will see Freddy without the make up on .
A solid 7	I read the news paper review in the Winnipeg Free Press , and the guy chopped the movie down . I decided to take my wife out anyways , because the reporter started to run anti American diatribe and would hate the movie regardless . The journalist should learn some professionalism , because the movie was not that bad . I gave it a solid 7 and I would probably have to see it a second time to pick up details I missed the first time , and probably like the movie even more . Gibson is such a good actor , his accent helps in this film to give it realism . Gibson is the type of actor whos physical gestures can really make a seen . It has great villains , family , revenge , and historical perspective that makes the movie believable . The comeback of the historical epic is a nice change from your by the numbers , humdrum , action flicks . This film will shock you , inspire you , and make you laugh . My wife cried during one of the scenes , and if a movie can do that to a person , I think its worth the $8 . 50 .
Well I like this film	Spoiler This film is funny , but not a classic . It had a message about values , done very lightly , which is an improvement over Hollywood's typical over powering social messages . Its about values , and how one small town person views greed , and corporate culture . This fish out of water movie is touching , in todays society which is a culture of greed and death . It is awful to see how some people view profit and greed over peoples lives . Where money is viewed as the value of the person . Mr Deeds does not change for his character would not allow that . It appears where I work , no matter how much overtime many of my miserable co workers do , I see no magical change that some believe the extra money will bring . Deeds does not let the wealth go to his head , like many rich and powerful people . In the end he finds true love , and has fun acting silly . I regret to say , my wife compares me Sadlers behavior in this film .
Great Kevin Costner Role	Oh well I am a history buff , and watch all sorts of shows on the history channel . I find historical movies interesting , and this one kept my attention . I do not know how much of the film is factual , especially the fighting with the generals at the NSC , but the film documents who's who , and at what time events happened . The factual spin makes this film work . I like how Kevin Costner plays the old fashion type dad to bring reality to his character . Bruce Greenwood played a realistic JFK . This movie , in my opinion , was one of Costner's best .
Well ok sort of	I liked this film the Jousting was great , and who ever did those realistic scenes should get and award . This film is a pleasant surprise , and the acting is not bad . The script does not insult the viewer either . Why did they use classic rock music , its use is out of place , this is not a biker movie , did they listen to AC / DC in midevil times ? Why the film makers did this is beyond logic ! Other than that one weak point , the film is time well spent .
Deep feeling movie	Warning sorta spoiler of story I gave it a 6 and my wife gave it a 8 so we voted 7 . I am a restless sort who usually likes action films , and my wife is the romantic type . This film is a love story slash western ; my wife felt sorry for the horse and little girl in the movie . The scenery is unbelievable , and the portrayal of western life is on the mark . The horses were the true stars and this story is more then the taming of a horse and its change of heart ; its much deeper with a parallel of the horses pain relating to the hurting girl and the heart of her mother . My wife loves this movie , and would recommend this story to romantics everywhere .
Brutial	Brutial movie . Evil and violence is brutal and Last House of the Left reflects what true evil is . What happens to the victims and what evil people do is portrayed in this film . Had a little trouble sleeping after see this movie . Violence creates more violence which the story reflects with this film . The family finds their daughter who their house guests have hurt badly which makes the family seek revenge on the scum . The family also needs to defend themselves and escape from these evil people . The on slot of violence towards the human scum is relentless . I found the movie too much . There is a realism in the film of the human animal . What happens to moral people when pushed . I think for many people if they are pushed over the edge are capable on becoming brutal .
Entertaining , but sad	What happens when science goes too far . Abomination of nature is created and this film shows the tragic results of this . This film goes down hard , and found it too much . This movie is heavy and too much for myself , but entertaining too .
Its a good film for horror films	If you compare this film to Friday the 13th , and many other older and new horror films , this film is ahead of most , but not a masterpiece like Alone in the Dark , or The Thing ( 1982 ) . This film has a budget , quality acting , and a decent script . Friday the 13th was choppy in all these categories , and gets across as cheesie . Most of these films have a revenge motive plot , and sometime the lead actors make mistakes that cause this revenge . This film plays this plot line perfectly , except the film gets bogged down in the middle and has the usual ending with a punch . I give this film a 7 .
Not a bad movie	Spoilers ! This movie is similar to the 6th sense . It was well placed and suspenseful . The film is an original story . I like the idea of the New York Ranger . Throughout the film , there is little explanation of what is actually going on . My guess would be a demonic entity was involved . I think they were trying to see how far a mother's love for her child would be . They did not want the kids , it was just an experiment . I would wait for rental on this one . What was with the people being zapped up in the air ? I did not get this in the film and I think it could of been left out .
Firewall Burns	Firewall burns . Wow , what a ride ! The movie is a thriller ! The story of someone robbing a bank from the inside with a computer instead of a gun is high-tech . The family held hostage is the old school premise of the plot . Harrison Ford has acted in several stinkers , and I avoided Firewall's release . The preview on Satellite rekindled my interest . Firewall is a thriller ride , with a technological twist . E debt , pens with cameras , and global positioning . If the audience liked the movie Cellelar , Firewall is a perfect match . 7 or . I would give a 8 . Worth renting . Hopefully , the big banks cannot be beaten this easily . I do not believe that someone in this position should have access to everything . There has to be safe guards or else inside fraud would be rampant .
Good family movie	This is a good family movie . I went with my wife and extended family . Children , and adults both laughed . The humor is geared towards middle ground . The facial expressions of Garfield fit the voice ; what better voice than Bill Murry as the sarcastic cat . Murry is sarcastic , and fit the self centered role of Garfield . Some cats are like Garfield . He reminds my wife of her cat , Casmere , when she was growing up . Casmere was so lazy and fat . Although he was very good natured . He would never bite or scratch on purpose . He would never go out and hunt either in the country where she lived . He would fall a sleep in the food dish . It was hilarious . What does JOhn do for a living ? I seem never to recall this in the comic strip or the film .
Good rental	The preview was just horrible . The movie was funny . Well directed , and acted . I like stupid humor and ' Blades of Glory ' has lots of it . Such as the fight at the Olympic podium part . The toilet paper scene , and the sex addict meeting . . Will does a good job , and is not over the top . Jon Herd is a talented actor we will see more of him in the future . Turn your brain off for this movie . A good rental . A weird concept . Can 2 guys skate in doubles ? My bet is no ! The skating scenes were great laughs . Tawnya harden part was added in . Nancy gets a bit part . I think Will is picking better movies to play in . He doing more lead roles , which he handles better with time .
entertaining	I was quite surprised with this one . Hugh Grant is quite the actor when he applies himself . He made this one . He does comedy well in a straight british humour way . I would like to see him do more films like this one . This film is something both genders can enjoy . I wanted to see this one in the theatre but did not have the time , I regret not . I like Sandra Bullock , she acts like my wife . Definite rental .
James Bond gets it right	The first 2 Bond movies where done on low budget , and Goldfinger was the beginning of high budget Bond films . M introduced high tech gagets , the story did not drag with long conversations to fill in time , and the movie had the over the top stunts that make these film ssucessfull . If it was not for Sean Connery acting in the first 2 films this series would have never servived . Watch Connery play golf in this film , and you will see the killer edge that he gives to these films .
A solid film	A solid film . Well , directed , acted , and the story follows the Bible closely . Not as good as ' The Passion ' for the Passion had better actors and Gibson is a great director . However , ' The Nativity Story ' is done on a good budget . One gains a understanding of the pain and sacrifice Mary and Joseph endured . The movie portrays the evils of man , by Herrod's reaction to the good news of the birth of ' The King of Kings ' . What a sadness for Herrod's slaughter of the innocents . One gains the historical perspective of the time with the poverty of farming , and the harshness of the Romans and tax collectors . . Maybe 8 ! I love true story they are so much better than fiction .
Borderline 6 or 7	Robert Redford is a leftwinger on the political scene , and one sees this with his movie . Even with differnt political views on some issues I respect Redford , he is my kind of leftwinger . This story is about people , or individuals . They maybe criminal , but he looks at people character or lack of , and thats what counts . I believe the jail would be meaner than protrayed in this film . The story pits the taking of a castle , and show the differnce between those who can lead , and other who should not .
Realistic	The people a Jericho face E M P . The E M P wipes out the power . Food , gas and everything else become limited . Social Darwinsim takes , and become like animals . In the end , order is restored . Good acting and well directed . I love how the bad guys can survive the best in such a brutal environment . Totally logical for evil men do good during evil times . . Good episode . I bet the social order will worsen . Why was there E M P when the missiles were fired ? Never explained . Did the missiles intercept other bombs ? I hope the mystery is explained in a further episode . I wonder where the state police are during the problems , and or the state government ? Nothing in Kanas was nuked .
not bad	Not a bad show . The mayor race is a sign of any power struggle . Fear drive one character run for mayor . The mayor run on common sense . Fear wins in the end with the people for they live in fearful times . I like the gritty realism of the show . People as they are . Selfish , and stupid in bad situations , while other show heroism , and sacrifice . . God help us in any of this this evil every happens . People become hateful . I hope there is hope and the higher ground is taken . Next season will be great . Great cast , acting and directing . Nice to see a show with a high budget for a change . New shows in Jannauary . I wonder how Hawkens will survive .
My wife liked it	If you like animal movies , this movie will please . My wife likes animals and animal movies , she especially like the parrot in this film . It is geared towards kids , but I laughed at most of the humor . The French fashion character made me laugh , and adds balance to the script . It is a Disney film , with its sappy , happily , family apeal , but I like leaving the theater with a positive fealing .
Nielson is hilarious	Only Leslie Nielson could pull this movie off , not Jim Carrey , or Robin Williams . Nielson can play silly comedy straight , and make all awkward situations appear normal . It was original ideas in this comedy that seemed to work . Silly and incredibly close to the cartoon ; this film entertained , and the humor is geared for everyone .
Out off all the books I have had to read for Eng Lit this is the best	Compared to 1984 and other boring tripe this film is entertaining . I like how they show the class structure , how one trys not have norms and standards . My wife thought they were snobs , but after years of working with people who act like the audience on the Jerry Springer show I found this movie quite refreshing . I would like to tell Mrs Dalloway life is not that bad , and for her friend to get over her . You tried to make her a person she is not . When you do that you end up with a unhappy life .
I wish Tom Hanks would do comedy again	I am tired of seeing Tom Hanks play over serious roles . I guess it is more accomplished acting , but I really liked him when he did comedy . He does play a good role and of course he is a great actor . I found the film a bit too long . I wish he would try his hand at a different type of character ; he is getting too typecasted . It is a good film . The characters were chosen well . The movie was too predictable ; especially the ending . Paul Newman played a good role again . I never get tired of seeing his movies . It is worth seeing , but save it for video .
Good show	Once resources and food become scariest we see the human animal develop . The industrial town is building armaments to take Jericho's agrarian land . The sheriff / mayor of the town become a dictator who blame Jericho for Ravenwood , and wants food for the starving town . Hawnkens becomes useful . Mr CIA is a valuable asset with weapons and tactics . The human animal is evil and self centered . In the right condition one will kill , take , and steal . A good show . Too realistic . I wish people could be more reasonable . The bottom line is wow what a different kind of show . I never seen such a situation on TV before . A town getting hit by mortars before by a rival town . One step up from local high school basketball game between the two town .
Good sequel	Spoilers ! This film was a good sequel . I love the voice of Eddie Murphy as Donkey , but the best had to be Puss , the voice of Antonio Banderas . The hair ball scene was great and you would understand completely if you have a cat . In all , the story was a continuation of the first . We follow the lifes of Shrek and the cast from after the wedding . We learn more about the curse that was put upon Princess Fiona . My opinion is that they should of stayed as normal looking people after taking a potion . I love the end where they showed Donkey and the Dragon having mutant dragon / donkey offspring . Puss does a good job singing . Parts of the story were swipes at LA and the Hollywood community . I wonder if the fairy godmother was supposed to resemble Martha Stewart ? Good for both adults and children
Depends on what mood I'm in if it's a 6 or 7 .	Peck's best performance ! Making the natives on his little island have blue eyes , and strangling his buddy at the ball was a chilling performance . Mad , and extreme made his character believable ! I remember seeing this film with my dad when I was 9 ; In Winnipeg we have the Walker theater , they showed this movie back then , it had a balcony , and those little VIP balcony seats on the sides . I will never forget that day the film and theater just sticks in my memory . Before I degress any farther , I find the film either drags , or intrigues me depending on my mood . The ending with the dogs I will never forget . I wonder if anyone remembers a SCTV Cooking with Croft skit based off this film ? ( With Joe Flaretty being Peck " That's better isn't it ! " ) Worth renting .
Believe the hype	For once a film lives up to the hype . I found this story interesting , and believable . True stories grab my attention more than the made up ones . I wonder how close the movie is too the facts , considering time restraints , and drama . I never wanted to see this , but we borrowed the DVD from my sister and I was glued to the TV . It even has a not too dragged out social message . The actors look the part . All the horse race action is done well . This movie reminds me of going to the track with my dad . Sometimes you have to take chances in life ! In the end , I guess we must all keep moving on like the Seabiscuit in life . 7 or
Dark Movie	The Police look at events in a very cynical way , and after watching a movie full of scum bags in it , you can not blame them . Who told the truth what is the truth the answer is they all lie , the story is in the middle some where . Funny how I watched the movie with it drug culture and hedonism . There is no surprise with the negative results ; just waste which this film portrays well . I heard the Devil's best ploy is too show the dark side of humanity in such a dark light , that one feels hopeless . This is why I am happy about my clean living , and do not feel bad when other knock my MTV generation .
The Oldest film I reviewed	We saw this film after seeing the two remakes . It was in the cult section of our video store . It is the first B & W movie I reviewed . The story holds up well ; much better than some of today's horror / suspense films . It would be disturbing to be in a society that has no emotions . No one would believe you if this actually happened .
Michael Clayton is an interesting flick	Michael Clayton is an interesting flick . Michael Clayton is similar in style too ' The Verdic ' and has a 70's feel in direction . The viewer wonders what will happen next . I found the movie hard to follow in places . Why would the female lawyer order the murders ? I did not know she was not part of the law firm until my wife told me . Anyways , George Clooney is a great actor and is pleasant too watch . The red book theme which in introduce over and over in the film is part of the story's revelation about finding consciousness . I guess Tom Wilkenson found morality as a lawyer in the end . Deep movie . The taxi cab ending is original . I never seen a movie end like that ! . Wait for the new releases at Block Buster for Michael Clayton .
Where Hannible Smith got his training for the A Team !	After an unpleasant birthday party for my future father in law , my girl friend and I went to my house to watch tv . On A & E they had this interesting WW 2 movie . I do not know how realistic it is , but it sure has an entertaining story . Undercover German Jews , British special forces , and a mole have too execute a black bag operation . Pretty cool , to watch George Peppard run around with a flame thrower . Not the usually sloppy acting for a 60's ww 2 movie .
Family Movie	On par with the first movie . A Disney type movie that the whole family can view . Parts were funny , and where did they find those old toys I played with back in the 70's . Sappy and mellow in parts , and a Reindeer for comic relief . Worth taking the family out !
Not bad	An interesting episode . The show informs one about what to do with fall out . The questions lingers about Hawkens why does he know so much ? I wonder if they could get all the food clean ? How could one hunt for the deer would eat something radioactive ? The show follows the formula of problem , and how to solve it . The soap opera part where the affairs , and relationship problem continue . I love the idea of isolation and the fear of it ? People become panicky , and delusional . The mayor is right about how to maintain control , and diverting people from going into chaos . . One of the better episodes . I wonder how many bomb did go off ? Where is the army ?
Not bad	Not a bad movie , it gets weaker as it ends . What I hate about this movie is the anti gun message when they blame it on the manufacture instead of the government ! It's funny how the manufacture gets blamed and never broke the law but the gov for having ever introducing the right law or evening caring is never to blame . Like with tobaco they keep it legal and make taxes on it but they never get sued . The movie is interesting utill the end . I wish it ended a bit darker , you will see what I mean if you watch it . Not a bad movie I give it a .
Well Mel	Well Mel Gibson is a great actor , and the beginning of this film is great . I like how he plays the over confident , macho type . He does it well and not too a point where you hate him . The movie gets bogged down with a sappy ending , and it ties up all to nicely . Seen it done it before , but Gibson make it worth watching .
Weird	My wife hates this film , and I find it interesting . Well Dave the director makes demented movies and this one is demented . I like the concept of television signals effecting peoples minds , and people losing their concept of reality . The special effects are ok , and the story makes sorta sense , but disappoints .
A female version of Death Wish !	A female version of Death Wish ! Many Greek plays were about a woman scorned from the death of a loved one . The Brave One interrogates the Greek tragedy well . Like Bronson in Death Wish , Foster deals with the death of her significant other . Pain , outrage , and emptiness creates the beast of revenge . Foster's hole cannot be filled . Foster's character has disgust for the parasites of society . Unlike Death Wish , Foster's character obtains closure with the antagonists ' deaths . . I liked death sentence a little better . My wife believes the movie is geared for a more female audience , while death sentence is more male audience oriented . Death Sentence is more of a tribute to Taxi driver . A retro theme of the 70's movie , similar to Grind House .
The movies improve over time	The Mission Impossible movies improve over time . If one watches the first compared to the others one can notice the gradual improvement in the film series . MI3 did not work in two ways . The ending with the two bosses who was the real traitor , I was confused with the video replay , the movie never explains the plot twist . Too many different , characters , I found slows down the film's development . MI3 works in 3 others ways . The character of Ethan Hunt develops more and the viewer finds out that Hunt is a loyal , compassionate man who never quits . The fast pace is a credit for the director who generates the film's intensity . The stunts were better and more entertaining if one watches the other to MIs . A decent summer flick . A rebound for Cruise after War of the Worlds . Definitely rent .
One of the weaker episodes	One of the weaker episodes . Why ? For being a great show and all the plot build up the writers of Supernatural had a hard task at hand . No one can blame the writers for the story climax of season two being such a let down . The town , the special kids duel and Sam's mother knowing the demon where all cheesy . The story would have made a great regular episode , but the writers had hard time trying too match the brilliance of the season one's final episode . I was not surprised if the writers are tring to add new ideas for the season 3 story lines . . I feel like there is a need for more . Maybe I need to watch this episode a second time , or wait to see if season 3 will make sense out to the season 2's story climax .
Owen Wilson and Ben Stiller are great together	This film did not have the most funniest story , but Owen Wilson and Ben Stiller are great together . There are some very funny scenes like the coffee scene . The clothes were real tacky , I guess they wanted to get the 70's feeling back . The hairdos ( afros ) were just awful . Vince Vaughn plays a creep again . This seems to be the only role he succeeds in . It is worth renting for a laugh . I am glad they brought back the car . The electronic equipment was so huge , I really wonder if it was that big in the 70's . Technology sure has come along way . I can't wait to see the next Owen and Stiller film . They seem to have a chemistry together . When they are apart , their films seem to lack for something .
Not great but good	I did not mind this movie . It could have been very dry , considering how long one could make a movie about one place an airport . It had villains namely the immigration officer . Good guys Tom Hanks . A love interest the flight attendant . Even some mystery , the other people who work there . The movie is sappy , but that is it's intention . Directed at a quick pace . The movie has a set goal , Tom Hanks visit to New York . I believe the real life guy was stranded in the Paris airport , when trying to arrive to Holland . My guess is that this is what influenced this movie . I give this movie a . I believe people can adapt to many different environments . Tom Hanks did his usual good acting and made the audience feel for this individual . I could not even imagine being put in this situation . I , personally , think that many people would go crazy .
A Woman's movie	It is nice to see a movie that is totally woman's humor that is based on the male role . Women can be just as bad as their male counterparts . This movie had a lot of toilet humor . Males will find this movie funny also . I think you had to be a woman through to understand some of the jokes or sayings . Overall , it was a great comedy .
This movie is better than what I expected	After seeing Cast Away I never would rent this film , believing it was another version of survivor . Wow , I was wrong ! This is one of the classics I never took at school , and I wish I did . Unlike Cast Away , this film has action , mystery , and a fast pace . It shows the difference in people , but we all belong to the same hypocrisy . Throwing stones , while we have sin . In the end , one leaves the movie with a feeling of fate , when good and bad events throw us into our destinies . Please rent this film ; the classics give us a nice break from modern pop culture . I wish more modern day writing could reflect the scope of this story .
I like Glenn Beck	I like Glenn Beck he calls it as he see it . A consecrative bend on the news which is nice . Glenn Will call out some very stupid things that the government and society does . Glenn was warning about the mortgage and other economic meltdown way before it happen . At least he never rants like Corburt does which make the show a bit more news oriented . To bad CNN lost him , but considering the conservative slant of Fox news I am pretty sure Beck will fit in the line up . I find the show objective , and logical . I may not agree with everything Glenn says , but I found many of the issues Glenn discusses and dissects need to be addressed . for the Glenn Beck show .
Ok	This movie is entertaining and has an appeal to ones fear of the unknowing . Kevin Bacon plays a bad guy for a change , and Shue is much different form other roles . This film kept me on edge and had a neat concept , what would invisiblity do to ones mind , and if used for evil how scary the unknowing is . I found myself glued to this story , and can see why it has a r rating .
Best of the sequels , not as good as the original	Spoiler ! ! ! This film is surprisingly good . I thought it would be part 8 of an unoriginal series . What works is they updated the story with a dot com theme . Some of the film is stale , and tired . We know who is going to survive , the only difference is instead of the jock being the hero , we got a rapper , street type guy , which is a predictable staple in today's modern horror film . I wish they would have a film where no one is killed or everyone lives . This would be an original or the sleazy woman or the annoying prankster lives . The film is scary , and does not pull any punches ; except which character in what order dies . The film hides what will happen next . This film creates tension , and causes the viewer to jump unxepectedly . This is what a horror film should do , and the second Michael Myers is perfect script writing . Concluding , I like how they bridge the last film , with the present one . Laurie Strodes kills the wrong person . Watch , in Halloween 12 or whatever , they will have the Myers house again after they burned it down in this film , I hate it when they insult the viewer with such inconsistencies .
This film is short , but good .	This film is short , but good . It has filler in the middle , the sci-fi , and action mixes well . I give it a 7 , the scene with the men on ropes with the dam is incredible . I love the truck and the big plane at the beginning . Rent this one ! It is one of Jean Claude Van damme better films .
I love detective shows	I love detective shows . One can watch Cannon on TV Land . I never saw a detective show with a fat , out of shape protagonist . The same formulated detective series , of running around asking question , with the usual confrontational climax . The viewer is assaulted with the out of the blue investigation breaks leading to figuring out the case . The usual plot devices of a found phone number , or random run in with character directs the story . The weired musical score sets a strange tone ! A very 70's show because of the music , cloths , social message , and characters . The quality of filming and acting has come a long why from the 70's . Still a interesting show spy cams for Cannon .
OK to well done .	My wife liked P & G but I just found the movie OK . My wife likes Colin Farrell , Ed Norton , and Jon Voight as actors . I agree the movie has a Strong cast . The guy who played the CO I think was in the movie Miracle as the assistant coach . The story reminds my wife of Serpico is that the right spelling . OK story but I hated the ending . The best scene is Colin Farrell with the Iron . Scary ! The movie is executed correctly . Well acted , directed , and casted . Even the scumbags were authentic . The movie is too dark for my taste , but I guess we live in dark times . We gave this movie a 7 badges out of 10 . My wife gave this movie a . I gave it a .
I like this movie !	I like this movie . The photo imaging subplot is great . One notices the grainy quality which foreshadows a oncoming storm . The lighting is always dark , which gave me a feeling of dread which adds to the script . Always signs of sexual tension with the fashion industry characters . The three elements create a perfect storm of a women scorn . All 3 males act as if they have a wild secret . When the storm hits by the vengeful spirit the story theme about what comes around does go around is revealed . I like the surprise ending when obsession never ends and a broken heart begins . Be careful what one does there is always human feelings . A good mystery . A good date night movie . My friend Dax though run of the mill , but I like the story .
One of Disney's better films .	I was pleasantly surprised with the film , Shaggy Dog . Shaggy Dog was the first feature at the drive-in . I avoided seeing this film in the theater and thought that it was okay to see it at the drive-in as you see 2 movies for the price of 1 . It was better than the second feature actually . The film gives a dog's point of view on life . Tim Allen is silly enough to make the role believable . The chasing of the tail , frisbees and the shaking of the head to remove water was portrayed perfectly . Shaggy Dog kept the viewer interested with what was going to happen next . The film is a family movie that everyone will like . I wondered why they used a sheep dog ? There are many other types that could of been utilized . . Worth seeing !
Jean Claude Van Damme's first starring role	If you like Karate , you will love this . I like the fight scenes , and the bad guy in the film is always a bad guy in Karate movies . ( ie Enter The Dragon ) It is a bit sloppy in spots , but considering the budget you can not hit this film too hard . It is a good film to see if your mad or angry at someone .
Decent comedy	Decent comedy ! Wild Hogs is no ' Caddy Shack ' or ' Ground Hog day ' , but can still hold it's own . The characters are great . John is the Alfa male , while Tim is John's counter balance , and the other two are the goof and geek of the group . A study of group sociology . The wild Hogs group has the mid life crisis theme . The Trip is full of the hit in the groin humor , and ( of course ) getting into trouble with a real biker gain . The movie would have been average , but the A list of actors improves ' Wild Hogs ' . Well direct , where the movie has a great pace , and good music . I like the who made of shirt , nice touch . Worth renting . . John really knows how to act .
Fresh , and gritty	This movie is done on a low budget . It looks like they used the actual government training center , and many parts were realistic . A few parts of the movie were over the top . This movie is fresh , and gritty ; I like the realism of the film . The hero or anti hero is a nice guy , in wolf's skin . ( I've met people like him ) It shows how cruel the system can be and the merits of playing by your own rules . In the end I like this film .
Not as good but close to the original	I loved the dog . It is a bit shorter than the first ; so they began it with a little cartoon . I thought the cartoon was funny . I thought we were in the wrong theater . It was similar to the original with some new twists . There was some humor . I was glad they used the worm guys again . The movie showed the character flaws of both characters . They left room for a part III . Overall , it was an entertaining film .
A good rental	A well crafted script ! The movie leads the viewer in one direction while unfolding the story in another . The viewer is on edge for he or she will not know what will happen next . Their is scary parts in the movie entwined with mystery elements for the rest . Well acted and directed . No gore or sadism like The Texas Chainsaw Massacre . A movie a more mature young adult could watch , but not for kids . I like the idea of North Daktoa for the story . A very under used and rated state . I wonder if the Sunflower got sold to Altona in MB . . Hardcore horror fans will be bored . More middle of the road viewers , like myself , will enjoys ' The Messagers ' . Rent The Messagers ' this weekend .
Hey , Better than average comedy , which is a hard thing to do	What is funny , that is a matter of opinion , and is harder to make than a action film . A car blows up , and you got and action film , use TJ Hooker as an example . Comedy , a guy slips on a banana and it could either be sad , or funny . Much harder to do ! A friend at the post office wanted me to go to the comedy club on amateur night , I lost my nerve , like the banana one does not know if it is going be sad instead of funny and bomb . Mr S in this movie could have easily bombed , it is hard to the hot chick , for a guy to pull this off shows talent . Adam S had his influence with his over the top style . Either you like this style or not , I find with that comedy , which I love , its material either ages well or dies . Ie OJ type jokes . The fight scene is a classic , but I found the father a little hard to take , but who's parents arn't . In the end , if Political Correctness went its course the world would lose this luaghter , and levity . What a shame , if the I just smelled poo loking face people with grudges decided what is funny , we never would be able poke fun at each other , and laugh with not at each other . This movie is full of stero types that make fun and levity about ourselves , which brings us together . I find people who can laugh at ones self , and bad situation can deal better with life , and I see a bit of this in The Hot Chick . .
Original	I like original movies and this one is . The villain arrives at earth to creates drugs from humans . Great concept , and this drug dealer has some nasty weapons too boot . Good story line , with a odd couple teaming up to solve the problem . In the end , this movie is crazy enough for a entertaining 2 hour . Mike's pick I give it a 7 !
Ok	The more I watch this film the less I like it , but its still entertaining . The acting is excellent , Harrison Ford is a bad Jack Ryan , and this predecessor film is better with his absence . Its a interesting story of a defecting submarine crew attempt to enter the United States . Twists , turns , and a rememberable ending make this film fun to watch . I describe the submarine shot the best I've ever seen .
Be careful in what you wish for	Spoilers ! This film starts out fine . It gets bogged down in the middle but becomes more interesting with the twist at the end . Robert De Niro plays a great role again . He is such a versatile actor . He has got to one of my favorites . The story was a believable one especially with the cloning issue and what science can do now . There was a theory that memory could be transferred through someone's DNA . For example , a rat that ran through a maze in record time was fed to another rat and that rat learned the maze in half the time . Did it retain the memories from the first rat ? I highly doubt it . The directing was fine , the film was well placed . It was worth renting .
Ever have and event that you could never out live .	Spoiler This movie is about such a concept . Williams will go to any low in order to replay the football game that haunts his life . Russel plays the ex jock who peaked in high school . Finally the under dog get its shot , and Williams can save face , instead of being the clown . A great reverse tragedy .
More European than American in feel .	Darkness starts out slow , so slow I was wondering if I made a mistake seeing it . The slowness is a deliberate intension of the director ; in order to show that evil has patience , and is relentless . The probing evil becomes stronger with time . A realistic tactic . In Europe , the film-makers do not spell out the movie's plot , for this would insult the audience . The viewer has to watch closely in a few parts to understand the research of what the characters do . The old antagonist explains evil to be chaotic or illogical ( f up in his own words ) lying , patience , intelligent , but destructive , dark and senseless at the same time . The senselessness in the movie is intensional . Destruction for destruction sake with rage , anger , and fear . When the class bully picks on someone or a bad family member attacks another a lot of time there is no motive or a made up one . Pure evil , straight destructive energy , waiting for a unleashing , using lying , and chaos as weapons . I believe that a lot of people did not like this movie for it is disturbing . Evil is truly disturbing ! The movie leaves the viewer with no hope , and that is what evil tries to do . Educational , I would rather live in the light and warmth of hope . 7 or . Very different from ' I know What you did last Summer " .
Better than I thought	Spoilers . I believed this would be a left wing hatch job . This wasn't , well the ending notes where a bit too much . Instead , we have a realistic portrayal . Who has the perfect family , or never makes mistake is not a real person . There were a few shots in the movie , but other parts probably happened . The movie showed the human and kind side to Ron , and how Nancy loved him so much . The dark side to Nancy , and the kids , along with the real life human infighting at the white house is real . I bet the Clinton's would be hit a little less hard from some in the media , I like watching hard hitting , more real life shows . This brought some interest too the subject of a great president . PS I bet some of the events which was unbelievable probably happened , while other believable events were dramatized .
OK if you like this type of stuff	OK if you like this type of stuff . My wife hates the harsh parts of nature . I found the movie keeps the viewer interested . Show how nature goes through struggles for the survival of the breed . I wish they would show where the birds migrated from . Where they from South Africa or Argentina ? I could not tell from the film . The photography and direction is excellent . Naration fits the movie too . The end credits show the birds interacting with the camera crew . I hate the cold portrayal in the film being from Winnipeg . I hate the wind . I just remembered from the film that the other hemispher has winter in June . A . I can see 2 or 3a year of the nature PBS type of films .
Educational	Being a guy and not seeing a highschool in 15 years this movie was a education . My wife enjoyed it , and I found it educational . This reminded me of a few family squables I gone through . Believe me if guys behaved in this way their would be blood and a fight . This film is full of sterotypes that made me laugh . In my day , now I am sounding old , with Political correctness alot of these gags could not be showing . Nice to see that people can laugh at themselves again , instead of fighting . Good message where burning people doesn't make you a better person , you still have the same faults . Everyone eventually grows up , too bad not at my work place . Maybe , they should show this film at the post office , they could have a remake of this with both men and women in there 30-40-50 and 60 who never out growen this stage in life , and maybe couple of university profs I know of too . Good date movie , the guy and gal will both like it .
Tense	This movie starts out slow , but it builds tension . This would be a very terrifying situation . I can see why Dwight Yoakam wears a stetson all the time . Is acting going to be his new career ? He plays a real good creep . This movie has a sense of realism . It is worth seeing on the big screen .
Ok film but to serious	Ok film , but PC before PC started . They blame the death of a crazy student on the teacher . Not very funny film , and depressing to watch . It is a well made film . Would I watch it for entertainment value no .
She's just dead !	This is a great film , it ages well , for a 37 year old film ! I like , Connery , and he plays the dirtier of all the Bonds watch the fight , at the beginning . The budget , its huge , when you see Dr No and from Russia with Love , this budget has to be 3 time bigger ! Spoiler ! ! ! The casting great , I love Largo . What a story , ramson for nukes . People crap on this film as long , but it did not drag . I love the underwater fight , and how the boat splits in half . A must see for all Bond fans .
This film is hilarious	I gave it a 8 , and my wife thought it was a 6 . Then this film must be a 7 . If you have ever been hit by hard luck , one can relate with these characters . Robin Williams , when he was at his funniest , performs this rambling nonsense . Especially when he tells the events of the robbery to his fiancee , does a tv counterpoint ( ie there would be no criminals if there were no victims , unless the criminals robbed other criminals , but I am diluting here ) and acts out a gun battle . Walter Matthau plays the crabby straight guy who tries to fix events . Small role for Jerry Reed , watch the gas station scene ; it's funny . Comedy is so hard to do , it's an art , much easier to make a horror film or action movie , but to get comedy right you have too hit a groove . This film does it !
I did not mind this show	I did not mind this show . The old mayor is better than the new one . Old mayor ( Green ) thinks long term , not reactionary like the new one . I like the bluff about the bridge . Revenwood knew what the losses where and left . Hawkens proves to be useful again . The show bogs down with some of the relationship part , but my wife likes it . We see Urich slowly becoming a leader . Will the town survive the winter ? Will there be disorder ? . Not a bad show . Jericho is slowly getting better . A big budget compared to those wimpy sit-coms . I hope they keep adding to the cast . A few new faces will help the show . Will Ravenwood ever get it ?
Saw it at the drive in .	The big screen at the drive in did this movie justice . Like Star Wars this movie needs to be seen on the big screen . Tom Hanks does the great guy next door role , except he is an astronaut who is on a moon mission . Bill Paxton , and Kevin Bacon play great supporting roles . The mission has some problems and it takes a great effort to resolve them . Good Ron Howard type of movie , but not a classic .
I liked it , and my wife hated it !	Spoilers . I must give the British credit , for they know how to stretch a budget to its limits . My wife noticed the mansion they used was from the movie ' a bridge too far ' . Anyway she hated this film , found it boring and would give it a 3 . Myself , I found this movie entertaining . Forget about the science fiction premise , this movie is about the human condition and the effects of stress on it . My father says do gooders usually have the best intentions , but think with emotion instead of logic . This is the premise of what causes the end of civilized England , the story at the end gives clues that the island nation contained the virus , and stopped it . I love the thinking in this film especially the cute comment about eradiated food . Working at the post office I see daily how stress , desperation , and stupidity play on the human condition . The part where the survivors find the soldiers ( not special forces but normal people ) and what stress would do is accurate . Bad situations test peoples ' character and brings the worst out . I believe the major had good intentions to begin with , trying to bring women in for his men , but creates a solution more terrible than the problem . Not enough women and TOO MANY MEN . I believe if the hero was not there to fight with them , then the soldiers would of started fighting with each other . Bars try to keep the ratio even , the Antarctic station banned women for fear of love triangles , and when it was lifted they had a murder love triangle afterwards . This film exploits this premise believably . People fighting over the leftovers . In the end , the film shows the virus only takes out our darker emotions of the infected when situations bring us into a rage . I give it .
Stupid but my kind of stupid	Well I hated this film the first time I saw it , but the more times I watch this film the more it grows on you . Kurt Russel plays a great action hero . With lines like I thought you where dead , I'm tired maybe I will kill you later are great . It is stupid in spots , and yes very cartoonish like Rambo , but the fast pace , humor , and , mean attitude makes up for the films faults . It's a great film for the guys to watch on a Saturday night .
Have to watch the films together !	Have to watch the films together ! I watched some of the second film seperatly from the first . Ouch , not good ! The 3 film is a series similar to the Sopranos . Recently watching the first film , and then catching the second film on TBS the viewer notices many jokes , hidden meanings which were missed when not viewing the movies recently together . The center theme of the script is the time line conitinuum . If broken , the result could be disastrous . 3 parts of the film I notice is that Michael J Fox wears the same clothes , uses the same expressions etc because it is the 1985 Marty . Genetics and history repeats itself is another inside joke in all three films . A polarity with time travel theme . As history repeats itself the same people do the same things , but a little differently . Biff , is the usually unhappy jerk , who is selfish , and believes everyone owes him . If Biff is not happy , then no one is . This movie is a great set up for what will happen in the third . One can watch ones self , but not interfere , and at the same time learn via the third person . In , second viewing I give this film a . I wish we all could watch ourselves in the third person .
a good boxing day movie to get out of the house .	Being back at University again I find that my writing has lost its feel and I need the practice . Let me know if I still have the feel ? This movie is interesting , and captivates the viewer ! The acting is strong , and the story is believable . I do not know if the physics is correct ? The director keeps the pace fast enough to keep the story from being bogged down . This story could has gone easily astray . The viewer needs to know very little about the character than what is given . When watching one finds out what they need to know when it is important . I remember seeing this film when I was 5 and only remember the ending . Flight of the Phoneix is a neat film ; yeah that is the only word that can describe this film . . If you like you could go to the show . Flight of Phoenix is a definite rental in my book .
Best Trek in the series	This film is the best in the series . It has 3 good plots melding together . Kirks relationship with Spock , along with Kirks hatred for the Klingons , and mystery of what will happen to on that planet . Christopher Loyd plays the best Klingon in any movie , and Shatner has the TJ Hooker look . Who can ask for more ! One can see why Kirk became a Maverick from this film ! 7 or .
Good movie	If you enjoy watching the other 2 screams , this one will not disapoint . I enjoyed the last 2 films and find this one up to par . It has new plot twists , and fresh faces , yet keeps the good older tricks that work well . The begaining is very good with Bob Cotton , and I will not ruin it by telling you any more ; a few twists keep you guessing , and we have scarey movie . This is a good Drive inn or date movie , and I would not miss it for the world .
Ok Miami Vice before Miami Vice	Long films usually bore me , this is an exception . Yes a few parts could be cut out , but the length is there to tell the full story . It has a 80's Miami Vice rock videoish style of music with the story . Al does a great role along with Steve and the strong supporting cast backs ups the lead actors . The intention of the director is to show a violent , gritty , and corrupt film ; this perfectly reflects the drug world and the people who associate with it . The ending is a bit lame , but the film wants a impressionable ending .
Very 80's	This movie entered the theatres two years after it was made . The hair styles , clothes , and attitudes were very 80's . Farmer Ted was extremely funny ; I loved how he danced . The actor who played the rich jock did it perfectly . The Chinese student was hilarious . It is nice to see good people actually get things there way . The world is far from this .
One of Reynolds better one's	I saw this film in Grade 11 , and found Reynolds hard edge well done . He sleeps on a pool table , and fights with a chain . Even Sly would have a hard time topping Reynolds in this one . Reynolds must have grew up tough inorder to put some real life experience into this one . If Burt did Mike Hammer he would have saved his career .
Long Movie	This is a long movie , in fact this movie is so long when my dad Watched this movie , in 1962 , at the drive-in the sun started to rise . Its a real life story from a book , and I find real life more interesting then fiction . We do not no if Lawrence went mad , or was brilliant . The story is entertaining , and the film ages well . The acting is exceptional , other older films acting appears hackish or cornballish . This film is a bit long , and I watched it over 2 days ; furthermore I thought the war scenes would be bigger , a little disapointed with that . In the end it a good movie and I gave it a 7 .
Not a bad movie	I like this movie . It has car racing , conflict , romance , and a driven character . This film gets one's heart racing . If you like auto racing , this movie gets across as phoney ; no one bumps into another car at those high speeds . A driver would get killed ! In conclusion , this movie is worth renting ; $3 . 99 well spent .
right on	Spoiler I did not want to go see this film , for I thought it would be a politically correct film , with someone yelling what about the children . Well I was wrong , instead of a preachy film it was a mystery / courtroom drama story , with believable people . The one part I did not understand was , how could a bunch of marines not see any guns when they where fired on . Otherwise this is a 7 .
Watch this on TBS and laughed	When I watched the preview I was turned off . While channel surfing I found this on TBS . The film put me into a good mood and I laughed . Russel as Captain Ron is hilarious . Only Russel could pull of this role . I can not explain the humor , but describe it as a Russel comedy . 7 or .
	This is a good movie that ages well . One sees the political ideas of its time ( 1962 ) Anti Mc Carthism , and a vice presidential candidate that looks a little like Richard Nixion . Funny then they name called you a communist now its a racist when people disagree . The story stars out strong , like a movie that is written in the present . The film get bogged down in the middle , usually long movies do , but picks up with a strong ending . The nightmares were the strongest part of the film . Worth renting I wish to read the book one day . I wonder if the modern day version could have Bill Cliton in it ?
Best movie so far this summer !	Spoilers ! ! The original is a classic that I have seen one too many times , which made Arnold . The second film , left its science fiction roots , and became a special effects film , without much of a story . A lot of films have plot holes , but how could John Conners exist without the first film happening . No bratty kid , social cause and effects ( ie the security guard why don't I kill , the science guy change of mind ) , Linda Hamilton giving a PC social lecture , and effects with no need like the truck scene . T3 had to change from the first 2 , and this makes it a strong film . The over the top action scenes add humor for the film . Arnold acts more like a machine , and becomes a strong secondary character ; smart move for Arnold . It shows he can step back for the good of the film . Arnold's computer behavior is comical ! Most science fiction has philosophy , and this film deals with fatalism . This film answers the question why does John Conner exist . As a result of fate , the second film only delayed the inevitable . One must deal with their fate . Chaos theory with free will creates order to chaos and events unfold . The strongest part of this film is the believability with the science fiction . In 1984 , Sky Net takes over , was science fiction , but with the net , and the grid cyber war , it is possible . This would damage the financial , power , communications system etc . I watched a show about cyber war on the Learning Channel , with what the NSC could do and with Sky net and the virus it is plausible . Add the sci-fi , time travel and anything is possible . The ending is mind blowing with fatalism . 7 or 8 out 10 .
I love this film	The Deuces Wild gave me my violence fix . The action scenes with the bats , knives , etc is intense . The story keeps one's attention , and the style is well done . The plot lacks at the ending , I think the mob would track the money down , but I don't want to ruin the ending . Well , any 80's man would love this film . .
Good epic	This film is a good epic , but not great , as many believe . It is entertaining , and has outstanding acting . The only weak link is the length , which bogs down the film . A good scrip , but they could cut 20 minutes out of this film . Mel Gibson , will be remembered as a great actor . I believe he has yet to perform his best work , and will act in many more successful roles . ( he knows a stinker script when he see it , and his acting gets better with age ) I would rent this film , but hesitate to buy it .
Funny better that the trailer	Watching the trailer makes one wonder will Mr and Mrs Smith be a good or bad film ? I could not tell ! Well , the movie has a relationship element which my wife enjoys , and a comedy element I enjoyed . Mr and Mrs Smith starts out strong and keeps a solid pace . The music is great and suits the movie . The action and comedy is well directed . Vince Vhaughn is a strong supporting role . Vhaughn can be annoying and funny at the same time , a hard task . Pitt and a few others could pull of the lead role . Pitt was able to act serious , and silly . Jolie is a mystery for the viewer to understand , and Jolie fits the character's actions . A good drive-in movie . Two movies for $7 . 50 is a great deal , and Mr and Mrs Smith is a great headliner . . A great date movie . I feel my wife and I still date , just like the chemistry between the two lead actors portrayed in Mr and Mrs Smith .
Surprises	This movie kept you watching . Ashley Judd at her best . This movie is geared for the female audience . It is suspense and drama mixed in together . Spoiler ! ! ! It had an unbelievable ending . Morgan Freeman role would have been better played by Tommy Lee Jones . I wonder if the role was written for him seeing they worked together in Double Jeopardy .
a alright movie	The preview make the movie look too stupid . I thought the movie would be another Anchorman . A movie can be too much Will Ferel , like the Anchorman . This movie had a right mix , and the humor is spread out evenly . I did not like the comments on J C , for years of Catholic school I would be careful on such humor . Too much adverting in the movie . One restaurant chain is mention at least 5 time . I like the chain . Turn your brain off the movie is OK . . If you miss it that is OK rent it . I like how the south has no problem joking about itself . Humor is hard to do ! Ferel keeps getting better with time . I can see Ferel doing a few old Bill Murry roles . I like the I am on fire bit . The video game part is good . A bad summer for movies .
Owen Wilson rules !	Not many people could have made this movie work like Owen Wilson . Will Ferrell would have been to much and Vince Vaughn would have been to little for the role . Maybe Ben Stiller could have done it . Matt Dillon holds his age so well . The film addresses how married like affects one's life . The reviews did not give this movie a good review but I thought it was great . Owen Wilson picked a good movie . He is one of my favorite actors . There were a lot of funny scenes . I think everyone has a friend like Dupree that just does not want to grow up . Michael Douglas plays the role of Molly's father . Again , he plays a hard-nosed businessman . He is starting to be type-cast in this role . I think Owen Wilson is best at doing comedy . The movie addresses living in the suburbs , family politics and maturing . In the end , Owen's character finally finds his niche and moves on with his life . He is always so full of energy .
I love it when a movie ages well !	This movie ages well , and that is a sign of a good movie . Ever got into a vendetta with someone and you do not know what it is about , or what the individuals problem is . This sums up the story , and I can relate too this . In the 1800's vendettas where settled with duels , a mannerly way of killing each other . Well acted , directed , and based off a true story . I love this little gem of a film .
Surprisingly good	A surprisingly good movie . After seeing the movie trailer , I did not know what to think of I am Legend . I though maybe a stinker . A well , directed , and written movie . I am Legend has a few slow spots , but overall has a fast pace . The story keeps the audience's attention , and wanting more with each scene . The flashbacks tell a story within a story . One gains an understanding with the movie's sub-story . A surprise ending . I like the theme about faith , and God's plan . . Sometimes all we have is faith . This movie reminds me of my job at the post office where I am the only surviving sane person around . Just joking .
Just started watching the show .	I just started watching the show . I caught bits and pieces of the series on T . V . I said Mike I got to rent this show . Went to Block Buster and hey I was not disappointed . The protagonist who is very sarcastic owns the local gas station and is the driving force behind the show . The one guy everyone goes too . The series is about a small town called dog river . The people and town itself has quirks , which makes for good ironic humor . Hank is my favorite character a likable but off character who stumble through life . The dad is much like Hank but a grumpier version . The Ruby is the town coffee shop which is going through some changes is storyline for the pilot episode . Funny concept of the effects change verses the old in a small town . coffees for The Ruby . I like renting . I can watch 2 or 3 shows in a row with out commercials yes .
Entertaining	I went out to see Rambo with low expectations . I found the movie entertaining . Rambo the movie is realistic , harsh , fast paced and well directed . I love the 2 philosophies about die trying or live dieing , and everything goes full circle . There is a lions and lambs theme . We all needs hero's who stand up against oppersion . The movie defines these themes well . John Rambo finally goes home at the end of the movie . Rambo finally faces what must be faces and goes full circle . The viewer wonders what would have happened if the altercation in ' Fisrt Blood ' with the Sheriff never appeared would the circle been completed sooner . . Worth seeing before renting .
80's action meets 80's comedy	This film represents 80's comedy , perfectly mixed with action . Ilove this film , especially the part where De Niro is mimicked by thethat guy from CNBC . I love this film , the story is goofy , and I lovehow the other bounty hunter , the FBI guy , and the bondsman allget it . The helicopter scene is a classic . Rent it , watch it , and liveit .
Mel at his best	I think you have to see the movie twice to fully appreciate it . Mel Gibson at his best . I was also impressed with Sam Elliot's role . It was hard getting used to him without his moustache . Mel put a lot of heart into this role . I thought the troops would be more grittier . It was nice to see the movie incorporate the lives of the soldiers . It must of been real hard and very cruel for the wives to receive news of their husbands ' deaths by taxi . I can see why Sam Elliot's character always thought of the worst . This movie shows what good leadership is all about . This is Mel's best performance to date . A must see on the big screen .
c s i	I like CSI and this episode grad 68 is a homage to the show . Dog Rivers ' mystery is not a murder , but who painted grad 68 on the water tower . Grad 68 is really grad 86 , and Brent is involved with Hank and others . I like how Brent had a mullet back in 86 . Hank we do not know so they but a grade book question mark for his appearance . Brent wrote in his year book with the mullet he would do the grade 86 thingie ! I love how the Constable does anything to stop traffic . I give a for grad 68 or should it be grad 86 . I love the joke about how slow the town is and what mundane topics which become entertainment . Just like my job at the factory . Yuck ! Corner Gas is a good Canadian show on a low budget which show's good solid writing can make for great entertainment . Just like another show say back in the 80's SCTV . 86 SCTV I wonder if there could be another tribute here .
Rambo is an Icon	Sylvester Stallone has one of the most recognizable faces in the world for a reason ; this genius has created two pop culture Icons Rocky and Rambo . Anywhere , in the world these two characters will be reconized . Stallone has many detractors , but his vision , writing , and acting out these characters has made him rich and sucessful in a highly competitive industry . Before Rambo , his sequel to First Blood , Stallone was just a star like Gene Hackmen , but this movie created a mega star . As part of gen x I love this film , it is a prototype for many action films that followed . The story brings out raw emotions , tension , and adrenaline . The viewer relates with John Rambo his pain , and how the government lies . The action takes the viewer on a incredible ride . I love the battlecry he gives out when he does a chopper assault on the bad guys , and the explosive arrow that smashes his adversary , along with the machine gunning of the computer system at the base . The camera angles , expressions , and physical acting is perfectly done . You leave the picture feeling good , and that is what movie escapism should be . Stallone , who is ridiculed , along with Arnold for his physical acting , can with this ability create a great stage presence . This emotion he creates with his body is done by , how he walks , flexs his arm etc . Could Robert De Niro done this film , maybe ( ie Cape Fear ) Tom Cruise no way , Val Kilmer No . This film is what an action film should be , I've seen very few lines for an Action movie as long as this one . PS the speech at the end gave the spirit of what the film was about .
Everyone knows a jerk .	Everyone knows a jerk . Brent's cousin Carl comes to town to show off and is real cool . Brent who is generally a nice guy does not like his cousin . Why ? There is something jerkish about him . There is a talent show and Hank just bombs . I like Hank . In the end , Brent's cousin acts up , and shows his true nature . Everyone in town sees the true nature of Carl come out and understand Brent's reluctance to like Carl . A jerk is a jerk sooner or later I guess . The writer must be writing from real life experience . I find the story hits too close to home . Everyone knows a Carl , and regrettably hates the nice act or con job a jerk can do . What the h we can just call Carl a phoney . stars for this talent show .
	Ever gone to a movie with low expectations ? I went to ' The Kingdom ' with low expectations and ended up seeing one good movie . The story is interesting to follow . The directing and acting keeps a good pace , while the character development draws the audience in . Terrorism impact on people , and the hardships of rooting terror out is evident with ' The Kingdom ' . Great locations , and interesting interactions in the middle east give ' the kingdom ' a different view of the FBI . . A violent ending , gives closure , or full circle for the movie's violent beginning . Worth leaving the house for . Chris Cooper always seems to play the same roles .
Best movie of the summer so far	Best movie of the summer so far . I found the movie very captivating , exciting and interesting . Wells ' is great writer , when one is listening to Freeman's narration of Wells ' writing from the book . Wilfred , my friend , says the book War of the Worlds is short , and I find this hard to believe . The movie could have been longer and explained the event more . I do not direct movies , I will leave this question to Spielberg . Hard to believe such a concept could come from a mind in the 1800's . H G Wells ' radio play caused panic with the idea , I believe back in the 30's . The movie is about survival during a war . Cruise plays someone who is lucky , and thinks at the same time . The part with the van is believable . The ending is the same as the 1953 movie my buddy Wilfred and I saw when we were both in grade 7 . I find reading the book or seeing the earlier version will ruin the movie , so watch this one first . see this one before it leaves the theater .
Pulp Fiction with a mix of Good Fellas	This is a movie with a mix of Pulp fiction with Good Fellas . A British version of the 2 movies , with dark British humor . I loved this film and laughed so hard my wife looked at me a couple of time and elbowed me to stop it . I love dark humor and this film is full of it ; this movie is not for the politically correct crowd , its more a back lash to the violence in the media people . Brad Pit plays the role of a crazy perfectly , and has this on going joke where you could only understand half of what he says . You would get this joke if you lived or visited Nova Scotia or some place similar ( I have ) or got relatives who speak in a heavy English dialect . Its the same language but you can only make out about half of what is said . Pitt's character puts all the events into full swing of 5 different stories which meld into one , like Pulp Fiction . This film has shooting , boxing , butchering , and very nasty dialogue , with a good story to boot . Great film and I do not want to give away the story , my wife hated it , and wondered when it would end , but I could probably watch it a second time , and my wife will wonder if their is something wrong with me .
Interesting Story	Its about a totalitarian society where people only have one chance at having a kid . They have this futuristic super max , with these ingestible detectors , and a computer mainframe warden . This film is great , watch for the scene with the d day computer virus , it is a classic . The character development , and acting is decent . Worth renting , I love this film .
One of the better movies this summer	I did not know what to expect with this film . Just another action film ? Just another horror film ? Maybe , just another thriller ? No . . no and no ! Cellular uses technology , with mystery . Such events can happen ; technology will bring many new events like this movie to real life . Humor is added with the beach crowd . If the viewer likes Hitchcock style of movies I would recommend cellular . PS nice to see some new faces in movies . Much better watching a better budget film , than the whole budget going to one actor , and a poorly made movie . 8 phones out of 10 . PPS the ending credits shown on the LCD of a phone was ingenious .
Good 80's scare	A lot of people trash this movie , but I beg to differ . I won't bore you with the story , its the details that make this film . What I like is a some what believable story , and the mentally ill instead a super human bad guy , and good acting . The tension is gradual , with a strong ending , and a few good does of humor . The punk rock angle is nice .
A better remake of the 1978 version .	What I like of ' The Invasion ' is the remake is different enough from the original that I did not experience the did this done this again feeling of many remakes . Solid acting and story . The modern technology theme is great with text messaging and virus genetic bug which reprograms ones DNA . The Invasions philosophy discussed by the Russian at the dinner party that man is still the animal which in the right circumstances will commit horrific act to advance or survival s is proved with the mother child bond where Kidman kills several to save her child . The contrast of the soulless body snatcher creating world peace , shows a world without feelings . The ending is positive but bitter sweet . . Worth a movie night out of the house .
Just like the X files	Just like the X files where they had some guy who ate peoples livers . Does anyone remember that episode ? There is a tribute to the 1986 movie Manhunter at the beginning . I like the Dean character being upset about the hap shifter driving his car . The old getting caught about in a lie is done again . The great looking girl eventual believes who they are . The brothers figure out what to do after the shape shifter take Deans form . Not a bad show . The boys move on to the next town . . One of the better shows . I would like to see one of the brothers finally gets the girl , but I guess the show could not be continued with such a plot twist . Maybe , in season 3 when the show needs some new characters . Maybe , have a evil girlfriend for a episode . I will keep watching for more . Best show on TV .
Watched it yesterday	I just watched the show yesterday . I remember a horror movie with a similar plot on TBS a while back . The film was Creepy , gross , with the evil doctor who causes rage to go wild . The accident at the beginning is the formula for the plot . One learns about the Winchester brothers ' conflict with the psychiatry twist . Dean is the domineering , and non-emotional one who conflicts with his brother . In the wrong light , such a attitude can be mistaken for being arrogant and cold . The pace and the story is well timed . The camera work and special effects are visually frightening . . What is the deal about their dad at the ending ? I like the good guy / bad guy role where one pretends to be a nosy reporter and the other brother saves the cop from having deal answer the nosy brother's questions . The good guy then gets all the details as the cop is more willing to share the asylum's history with him .
Finally something to watch on TV	Supernatural is way better than the X files with a faster pace and better humor . The show does not take itself too seriously , but has a balance of realism , considering the show's topics . The two protagonists feed and create energy for the show from each other . The magic of chemistry . The mentioned Bloody Mary show plays off a urban legend , and has many other old legends to combat the evil . ( ie breaking mirrors . ) Super Natural gives tribute to many other shows , The Rockford Files , and The Night Stalker ( watch the reruns on TV land ) . The older brother is a 80's macho throwback , with classic rock , a leather jacket with the tight jeans , and a 60's muscle car , while the more sensitive , online brother is a representative of the 90's . The brothers generation gap shows . Watch a couple of shows and you will be hooked .
Excellent film	Long before Survivor or Castaway this film came out . If you like this type of entertainment you will love this movie . Its about a US and Japanese fighter pilots who become stranded on a Island , and have to battle each other and the elements . Well acted , and written , this film like Castaway has very little talking , but the viewer becomes fascinated with what Marven is doing in order to survive . Original , and entertaining this film will surprise you . .
Neat	I like the special effects ! The water guy / spirit effect was great . The show does a tribute to the old Friday the thirteenth movies with the camera shots of the lake and woods . The part with the boat is a homage to the first movie . The get out of town sheriff finds out they are faking being conservation officers is a great staple of the show . ( The stunt is played on every show and I love it ) The mystery is resolved , and the spirit must be exorcised . I like Ratt's Round and Round track . It was a good homage for the 80's type of guy who gives the show a certain style and feel of the 80's . I guess Round and Round is what the brothers do . I like the hint of sexual frustration by the brother Dean moving on and the attractive waitress shows so much attention for him . The small town mood and setting for Wisconsin is so accurate . Brings back memories for how much I like Wisconsin when I was passing through there . Even the towns people were true to life , excellent research . Bravo a good show . .
A solid Great Movie	A solid ; a great movie . I believe Sylvester Stallone was influenced by the true story and one can see Rocky in Ron Howard's film . Great directing ! One feels the hardships of the depression . The desperation of the families and the hopelessnes of unemployment . Russel Crow's method acting pays out with the mannerism of a real boxer . The actor who plays Max Bear steals the show . Boxing will always have Mike Tysons , and Mr T . Max Bear is a nasty in love with himself boxer . Reminds the viewer of Creed in Rocky with the same ring behaviour , except a bit meaner . I do not want to ruin the film by revealing more of the story . Watch C man in the movie theater . a first film to watch on rental night . . I will buy this film
The more I see the more I like it	This film grows on the viewer , the first time I saw this film it reminded me of Goodfellas too much . After , seeing the video a few times , I belong to a movie club , the movie rates as a classic . Long movies usually become boring , however this story is easy to follow . It is directed well , and acted well . I read the book , and the film follows it closely , a few events changed because of time considerations and where shorting . The film had to be long for it to reasonbly follow the book . This is a interesting story , and the movie follows it accurately , and the viewer goes along the journey as he was there . My opinion when you feel this the movie is very good one .
Hilarious	Comedies seem to be Robert De Niro's new line of work . He seems to do comedies very well . ( ie analyze this ) This film by far is the best comedy this year ; it is sort of like the movie " The Party " . It's about not fitting in , and feeling left out . Many can relate with this experience of a fish out of water situation . This guy ( Focher ) is a constant accident waiting to happen . See it . . . Watch it . . . Laugh . . . .
My wife loves this movie !	My wife loves this movie ! She thinks this is the best movie of the year . Her friend Misty agree but her husband does not . Hey , I thought the movie was OK . Geared for the romance female audience with a vampire twist . Lot's of junior high school gals in the theater for this film . You can guess how they marketed this film and for who . She , me wife , says the movie was romantic , suspenseful with a great storyline . I mention there was no Chuck Norris in the film . Maybe , Chuck could have added to the film , but my wife said no . Great date movie . I would give this film an for date night . Date night is cool so Twlight is a cool film to bring that date too .
One of the best so far !	One of the best so far , in the series . I really like this show . A mix between the old Night Stalker and X files . I hope they make new shows soon . I believe there was a similar script on the Night Stalker . I watch the videos of the old show . The idea of burning the corpses , and the picture is excellent script work . I like the tribute the show has for the people informed about pop culture A bit of this script is a throw back to 80's horror . The girl the two guys the police reminds me of a 80's Nightmare on Elmstreet script . . Tape this show . Like the classic rock soundtrack . I wonder how the producers will keep the series fresh for next year ?
Not as good as heat	I just saw this movie and now that I am home I gave this film a 7 , and my wife gave it 8 , so I voted 8 . Robert De Niro gets type casted in some of his films , and this movie is seen it done it before . Edward Norton plays a great role . Some awesome acting , when you go to the theater you will know what role I am talking about , and he did it perfectly . A decent script , but they could have cut De Niro's love interest out . It's the film's weakpoint and makes the movie drag . Brando does a good job and following the score is interesting , but has a few holes in it .
Don't complain	Many people complain about this movie , but what is expected from a horror / slasher type film . If you don't like this film then you do not like slasher films . For a slasher film this is very good . The story is good , it keeps you guessing ; the actors behave believably , and the plot twists rap up into a nice package when the film goes full circle . Action and slasher films have very little to offer in new ideas , but the mechanics of this film is an a model for other films to follow . What interests me about this film is the concepts , this dorkey little kid who was picked on at school . Did the events which sent him off to reform school cause his madness or did every one stay away from him because he was already crazy . This film uses one of the oldest story plots from the days of the Greeks which is revenge , and the scary part is how the mind is efected by such evils .
A good episode	I love this one . Sam has a vision and learns about his future . Sam for sees his own death . Gordon tries to kill Sam for he knows the secret of Sam . Sam has the help of a fellow person with the same skills . A turn about where , Dean gets captured by Gordon , and Sam come to the rescues . Sam shows , a good plot twist , that he is the smarter brother by getting Gordon arrested by the cops , and Gordon will probably do 100 years . The humor is added when Dean is impressed and says don't drop the soap . What a great story , which keeps the viewer wanting more . What does all the plot development have to do with Sams future . Sam develops in this story form the younger brother to a much stronger character . I believe this episode will lead the way for what season 3 will be about .
bought back memories of those Monday night games	This has got to be John Turturro's best role so far . He was actually believable as Cosell . It shows how Cosell made Monday Night football as much as everyone hated him . I remember some of those games and comments . He was always a guy full of surprise comments and an articulate verbal arsenal . They made Frank Gifford look really stupid in this movie . I also think they made a big mistake when they did not resign Cosell . They left out the famous speech between Cosell and Meredith . This is a must see for any Monday Night football fan .
Pulp Fiction meets True Romance	This film is a splice between Pulp Fiction and True Romance . What it lacks in budget , it makes up in wit . A good story with a heavy English accent . I love the ending ; this film shows how many lives spin out of control by one event . This is a must see for Guy Richie fans . I wonder what he could have done with a bigger budget !
perfect weapon	This film is very European . It seems that when Europeans do films , the films have more of a darker side to them . You can tell by the grainy film quality , casting of characters , and locations . The CIA director was what one would expect a person in this position to be like . I do not think it was believable that they would have assassins , but if they did would they be that well trained . Overall , the film was great ; the cast was picked out perfectly . Matt Damon has improved since the Talented Mr . Ripley . I could not feel sorry for any of the characters ; they all knew what type of game they were playing . This one is a winner ; a must see .
Good animated film !	My wife loves animated films . She thought the rat looked cute . The story's theme of the rat rising above his station of life is motivating . Reme , the rat , like foods and wants to create instead of stealing food . Linguini is controlled by Reme and the fun beginning with Linguini being comic relief . The French atmosphere is nice . One will notice many big name voices in the movie . Brian Dennehey and James Remar are heard . Peter O'toole is the voice of the food critic . The underdog theme of many children tales is well done . One cannot help but cheer for Reme and Linguini , who play the 2 lost characters . . Buy the DVD , I know my wife will .
Costner's high water mark	Before Costner tried to please the critics , he made some challenging films . This film is his best . A 60 homerun season , if he ever bests this that would be incredible . Fantasy / Science Fiction film that is believable . What if the ghosts from the past appeared in a corn field , made into a baseball diamond . Wrongs could be corrected , people could do what they love baseball , and redemption could be found . I will not ruin this story for you , but it is a strange one . So strange that it works . Original , creative , and most of all entertaining . Rent this one , way better than the other crop movie Signs . A classic !
I like this one	Dead Man's Blood is a great episode . A mix of the two movies ' The Lost Boys ' and ' Near Dark ' . I love the human side too the vampires . The vampires looked like a bunch of partyers like in ' The Lost Boys ' . I never knew that dead mans blood would ruin the party . Sam and Dean get to finally meet dad , and the family drama continues . John Winchesters hard a approach show why Dean acts in his loyal manner , while Sam fights dad's military style discipline . The colt is revealed , and the trail of the yellowed eyed one is sought . . The crux episode for the first series . Watch The lost Boys and Near Dark you will get a kick out the two movies if you like this episode .
This is a great film .	Spoilers ! ! ! HBO sometimes comes out with great films , and this is one of them . 4 . 8 and that guy's hateful comments towards this movie I totally disagree with . Rent this film , the people who review it give it a bum rap . I was watching it , with my sister's boyfriend Blake . He yelled get the American flag out , and a bunch of other hysterics . I ignored it , I thought that other countries besides the states also have their social problems , which results in Harry's capture . The part Blake did not get is this film has little to do countries , but communities , families , and brothers . Actually , no one in the government was going to save Harry and he was going to die , and Harry's brother , community and friends did something about it . Gary Busey plays a good role as the financier , too bad he ruined a good career . Robert Duvel , plays the dirty , but fair mercenary . Some can do it others make mistakes , we learn about each character's faults ; The scene where everyone in this proud mid western town at work hear that one of their own is rescued , and the party they throw touches my heart . Especially when he understands why the family guy tried , and could not do the mission . I believe in family and community , and that is what this movie is about .
You Dell from Dallas	Story about a out of his luck Cage who just drifted into town who takes a job offer , with out knowing what he is getting into . Ever made a mistake you could never get out of , well this is one of them . The event leads to a very bad couple of days and a very interesting story . Watch this move and you will get a feel for the west and it characters ; the twists in plot keep ones attention on the film . Dell from Dallas puts this one over the edge . This movie is much better then kiss the girls or the bone collecter .
One of Hestons best .	When will it be ready ? When its done ! This is a great portrayal of Michal Angelo . Heston's high water mark , and this is hard to out do . Even with the films age it does not look dated . Much better than other movies form this time period . This is a movie with a message . Rent it or even buy it .
Bronson finally gets it right	Well , better than the last 2 , and the last one was a step backwards . The humor , charm , and seriousness Bronson portrays , melds into a combination that creates the Bond character . The story is strong , but no one would survive an explosion in a pipeline . The shockwave would be too great , but its Bond anyways . The lead bad guy plays a great role , but Denise Richards get across more like a dingbat , then a nuclear physicist , when she delivers her scientific line . She's there for fluff . Not a bad story , or cast , and Bond actually acts as him , a turn in the right direction
Stephen King	Will be studied in English class just Jack London , or Robert Frost one day when after he dies years from now . This film is original and keeps one guessing . Unlike those made for tv film this has some soul . Most TV and some theater release look wooden . A little sappy at the end but I would ignore it
One of the better episodes .	One of the better episode . The Winchester brothers found out dad had another family , and a half brother . The story asks is the brother really who he say he is ? The viewer , with the sub plot , finds out how harden Sam has become . Sam has evolved into his father . The show keeps the viewer interested with the plot twist where Dean and Sam find out there half brother and dad's love interest are really replicants of ghouls . The ghouls hated the Winchesters and wanted revenge over the death of their father . One asks the questions should John Winchester have left the ghouls alone in the first place ? A very messy ending . I give Jump the Shark an . Worth watching !
The Plot Thickens	Another good episode . The angry spirits attack hunters who made mistakes . The angry spirits are the ones the hunters could not save . I love Bobby's spirit panic room . The best part of the show . Bobby seems to be miles ahead of the Winchesters . Is Bobby's experience showing here ? He seems to have taken the role of father figure . Dean is given more info from the angel about the upcoming spiritual war . Can Dean trust the information he is receiving from this angel ? Evil is abound . What is happening with Sam ? This is another question the episode leaves . Another question : what is Ruby up to ? I give the show . The episode leaves the viewer wanting more . The viewer is left anxiously waiting for next week's episode .
Neat Episode !	I like this episode . I believe one of the plot devices in Time is on my Side will be used for future episodes . Franinstein , is a awful concept . I like how the brothers devisions is a for shadow of what is happening to the characters . Dean is so street smart . I like how Dean outsmarted the Dr Evil guy . Well for this show . One of the grosser episodes . a few tributes to a couple of movies here . Will the Trickster ever comeback ? Will Bella comeback next season ? There is so many lose ends we need a season 4 ! PS The fridge part was so eerie . I like how Dean just hate the doctor . Dean dose not want to be just a evil as the things they hunt .
Good episode .	Creepy show . I like the grave scene . What happen to Dean is awful . I remember watching the episode Mystery Spot where the Trickster says Dean will be the death of you and that Sam is the Travis Bickle of this world . If anyone has seen Taxi Drive 1976 they will know who Travis Bickle is . Travis Bickle is a whacked out guy who does misleading and violent actions . We get the feeling Sam needs to be stopped . Dean is right Ruby is up to no good . Unless there is a plot twist I believe Sam is up to no good in the end . A showdown is unavoidable . Good episode . I give the season opening a . No writers strike so we can see a whole season this year .
21 is a .	21 is a . The movie 21 has a compelling story , which is well acted , and directed . I love watching well executed movies . Will the protagonist get his money for college ? Is the professor an evil man ? How evil is the security firm ? These questions and more will be answered in the next couple of hours when viewing 21 . I enjoy watching Kevin Spacey who always plays a good creepy role . The only part I hated about the movie was when the pizza delivery guy interrupted the flick ! When does it take a hour to get a pizza , when the place is 10 minutes from my house . Well , that is besides the point . Worth downloading on payperview ! Payperview is cool and way cheaper than video rentals . I did not even have to take the movie back . Worth seeing on payperview . 21 is a or in IMDb terms a .
A good solid comedy !	Supernatural never takes itself too seriously . I love this comic episode which provides a break from the usual scarum dark side shows . Dean is the victim for the brunt of the script writers comic plot devices . The episode is about Dean getting the scary virus and is very unDean for the rest of the show . The Eye of the tiger part ? What is with that ? I love the chain ending . Sam saves Dean's bacon again . My wife loved this episode , especially with the Dog and Dean part . I give this show a . I though maybe the Trickster was back at it again . There is a second ending to this show so do shut the show off too soon !
Funny Funny Funny	Funny ! Funny ! Funny ! The fourth season of Supernatural uses humor way more than the first three seasons . I love the super strong kid scene . The Teddy bear scene is great too . The wishes end up being bad wishes . The sad part of the show is the geek's life is better off with the bad wish going wrong , but hey when you hit bottom there is no where to go but up . I like the message be careful what you wish for you might get it . The story's message of having everything you want drives you crazy is told excellently by Dean . Dean says he has his problems too . I agree . Well the Impelia make a great guest appearance and hits someone . Wishful Thinking is a .
Disney meets ' Raiders of the lost Ark '	Spoiler ! National Treasure is an adult movie which kids can watch . Not overly violent or scary , but grown up enough that , Mr adult me , never though this was Disney . Casted perfectly , with the old UK USA rivalry for the treasure that each groups seeks . Sean Bean plays the perfect bad guy , and Cage play the humble , and non imposing role excellently . A bit of gen y and xers making fun of each other . The director keep a fast pace for a action movie . The script wonderfully mixes legend , history , and the Masons all together nicely . Watch for part 2 , and I hope they do make a sequel . The best part of the film is when Cage plans to steal a item in this film . . Worth seeing in the theater
funnier than most	I like this film , and it has many memorable moments . The hose scene , and Russel's antics . This is a great movie , Russel does comedy perfectly . He can play the all American , guy next store better than anyone else . This movie is a tribute to his acting ability . I can watch this one over and over .
Not bad .	Not a bad show . Vicent tried to save a friend who killed an Invader . The trial goes on . Who is the invader . The Invaders try everything to stop the case from telling the truth . The only way Vicent figures out what happens is the defense attorney is the Invader . Cuts the Invader's face in the back room with the judge . No blood for the defense attorney which is proof he is an Invaders . However as always the Invader is kills and vanishes and their goes David Vicents proof . The judge and prosecutor drop the charges for David's friend . Good show , with a strong build up and great acting . I give the show an . Better than average for the series .
King rules	I have watched a few stinker horror movies lately , and when I entered the video store I wanted to watch a movie done by King . What a difference a good writer does , compared to all this garbage done to cash in on the resurgence of horror films . King is a present day author like Hemmingway , or Robert Frost . We should enjoy his work while he is alive , because when he dies he will become known as one of America's great authors . Maybe he will be studied in school . This film is about twins , alter egos , and sparrows carrying peoples souls . This film is creepy , and its fiction is done perfectly . No need for a high budget , when you have good acting and an excellent story .
One of my wife's favorite episodes .	One of my wife's favorite episodes . My wife thinks heart is a soap opera style episode . The plot twists of who was the werewolf is great . Did anyone fortell the religious neighbor , who had the hots for Madison , is at fault for Sam's girlfriend getting infected ? Great foreshadowing , of the plot twist when the neighbor opens the door and listens to Sam and Dean , at the beginning of the show . I can see why Sam tries not to get personal with the job . Madison seduces Sam with the laundry . Sam always gets the smart girls like in the episode in providence . This time the girl dies . Dean always show emotion when involving Sam . Dean's tears is the final plot twist that creates irony for the audience . I did not like the drunk lawyer I can see why Madison blew him off .
JOHN CANDY'S best	Spoiler ! ! ! ! This film is Candy's best ; too bad his career ended so early . Steve Martin ( SNL ) whose career started with a big bang , started to slowly die , and this was his last good film . Candy who never seems to get the roles or respect he deserved ( this was a tailor made character ) . The results were hilarious . I love the scene where Candy and Martin ( one of his first straight roles ) kept looking at the bed in the hotel room , with that camera close up and music . Then Candy asks if he wants a shower ; One of many great roles . The ending gets very serious , and we find that Martin actually has a heart .
Romance / War movie	The first hour of the film is romance / relationships , and the war , madly , interrupts this . My wife deeply enjoyed the romance part , and I found it much better than the Titanic's love story . Then there is a few good plot twists , and my part of the movie begins with the Pearl Harbor attack . The attack is well done , and I found it very realistic . Then the movie mixes the romance and the war together for the conclusion . I gave it an 8 , it would be higher , but I wish they expanded a bit more of the historical events leading up to the attack . This movie is fairly flawless .
worth a few laughs	Worth a few laughs . My wife saw the preview , and thought it was cute , and wanted to see it ! She did not recognized any of the voices . The story is both interesting for both kids and adults . A lot of stupid behavior . The story has the same formula as the cry wolf story . No one believed him . The aliens remind me of the War of the worlds with the three legs and laser lights . The paper pants and a few other props were funny , a lot of imagination with the movie . The movie remake was interesting at the ending too . Patric Stewart from Star Trek does the teachers voice . . Good Christmass movie . Take kids or the girl friend .
Kevin Bacon doesn't dance foot loose in this film !	Kevin Bacon does not dance ' Foot Loose ' in this film . Kevin Bacon's film career has gone full circle . ' Foot Loose ' a teenage rebel in a small town who starts a dance is far different to Death Sentence . A retro 70's film which mixes ' Death Wish ' with ' Taxi Driver ' . A excellently executed film which explains the cycle of violence . The court room scene is a tribute to Death Wish with the failure of the system ; the gun fight scene with the fingers , nick injury , and Kevin sitting on the couch is a homage to ' Taxi Driver ' . If one has seen ' Taxi ' driver they will notice the similarities . No Kevin did not break out into a dance in the middle of the gun fight . ' Foot Loose ' was a way different film , and Death Sentence has much deeper message . The ' Bible ' speaks about violence begets more violence , which the film demonstrates . The Chinies ' two grave theory hit with a vengeance for the protagonist , his family and the cops . I noticed the Netch theory ending of one becoming a monster when they go out hunting monsters . The protagonist transformation is the thesis of ' Death Sentence ' analogy of violence and revenge . . What a evil world we do live in . I hope God does not judge us to harshly .
A very solid movie !	A very solid movie , but a little too smart . I like this movie . There is many camera close ups facial expressions and weird camera shots which creates each characters view point . I love the one character who thought the terrorist was in love with the man she was extorting . Well acted and direct , but the script has one to many sub plots . 2 presidents , and the ambulance part was way to over board . At least I thought the second half was to much . for a gusty movie which pushes the limits . Orinional concept of different vantagepoints . I do believe the ending where we never see the whole picture and the media makes mistakes . Denis Quade adds a human element for a movie .
Arnold bounces back from Raw Deal	After the huge disappointment with Raw Deal , a fresh new idea came to action films . An alien that hunts humans for sport . Carl Weather ( Appolo in Rocky ) teams up with Arnold in this action adventure . Arnold is such a good physical actor that in the end with his Conan scream make this film a thriller . A director does not need much dialogue in a script when the visual is considered more important . The direction in this does not need it . This film will hunt you down , and I give it an 8 .
A film of Eloquence	I figured prison life to be much harsher , as seen in other films . This is the films only weak point , but then the story would suffer if the film was like Fight club . This is a story about a man who loses everything but still survives . He uses his intelligence to outwit his attackers , and function in prison . No matter what happens he still kept his dreams alive . What is a man without dreams ? The word institutionalized is used in this film to describe what the prison does to the individual . Tim Robbins will not have the inner freedom of who he is change to what the prison dictates . There are many interesting subplots that keeps the viewer's attention . These subplots culminate into a unforgettable conclusion .
Sex , Violence , and humor	Many will hate this adolescent foray , but in my imature nature I liked it . This film does what many action film miss , it has a flow to it . The story keeps the viewer intrigued and the violence , humor and sex apeal puts sizzle into the steak . The pool cue scene is excelent , the tiger claw kun fu move is great , and the for a great Buick is funny . A bounce who is a philosopher is a nice twist . Rent it . . . . Watch it . . . . Love it . . . . . .
Good movie	I don't like action movies , they seem to be formulated and done by the numbers to often . Big ending , evil bad guy attractive girl and ends with hero has girl , bad guy dies etc . This movie has the girl , the bad guy , but is done a little differently ; there is many twists in the plot and its not to stright forward to insult the viewers intelligences . I keep thinking to myself the hero should have just stayed on the bus and the stir of trouble would not be . The tention steams at a hard pace , and he should of listen to himself when he talked to himself .
The best movie of the year so far .	The best movie of the year so far , but the year is young . Nellson is a great actor . Nellson's stage presence of an angry father drives the movie . Nellson's character is an ex special forces operative whose daughter is kidnapped . Nellson's daughter is taken by a prostitution ring . When dad arrives to France the story's event become messy . Nellson gets nasty in this movie . Too many scumbags , Nellson has a few good one liners . A great action movie . Worth seeing ! Why did Nellson not use the help of his buddies is a good question for the film ? His ex wife turns out to be an awful woman . She just treats him like garbage .
Surprise	This movie is surprisingly good , I did not go to the theater , because the movie trailer was awful . I almost went to see it twice , but the trailer pushed me away . This movie is fast paced , very tense , and the mountain scenes got my blood pumping . The beginning is just excellent , but the movie had a few too many sub-plots at the end ; otherwise this film is great . It is nice to be surprised when you rent a video , and expect little .
Still good	I remember going to this film with my older sister at the Garrick downtown , which by the way they closed yesterday . We arrived at 11 am , figuring we would be the first in line , to our surprise we met this guy Andy Swan , who was there from 9 am on . He was waiting in line from about 8 am on for his friends , I got to be number 11 in line for this film on the first day . The line up was over 3 streets , and there were people with Darth Vader Masks , Light Sabers , etc . It was more like going to an Oakland Raider game , than a movie . The wait , and the build up did not disappoint the viewer . This film was original , and not a copy of the first . A plot that left the viewer hanging , and some great special effects . I love the Yodi guy . Not as spell binding as the first , but in someways better .
WOW way too cool !	I don't know if it was the mood I was in , but I really like this film . Far fetched plot , but not too unbelievable . Val's acting can move a movie up a notch . I wonder if such hard methods as seen in this film ever take place ? The War on terror probably influenced the film makers . How Kilmer moves , thinks , and acts is believable of the character . The saddest part about this film is true scum bags do exist , I have very little empathy for scum . The movie's message of not believing what one hears is probably true . I wonder how much we hear , read , and watch is manipulated by the government , and the media . Spartan's art of deception is key for his success . How much media deception is a result of personal bias , or advertising pressure , or intellectual elitism is what I wonder after watching this film . The way the film ends makes me wonder if anyone finds out what the truth is ? Mike
Well done , good job !	This movie captures the spirit of Christ as a healer , and the son of God . The movie shows an accurate portrayal of the division that Jesus ' teaching created . I found the movie up-lifting , and realistic . The people looked and acted from the region and time . The Roman governor is played well . They leave most of the Crucifixion out , which is a smart idea , because the movie ' The Passion ' shows this meditation . Very educational . The Gospel is so long , they had to leave some parts out . I wish they did not , but I guess it would be 3 DVD's then . The film is well acted , directed , and paced . The movie went by fast , and realistic . I wonder if any other of the gospels will be done . 8 out 10 . I wonder if Mel Gibson will do another Christian film .
Reynold's Best	This is White Lightning with the budget . Great story , and action with a mix of directing that gives the viewer a feel for the south . A tailor made role for Burt Reynolds , which became a high water mark , he never could reach again . I love the part where the tall guy uses the sun roof in order to drive the car , and the beginning narration . Too bad this format was not in use for Sharky's Machine , he would have done better in the 80's . This movie made him a star of the 70's , and this film ages well , which is the test of time . rent it today .
The movie that started it all	I gave it an eight , it would have been a ten , but special effects have improved over the last twenty years , and makes this movie show its age . The acting is great , and the story is original . Too bad they keep copying it with the later movies . We see a young Harrison Ford , and Alex , G do some of there best performances . The story still captures my attention , and I can watch this film over and over . I remember when I was eight , looking at night sky after my dad took me to this film ,
I watch this game show off and on again .	I watch Jeopardy on and off again . I do not mind Jeopardy , but sometimes the questions become too mundane . The guests are the same old same old . The show is great and has been copied over and over again . The show ' Who wants to be a millionaire ' is influenced by Jeopardy . I believe Jeopardy is the prelude for reality T V . Alex is a great host . I do not like game shows and I give Jeopardy an eight , which mean Jeopardy is a great show . How long has Jeopardy been on ? The only shows which have been on longer are The Price is Right , and Wheel of Fortune . Jeopardy is a TV icon . Viewers will be seeing Jeopardy for a long time to come . Worth watching .
My favorite .	I do not know why the people trash this film ; I like the story . They try blow threw the great barrier , and find God . They have Spock's brother who can relieve peoples minds of their pain , and directs this mission . The crew starts too show its ages here , but we learn about Kirk . I love the line where Kirk explains why he keeps his pain . He admits he as a captain made mistakes , which cause him pain . He learns from his pain , and part of that pain makes his personality , and who he is . Rent this one .
It was funny !	When I saw the preview I didn't know what to expect knowing that Jack Black was in it . However , I was pleasantly surprised . The movie was hilarious , I couldn't stop laughing . I liked the part where they were hiding food under the pots and playing the shell game with them . Jack Black did a good role . I like the noodle dad ; this guy seems to be in all Kung Fu movies . Dustin Hoffman was great as the master . The film has a good message for kids in believing one's self . The animation was great . I didn't recognize Angelina Jolie as the voice of the tiger warrior . The film is entertaining for both adults and children . My wife loves animated movies so that is why we attend this film . My wife gives it a 8 of 10 Kung Fu kicks .
Dazed and Confused before its time .	Before George Lucus did Star Wars , this was his big film . One can see why ' Happy Days ' was made , after watching this film . 70's flash back TV , just like ' That 70's show ' is today . This film and ' Dazed and Confused ' go over memorable High school events outside of school . The script , probably , based on real life events ; the film's events cut too close to be fiction , maybe a little Jazzed up , but stories passed down over time . The story goes full circle , and ties in how events reflects an individual's character . This is a must see on cable , if you have not seen it 10 times before . .
Kevin Bacon plays an excellent creep	Kevin Bacon has found his new niche in films ; playing the villain . The plot is quite interesting , but tries to make the villains not as evil . Why didn't they just torture Kevin Bacon's character . It was a good suspense film . I think the movie made the FBI look too stupid , but after it makes you wonder who they really have working there . Charlize plays a good role . She is coming along with her acting . Who was in the trunk of the stolen car ? That lost me . Worth going to see in the theatre .
What a surprise !	What a surprise ! I had many doubts going to see " the Aviator " after watching " the gangs of New York " . After watching the director and lead actor before I wonder why they ever would work together again . I was wrong , there is a chemistry the 2 have together . Great acting and directing . The movie does not seem to be the 2 hours that the movie is . Hugh's phobia towards germs is never explained . Can a phobia ever be explained ? Alan Alda is great ! Nice to see Alda in a different role . The Avaiator shows that graph and politicts have not changed over the years . Worth watching . I give Aviator a . The movie show's Hugh's as a risk taker .
Realistic	This movie is a factually based , and done in a way of a real life documentary . My friend Tony told me about the book , and its pretty close to the movie . There is a mention ( very lightly ) about not having heavy armor , from what Tony told me because it would look bad on CNN , and if I remember right this event cost Bill Clinton about 17 points in the polls , he would have lost the election if it was called right away . I don't think CNN will affect foreign policy again , when they called for the US to help out a country , and Bush being ex CIA chief just wanted to convoy some food and get the hell out . This movie shows why . It's not a action movie I would call it more of a war / horror movie . We see what army life is about , how well trained the special forces are , and the confusion , and horror of war . The film is one constant feel of fear . It was accurate , but according to Tony left some of the grimmer parts out . Where the troops got lost because the city has no street names , a lot of women and children died because the war lords used them as shields , and spotters . You really feel bad for the men , and it must have been an eternity for help to arrive .
Funny	I like this film , and it ages well . I don't know anyone who did not like this film ; 6 . 9 ranking that's got to be wrong . This movie had the perfect cast , everyone was not at their hight of fame yet , and if this film was done a few years later they could never afford the budget . Ted Knight is highly unrated in this film , because of the other stars , but watch him closely and see the comic tension he creates . Give this movie a chance .
One of Eastwood's better ones	Well , Clint is a secret service man , who gets the much younger girl , ever wonder why its never the other way around , and has to battle and evil assassin . I wish they would stop this phone calling by the bad guy in this type of movie ; too over done like someone hiding in the back seat of a car , or a friend shooting someone before the hero gets shot . This film has tension , and fear . I like this film .
Warning I think I figured this season out !	Good story . I love how they took care of all the Demons . Dean is pretty common scene smart . The episode is like a zombie movie . I believe the end of the world preview was in this episode . A few things I figured out . Ruby is a plant pushing Sam . All of Ruby's help is to gain there trust . Everything else is lies , demon's lie . What a evil solution Ruby had for the problem . Sam would have turned dark side listening to Ruby . Bella is involved with the scheme . Bella told Dean she was not going to sell the colt , but stoled the colt for other reason . I think Dean is going kill Sam after watching the Mystery spot show . The trickster told Sam that Dean will be the death of him . All the subplots are coming together . Rubys big guilt trip at the ending cenments the main story together . ( In my opinion ) Let us hope Bobby can help the brothers out . . Funny , many of the supporting characters never seem to live long in the series .
I did not mind this episode .	I did not mind this episode . The show is running out of ideas . The creators are using humor to fill story lines . Sam and Dean are screwed up . We learn up the brother past to understand why . Sam and Dean must fight a very stupid pagan gods in this show . It is like Christmas kills the pagans . I get the inside joke . We come a long way from sacrificing people . At lest they mention Jesus birthday . Will the 2 protagonist ever find peace . They did for just one day . Might not be perfect , but they tried . . What will the new year bring ? They need a couple of new characters . Where is the FBI ? I think this show will give kids nightmares . I like the Santa Clause bum .
Revenge	Excellent movie , with my favorite time frame of Napolian France , where duels and honor meant everything . It was done accurately , unlike the Titanic for its time frame . ( No one sounded like a surfer ) The story of revenge is sweet , where one satisfies their hatred of past wrongs . The story twists , and bends perfectly , like the films of the 70's which covered this area . The lead actor played his role perfectly , and Guy Pearce is a good villain . This film is a must see and do not wait for video .
4 . 7 something must be wrong	This film is so original , only King could think of this . An evil presence in the corn field affects all , but 2 of the children . The town follows this evil creature . Two adult drivers end up in this hidden town , and find it void of any adults . This film is scary in a twisted way , a more scarier way than your usual horror movie , because of these children's twisted religion .
Not bad or worse than any other news show .	FoX news is just another news show . Not better or worse than anyother news show . People complain of Fox news being slanted more to the far right . I disagree ! Fox news was ahead of news trend . When news was more left leaning , and some shows where manufacturing news via opinion fox news and Rush Limbaugh were a schock to the system . Now every news cast has a right-wing show or person on staff commentary . I believe with satellite radio , more TV stations and internet the media is much more careful to slant an issue because of how easy the viewer can access a reproof . Fox is ahead of it time , and schoking then , but now just average news . .
Disturbing	Rob must have a Ph D in trailer trash . I hate to see what he has experienced in life for the film is very close to what I really know . I live in a city in Canada which has it share of domestic disasters and crime . Haddonfield must be a gritty steel town , for there seemed to be no balanced people in the film ; just rude and crude people . The film was very disturbing , a couple of people left the theater which was a good idea . The movie is gory , but not in a violent way . The home Michael grew up in was cold , abusive , ( verbally ) full of shame , no morals or respect , and no one cared . I learned from the neighbourhood I grew up in , and my life at the plant that people snap or break . Hell , creates anger and rage . The emotionless mask is the persona of a hallow man eaten away by anger and rage . The only outlet or expression for Michael is violence . A movie of a sick town , which knows only sex and violence . No love or compassion in this film . To close to real life . Bullies do cry when they get beat up . . This film is like seeing too much of real life .
Suspenseful	This film disturbed me with the questions it asked . What if there is evil out there , and it involves death ? Would we be able to understand it ? The answer is No . Many of the questions Richard Gere has in this movie will not be answered , and he learns to get on with his life . His stay in this small town is unpleasant , the the story builds until the dramatic conclusion . I will not ruin this film for the first time viewer , but I sure would not answer the phone after seeing this film .
80's 80's 80's	God bless the 80's , and may they live on way after their time ! This film captures the 80's geeks , preps , and class rivalry . It was a hard time to fit in , but a fun time , like most teenagers , I had these fantasies that this movie reflects on . I can not believe they got Wes from the Road Warrior to do a part . The scene where the computer animated women talks to Michael Halls parent is hilarious , but sick . The stuff going out of the chimney , the MX missile , and the kitchen turning blue is funny . Bill Paxion or chet is a classic wait and see what happens to him . Anyways rent it live it and be it !
This movie is hilarious	No this film is not about that New Wave 80's band from Australia , but its a funny film . This movie is satire , and over the top characters to the max . I love it ! David Keith as the unbalanced ex Vietnam vet supervisor is great . " I hate cops " and " I even hate rent a cops more " is great . He pushes an already unbalanced situation farther . One feels for the pizza guy , and the part " we give no food to the enemy " . It has no real slow parts . There is a chemistry between Martin and Emelo . I wish they would act together again . Even has an un wimpy environmental theme to it . Watch it today , get the movie NOW !
Cruise bounces back	SPOILER ! ! ! ! After Cruise's last 2 horrible movies , he bounces back . Another bomb like Vanilla Sky would have destroyed his career . Interesting sci-fi film with the issue of determinism versus free will . It would be scary if the future was set . At least being human we all have free will to decide what we will do and what path one will take in life . The film had a happy together ending which is nice considering the content of the film . The eye ball scene is pretty gross .
Well done	This is a long movie , and it seems short ; that makes it a good film . Funny and at times unbelievable , the movies strong point is its satire of the west . It is a good story , and well acted . The film is more of a art forum than your traditional western . One point the director portrays in this film , is how gritty the west was , and how cruel the world is when the wicked play on their terms . Worth seeing .
Awesome	Spoilers Stallone writes a great script , with an excellent cast . It is about hunger , determination , and eye of the tiger . The film portrays Mr T as a hungry new fighter with intensity who challenges the champion , and Rocky has to over come the challenges of staying on top . Hulk Hogan is in this film , and adds great comic relief to the boxer wrestler scenario . Great script , with Rock blaming himself for Mickeys death , and you feel his pain when Mickey dies , and Carl Weather's comes into the picture as Rocky's mentor for a favor . This is movie if you watch it feeling low , it will motivate you .
Original	Spoiler ! It is nice to see a movie that is original and has not been done before . Robin Williams plays another weirdo with past demons in this film . I'm starting to wonder if this is his new type of character . Williams who has a bad family past adopts a photo perfect family who are not perfect that have their own demons . He finds out about their infidelities and it cracks him . He goes over the deep end . I like how the store he works at has all the similarities of Wal-Mart ; they called it Sav-Mart . I am surprised Wal-Mart hasn't sued them . The employees even wear the same blue vest . This guy has trouble coping with reality . A whole bunch of outside events catch up to him and the viewer gets to find out if he is a violent man . Watch the film and find out . I am glad I went to see this one in the theatre as I was pleasantly surprised .
Is it Safe ?	The best line in this classic film . What a cast Will , Larry , Dust & Roy with a strong story . This is Hofman's best acting performances , and one I believe he can not out do . The story is about a young college student , who's brother gets him involved indirectly with a Nazi war criminal . I will not ruin this story for you , but the line " Is it safe " will for ever be imprinted in your mind after you see the film . Suspense , horror , and tension makes this film . Hoffmen is also knowing as creepie in this film . What else can one ask for .
Must see	This is a very good film , Russel Crowe probably practices method acting , like Robert De Nero . Crowe played the part of a mercinary to the tee . He walked , talked , and behaved , as one would . This film is neither politically correct , or Hollywoodish ie Rambo phoneyish . If this film followed a book , the script is very close to the true story . The strong part of this film is its realism , it conveys a message where you understand the difficulty , hardness , and ruthlessness of the situation . We do not live in a black and white world of politically correctness or Hollywoodism , but a complex one which is grey , not black and white . The answers to questions somtime can not be yes or no , and Crowe realizes this and plays a realist , with a few plot twist or breaks , puts information together for a great conclusion . This former S . A . S soldier , does a job is the best description for this film . P . S Caruso plays the role of the other mercenary perfectly this could restart his carrier .
Funny	One of the best episodes for season 2 , which comes out on DVD on September 11 . The plot ploy of Sam's and Dean's tension towards one another is excellent . The trickster uses again them . Everyone's perception of the story is different , as we see between the two brothers . Sam and Dean both over exaggerate one another's behaviour . Slow , dancing with an alien , and being eating by a sewer alligator is a couple of the tricksters ploys . Tall Tales over the top and humorous ending release the humorous tension of the story . . The trickster really looked like a goof . I love the trickster's more a than a toilet seat comment . I know a couple people the trickster should visit .
Good show	I like this show . Started slow , but the episode picked up as the show progressed . I wonder if the slow start was the directors intention ? Phone calls from the dead cause people to die . Dean hears form what could be his father ? Can Dean's dad be real ? Sam is the realist for a change of character while Dean is not . A major story change for the series ! The plot twist at the end is great . I never would have guest . The part where people have more communication , but less community is so true . We live in such a society where people try to grab hope through new technology . for the show . I wish season 3 could have been longer .
Just saw it great film !	Just saw it great film . The International is about a bank which uses illegal methods for their investments . Resonates well with the audience after the banking crisis . Well written , directed and acted . One of Owens best performances to date . Watts had a strong supporting role . I would buy the blue ray for The International . I give the movie 8 dollars out of 10 . The movie makes me wonder what do the banks invest in which we have no idea about ? The ending of the movie asks these questions . Watch the ending credits . I would watch this film again . One of the best gun battles I have ever seen in a movie . The gun battle alone is worth the 8$ .
Better than Independence Day	With that X files UFO craze of the mid 90's my wife and I went to a double billed drive inn . A wimpy PC Independence Day and its competition the Arrival where duking it out . The Arrival won this , a third round TKO , a no contest fight . Sheen like Tyson destroyed his career and had the potential for greatness . This film is more of a mystery than Independence day . I love the part where Sheen offers people free fiber optics in order to trick them for use of their dishes at night . Under rated , and a little to ahead of its time .
Worth watching	4 . 9 rating that must be a mistake . This movie too much fun . Unbelievable in spots , but that is done for an entertaining story . Interesting plot , with a never before done ending , great stunts ( ie the 1 mile parachute drop ) strong cast , perfect acting , and the last twenty minutes keeps you on the edge of you seat . This movie is well researched , I liked the detail of using the Russian assault vehicale in Beruit , who ever researched this movie did their home work . It is very original .
I do not watch religious shows and I like this one !	I do not like most religious shows and I like Joel Osteen . Most religious shows are preachy , dry , boring , and have no reference to modern living . Jesus taught in story and so does Joel . The viewer can relate to the story and apply the stories to modern living . I like advice about enemies at work self doubt in life , etc . Much better than stories with guilt and a heavy message . The " this is my bible " start of the show starts with a bang and the rest of the message just takes off from there . Way to go God , Joel and everyone else involved in the show . Well paced , . Pretty cool to have a Church out of an old basketball arena . How big 18 000 or 25 , 000 ?
Great TV movie , it remind me of Die Hard .	This is TV's version of Die Hard , and I like it . Every aspect of the film works , and does not have any of the annoying poor quality one expects from TV movies . It is entertaining , and not sappy either , ok a little . I believe it was filmed in Portage Place Mall in my home town . This is where my best friend Rick Krager and I would hang out on weekends and girl watch . It is funny how the camera angles make the mall look ten times bigger , a scene is at the old Eatons mall entrance , which no longer exists with the new arena going up . Watching this film is not waste of time like most made for TV movies . I give it an .
I like this episode	What happens when society breaks down . It is everyman for him self . The two brothers go to a near by town to find a hospital an get supplies . In the end the Ravenwood mercenaries are raiding the town . We got social break down . I do because I can mentality . The do it for it is right doctor they find is broken man for hard time kill these type of people , but the doctor is a much needed asset for the town . The subplots on the more social side are replace with the more nasty reality of life , which makes the show slicker . I believe event will only get worse for the town . I hope help is soon . Where is the federal government ? When will electricity be restored ? There is trouble coming down the highway ! What is next .
Evil	This film was disturbing , scary and intriguing . The movie startsout strong and revolves around a mystery . Some of it is stupid , but most of the film is okay . The stupid stuff gets cleared up lateron in the film . I thought the movie was going to have anotherstupid horror film ending , but I was shocked . It leaves room for apart two . It is worth seeing in the theater . Do not see it if you donot like scary or evil movies .
Good Cop show	The 70's was the era of the police shows . Police story , Police women , Street's of San Fran , and SWAT were a few . Working evenings and not being able to sleep I started watching Kojak , and started reliving my childhood . The show is better than I remember for having some realism . The show's producers must have done research . Dated in spots , and has a TVish formula , but still good . I like the Crocker character . Everyone seems too grumpy on the show . My wife says the introductions of females in the work environment may have a calming effect on the work environment . ( could be a possibility ) The characters do show a soft side . Worth watching late night if one can not sleep . Beats Elim a date . . Only if I could stay awake for a whole show . My wife likes Kojak's sayings .
Believe in your dreams	What is meant to be will happen . Saint Rita interceded , and with God anything can happen is the message . This movie displays hope in a hopeless world . Which is a good message , and an inspiration for all . This is a happy story , and a movie about values and people . Where I work many of my coworkers hope for others to fail , and this movie shows what supportive people can achieve .
Funy movie	Read the old ABA web page and find out how much of the movie is true . Semi pro has many influences from the ABA . The slam dunk style , bear wrestling , and cow milking contests were some of the funny material which made a great movie . Real life is funnier than fiction . Semi pro has great material too work with . A goofy movie with a no better goofy actor than Will Ferrell . Ferrell pulls off a hard acting job of a fly by the seat of his pants owner / coach / manager and player etc ABA operator . The acting and directing is great but the true star which shines is the script , which is influenced by real life . Low ball humor , not for the whole family . . My buddy Dax and his wife enjoyed the movie . What does the Tropics have to do with Flint , Michigan ? I think the team moved from Florida . Funny the Nuggets almost went to the final in their first year with the NBA . I guess that is why the NHL stripped the WHA Jets of their team before they merged . Just an after thought .
Good fall movie	. A good movie well directed , acted , and an interesting story . Reminds me of the spaghetti Westerns , with Yuma's style and artistic imagery . Russell Crowe is an outstanding actor . Crowe excels in any role . In Yuma , Crowe is rough , but smart and gentle at the same time . Crowe does not dominate a leading role , but dominates an entire film . It does not matter what the role is , Crowe adapts and becomes that character . I love the ending where Crowe is a bad guy only for the adventure , not the money , and wants to see Bale impress his boy . See this Western at the Theater . LionGate Films is releasing some risky movies like Saw that set new trends . Bravo !
A good show	Every body loves a Clown is a good show for starting the second season . The show introduces new characters , while the Dean and Sam characters develop , and the clown itself is a great bad guy . The new characters add new life to the series . Jo and Dean have a sexual tension which is obvious . Jo is not over taken by Dean's demeanor ! Ash adds comic relief with line's like being the serious up front party in the back comment . Bobby and the mother is the new anchor to replace John . The Sam and Dean conflict is great which shows that Sam is a little smarter than Dean . Dean's super cool behaviour is killing him . Believe me shock and pain will get to you , I am a lot like Dean , and Dean breaks with his behavior towards the Impala . Dean still has his defensive wit with the I feel like a soccer mom with the mini-van to replace the car . I really hated the evil clown , we all know a evil clown was going to hit the show one day , and I enjoyed the clown getting it . Winchester Boys are about 10 or 11 and 1 in the win column . I believe the Trickster is the only one to beat them . .
Not bad	The plot devices ' In my time of dying drives the second season . The devices are : What is with Sam ? What is with the big secret ? Dean's guilt because of dads death . In my time of dying has two stories . 1 Dean is like the character Sam of the movie ghost . There is a reference to the movie in this show . The 2nd story , the viewer learns more about the yellow eyed demon , and how much the demon wants John to die . I just bought the 2nd season and notice the other episodes tie in with this first one . I wonder what season 3 will be like ? Is Sam a changed person ? Will Dean be the same person again ? Will the series die with the death of the Winchesters foe ?
I liked it	I loved this movie . I found Bangkok Dangerous well directed , acted , and executed . The pace and flow of the movie keeps the viewer enthralled with the characters and story . Cage's character has highs and lows where the character , Joe , deals with fast paced action , melded with slow paced personal character development created by his interaction with other characters . The movie gives the viewer a breather between the intenseness of the movie's action . The supporting actors with Cage create a realism of the dangers of Bangkok . I found the movie pays homage to the 1973 classic ' The Mechanic ' . The other homage the movie pays is to the 1973 Bond film ' Man with the Golden Gun ' A great movie to watch . I have notice the trend of cross social interchange in movies lately . Where one sees the mix of North American and Asian language and culture in movies like " The Ring " etc . I find the change refreshing where one sees something new in films . Other than the same old same old . 8 gunfights out of 10 for Bangkok Dangerous .
Stupid , fun	I really like this film , it makes me laugh . It is weird , and funny at the same time . It has a book that bites , and other stupid gags . I watched the collector edition , with the 2 different endings . I like the original ending myself . This is not for the serious crowd !
Wrong Wrong Wrong you all got it wrong and missed the message .	Spoilers ! ! ! ! ! Excellent film , it has its flaws , but I understood the message . The movie starts out without all the stupid credits at the beginning , but with a Johnny Cash Bible verse , with a few changes , because it is from the killers mind . Del Toro wants to die and as in the Bible when God tested Abraham about sacrificing his only son , Del toro wants to die and views Jones , as a father , and his actions calls Jones out . The movie starts in with a violent Kosvo operation , and this shows his battle stress , and what made him mentally ill . He explains this illness with his nonsense about so many chickens get slaughtered a year ; meaning that his hunting skill has evolved him higher on the food chain , and he is acting out nature's plan , and Jones is the only one higher in this chain . The message in this film not about violence , but what it does too men's souls . Which is evident with Jones at the ending .
Michael Douglas plays a villain	Funny , how history repeats itself . With Enron , World com , and now Tyco this movie is ahead of its time . Now the corporate world goes beyond the unethical standards this movie brought up . Sheen's second best performance after Platoon . Douglas shines as Gordon Gecko with his greed is good speech . I believe profits and technology is good , or we would be economically left behind without it . Greed in itself , can destroy the economy , environment , and peoples ' lives . What happens to the economy if business destroys the middle class ? I took economics and no goods would be sold , and America's economic might would fall . This movie addresses this important issue . Greed vs values , the country and peoples lives . The funny irony is when Gecko said the air manufacture could not compete with deregulation that is exactly what happened . There is a reality with what the analysts say also .
Rivals Spiderman	So far this year the competition for best film will be Spiderman and this movie . It started out slow ; but intriguing . No new surprise characters in this film , ie . Hans Solo . The best character had to be Yoda . He is so ugly that he's cute . We learn more about the Jedi in this episode ; maybe too much . The film has a Starship trooper influence to it , which adds to it . The ending was disappointing ; no conclusion . It just left you asking " Is that it ? " Did they run out of time ? Maybe they should of cut some of the relationship scenes . Worth seeing on the big screen though .
A good tribute to other movies .	Children shouldn't play with dead things I believe is a movie ? This show is a tribute to Pet Semitary . I guess Stphen King should get some sort of tribute . The girlfriend is raised from the dead from a geek who could not go out with her when she was alive and gets more of gal then he thought , including a broken nick . I like how they get her back to the grave ploy . I like Dean's street smarts to figure out the grave with dead grass omen , and the cheating friend . The best part is where we learn how Dean , like myself holds everything inside , and covers his feeling with bulletproof attitude . Sam gets the real Dean out . Dean is over the edge and is scary . A good episode . . I hope to see more of Dean's weaker side in season 3 .
Like Pulp Fiction	Like the movie Pulp Fiction , Dean has a question of faith . A freak occurrence or an act of God ? The ending asks the faith question . Sam has faith , while Dean analyzes the mystery . Both prove their points . I believe and was taught God many times uses gentle pushes for his will . The avenging angel theory does God get angry ? The car chase at the ending is great . True Dean Winchester at his best ! The punk runs like one would expect . I like Dean's anger . Dean's round character development is expanded . Dean is a man who has seen too much , and is burnt out . A driven man with a sense of purpose . Houses of the Holy shows there is hope for Dean and room for faith . A sign of redemption for Dean's character flaws .
A good solid Western !	Appaloosa is a good solid Western ! I love the directing , script , and writing . Ed Harris plays a good role as a crazed gun for hire sheriff . Virgo's character plays the other sheriff who has better social smarts . The plot unfolds with the women character who at first is the side story then with the plot twists becomes the main story is a great plot device . Great script ! Ed's gunfighter with no social skills is played as a mark by the much socially smarter women . The movie has a two fold story of those with physical power Haris , and those with social power and how they socially interact and maintain power in a social setting . The social power was winning out in the movie . When the protagonists Harris in the story is losing out to the antagonist who can not beat out Harris physically but reverts to new tactics of socially taking over the town one see you can win a battle in more than one way . Well , all I can say is the violent side strikes back . Good movie . A deep message .
It is never too late in life	That is the message I got from this film . It is nice to see a fellow Winnipeger doing well . I thought this movie was going to be an Artsie film , but I was pleasantly surprised . I understand the humour in this film as I grew up in East Kildonan and a lot of my friends ' families were this way . All cultures have the good and the bad , but in the end it is what type of people they are . I believe Windex will fix anything . I wonder how much of this is from real life or was it all made up . It was worth renting . This one should of been one that I should of seen in the theatre .
surprise of the summer	Surprise of the summer ! W T C shows the worst which happened bestowed by the enemies of America , while Americans show the best of humanity with the attack . A long movie , which did not drag . The story unfolds on several fronts . The coming together of America , and the human side . I believe the film is a dedication for all the heroes of that tragic day . A few questions the film never answered . Why did the gun fire by itself ? Why was there a flame ball underground ? Cage's character was right that the elevator shaft is the strongest part of the building to hide under . . I wonder if there will be any spin off movies about the wars we presently face . Was there a ex-marine character that actually presently himself to help find survivors ? If so , Kudos to him .
WoW what a positive step in horror movies .	This film is a positive change in horror movies . Like Wes Craven's Scream that describes the rules , or formulas of horror movies ; this one breaks them all . Horror films like Scream have gotten boring . The old formula where the strong woman who finds her inner strength survives , or the updated version that reverses that black comedian who joked about the black guy who always dies first . They now still have the single woman who lives , and the black cop or director we may believe has died comes around in the ending . Not much of a change for the horror fan . Now that 2 people live instead of one , you still have the annoying over macho sarcastic guy being one of the first too die , the bimbo is either last or second to die and she usually dies awful , and the worst fate always goes too the comic relief fat guy that no one likes . I always feel sorry for him . This film gets rid of all that , and has no practical jokes gone bad or unjust revenge as its story either . It has a deadly fatalistic feel to it , and a shocker of an ending , which scares and disturbs the viewer . It will leave an impression , not as good as the Ring , but a brave new horror movie , for a new century .
Close the real life !	Close to real life . What I hate about the Stranger is the believability of the movie . Weirdo's are hard to deal with . I remember the line from " No country for old men " where Tommy Lee's narration talks about how he as a sheriff he never wants to push his chips into something he can't understand . What make this movie scary is lack of motive for the perpetrators . The 911 call sounds way too real . I bet if the occupants of the house were 3 Marines back from Iraq this would never happened . The part I do not understand is why the bad guys were not shot or ran over . Oh well it's just a movie , but a scary one . on the fear meter . I hate it when people phone at 4 in the morning or do anything else to that matter . Just let the poor people get some sleep .
A solid 8	I really liked this series as a youngster . The standouts on the series were Howard Hunter for comic relief , Chief Ferro , and the undercover cop JD . The cast of characters were strong , and driven by great scripts . The episode were the SWAT leader Hunter wants to blow a sniper off the roof with a rocket launcher is argued by Chief Ferro a hilarious moment . Unlike CSI , Hill street Blues shows the human side of the police and the causes of hopelessness of the streets . A solid . I watched repeats and the show does not age well . However , I remember the show takes time to grow on the viewer . My wife did not care for this show growing up and disagrees with me . I guess it all lies in the taste of the audience . I probably liked it as I watched all the police shows growing up .
Close to the book	I read the book and find this movie quite close . They had to merge a few characters and speed up time , but when a book is over 1000 pages and five year of his life they did a credable job . Believable and forgetabouit with Mike Maddison performances . He's the most believable character in the whole film , and the guy who said " did you think about making your big this week cause I hate to be looking for you " did a great suporting role . Rent it tonight
Roberts best	I was waiting for this huge social lecture ; I like these type of films , but hate the lectures . Instead , I found a entertaining , yet realistically acted film . It was enjoyable to watch how mistakes happen , intentionally , or people just not caring , and lawyers ( for a change not being the bad guy ) give people the opportunity for amends . Regrettably money will never be a true payment for justice , but the people at least were able to move . I wonder how many of these man made disasters happen ? In Canada , we seem too have cover ups where I read the paper , and nothing ever get resolved with many issues . I wonder if they get settled out of court . A movie is like a few pictures of a very complex event . I found this movie , it may have been dramatized , gave me a better understanding of the events .
One of Stallone's best	This film is done on a very low budget , and its a great film . Some times , low budget film compensate with good acting . The script , probably has some real life experiences in it , with a few of the scenes , especialy with the apple boxes , and the double cross part in the film . After watching this film , I thought this film is great , and I am happy I spent my time watching a true gem .
4 . 2 What ? More like 7 or 8 !	4 . 2 What ? What is with a 4 . 2 ? Too hard on the film . The movie is not a Scream type film . I was surprised . The movie makers did a film in a way that could actually happen . I like the concept ! Not a fantasy Scream style film . A nice break in the horror movie filming . The over the top stunts , and blood is replaced with the sick mind and tension of a predator . A slow burn . The story has many little extras . I would watch the movie again . I guess the urban legend has killed the plot twists . If one does not know the story the better the film will unravel . The Colorado back drop is lovely but spooky at the same time . The woods and the cabin feel of the house give a wild and unsafe what is in the woods lurking atmosphere . 7 or . Worth cheap night . A Friday night date movie . I would buy the movie for 9 . 99 at Wal-Mart .
D good movie	I really like this film . Comedy is hard to preform . What I like about " What happens in Vegas " is the irony humor . How a perfect gal , and a by the seat of his pants guy use their worst traits to get along . They need each other for the couple's bad traits balance each other out . One learns to let go in life , and the other learns to start trying . The humor of extremes is great . I like the party scene . People just go the extremes . 8 out 10 laughs for this one . Go see What happens in Vegas stays in Vegas at the movie theater . My wife loved this movie . A good pizza movie night . Buy the DVD ! I hope they never make part 2 . Go Redwings HA HA I need 1o line to get a post . Is it 10 lines yet .
This movie has it all	This movie has it all , special effects , action , humor , and most of all machismo . Its , just true escapism , not a serious movie . Whoever , did the comment about Kurt Russel being John Wayne is right , and Russel does it well . Lot's of Karate , and stupid humor , I love this , and let's not forget about the monster . Rent it , be it , live it . What a great concept , and a great movie .
Different with out Eric but Norton is a great replacement .	The Hulk is a well directed , and crafted movie . The back in time , and present time filming creates a great mise en scene ! The continuity of the directing creates a great pace where the viewer is enthralled with the story . Eric Bana did the last film and Norton had big shoes to fill . Norton especially with the beginning scene of hiding in Brazil , plays the on the run Bruce Banner character excellently . The ending is great , I was shocked . William Hurt plays a good bad guy again . I will not ruin the ending , but will give a hint . There is a clue to the ending at the beginning of the movie . Two merged into one is all is my hint . green monsters
Cool Hand Luke a cool movie	I can see why in the old days the crime rate was lower , if this film represents the prison system . This is a powerful movie , and maintains an entertaining pace throughout . The beginning , the egg scene and the boxing match , make it a classic . The Newman , Kennedy , and Glasses characters will never be forgotten . In conclusion , a 30 year old film that still entertains , is a true piece of Americana .
Great movie !	Not too many comedy's humor last the entire movie . This film is a laugh every two minutes . I love the part where the old car dealer drives into the pole . The stunt man who test drives a car is sick humor , but my kind of sick humor . Russel can do either action or comedy ; a rarity for actors . This movie set his career in motion . This film is a true classic , because it ages well . Michael say
Perplexing	' Devil's Trap ' is a perplexing episode with plots and twists which creates the illusion of one event , while another actually unfolds . The unfolding story leads the viewer wanting more . Devil's Trap's character development of the omnipotent one , John Winchester , creates John's own downfall . Sam and Dean have to handle 2 missions at one time . Will Sam and Dean save a family from Iowa from a Y . E . D attack and can they help their dad who is on a different mission ? I love Dean's statement about whipping the Y . E . D , but no such luck . Sam almost burns himself out of hatred for the Y . E . D . Devil's Trap is a two part episode because of the stunning conclusion . . I love this show . I just got season 2 on DVD .
Good movie with a hidden message	It is a moral movie , like a William the Shake play . What if a mans marital infidelities lead to extreme consequences . The hidden message is selfishness and the attack on the family . Michael Douglas can not get no satisfaction with his wife when their child needs to sleep with them one night . The next day his wife and child head out of town , and Douglas has a weekend work appointment . He meets a hot woman from an office party and his decision leads to tragic events which will change his life . Harder he tries to get out this mess the worst it gets ; this movie is one big tension builder . Worth seeing !
A different time	A good movie about a different time . Walt Kowalski's character is a person from a different time set . I grew up in East Kildonan in Winnipeg and like the movie's portrayal of Detroit . We had many Walt's around . People who called it as they see it . People who never held back . People WHO love to bust other people verbally . Not very politically correct place to live . I got my turn to be verbally busted and people love to see how you can take it and what your worth is . In the end , Walt viewed people by their actions and respect was earned . I think Walt learned a few things about other people in Grand Torino . In the end the right person earned the Gran Torino . I love how they portrayed Walt's own family as a group of self absorbed people who never had time for dad unless they wanted something from him . Too bad we think so much about our selves and not others in today's world .
Roger Moore makes the best Bond	I believe this , but Connery did very well in Diamonds are Forever . I find Moore does humor better , plus being younger than a lot of Bond fans I grew up with Roger Moore . For Your eyes only had less humor than the other Bond movies , but balances it out with great stunts . This is another story where Bond did not save the World , which is nice . The skiing , scene is just incredible , and the part with the Parrot at the end is funny . The end does not have the usual Bond count down everything blows up lets get out of here scenerios . This film ages well , and is not as dated as some of the other Bond films . Watch this one during TBS 13 days of Bond .
I did not expect much	I did not expect much of this film , when I first met my wife I though it would be a good rental for a date . Another Batman I thought , but this film is entertaining . It is nice when you have low expectations when the movie ends surprisingly good . The hideous darkman is created by crime ; the evil done by the criminals is recreated on them by this sinister hero . This twisted justice gels well , and I love the ending .
Better than Saving Private Ryan !	Last time I watch this one is the day my Grandfather died , to take my mind off it . I forgot how well acted , directed , this film is , and what a huge budget . This shows is an acting documentary , and cuts out the crap . We did this all for nothing is a great line . Check out the line up for this movie WoW ! I do not tell many people to rent an older black and white film , but even with out color it is better than most .
Great classic	Do not let the age of this film fool you , this is a good film . The terminator before Arnold came around . It is an amusement park that goes amuk , and it becomes the vacation from hell . I can watch this film over and over , with its cool concept . This is great sci-fi and comparing it to other sci-fi films this one is a leader for other to copy .
Classic 70's	A majority of 70's film I watch on video have no plot or gaping holes in the story , or just plain unbelievable . Ie like the 70's style film Way of the gun . The true jems of this area really stand out and the Mechanic is a film thats , aged well , and is still showing on TBS . I love this film the story has twists , its believable , and the concept is fresh . A hitman who makes literal accidents happen , hires a apprentice to help himself out . The beginning is done extremely well there is no dialogue in the first 8 minits , and the viewer watches intently at Bronson's actions . There is a few hints about what is going to happen , and twists to keep the story interesting . This a smart action film .
Excellent bio	I do not know how true this film is , especially with the time constraints of the movie , but I learned much about Arnold for myself . Confidence and drive is important and essential in order to survive in life's journey and Arnold knows this . The viewer learns that Arnold is brash and positive , and would be hated by negative people everywhere ; negative people would find Arnold arrogant , while more mentally healthy individuals would find Arnold's positive attitude contagious . Arnold's visualization and attitude , is no sales act in order to use people , but the natural personality of a driven man . The movie addresses the harshness of Arnold's childhood , and his need of acceptance . ( A Freud theory in this movie ) Many Dads want their sons to have a toughness and hunger , but balanced with love . A theme throughout this film . I , myself may be seen as cocky , and mistaken as a jerk without a softer side ; I believe the director shows a softer side to Arnold that only people who really know the man could tell . I would have to look into Arnold's eyes too really know the man . Compassion is not a event to boast about but a more private side . I learned about Arnold from this film and found this film to be a comedy / auto bio , which I think is how Arnold is . 8 or . Great TV movie . A & E sure can make better TV movies than the networks . I would not be surprised if a network makes a whole movie about Arnold's life from childhood on . I wonder if Arnold would write an auto bio ?
This show had me guessing	I love watching a story unfold where the viewer is guessing the next plot twist . The anticipation for the conclusion was unbearable ! This show is well directed , and acted . The supporting cast was superb . The gas station scene with the clerk was excellent , and Dean's solution of bribery was great . Sam gets a break from being the good guy and plays an evil character . The character twist adds new life to the show . Who was doing the killing ? Would Dean kill Sam ? The smart guy in the junkyard who solved the problem wraps up the story nicely . . A fresh new episode . Can hardly wait to buy the second season on DVD which is set to come out on September 11 , 2007 .
this is a cute film	Spoilers ! ! This is a film everyone can enjoy . This is on par with Monsters Inc . William Dafoe has such a recognizable voice . The character he does the voice for ( Gill ) suits him . Gill is an angel fish with a whole bunch of scars over him . It makes it look like he's had a hard life . He picks his roles very well . There is a part where there are two seagulls floating on the water when an air bubble goes by his butt . The other seagull looks at him and says ' nice ' and flies off . This movie makes seagulls look so stupid . It has the disney quality that one would expect . Very nice ending . This is a must see on the big screen .
Aged well .	I love " The Invaders " . What a great show ! For 1967 " The Invaders " aged well . Many good science fiction story lines . The Spores was a great episode with Gene Hackman . I think Invasion of the Body Snatcher got a few ideas from the mentioned episode . Great stories and with a cool concept . A man knows of an Alien invasion but no one will believe him . The show reminds me of Supernatural . I wonder if they will ever remake " The Invaders " . Maybe they can you Jensen Ackles as David Vincent . I give the series an . Only if those aliens did not vaporize when they die the show's problems would be easy . There is never any proof ! Buy the box set . Is it 10 lines yet . Now it is .
Set the pace for the series	Set the pace for the series . I found the Pilot episode well directed , written , and acted for a TV series . Many TV shows are quickly and cheaply made , while ' Supernatural ' is made of movie quality . The story subplot where there is a need for the Winchester brothers ' to find their father is the driving storyline for the first series . The lady in white mystery story shows the contrast and personal chemistry of the two brothers Sam and Dean . Dean is more personality streetwise , while Sam is more personally academic . The personality faults and infamous stunts create humor for the series . The blend of storyline , the character's personas , and the driving need to find their father create a great mixture for this episode and the first season . . Very 80's oriented if you understand lines like the best of mullet rock .
Like a urban tale	I like this tail . Remember the story where they have to sacrifice someone to the volcano or river god and add the mix of the movie ' Jepers Creepers ' one has the script for Scarecrow . The show has family intrigue with the boy's dad given them a call . Dean goes on the mission , while Sam looks for dad . Sam run's into a interesting girl ( Meg ) ! A atmosphere of suspense . Well directed and acted . Dean is funny with the one liners . I hope your apples are worth it , and given the name for the drummer for Led Zep to the restaurant owner is memorable . The Scarecrow is the most memorable part of the show . I will remember the Scarwcrow anytime I think of the show . Great , movie quality , special effects ! I can not believe this is a TV show . . Buy the box set .
Better than the first !	I was very surprised that this was better than the first . Usually sequels are pretty bad , but this was entertaining . It was different enough from the first one and fits well in the series . This film leaves room for a part III . I really like the owls as the postman . The beginning is funny with his mean uncle and the cake . This movie can be enjoyed by the whole family . Some parts might scare younger ones . The film kept one guessing as to what would happen next . Take the family to this one .
Film of the 90's	This director peaked when he made this film , I do not think he will ever be able to out do Pulp Fiction . This films timing , cast , and story mixed perfectly , like a good meal . It is a combination of talent and luck to make a film like this . The timing is incredible , for it was released in the mid 90's during the hight of political correctness . Harrison Ford could not pick up a gun in the movie clear and present danger . Swearing , any bad stereo types of characters was tabu . The film industry was getting very boring , and this shocker came out . I was surprise there was no protests over this film . The swearing , racial slears , violence , drug use , and rape pushed this film to new lows . This film is well made not from cheap shock value . The shock value is a by-product of the sleazy characters . It is the scripts characters and the story make this film mind blowing , and fresh . The acting is incredibly strong , no one could a ford this cast now , because all the actors where either up and coming or over the hill during this film , and luckly instead of watching a actor get paid 20 million and the film suffers , we see a very strong cast . The 4 stories all melt into one , and the films message is about choices in life , along with a anti violent message . Unlike many movies of that time it does not preach this message , which insults the viewer , but brilliantly makes a subtle message .
Great movie	When a dated movie does not show its age , the movie becomes a classic . This film is funny , and it has gags : Visual , physical , and situational . When you watch this movie look for the following : the drunk waiter , bride num num , and the toilet . The film does not die off as many other comedies do . Do not let the age of this film fool you , rent this movie and enjoy .
One of the better films this year	One of the better films this year . Not anti war or pro war , but done in a auto-biography style . I personally like films which show events as is ! The Over There show is anti-war , and drama story , I find when a story is too political , there is a dilution of the story . The story lacks when the realism does not happen ; I am sure bad events happen during war . Jarhead shows the causes , boredom , stress , and stupidity , which happens with the human factor , and different personalities . The movie also shows the positive and the Spartan of marine life . I find the irony or duality of the movie is the character who is the decent , most level headed guy ; the glue of the squad is the soldier which will be dishonorably discharged from the corp . Even the level headed soldier unglued when ordered or cheated out of the chance for a enemy kill . Why ? For all the training , and build up there was no release , and the event became overwhelming for the individual . . Big budget .
comic relief	The comic relief episode . I love this episode ; while watching Hollywood Babylon my wife kept saying Michael which is my name to everyone of Dean's antics . Ie stuffing his face while saying this is great , listen to the headphones , and being an excited big kid during the tour annoying the heavy kid beside him . The show pokes fun at all the hooks Hollywood uses like the guy in the woods , the blowing wind , creaking doors , the stupid one liners etc . The best part is the mockery of the Hollywood producer who getting show ideas while people are dying . The classic scene is the moment of silence for someone who died and no one cares displays the over importance of big egos in the industry . The ending is silly . ! Catch the summer reruns for the one .
One of the better episodes !	In The beginning is a great episode . The story of how Sam is who he is becomes known . The Back to the Future story line has Dean going back to 1973 and meeting his parents . Dean finds a soft easy going father instead of the harden marine . I believe John Winchesters harden life , the bad event with his wife made John the man he was latter on in life . The Impelia plot twist is great . Dean finds out his mom was a hunter wow . Dean learns one can not change time . We have an eerie warning were Dean understands the past so he can change the future . What about Sam ? for this episode . Worth watching ? What will Dean do ? Why does Dean always have to clean up the messes ?
Prelude to the Season final .	This guy is changing from a human to a flesh eating monster . A hunter says Sam and Dean have to kill him and any offspring from the monster . I believe the guy was changing into a monster . The right decision was made with the boys flaming the monster in the making . The episode is the micro of the macro . Will Sam Metamorphosis into a demonic monster ? Will Dean pull the Gordon on Sam ? These questions will be addressed as the season unfolds . A tease or taste of future events . A good episode . The series gets stronger with each new episode . I just can not wait for next week show . The real Ruby should come out soon or later . I bet Dean will but heads with her .
This film is gold .	I love this film about the last day of school . This film is too realistic for the writer to just make it up . Sure some of the stuff could be spiced up and some of the character could be merged , but the comments and events remind me of a good story I heared form some friends while we go camping . The freshie day , and the high school jerk etc make this story one of the best . It is directed so well you get the feel you where there , and the script make one under stand what's in the minds of these people . I bet the writer was the chacater Mike in the movie , just call it a wild guess , but it makes sence . I will not ruin the story , but if you love pranks , funny coments , and crazy people you gotta see this one .
Funny	This movie is cheaply made , and is very stupied . If you take it seriously then you will hate this movie . A few drinks latter you will love Premen Watters ( the singing cowboy ) . If you love cars , crashes , and cheap humor rent it . The German auto racer make this movie worth renting all by himself .
The insane are sometimes not .	I like how the insane guy knows something up , and the people who are normal disbelieve . The robot man from the security guard had it right . Dean and Sam have a mission which is wrinkled , because of the security guard's interference . I love the slow burn last quarter of the show . Dean's comments we are so screwed is great . How they get out of this episode is brilliant . Well directed , acted and written is why Supernatural is the best show on television . Supernatural is the New England Patriots of Television . 9 out 10 . When will they put a classic ZZ top song on a episode ? Will the FBI be in season 3 ? I be the bank robbery will haunt the brother in season 3 ? The FBI has to be in several of season 3 episodes ?
Rangers all the way !	If you like watching the history channel like I do you ' The Great Raid ' is the summer movie for you . Not a flaw in The great raid . Directed and acted well . The script follows the historical and personal stories well . Movie is better than Pearl Harbor . The acting schools are better than years ago , and shows that no film needs a 9 million dollar actor which kills the budget , with cheap sets , and no script rewrite . Many years ago the need for name actors helped . Some of the no name actors do better films and acting , while the Julia Roberts , and Tom Cruises live on past glories and have been in disappointing films , with tired roles . Nice to not see all the computer animation in a film for a change , which is getting old . 9 or . Nice to see a film which tells the story like it is . Not have all the Hollywood made up baloney . I rather watch the Duke if the film is fictitious . Good movie
Good mix of humor and drama	I found the Supernatural episode Simon Said a good mix of humor and drama . Simon Said reminds me of the movie Scaners , which they show on Showcase all the time , without the exploding heads . Andy is a good natured person who has this Scaner ability , which can make people do his will . Asks for Dean's car and has it , and Andy's gift has no effect on Sam . Simon Said has a evil twin and Sam question what does the demon have in store for him which adds to the drama . Jo and Dean have the sexual tension / humor part were Jo plays a R E O speed wagon song that Dean keeps singing I just can keep stop loving you in the car . . What will Dean and Jo have in store for next season . Great show were you will laugh , but stay glued for the ending .
Transformers is just a fun movie to watch !	Transformers is just a fun movie to watch . The viewer get to relieve his or her childhood . The four great qualities the movie has is ( 1 ) great special effects , ( 2 ) a 1980's Spielberg feel , ( 3 ) Fast pace , and ( 4 ) Lots of humor . The special effects were just over the top . The beginning scene were the helicopter transforms at the military base is great . I write no more or ruin the movie . Spielberg has a certain 1980's quality for movies and if the viewer has watched ET , Raiders , or Back to the Futurethey see similarities . A Marty Mc Fly character similarity with the lead protagonist . Michael Bay created a scary fast pace directing similar to The ' Texas Chainsaw Massacre ' . Transformers is a surreal film . The section 7 part of the film is hilarious . I love the section 7 agent . The movie is entertaining for both kids and adults . . I would watch ' Transformers ' again .
You don't need a big budget to make a great picture	This movie is influenced by Alfred Hitchcock's Psycho . A 03's version , with quite a few twists . If you watch the film carefully you see , clues for the ending . I caught a few , and missed others . Nice to see something fresh , without a social message . A film about what just is . Interesting , but sad , I wonder if such things really happen ?
I believe this episode will be used next season .	I believe this episode will be used in season 3 as a reference of a future problem . Town residence disappear after a demonic virus infect's people through blood contact . What happened to all those people will eventually be discovered . The character development of Dean as cold blooded and out of control is revealed . Dean's salvation is with how he handled the possible infection of his brother . A few funny spots were Dean says I don't swing that way , and the guy who had Mr Rogers as a neighbor is great . Well directed and acted . I love the story and the reference to ' Night of the living Dead ' . A zombie idea storyline .
Surprised	I was surprised when I left this film . I did not think highly of this film when I went to see it , but when I left it the film blew my mind . In todays , world of cynicism Rambo , heroes , and Regan became 80ish and Cliton , Pulp Fiction , and brutial realism reflects the late 90's culter . This film is on the mark for the late 90's feel of brutial realism . A film that show how stupid military people can be . How brutial deat is . The human side of all people . It is not afraid to be un politically correct with realistic acting that shows good and bad sides of people . A good film .
One good movie	King's books and short stories transfer well to film . The Mist is a story about creturs from another dimension , and peoples reactions to the new dangerous environment . The story is similar to a socialology study , with subplot about people over reacting to extremes . I guess that is why the military is trained to react in a cold , not to panic condition . The characters , become suspicious of one another . Character start blaming one another , becoming judgmental of each person , and start to using violence etc . Well acted and directed . Each scene leave the viewer interested in the next scene . The brutal ending leaves the message about people's breaking points . A tragic ending where the protagonist becoming irrational , and makes a emotional decision . . Do not miss this film .
It's Groudhog day	I love how ' Supernatural ' can create a parody and turn it upside down . Sam , just like in the movie ' Ground Hog Day ' is reliving the same Tuesday over and over . The episode ' Mystery Spot ' pays many homages to the movie ' Ground Hog Day ' . One example is Sam catching the Tobasco sauce bottle in the diner . The character Dean even uses a reference towards the movie ' Ground Hog Day ' . A funny episode , watching Sam's frustration over the circumstance and how goofy and annoying Dean can be . There is some dark humor in this episode regarding what happens to Dean ! A hug plot twist with a character from the past and what is going to happen in the future . Still the best show on TV . Better than Jericho .
WoW great episode .	Wow great episode ! ' Dream a little Dream of me ' is a cross between the 1980's classic horror movies ' Dreamscape ' , ' A Nightmare on Elm street ' and ' Altered States . Dean and Bobby face personal demons , and a crazy dream killer like Freddy Kruger , but more like the villain from ' Dreamscape ' . Sam figures out the solution , just like in the movie Dreamscape . Well written , the script is a great homage of horror movies past . Excellent acting , and many subplots for future shows . I wonder if Bella pulls her evil stunts to get Dean's attention . Bad attention is better than no attention at all . . Still the best show on TV . Funny , in a strange way , how the other network pits the macho show ' Jericho ' in the same time frame against ' Supernatural ' . Supernatural will win . I wonder if they will ever pay homage to the Canadian horror classic ' Scanners ' ?
Very European	I find European films can be either extremely well done , or done on a low budget ; where a quality story is replaced with shock value . ( ie nudity and bizarre events ) Much , like today's real life TV where shock replaces a high budget for ratings . I never seen the Swedish version , ( it may be Norway , or Finland ) of this film , and it must be excellent . I figure if a producer will spend big money on a remake it will be good like Unfaithful . The European film story is usually more complex than North American style . I like this film's story , where the cop gets caught in a pickle , and can not incriminate himself . This is a story of strings , where bad choices can pull other strings and create other problem . The killer tries to make himself be like the cop , but he gives clues that this is an untruth . In the end , another cop is given the same choice , and that leaves an impression on the viewer . Like Unfaithful one see the ramification of there actions .
The best film this summer so far !	The best film this summer so far ! Ulitmatum gives the series redemption from the disappointing Bourne Surpremacy . Well directed and acted , with strong character development . Noash the handler and the CIA director are the evil characters , while Nicky and others can not handle the guilt of the job , having a human side . The evil vs good premise is Bourne's personality . Bourne lives with his guilt as an assassin , but can still be a heartless machine . Ever scene Bourne is vigilant , alert , and thinking . Bourne is intelligently tactical he does one thing as subterfuge , while accomplishing another . Add in spectacular car chases , chases , and fights we have a great movie . Bourne mercy , and kindness saves his life in the end .
Poor Gordon .	Poor Gordon , ever knew a guy who was a jerk who just did not get it ? Well , the character Gordon is the poster boy for I just don't get it ! Dean and Sam suffer with the emotional trauma of their dad's death . Dean is not facing the huge burden of the trauma and latches onto Gordon . Sam being smarter in his own way , gets hit for addressing Dean's problem . Dean who saved Gordon early on kicks Gordon's butt . Gordon acts and fights in true jerk form . Dean like myself hits Gordon when tied up too a chair , and says now I'am better . Does Gordon learn after this ? No ! Gordon will always place second against the Winchester boys . The real story for ' Blood Lust ' is the story of the two brothers dependence on each other . I found the crux of the story is where Sam and Dean learn / grow from each others character flaws . The flat character Gordon who is hateful is a contrast of what the Winchesters are not . . Gordon should have just left the Winchesters alone .
It made me jump .	It made me jump twice and I never jump at horror movies . This film was exciting and I got my moneys worth . It has a message about minding ones business in it . The part that is scary is its believability . They made the film as if it could have happened . I like that , well see it before video . You really get to hate the bad people in this one .
Mayor Gray gets help	I love this show . The Marines come to town in order to help , but are they really Marines ? Mayor Gray tries to bribe the Marines with food , etc . The old Mayor ( his dad ) gets wind of the con job being pulled on the town . He sees the inconsistency of the military behavior as he was in the military himself and hears the town's fireworks from the command base and knows something is amiss . I will not ruin the rest but the town gets a tank out of the deal . Great directing , big budget , and strong acting . . This show gives Supernatural a run for the money . I cannot wait for the next season . My favorite episode . I think it starts showing here in Canada in February sometime . I hope the strike is not going to delay the showing . I hope the evil mayor from the other town receives payback .
I rate this movie a 9	This is a good film , nothing really compares to this film . I find it original , the acting is strong , the cast is strong , a excellent story , and incredible effects . This film is a great thriller , and Bill Paxion plays a great role . The ending is truly memorable , and one of the most exciting ending I ever seen .
Sam and Dean	My wife love this episode . There is many ' The Shinning ' references for this show IE room 237 . The story is about a ghost who formally lived there , and the destruction of anyone who tries to destroy the old inn . The drunk Sam part show ' Sam's pain and a softer side of Dean taken care of them . The old door man add a lot of humor , and asks Dean if he is going go cheepo on him for a tip . A bar scene with Dean is similar to the Loyd the bartender in ' The Shinning ' . The two girls in the ending remind me of the shinning also . Plaything is a tribute to the above mention movie . Grandma save the day for the movie while Sam and Dean are left wondering how the problem resolved . A surprise ending . I give the brother a tie on this hunt . Yes the dolls are creepy . They were mistaken for a couple in this show instead of brothers .
Stalone's best	As much as the media mocks Stallone , he won best picture for this film . He will never top this film , which made him a icon . It's a story about a down on his luck loan collector / boxers who gets a one time shot at the heavy weight championship , because of a late pull out by a contender , and the champ does not want to lose his money on the deal . There is romance between Rocky and his new girl friend who lives just as hard of a life as Rocky , and together they make life livable . The rest of the cast is other down and outers who give the viewer a feeling of hopelessness until Rocky gets his chance . This film is touching , and unforgettable .
" That was no boating accident	It certainly was no boating accident , as the eating machine ran amuck . Great movie , great lines , suspense , and Robert Shaw as the old captain with his story about the Idianaplous made this a landmark for other films to follow . To bad they made Jaw's 2 , 3 , 4 and whatever else . No matter how often I see this film it is like the first time I saw it . Let us hope they never decide to make a Jaw's 12 .
What can I say	This movie is alot like the movie Mean streats , but with a higher budget . I read the book " Wise guy " and the movie follow the book well . When I read a book I have piture go threw my head of what I am reading , and this moive did this with out myself having to read the book again . Beliveable , and directed in the manner of the author telling the story . The art of story tell is a lost one with many the entertainment industry marketing for a public with a short attenion span , but in the world of Jerry Springer , and professional wrestling , where the product is directed at a 2 second attention span this moive cuts down the quick fix mentaliy of our time . This is a well crafted film , which has a story told and unravels in proper fourm . This is a nice break from factory made fourmulated moives where you can guess the script 10 minitues into the movie . Like the music industry where all the county music and dance music sounds the same , alot of movie go this route , this movie stands out from the repetition .
This one is on my list to buy	This movie was absolutely funny . John Goodman does an excellent voice for Sully . The animation was great . The facial expressions with the voices were out of this world . This movie is for everyone . It seems the animation is getting better and better , but you still have to get the perfect voices for each character . Steve Buscemni plays as slime ball again . This seems to be the only character he does well . Billy Crystal was great too , but as I said John Goodman was the best . The story was consistent and funny through out . I was surprised to hear the voice of James Coburn . The ending left room for a part II if they want to do one , but it will be very hard to beat this one .
Under rated	The film only lasted a week in the theater , and I did not get a chance to see it . The critics did not like this film , but I believe liberal factions in media and a republicanish Arnold seem to be at odds , and Arnold get a fair share of criticism . In the paper I read , the anti American critic reviewed this movie very harshly . When reading the review I thought this movie would be a stinker like eraser , the same done that seen that before action film . Well , I was very wrong , taking philosophy at the University I found this to be a philosophical action film . The story enters a topic of what if in the future we could clone ready made humans , what impact would it have . Well , not to spoil the story you can guess Arnold gets cloned , and the bad guy has this belief in eternal life . Is the person real , does he or she have a soul . Along with some cheap laughs , and fancy futuristic special effect this movie was fun to watch . I laugh when people portray Arnold , because he is a big weight lifter , as dumb , unable to speak , or think rationally ; a movie like this show his philosophical side of acting .
The Best movie about Jesus I seen so far .	This is a long TV mini series about Jesus , but when I watched it over 3 days it did not appear that long . It was relatively accurate and believable . Stacey Keach played Barrabas well . He did not even have a line in this movie . He just looked stressed . This film is very touching , but it appears rushed as Jesus did so much . It would take more than a mini series to examine his life further . I wish they did , but maybe that will come . They got the message right in the film . It is a message of hope with the empty tomb . It saddens me this film , because hope is so hard to find in this world . It would of been amazing to see what Jesus would of been like in our world .
Redford and Newman need I say more .	Redford and Newman go beyond good acting , and their names apitamise greatness . With a great script these actors know no bounds . The Sting is a classic that never shows its age . It was the first movie I ever saw , at age 4 , when the family went to the Drive-In . This movie could pass being made last year . A script with twist , bends , and dives ; with characters you love and ones you hate . Acting that is believable , and historically accurate . The best performance of Robert Shaw's career , he outshone Redford and Newman . This film is exceptional , and one of a few movies ABC showed for around 13 years after its release .
cute bird	Spoiler This is a great film about a conure . He goes through quite the ordeal trying to get back to his little girl owner . He learns a lot through his journey and meets up with a lot of other beautiful birds . If you love birds like my wife does , this film is for you . This film also has some sad parts that make the tears run . In the end it all works out for Paulie and his Russian friend . Rent this for the whole family , everyone will enjoy this .
Powerful film	This is one of Martin's better films . Powerful , I have seen the original and he modernized this film . The character become believable . Nick Nolte is a guy who makes mistakes , and faces a moral judgement when defending a client , and his character has the resolve to do what he did . Robert De Niro is evil , some people's main personality traits can simply be described as evil . I like the part where he studies Neitch , a major personality trait of his being . His 14 years in prison were only training in education , philosophy , exercise , and the art of war . Equally evil as when he entered prison , but even more dangerous when he left . I understand the frustration he felt working in a little 4 by 4 sortation case at the post office , when they show the scene of him being frustrated in his cell waiting to be unleashed . He plays the art of psychological warfare , and slowly turns the violence up . The private eye character is great , and the only expert to handle him . In the end , Nolte's actions lead to his character's fate . Chaos theory
Fast paced	Spoiler This film is well paced . My wife likes the original better , but my opinion differs from hers . I , personally , find that over the years , directing , film quality , acting , editing , and special effects have improved . I see this improvement with this film . The film makers made the story different enough from the original , that the view is not watching a repeat . It starts out well , with the nurse and others finding a strange infection , no one knows how it starts , the nurse and husband should have been paying attention to the TV . Morning comes and this is the best part of the film , anarchy happens , like how I believe events would really happen , ie . the van hitting the car . This movie shows how attitudes have changed over the years , with lots of the characters having jerkitist , I find this very realistic , this jerkitist plague we have today is spreading fast like the zombies . This fits into the story , I am surprised no one has picked up on the story's social message . This zombie plague is brought on my humanity as a punishment , the evil that we do . When the minister said when hell is full the dead will walk the earth . This means the Zombies are the damned , humanity was so bad they filled up hell and had no other place to go but with the living . They are suffering on earth , and prey on the living out of rage . That is why they do not care about the dog in the movie . That is why going to an island or under water or anywhere doesn't matter ; the damned will just walk across the lake they can't die , just their body does . The film shows how no one cares and causes this effect , except for a few . In the end , humanity was damned this is how I interpret this film . What caused it is for your own mind to make up . Mike
Best movie so far this year !	Best movie so far this year ! I can usual see the plot twists , and story lines in a film . However , I was surprised , and shocked . Wow , what a ending , and the film has a couple of twist in the ending too . A guy gets himself into a pickle , and just can not get out of the jar . The guy really has to squeeze his way out of the jar with this movie . There is a lesson here about people putting them selves in their own predicaments . I really hate the bad guy in this movie . Well , directed , written , and acted . A twisted and dark movie . Reminds me of the film Shattered . . Influenced by the film Fatal attraction , but gritter . The environment changes the protagonist .
10 Perfection	Spoilers . This film is excellent , one can watch this over and over and not bore of it . The director sets the mood , shows how cold it was , and gave the characters a human element . Voight and Roberts should have better careers judging on their performances . I would not trust either of them . They have human elements , but also can turn into a beast in 2 seconds . The Warden who handles monsters has become one in the process . The script is strong and builds ups without bad lines ruining the scenes . I like the details in the film that give it the human touch . The railway switch operator likes to watch when he has to derail the train . The warden puts the train director's head into the toilet after his rude behavior and the lazy secretary's behaviour reflects real life . In the end , I love this film .
Funny story	Funny story . The show is back on track . Humor , drama , and plot twists for other shows all rolled into one . The rabbit's foot sub-story is just as funny as ' Tall Tales ' . Dean's sarcasm , and silliness is over the top . I love Dean's I'm Batman part of the show , and Sam gave the usual whatever reply . Unfortunately , Gordon is back with a new crazy friend . For parity ( Sam's problem is Gordon ) Dean's new antagonist is Bella . Funny , how Dean bothers Bella just like Joe ! I love how Dean and Bella try to out do each other . The ending is great . I believe Gordon is coming back for round 3 . Doesn't Gordon ever learn ? . Not a lot of the Impala in this episode .
excellent	A must see for any war movie buff . Few , movies have some one who actually knew the man the story was written about ; this movie protrayed Patton excellently because of this . The battles and portrayal of the Germans is also done perfectly .
Something Wicked this way comes .	I wonder if the old horror movie ' Something Wicked this way comes ' is the inspiration for the writers or writer of this episode . The idea of kids and the evil man is similar . This episode is well directed and acted . The story has twists , which blend well with the different types of music used for the episode . The viewer learns about Dean's childhood ( or lack of ) , and Dean's sacrifice for Sam . One understand Dean's connection with his brother , twisted view of life , and absolute awe of John Winchester ( his father ) . Great Horror movie special effects , and funny pranks ( aka the swimsuit inspector gag ) make for a great show . . One see a bit of ' Darkness Falls ' and ' They ' night terror influence in the movie . Most people can relate with a night terror plot from our childhood memories . I love this show .
Excellent	Any movie , where the doctor takes a huge slung of whisky before he operates is my kind of movie . Then he pours the whisky over Porter , to clean his wounds , before he operates . This film has style , and the casting is unbelievable , with actors asking so much money , it is hard to believe they got such a talented cast to do this movies . Porter , Val , and the rest play such great parts , and the movies style , very 70's , is done in subtle ways . ( aka roter phones ) This movie could be a very routine , typical , bad guys movie , its style , wit , and intelligences makes it a strong movie . Unlike , many action films it never insults the viewer's intelligences , and one becomes very involved in this film . I will not ruin the story line ; all I can say is rent it today .
They finally got it right for Pierce .	Spoiler ! ! After three movies as Bond , the producers finally got it right . It has got to be Bronsan's best as Bond . It is more comparable to Roger Moore in the Man with the Golden Gun . They finally did changes in that it was different than the other Bond films . Halle Berry had to many cheesy quips . The beginning is different where he actually gets apprehended . The music score shows his ordeal and actually suits the film . Many new parts of the film has the viewer guessing . They make this Bond more dirtier especially in the fight scenes . They went back to the Sean Connery type of Bond . The sword fight was great . It reminded me of the movie the duelest . They are finally running out of Communist countries that Bond can go to ; North Korea and Cuba only remain . The car scene at the end of the movie was terrific . The endings of the movie are getting predictable . This is the 3rd movie where they use a satellite . See this one in the theater , it is worth it . Does Madonna look old in this film ; she has not aged well .
Best show on TV today	Super Natural is the best show on TV today . Nice to see low budget reality TV fade away , and even worse Jerry Springer over the top style shows . I love the super bad car , and love the relationship of the one sensitive brother who is balanced with the macho / cool brother . The plots very , with interesting spooky stories mixed with humor . The characters and the stories have believability to them , which creates a levity for the show . No social messages or hidden meanings , just normal people and towns with strange happenings . My wife noticed one of the guys is from Days of are lives . I can see the actor going to the big screen one day . . Get your VCRs warmed up and tape the show if you work nights like I do . Unfortunately , there are only 8 episodes . Hopefully , they will continue and make more for next season .
Another good episode	Another good episode . Sex and violence seems to be the staple of any show on TV today . I believe sex and violence grabs the viewer's primeval urges . I found Sex and Violence interesting . Siren the Greek Mythological beast who causes the downfall of many a man is the Winchester's foe . The script has murders happening , without reason and with the killer killing a loved one . The part I love is the pheromones the beast creates which create the high one obtains during the honeymoon period of any relationship . Is the woman who is interested in Sam the Siren ? No . The Siren is a FBI agent who is actually a male not a female who befriends Dean . This plot twist is excellent . Dean being the alpha male has no trouble meeting women , but real friendship with men is difficult . Many guys are intimidated or jealous of Dean . Who Dean needs to love is another male friend . The battle with the Siren ends nasty . I give Sex and Violence a 10 . We see a further split between the Winchester brothers , is this a prelude for things to come .
The first 10 of the season !	After School Special is a great episode . The theme of high school , and how people do not fit is real life . Many people get emotionally mauled in high school . Funny , my work place is like that . An angry spirit haunts a school , which the Winchesters once attended . Two plots twisted together . One with the brothers past , which is the cause of the vengeful spirit in the present . Well done from the beginning to the end . Supernatural's back in high gear , like the series first two seasons . I give After School Special a . A hint about the show Dean wears his welcome out as always , while Sam blends in . Great character development ! I love the part where Dean is the old school gym coach . Did they really ban dodge ball from school ?
Hey Gene Hackmen in this one !	Hey , Gene Hackmen in the ' Spores ' . The best show in the series so far . The 1978 Invasion of the Boddy Snatchers got many ideas from the Spores . The Invaders came out with these spores which will grow Invaders . Gross looking guys these spores are . The plot device which masters this show greatly is the suitcase which contains the spores . Let's just say the Invaders have a real headache trying to find this suitcase again . What is wrong with these Invaders ? They are always having accidents along with their awful security . I give the show a . David Vicent has his hands full with this one . If you are just going watch one episode of The Invaders view The Spores .
I will buy the DV	Spoiler ! ! The best movie so far for 2004 . Well acted with a strong cast , no one is weak in their role . This will be Brad Pitt's break through role . Finally a leading role , instead of a smaller role to display his talents ; another Heston . The director keeps a great pace between the action , personalities , and the film's development . Fast , yet not to fast , like many video game style movie , where the viewer can absorb the movie . The fight between Hector and Achilles is a present day classic , that will be copied and remembered for years . The script shows the actions and characters as human who thought and believed before Christian time . 3 d characters who were both bad and good , this is not a good guys and bad guys script more like a reality investigation . I am sure with time , and filming some parts were wrong or shorten , but I gained a better understanding of classic history . Thank you Wolfgang ! I wish you the best , and keep making these believable portrayals , instead of bombarding the viewer with politically correct agenda .
This film is unforgettable	This film is unforgettable , and I give it a 10 . This is a murder mystery with a twist where the man who needs his name cleared tries a experimental drug which gives the user other peoples memories . A lot better than Matlock , seen it done it before story line . Quite the surprise ending , and watching the drug's affects make me cringe . Rent this one .
Realistic Cartoon	I went to this movie with skepticism , and left loving it . Fictitious , but with realism in the what if extent of the possibility of this happening . This is a good film about the victim finding out the question of Who am I . When the guy gets fired , you will understand how that goes with the prime directive . The commercials , and news stories create humor , and realism at the same time . I love the dark humor , they use the dad from " That 70's show " as a heel , with a lot of humor when he does a hit , where they play a video cd . The end is great , and the film goes full circle , but you got to laugh at what happens to the Ed 90 , and I love those Cobra Assault guns . Rent this if you love Sci-fi .
Funny all the way through	Not many comedies keep their momentum all the way through , but this one does . I laughed at this movie until the end , and I gave it a 10 . No mater how many times I watch it or know the jokes ahead of time I still laugh . This film is like a old joke that never goes stale . Well written , by SCTV's Harold Ramius , this film brings a fresh approach to comedy . Bill Murrey is the best sort of jerk type guy for the role of a individual who has to live the same day over until he gets it right . Buy this one !
I Can't Believe Crowe did not win best actor for this	I can not believe Denzel Washington beat Crowe out for best actor on this . Russel Crowe acted circles around Washington . I believed this is his best role . It will be hard for him to beat this . He was great in Gladitor but even better in A Beautiful Mind . It was a sad movie where one overcomes one's disability through one's special gift . They aged him through out the movie and did a fantastic job doing it . I found the movie very inspiring . This one is a must see and a must own . I wish I would of seen it in the theatre .
My second favorite episode of the first season .	The first ' Superalnatural ' show I ever saw and I was blown away . I love the writing for ' Providence ' . The cars in the parking lot compared to the 67 beast of a car . Dean thinks the gallery owner is a waiter . The girl's attraction to Sam is perfect . A real date conversation . Dean is right Sam should have married her . The eyelash scene is great . The sub-plots blended in with the Killer painting story , which keeps the viewer anticipating for more . . The ending is great with a strong plot twist . . Providence has a scene of style . I can not wait for next season . There is a passion with this show , great directing , and acting .
WOW I just SAW this movie !	Spoiler . . . . ' Saw " the movie is a perfect 10 ; well directed , acted , scripted , and all done on a low budget ! The direction and story go hand and hand ; the movie starts out as a mystery with the actors tell their stories . The characters stories intertwine , and meld together . Each individual story adds too the tension . There is a demented reality in this film which adds real scares . What evil lurks in the heart of an evil and insane man is revealed . This insane tension shows the directors skill , and the no name actors ' ability . One could have a lower budget movie , without the over rated , and over paid actors in it . Where a 15 millions dollar payday only hurts the film's budget , and the movie over all . The only notable actor is Danny Glover aka Lethal Weapon . The conclusion tells all of motives , reasons , and why the film is called saw . I never saw the ending when it hit me .
I like this show	The nasty neighbor to Jericho attacks . Jona comes to the town's aid as part of a crime deal . Out-gunned and equipped the team of Green / Hawkens similar to Brady / Moss in football comes to the rescue . Hawkens can use cool toys like satellite imaging , along with lots of guns and even a nuke is a very useful dude for the town . The tank they got from the other episode is a major surprise for the enemy . Green's dad gets hit , and dies , a major loss for the town . The young Green is rising for a leadership role . I never seen a show like this before great . Big budget , good acting , and an intriguing storyline . I wonder if Green is going to get that nasty mayor of the other town , for his dad's death and the torture of his brother .
can see this one over and over again	If society broke down I believe this film would be extremely close to what one would have to live in . See the original first before you see the road warrior . The films characters Wes , Max , the kid etc each play their role so well it makes a believable sci fi . Will Max get out of this jam ? Will the good people find a new home . Will the rethed road scavengers go to even new lows ? With out ruining this film these questions make for a great story . Watch for a very nast Mel Gibson ( aka pay back ) in this one . Can not say any more or I will ruin this one .
Great movie	One of the last movies I went with sister to see back in 86 . The film blew my mind . My friends never wanted to see this one . I was happy I went . Many year's latter , I bought " Back to the Future " at Mc Donalds for $2 . 99 or for some other low price with a meal . The film ages well , and I love it just the same . The director and screen writer mixes science fiction , humor , and action perfectly . A big component of the script is time line theory which drives the story . Marty has many problems to fix , and finds out more than anyone wants to know about their parents . Michael J Fox and Christopher Loyd were excellently casted . Marty and Doc what a chemistry . With the film series one see the many dualities with time travel , that become a constant with the movie . The town clock , being awoke in a strange place , and letters . Keep this in mind when watching the 2 other sequels . The theory that time repeats itself is evident . What a time machine , the Delorian adds to this movie . Worth watch over again . ! Thank you TBS for showing all 3 films .
Good show	What is and never should be is great insight into the character development of the two main protagonists . I love how the show talks about Dean's need for family stability ; Sam and Dean's relationship is glued by their work ; They are so different they complement each other . Dean's over confidence cause the show trouble , and his duty and honor is his salvation . Dean's life would be one of trouble if he never had the outlet of hunting . The monster is well done . The ending gives the reason for the mission , and create round characters out of Sam and Dean . . Watch the summer rerun . What is and never should be is a fresh and different episode which build depth for the series .
excellent	Bruce Durn at his best . If you're a fan of Bruce Durn then rent it today . This movie is one of Durn's best performance . The ruf edge this story conveys , makes for a good 70's car chase movie . The ending of this movie will not disappoint the viewer , as the movie leads up for its interesting conclusion .
Best Wester I've seen ! ! !	This movie's casting is excellent , each actor executed his role perfectly . Val Kilmer will never equal his performance as Doc Holliday , and Kurt Russel brought Earpp to life . I watched a show on Earpp's life before going to this movie , and it's script is historically close . The unbelievable events in this movie is true , and life , sometimes , is more bazaar then fiction . The way this story is crafted , and the director's feel for the era is well executed . The movie left a feeling of being educated and entertained at the same time .
I love this one	Dean Winchester is funny . Sam and Dean go to prison . Dean fits in too well and Sam say do you see a problem with fitting in so well ? Dean say no in very well adjusted manner . If one watches the show they see the humor of Sam and Dean's banter . The film quality , acting , and supporting actors make this show above average . The director's vision of cons and sets is great for the adage and ambiance of Folson prison blues . The old mind your own business con is great with his helpful but not too helpful attitude . Folson prison blues ends excellently , and the special effect are movie quality . . Catch the re-run this Summer !
perfect	This movie is strong , good script , great casting , excellent acting , and over the top directing . It is hard to fine a movie done this well , it is 29 years old and has aged well . Even if the viewer does not like mafia type of movies , he or she will watch the entire film , the audiences is glued to what will happen next as the film progresses . Its about , family , loyalty , greed , relationships , and real life . This is a great mix , and the artistic style make the film memorable .
The first 10 of the year and summer .	1408 is the best film I have seen all year , and probably the best film of the summer . Jaskson plays a excellent hotel manager who tries to convince Mike , the author , not to stay in room 1408 . The room evolves into a personal hell , and a haunting all in one . The way Mike figures to survive is brilliant . I do not want to write more and ruin the film . The directing is excellent . The movies tension is unbearable . I never get scared at movie and felt the fear . The camera angles and special effect were woven perfectly into a flawless story . Stphen King is a brilliant writer . Do not rent 1408 , run do not walk to go see the movie . I would rather watch in the movie house then on DVD . A great drive in movie .
Arnie's best	This film is a sci-fi classic . The story is about time lines and how one event affects another . This film is great . I like the idea of the machines and if you watch closely , one sees Arnold's movements become mechanical , especially in the bar scene . I heard the idea came from and old Outer Limits episode , from the early 60's , starring Lenord Neymod ( Spock ) as the robot . In the end , the circle is complete and the flashbacks , or flash forward melt into the present . This film is a classic , and watch for the cameo appearance of Bill Paxton .
This one is a winner !	This is the best comic character since Batman . In fact , I liked this a lot better than Batman . It did not have any slow spots . The acting was well and the characters fitted the comic book characters to a tee . I can not wait for the sequel . I wonder who the villain will be . The special affects were good , but you could tell some was computer graphics . A must see .
