Liked it when I was a kid . . .	I saw this , like most people , on Saturday afternoon TV when I was a kid . As a kid I thought it was OK . Then I saw " It Conquered the World " which this is a ripoff of . OK - - " It . . . " is hardly a masterpiece but compared to " Zontar " it looks like " Gone With the Wind " ! This is a painfully slow movie with atrocious " special " effects and acting so bad you won't believe it . It's shot on threadbare sets where actors just stand around and talk . Why I liked this as a kid I'll never know . I do remember when I first saw Zontar I was scared ( a little ) . Now , as an adult , I howled ! It's a guy in a stupid rubber suit with three obviously fake eyes ! Man , my standards must have been LOW when I was little : ) This is probably Larry Buchanan's worst film ( although " Mars Needs Women " is definitely down there ) and too boring to be bad / good - - just BAD . Even the usually competent John Agar can't save this drivel . Try to see " It . . . " and avoid this . I give it a 0 !
Homophobic and dull	A gay couple ( Rex Harrison and Richard Burton ) in 1960s England . Burton is a hairdresser ( of course ) and Harrison is an actor . They complain nonstop , tear each other apart verbally , dress horribly , hate their mothers and are depressed and full of self-loathing . I suppose this was revolutionary in 1969 but it's horribly offensive today . The movie was subtitled " A sad gay story " . The script is dull , the film looks horrible and the actors . . . Harrison minces around and preens so much I got very angry - - a sick , disgraceful performance . I heard he wasn't too proud of it either . Burton is actually OK - - he brings some dignity to his role . But this film is a total waste of time . It just shows gay men as being pathetic lonely creatures and is very condescending . Offensiveness aside it's sleep-inducing - - I kept dozing off ! Sick , depressing , homophobic . . . there's no reason to see this . Makes " Boys in the Band " look like a comedy . Dudley Moore did the music ! ! !
Makes the first one look like " Gone With the Wind "	I had vague memories of seeing this when it came out in 1992 . I hated the first one but I had some hope that maybe the sequel would be better . I remember hating it worse than the first one ! Seeing it again last night ( Why ? Damned if I know ) all those feelings came rushing back . The plot is basically a retread of the first - - a spooky cemetary in the Maine woods has the power to bring the dead back to life . Naturally the dead come back as killers . The first one was a cruel , stupid horror film . This one manages to be even crueller and much , much stupider . The script is horrible - - full of unlikable characters and has an extremely mean-spirited tone to it . The movie opens with a young boy seeing his mother electrocuted to death and then cuts to a dog being put to sleep by lethal injection ! That's just the opening - - all through the movie there are vivid scenes of child and animal abuse shoved in your face . It makes you feel dirty and disgusted . Also there's a truly sick ( and unnecessary ) rape scene and pointless female nudity . And there's some really sick , graphic gore . The direction is lackluster and ( with one exception ) all the actors are terrible - - Anthony Edwards appears to be sleepwalking and Edward Furlong is just pathetic in the lead role . The only thing that makes this film bearable is Clancy Brown's hilarious performance as a resurrected sheriff . But that's not enough to sit through this crap . Cruel , sick , badly acted , badly directed , stupid script - - to be avoided at all costs . This definetely does belong in IMDB's bottom 100 .
Boring , stupid , pointless	As a gay man , I can honestly say I HATED this film . It does TRY to show a certain type of gay man ( obssessed with the gym , high-paying job , can't commit , treats everyone like dirt ) but it fails miserably . Crummy cinematography , really pathetic script ( I couldn't believe the actors actually SPOKE these words without gagging or barfing ) , even worse acting , not ONE sympathetic character , and an ending that doesn't make a bit of sense , seeing it just tells us the same things we've been hearing since the beginning of the movie ! This film actually makes the characters in " The Boys in the Band " seem like positive gay men ! Also , this " group " of people just shows a VERY small portion of the gay society . It also portrays every gay man as a vicious queen . I can't believe a gay man wrote and directed this movie . Talk about " internalized homophobia " ! A total waste of time ( I can't say talent ) . DO NOT SEE THIS MOVIE ! ! ! ! ! !
Huh ? ? ? ? ! ! ! ! ? ? ? ?	Who the hell thought this was funny ? I'm not a Mike Myers fan ( I hated " Wayne's World " and " So I Married an Axe Murderer " ) , but a friend of mine dragged me ( kicking and screaming ) to see it . Obviously , I'm not the best choice to see this film but I tried to view it objectively . Well . . . I hated it . The film looks fantastic and ( with the exception of Myers ) has a great cast , but the plot is all over the place , the " jokes " are pretty stupid and Myers has a very unhealthy fondness for fart jokes - - there are TONS of them . They're not even remotely funny - - they're crude and stupid . I dozed off halfway through the film . . . I also noticed people walking out of the cinema - - that's never a good sign . There are a few cameos at the beginning that are slightly amusing but that's it . For Mike Myers fans only .
Tons of things wrong with this	A gay , small town cop John ( Jonathan Wade Drahow ) , moves to LA and becomes involved with a high-priced prostitute Hector ( Andre Khabbazi ) who starts him on drugs and circuit parties . In no time , John is hooked on drugs and destroying his life . The message - - drugs and circuit parties are bad . Gee . . . no kidding ! ! Very obvious , overlong , boring , disjointed . The plot goes rambling all over the place . There are way too many characters and way too many obvious plots . It's also way too long ( 130 minutes ) . As for the acting - - boy oh boy ! Drahow is horrible in the lead . He's too old for the role and his idea of acting is just grinning stupidly at everything . Even worse is Kiersten Warren as his best straight friend - - God was she lousy ! Everyone else was just as bad except for Khabbazi - - he was very good . He's exceptionally handsome , has a great body and is one hell of an actor . His character is the only one I cared for . There are plenty of handsome guys , great bodies , ample nudity ( no frontals though ) and fairly explict sex - - but you have to put up with lousy acting and a horrible script . The film looks bad too . It's almost worth seeing for the guys - - ALMOST ! Sadly , this is a must miss .
Pretty bad	I saw this back in 1994 out of some morbid curiosity . I was working at a video store which stocked it . I had no interest originally ( I'm a gay guy - - why would I want to see a straight porn flick ? ) but Bobbitt WAS a good-looking guy and I was mildly curious to see if everything - - ummm - - - " worked " . After half an hour I turned it off . The acting was atrocious - - the production values were nonexistent and NONE of the girls were attractive . As for Bobbitt - - everything looks OK but it looks like he was " short changed " ( if you know what I mean ) . Frankly I wouldn't do porno if I had as little as he did . Until this one " Debbie Does Dallas " was the worst straight porn I ever saw . This has it beaten by a mile .
Boring , stupid , unfunny and homophobic	Hunky Caleb ( Scott Lansford ) is a laid-back guy who has the hots for aggressive girls . He falls for Gwen ( Emily Stiles ) a VERY aggressive girl who only goes for gay guys . Caleb's roommate Kyle ( Jim Verraros ) tells Gwen that Caleb is gay . Gwen is immediately attracted to him and pairs him up with her hunky gay roommate Marc ( Ryan Carnes ) . Unfortunately Kyle is in love with Marc . Got all that ? It all culminates in a supposedly " hilarious " dinner party . Horrid movie . The plot is just old hat - - a straight guy playing gay - - how many times have we seen this ? Also everybody acts like idiots . At any time in this movie Caleb could have just set Gwen and Marc straight - - but he never does . Also the film has more than a few homophobic comments - - at one point Gwen believes Caleb is a virgin and says , " Shouldn't you try NORMAL sex before gay ? " That's not funny just blatantly offensive . The script is dreadful - - the characters don't talk like any person I've ever met in my life . They use this slang which is supposed to be funny but it's just confusing and annoying . Acting - - Lansford underplays Caleb . . . . but his character IS supposed to be passive so it works . He's also exceptionally handsome with a great body . Carnes is also very handsome with a great body . Too bad he can't act . And they both have a frontal nude scene ( which was surprising ) . Verraros overacts dreadfully as Kyle - - he comes across as whiny and stupid - - very annoying . But Stiles is much worse - - she overacts so much she makes Verraros look restrained ! She screams every line and is basically attacking Caleb even when he's dating Marc ! She also brutally tells Kyle off at the end and is wearing the most atrocious hair style I've ever seen . Caleb is attracted to HER ? ? ? I saw it at the Gay & Lesbian Film Festival in Boston . The audience did laugh occasionally - - but mostly they sat there in dead silence . This is a truly horrendous gay film . It's too bad because the two leads ARE hot and have no trouble showing their bodies . But I can't recommend this at all . The worst film of 2004 - - it's THAT bad ! Some people have called this the first of a new wave of gay cinema . If this is an example of things to come we're all in trouble .
Makes Part 1 look like " Gone With the Wind "	The original " Amityville Horror " was not a good horror film . It wasn't totally worthless either - - it had good acting , a few nice scares and a great ending . . . but it wasn't that good . Still , compared to this , it's some sort of a masterpiece . Purportedly this took place before " The Amityville Horror " which came out in 1979 . It shows a severely dysfunctional family with an abusive father ( Burt Young ) . The son ( imaginatively named Sonny ) starts hearing noises and voices . He also ( for no good reason ) starts an incestuous relationship with his sister . Then he slowly starts to go crazy and the voices tell him to kill his family . . . The story is by the numbers , the acting in this one is bad and the material is very disturbing - - Sonny ( who looks about 22 but is supposed to be a teenager ) seducing his sister is particularly sick ( and needless ) . The special effects are sickening , not frightening and the movie manages to be boring and sleazy all at once . The only part that scared me was when the girl was trying to run away from her brother ( who has a gun ) . . . and literally runs right into him . A stupid , sleazy , boring horror film . Avoid .
Good idea badly handled	I caught this boring film on late night TV many many years ago . The plot sounded interesting so I tuned in . Boy , was that a mistake ! I hate Westerns but I love horror movies - - I though this would concentrate on both genres . WRONG ! It's a low-budget Western all the way with a few mild vampire touches thrown in . The only mildly horrific scene was when the vampire was shown in his coffin . . . but that's it . No blood , no fangs and a vampire that can walk around in daylight ! Also very VERY dull . The acting was actually very good - - that's what kept me watching . So , if you like odd Westerns this is for you . If you're a horror movie fan , stay away . ( Unless you like boring horror films )
Unbearable is more like it .	Spoiler ahead ! ! ! ! ! Very slow , boring , pointless tale about a man ( Willis ) who is the sole survivor of a train wreck . He's contacted by another man who is born with bones that break easy ( Jackson ) and is told by him that they they are alike - - just on opposite ends of the spectrum . There ! I've just saved you 1 hour and 45 minutes of tedium . The story has no ending , no point at all and bores you to death by drawing out every single scene to its absolute limit . Also there's a twist at the end which was real stupid and didn't shock me at all - - mostly cause I was so bored with the characters I could have cared less . Willis acts like a zombie the entire movie , but it's not really his fault - - the script is pitted against him . Jackson actually makes his horrible dialogue sound realistic - - a credit to this man's acting ability . Penn is excellent as Willis ' wife . She's not in the film much , but when she is the film kickstarts to life . The actor who plays their son is only slightly less annoying than MacCauley Culkin was - - take some acting lessons kid ! A truly dreadful film . Avoid at all costs - - unless you're suffering from insomnia - - this will knock you out !
Dreadful	A 2 hour commercial for guns . Two morons capture a heavily pregnant woman , and hold her for ransom . The direction is good , but that's about it . The plot makes no sense ( I'm still not sure what a whole group of old men was doing in this ) , characters appear and disappear very quickly , the humor is sick , the tone of the film is very disturbing and it's just one gunfight after another . As for the acting . . . they have good actors , but they give the worst performances of their careers . Taye Diggs , Ryan Philippe , James Caan . . . all are horrible . . . and they're all very good actors ! A total waste of time and talent .
Talk about overkill !	Batman ( George Clooney ) and Robin battle Mr . Freeze ( Arnold Schwarzenegger ) and Poison Ivy ( Uma Thurman ) . Meanwhile Alfred ( Michael Gough ) is dying and his niece ( Alicia Silverstone ) visits and becomes Batgirl ! Oh yeah - - and Bane is helping Ivy . . . Wow - - what a MESS ! I never liked the first two Batman films ( too dark and violent ) . The third was light but fun . This is just moronic from the word go . There are tons of bad jokes flying left and right from heroes and villains ( if Arnie had made one more " cold " joke I would have screamed ! ) . No dialogue - - just stupid jokes . I knew I was in trouble during the first big fight sequence : Batman and Robin are battling Mr . Freeze but are sliding on the ice he produces . They're on their backs boots in the air , click the boots together . . . and SKATES pop out ! ! ! ! ! Even for a comic book film that was ridiculous ! The plot is thin to begin with , but at the end it's just completely incomprehensible . Its like the screenwriters threw up their hands and gave up . The movie is always throwing things at you - - never stopping for breath . At first it's fun . . . but it wears you down . There's an entire motorcycle race thrown in for no reason ! GREAT special effects . . . but that's all there is . Also the homoeroticism in here is upped to a ridiculous degree . Can ANYONE explain why Batman and Robins suits have nipples ? ? ? ? And why doesn't Silverstone's suit have them ? Isn't that sexist ? And why does O'Donnell have a bigger cod piece than Clooney ? Acting is pretty poor . Clooney ( who admits that he hated the film ) looks uncomfortable and ( he says ) he played Bruce Wayne as gay . I never caught that though - - and I'm gay ! O'Donnell is drop dead handsome and drop dead bland . He plays Robin as an obnoxious brat - - again ( he did it in " Batman Forever " too ) . I kept waiting for Clooney to deck him . Silverstone is OK I guess . Gough is given nothing to do but look sick . Schwarzenegger - - he never COULD act and his reciting of the " comic " lines are painful . Thurman seems so totally lost that she got desperate - - she vamps it up to an embarrassing degree . Her lines were SO pathetic I actually groaned aloud and rolled my eyes a few times ! Only John Glover is any fun by hamming it up mercilessly as the mad ( sigh ) scientist who creates Bane . Big , loud and incredibly stupid . It's easy to see why this killed the Batman franchise .
Easily the worst Hammer Dracula film	SPOILERS I saw an incredible , pristine wide-screen version of this on video , and you know what ? It sucked ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! I've heard it was a bad movie , but I thought with Cushing and Lee in it how bad can it be ? Well I found out ( unfortunately ) . The plot is , putting it mildly , asinine - - Dracula's going to wipe out all humans with a plague - - and feed on what ? The acting is OK and the special effects are decent . But Hammer totally ignores the vampire mythology it set up ! Vampires can be destroyed by water . . . since when ? The scene where the vampire women are destroyed by sprinklers was howlingly stupid . As said before , Dracula will exterminate the entire human race . . . so where's he going to get blood ? And he gets killed by a THORN BUSH ? ? ? Easy to see why this was Hammer's last . Also Cushing and Lee are good ( Lee gives this script a much better performance than it deserves ) , but Cushing looks painfully old . It was sometimes hard to watch him . All in all , even if you see a great print , it doesn't change the fact that this is a horrible , needless film . If you haven't seen it you're lucky ! For Hammer completists only .
Loved it when I was a kid . . . .	A scientist and his girl friend are out driving when his speeding causes a car crash . He escapes unharmed but she is decapitated . He saves her head , brings it to his house and keeps it alive ( ! ! ! ! ) . He then proceeds to search out models and strippers for the perfect body for the head . His crippled assistant watches over the head which starts talking and has a telepathic ( or telepathetic ) link to a deformed monster kept in the closet . . . . As you can see , this is pretty stupid stuff , but I had a certain fondness for it . When I grew up in the late 1970s , a local TV station showed this movie about 20 times each year ( no exaggeration ) . They showed it always on Saturday afternoon TV - - uncut . Seeing this on TV back then was great ! Explicit blood and gore along with a gruesome monster and sleazy sexploitation - - who cares if it was good ? Seeing it now I realize how lousy this really is . The acting is perfectly wretched , the production values are nonexistent , the script is pretty dumb and ( aside from the still pretty disgusting gore ) this is dull stuff . There's also a mild cat fight between two women and the admittedly great monster at the end . Also add in an ending which leaves tons of loose ends . One one hand this is an interesting example of a 1960s exploitation film . On the other its utter trash . Either way , it's not a good movie but is a must-see ( for one time only ) for horror and gore fans . Also the head's laugh is pretty creepy . Note the end credits which gets the TITLE wrong ( calling it " The HEAD That Wouldn't Die " ) !
I had ( blessedly ) forgotten this train wreck	Rich and lonely Trish ( Lily Tomlin ) meets and falls in love with Strip ( John Travolta ) who's at least 15 years younger than her . They both have issues - - but do they love each other enough to battle those issues together ? Believe me - - you won't care ! I had forgotten that I saw this . I was 16 when it came out and this ( inexplicibly ) has an R rating . I had always loved Lily Tomlin and wanted to see it . In fact at the time this came out Tomlin and Travolta were ( purportedly ) madly in love with each other in real life . It turns out that was all a publicity stunt to sell the movie . Anyways , I conned my mom into taking me to see it . Wow - - was THAT a mistake ! Talk about dull ! My mom and me literally kept dozing off during the movie . By the end ( which is REAL stupid ) I actually was giggling at how hopeless this movie was . It bombed badly and years of therapy helped me block it . But . . . it's come back to haunt me ! Tomlin and Travolta CAN be good ( given the right material ) but this script was just so tedious and dull that even they couldn't pull it off . Travolta is as good as anyone can be . Tomlin REALLY tries but she's hopelessly miscast . She only got the role because director Jane Wagner and her were ( and still are ) lovers . I ( sorta ) want to see this on DVD to see if it's as bad as I remembered . I've heard there might actually be a DVD release of this in the works . That would be kind of cool . A 1 all the way .
A sexist piece of garbage	WARNING - - SPOILERS AHEAD ! Some previous posters have said this film is a masterpiece and not sexist . Oh really ? The woman ( Abril ) is shown doing a really embarrassing thing with an underwater toy , is tied up repeatedly , threatened with a knife , gagged , hit ( quite brutally ) by Banderas and is constantly being verbally abused by him . But she ends up falling in love with him ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ! ! ! ! ! What the hell was that ? A woman has to be abused by a man to fall in love with him ? That's not sexist ? It's disgusting ! To make matters worse Abril and Banderas give such good performances ( easily Banderas ' best ) that it all looks believable . It all leads to a really stupid ending that made me want to throw something heavy at the screen . I see lots of movies and I've never been more offended than I was by this one . A sick , degrading , sexist piece of crap . Almodovar should be ashamed of himself .
A bad . good classic	Young , naive Bud Eagle ( Arch Hall Jr . ) travels to Hollywood to find fame and fortune . He meets sweet , innocent Vicki ( Nancy Czar ) who immediately gets him on a TV show . He becomes a rock star overnight and unscrupulous agent William Walters ( Arch Hall Snr . ) signs him up . BUT he is using him , giving him no money . making him drop Vicki and Eagle discovers that life in lonely at the top . You can probably figure the story out from there . Terrible by the numbers story offers no surprises . The dialogue is awful , the acting dreadful and the direction is just pathetic . Hall's singing isn't bad , but the songs themselves are mediocre and the way the singing parts are shot are hysterically funny . Plot holes galore in this one - - at one point Vicki invites Bud to a skating rink where there's no one else but them - - - yet a spotlight follows her along when she's skating ! A sequence with three idiots ( who make the Three Stooges look restrained ) " kidnapping " Bud is SO bad my jaw dropped ! This movie is so badly made on EVERY level it's absolutely fascinating to watch . I actually got impressed watching it - - it fails so completely on every level ! The ending especially had me in hysterics . Not a good film by any means but worth watching . A camp classic !
Gay serial killers in love	Incomprehensible . It's something about a gay guy who may ( or may not ) be a serial killer . The film jumps all over the place - - there are flash backs , flash forwards , dream sequences all mashed together . Supposedly if you read the book you'll understand the movie . Well - - I haven't read the book and I don't think I should have to read it to make heads or tails out of the movie . A movie should stand on its own and this one certainly doesn't . It looks grimy ( but I heard that was on purpose ) ; the acting is truly abominable ( some of the guys are cute but that's about it ) ; the same actors play multiple roles ( which is confusing ) , and the dialogue read during the killings is just so matter of fact I didn't know HOW to take it ! And I didn't find it disturbing or confusing - - just dull and irritating . The only saving grace is Parker Posey - - she manages to take a nothing role and actually make something of it . She has lousy dialogue too but she makes it work . So - - aside from Posey and some cute guys there's nothing to recommend this . I give it a 1 .
What a lousy film !	Some cosmic force is turning nice suburban women into " bee " women . To survive that must have sex . . . and end up " exhausting " men to death ! Naturally all the women are young and have great bodies . Interesting idea very badly executed . This movie cries for camp , but it takes itself very seriously . . . TOO seriously ! There's bad acting , needless nudity ( esecially in a sequence where we see a woman " changed " into a bee woman ) , lousy color , bad sound and scenes shot at night are so dark I couldn't make out what was going on . There's also a very cruel and tasteless attempted rape in the movie . Also there seems to be a message here - - all sexually aggressive women should be destroyed . That's misogynist and disturbing . This was rediscovered on video in the early 80s , and Siskel & Ebert listed it as one of their " guilty favorites " . This caused some excitement over it but it died down pretty quickly ( probably because people actually saw the movie ) . A boring , disturbing and sick motion picture . A must miss at all costs .
What a piece of JUNK !	The first of the 1970s disaster films . A midwestern airport in Chicago is contending with a huge blizzard , a psycho with a bomb ( Van Heflin ) , a " lovable " stowaway ( Helen Hayes ) , a harried airport manager ( Burt Lancaster ) , his obnoxious pilot brother ( Dean Martin ) and assorted mistresses and wives . A big , glossy BORING soap opera . The book by Arthur Hailey was a good , entertaining book with complex characters and situations . All characterization went out the window with the movie , the plots were dumbed down and what's left is cliched characters and truly laughable dialogue . A talk between Martin and his mistress ( Jacqueline Bisset ) is astoundingly stupid . This is chockful of actors obviously desperate for a paycheck - - Burt Lancaster ( looks terrible and doesn't even try to act ) ; Jean Seberg ( really tries but the dialogue defeats her and has a HORRIBLE 1970s wardrobe ) ; Dean Martin ( appears drunk ) ; Jacqueline Bisset ( just stunning , but given nothing to work with ) ; Helen Hayes ( looks miserable - - somehow she won as Oscar for this ) . Only van Heflin , George Kennedy and Maureen Stapleton inject any life into their parts . Stapleton especially is heart-wrenching in a scene at the end . She was nominated for an Academy Award too but lost to Hayes ( God knows why ) . Also the special effects are pretty bad but were probably state of the art in 1970 . On the plus side - - there IS excellent use of split screens throughout the movie ( letter box viewing is essential ) . A big budget bomb . Critics HATED this movie - - even the actors in it hated it ( Lancaster called it " a big piece of junk " ) . However it was a huge hit and nominated for 10 Academy Awards ( it won 1 ) . I really can't recommend this . Not even good for laughs . Avoid .
Boring and silly	First off , the title is wrong . There are girls and there is a gang but they're only incidental to the story . Most of the movie deals with a bunch of very overage " teenagers " getting hooked on heroin . Purportedly this movie is supposed to be a warning against it , yet it shows them all having a great time while on it ! They're singing , dancing ( a sequence that goes on for 10 minutes . Why ? To eat up running time ! ) and having sex . . . so what it they're hooked ? There's even a sequence which shows - - step by step - - how to inject heroin ! Very cheaply done , all horrible acting with uproarious dialogue . Also the worst use of music ever ! Most of the time it doesn't even fit the scene ! It's really hard to explain how totally worthless this movie is . Not even bad / good . Skip it .
Just incredible	Young , unstable beautiful Victoria ( Maria de Aragon ) falls in love with young , hunky doctor Craig ( Peter Carpenter ) who's caring for her rich , sick father . She plans to inherit all his money when he dies . Then Dr . Craig is being blackmailed and needs a lot of money FAST ! And Victoria's father is near death . Did I mention Victoria was unstable ? Sleazy piece of garbage . The script is silly to put it mildly with a REAL stupid ending ; terrible direction in which characters speaking aren't even in the frame - - one whole conversation is only shot from the waist down ! ; annoying , horrid 70s music which doesn't even remotely fit the on screen antics and just unbelievably bad acting by EVERYBODY ! It's truly astonishing to see how badly EVERY scene is acted - - you just stare at the TV screen in disbelief . The movie is chock full of unpleasant characters , plenty of gratuitous female nudity and cheap sex - - including a hysterically bad sequence between de Aragon and Carpenter . As for the actors themselves - - they were all hired for their looks and bodies - - not acting ability . Virtually every female member of the cast has multiple nude scenes and even Carpenter bares his butt briefly once or twice . The DVD of this makes this movie look better than it deserves . The picture and sound are crystal clear and the colors are strong and vibrant . This could be used in film school - - an example of how NOT to do a movie ! Also this isn't really a horror film - - just a stupid , sleazy " drama " . Bottom of the barrel - - I give it a 1 .
Boring and silly coming of age story . . . with vampires !	Terrible Scandanavian film . 12 year old Oskar ( Kare Hedebrant ) is bullied at school . 12 year old Eli ( Lina Leandersson ) moves next door to him . She tells Oskar that they can't be friends . . . or lovers . It turns out she's a vampire . Naturally they DO fall in love and some ridiculous complications ensure . This seems to have a lot of admirers but I can't figure out why . The movie moves at a snails pace ( I considered leaving a few times ) , is incredibly boring ( I was fighting to stay awake ) and the two young actors are pretty dreadful . The movie does a few things right - - you never SEE the killings but hear them ( making them even more disturbing ) and there is a nice music score . But this movie is just plain dull . I saw every single plot point coming from a mile away . The only somewhat original bit was what happens when Oskar DOESN'T invite Eli into his house . It fails as a horror film and a coming of age film - - it adds nothing new to either genre ! Slow movies CAN work but not in this case . I saw this at an art cinema where most films are applauded when they end . This was met with dead silence . Boring and pointless . A 1 all the way .
Bored silly	First off let me make something clear - - I LOVE Liza Minnelli . She's talented , beautiful can sing and act . I'm also a big fan of her mom . But this show just bored me . I saw the restored version on Showtime last night . The show was remastered - - the picture was as clear as a 1972 TV special can be , the colors were strong and the sound was excellent . Liza herself looked incredible and belted out the songs full force . But I didn't recognize most of the songs and she seemed to be acting in a REAL strange way during a bunch of lullabies . Also the dance numbers were just OK - - nothing special . The show only came to life at the very end when she did all her songs from " Cabaret " ( No " New York , New York " - - that was 3 years later ) . Basically I quickly lost interest and patiently waited for the show to end . I'm not sure why I hated this so much . Minnelli was superb . . . but I was just bored silly . I can't recommend this at all .
Easily one of the worst TV shows ever	Dreadful sitcom which has seems to have ( thankfully ) faded from public memory . Pauly Shore plays a man living at home with his widowed father . His father marries a hot young blonde who Pauly lusts after . . . but it's him MOM ! Predictable " jokes " and complication ensue . Truly sick and tasteless . Every single joke was unfunny and painfully obvious . This also has the dubious award for having more jokes about womens breasts than any other sitcom in history . I watched only two shows in utter horror . This played on FOX . I realize their standards were low but THIS low ? ? ? ? Completely forgotten and will hopefully stay that way . I wish IMDb had negative numbers . . . .
What the hell ? ? ? ? ? ?	Why is Mario Bava considered such a great horror film director ? He's done some great films , but for every " Black Sunday " there's five like " Lisa and the Devil " , " Rabid Dogs " , " Black Sabbath " and this film . This is probably his worst ( and that's saying something ) . This is total , utter crap . A bunch of uninteresting people are killed off one by one on an isolated island . That's about it . It's VERY badly dubbed ( even the sound effects are off - - notice during the fight scene between two guys ) ; the acting is wooden ( to put it nicely ) ; the plot makes no sense especially at the ending where all logic is thrown out the window ; the 70s clothes are horrendous ; there's needless female nudity thrown in and the WORST music I've ever heard in my life - - it almost never fits the scenes it's played in ! Even Bava's usual great direction is off - - the movie takes place all in bright sunlight - - Bava is at his best filming in shadow or darkness . Even the murders are dull . Pointless , stupid and boring . A total disaster . P . S . The full meaning behind the title is real stupid !
Why ?	OK - - " Psycho " is an acknowledged classic horror film . " Psycho II " was , surprisingly , a very good sequel with an intricate plot . They should have stopped there . This needless third one has a bad plot ( which contradicts the second one ) , lazy acting ( Perkins was very sick when he made this . . . and it shows ) and shoves blood , gore and nudity in your face . The first one had none of that and the second one used it sparingly . Compared to this Gus Van Sant's remake of " Psycho " looks like a masterpiece . Some of the dialogue in here was laughably bad and the scene where someone sees Norman as Mother as the Virgin Mary was enough to make me almost run screaming from the room . Why did they do this ? Perkins must have been desperate for the money . Best forgotten . Probably the worst horror sequel ever . . . and that's saying a lot !
Hopeless	Martin Scorsese once again does a period piece set in New York in 1862 . Why ? Wasn't " Age of Innocence " bad enough ? Story is supposed to be about a boy ( Leonardo DiCaprio ) out to avenge his fathers ( Liam Neeson ) death at the hands of William Cutting ( Daniel Day-Lewis ) . But the screenwriters try to shoehorn in every single event happening in NYC in the 1860s . There's abolition , the Union Army , the Draft Riots , bigotry , murder , immigrants , racism , robbery etc etc etc . It's too much for one movie to hold and most of it has precious little to do with the main story . More often than not I was confused and bored by these constant detours from the story . I twice considered walking out because I was so bored - - a few people did leave . Also the dialogue in this movie is horrible - - when you can understand it . Day-Lewis adopts a very strange annoying accent and DiCaprio unwisely tries to do an Irish accent ( which comes and goes throughout the movie ) . Cameron Diaz as con artist Jenny Everdeane wisely doesn't try . As for the acting . . . . weellllllll . . . what can you say about a movie where DiCaprio gives the best performance ? He's lousy but he's better than anybody else . Day-Lewis growls , yells and chews the scenery to a ridiculous degree and Diaz has the hopeless bad girl with the heart of gold role - - she deserves much better than this . The movie is hellishly long at 2 hours and 45 minutes . It looks great but it's dull , badly written , badly acted , surprisingly badly directed and totally unfocused . A real disappointment . Probably Scorsese's worst film to date . One positive thing - - if you're an insomniac this will put you to sleep ! ! !
Technicolor fiasco	Sam Goldwyn did this movie to imitate the Ziegfeld follies and ( hopefully ) rake in millions . Boy was he WRONG ! Adolphe Menjou plays a producer whose movies are failing . He meets sweet , wholesome Andrea Leeds and hires her to be " Miss Humanity " and tell him what the public wants . ( No it makes no sense to me either ) She tells him all these howlers like " Romeo and Juliet should have a happy ending " and " love is the most important thing " . Menjou manages to keep a straight face and says " That's brilliant " to all these pearls of wisdom . One day Leeds goes to a hamburger diner . She walks in to see sweet , wholesome Kenny Baker cooking hamburgers while singing " Love Walked In " ( with a full orchestra being heard ) . Naturally they fall in love . That's when I gave up . Seriously this movie is just unbelievable . The dialogue was full of campy lines and groaningly bad jokes ( my eyes hurt from rolling them so much ) . This movie is full of " speciality " act : Edger Bergman and Charlie McCarthy manage to get out a few good jokes ; The Ritz Brothers ( a comedy group that makes the Three Stooges look subdued ) throw in some " comedy " bits that will have you gaping ( in disbelief ) - - their " pussy cat " song is truly a jaw-dropper ; Romeo and Juliet is done as a ballet - - with tap-dancing too ; there are THREE musical numbers from " La Traviata " worked in ; Phil Baker pops up as a seriously untalented accordionist and a LONG dull ballet is shoved in . Acting doesn't help . Menjou manages to keep a straight face ; Leeds is given nothing to do but look beautiful and wholesome and Baker is SO nauseatingly sweet that you just want to slap him . Beautiful Technicolor photography doesn't help . This is worth watching just for some nice visuals and the hysterically bad dialogue . Example : " Fill my bath with whipped cream " ( ? ? ? ? ) . This falls in the so bad it's good area - - but still it's just a 1 all the way .
To avoid fainting keep repeating . . . . it's only a movie . . . it's only a movie . . . . it's only a movie . . .	That was the tag line used to sell this movie back in 1973 . It played at mostly drive-ins along with " Last House on the Left " and " The House That Vanished " . This triple feature was so incredibly popular it kept playing at drive-ins into the mid 80s ! Never saw " House That Vanished " but " Last House . . . " was sadistic trash . This is boring trash ! A " horror " film about inmates at a sanitarium who are getting a little out of control . Young , beautiful nurse Charlotte Beale ( Rosie Holotik ) comes to work there . She finds a new administrator under control - - Dr . Masters ( Annabelle Weenick ) . The former one had been killed by one of his patients . But things are fine now . . . or are they ? There is a plot twist in this which you'll probably see coming from a mile away - - but I still won't reveal it . This has a nice murder at the beginning and turns into an all out bloodbath at the end - - - but everything in the middle is dull ! It just has a bunch of horrible bad actors portraying mental patients - - and very badly too . Padded endlessly with repititous scenes , pointless dialogues , horribly unfunny " humor " and some really gratuitous nudity . Basically a 30 minute feature dragged out to 90 minutes . There is some good acting by Holotik and Weenick and also Betty Chandler as Allyson - - but that's about it . ALMOST worth seeing for the incredible gore at the end . . . ALMOST . For drive-in cultists only . Otherwise avoid .
Horrible	Dreadful , justly obscure ghost story . Mary Page Keller and Andrew Stevens play a couple who move into a haunted house . Then Stevens is possessed by a ghost and begins to kill people . . . or something like that . To be honest I had trouble staying awake so the story is kind of vague . Dumb , by the numbers " horror " film loaded with false scares and stupid sequences . Like a workman , working outside the house , is killed and hung . . . and supposedly hangs there for days on end with no one noticing . Or Keller has a pointless dream sequence where a co worker slashes her throat . . . and leads to nothing . It's only in there to throw some cheap gore into our face . Keller ( who can be good ) is lousy and Stevens ( who has never been good ) is even worse . Dull and pointless . Avoid .
Pretty dreadful	Horrible , unfunny " comedy " about a gay man ( Ethan Green ) and his life with friends and boyfriends . I've read the comic strip this is based on . The strip ( while no classic ) was actually pretty funny and right on target with its comments on the gay community . But it doesn't translate at all to film . For starters Green has black hair in the strip - - he's light brown here . Also the actor playing him was clearly NOT gay and seemed very nervous and unsure of how to play it . He's also the most annoying , whiny guy I've ever seen - - half way through the film I wanted to slap him to shut him up . His friends are even more annoying then him and his romantic complications are predictable and stupid . The only bright spots in this mess are the Hat Sisters ( the only ones who give a performance ) and seeing Meredith Baxter ( she's not good but that's not her fault ) . So basically , the script is terrible , you get a character you could care less about and most of the acting is lousy . I saw this at a Gay Film Festival and the audience sat there in dead silence . It's no wonder this isn't getting released . I give it a 1 .
Hilarious	Silly short silent is NOT " Ben-Hur " . It's highlights from the book with cards filling in the ( many ) gaps . The sets are cardboard cut-outs ( pretty obviously ) , ALL the acting is bad and the " direction " is virtually nonexistent . I suppose it's got some historical value as the very first version of the story but is totally lacking in entertainment value . See it for laughs only .
Dreadful	I was one of the ( very ) few who paid to see this in a theatre in 1981 . I LOVE horror films and , by that time , slasher films were all the rage and ready for a parody . The story ( so to speak ) has somebody called the Breather killing off high school students in ( supposedly ) humorous ways . The opening 10 or 15 minutes were pretty good . . . then the film went to pieces . The " story " quickly became incoherent , the jokes were stupid and pretty desperate and it had an ending that left me slack-jawed . I'm really surprised people like this movie . I realize comedy is subjective and a matter of taste but ( aside from the beginning ) I didn't find anything even remotely funny . The cast was attractive ( especially the hunky guy who got killed first ) but none of them could act . I think for most of them this was their first ( and last ) film . That should tell you something . And the director removed his name from the final cut . When a director does that it's pretty obvious the film is hopeless . I also caught it a few years later on TV ( uncut ) . It STILL wasn't funny ! So , I don't recommend this at all but it does have its defenders . Use your own judgment .
The very first gore film . . .	and one of the worst . It's about some guy killing women and taking various body parts of them , to make some " feast " to an Egyptian god . We see an eye gouged out , a tongue removed , a brain , a whipping . . . all shot in lingering close-up in bright , brilliant color . This movie is a total piece of garbage . . . it can only be enjoyed on a camp level . The story is vague ( and stupid ) ; ALL the acting is atrocious ; the dialogue horrendous ; the camera-work hilariously bad . . . hell , there's NOTHING good in this film ! The gore effects are somewhat realistic and there is tons of blood . Also , the killings are kind of uncomfortable to watch . . . the filmmakers seem to enjoy showing all this blood and gore . But , more often than not , it's a laugh riot . One last time - - I can't stress how bad the acting is in this film . This is a textbook example of how NOT to act !
Gave me nightmares	When I was kid back in the 1970s a local theatre had Children's Matinees every Saturday and Sunday afternoon ( anybody remember those ? ) . They showed this thing one year around Christmas time . Me and some friends went to see it . I expected a cool Santa Claus movie . What I got was a terribly dubbed ( you can tell ) and truly creepy movie . Something about Santa Claus and Merlin the Magician ( don't ask me what those two are doing in the same movie ) fighting Satan ( some joker in a silly devil costume complete with horns ! ) . The images had me cringing in my seat . I always found Santa spooky to begin with so that didn't help . The guy in the Satan suit didn't help . But what REALLY horrified me were the wooden rein deers that pulled Santa's sled . When he wound them up and the creepy sound they made and the movements - - I remember having nightmares about those things ! All these years later I still remember walking out of that theatre more than a little disturbed by what I saw . My friends were sort of frightened by it too . I just saw an ad for it on TV and ALL those nightmares came roaring back . This is a creepy , disturbing little Christmas film that will probably scare the pants off any little kid who sees it . Avoid this one - - unless you really want to punish your kids . This gets a 1 .
Pathetic	Librarian Vincent Price tells 4 horror stories of the town he lives in . Unfortunately , the audience has to see them . The stories aren't scary at all , are sick ( necrophilia ; a nude middle-aged woman being drowned ; knives in a man's groin ) , boring and stupid . It has a good cast ( I'm assuming they were all desperate for work ) and they do what little they can with the lousy script , but it's no go . Of interest only as one of Price's final films .
What the heck is the point ? ? ? ? ?	Pointless and badly done update of " The Picture of Dorian Gray " . It takes place ( I guess ) in 2006 . Dorian ( David Gallagher ) has some media exhibit done of him by his friend Basil ( Noah Seagan ) who is madly in love with him . The exhibit shows Dorian's face and body on various screens . Dorian says he would never betray a friend , kill somebody or have sex with a man . Naturally he does all three and the exhibit shows the ravages while he remains youthful . What the hell was the director thinking of when he did this ? First of all an updating of Dorian is not needed . Secondly he adds nothing to the tale . And , third , this movie thinks VERY highly of itself . The characters don't talk - - they mumble speeches and , for some reason , the director constantly has other voices on the soundtrack when main characters are speaking . This just renders some of the dialogue incomprehensible . Also some lines people say inexplicably appear on the screen in big bold letters . I guess the director thinks we're too stupid to think things out by ourselves . The acting is as good as it could be . Gallagher is actually quite good as Gray . He's tall , handsome with a nice body and is a pretty good actor . Segan is a little whiny as Basil - - but that is his character . I didn't know what to make of Henry played by Christian Camargo . He's always giving these vague sentences with a blank look . I did something I never do in movies - - I walked out ( I wasn't alone ) . After about 80 minutes I had reached my point . The movie was stupid , annoying , incomprehensible at times and - - worst of all - - dull . This is a pretentious , needless art film that thinks it's something that it isn't . A 1 all the way .
Utter trash	Followup to " Mandingo " ( NOT a sequel as many believe ) about slaves in the old South . It's better than " Mandingo " but that's not saying much . They upped the sex and violence even more ( this movie originally got an X rating - - it was heavily cut to get an R ) and the story moves very quick . I was never bored but I was sickened . The blacks are whipped , beaten , shot , assaulted ( by women ) , and the " N " word is used constantly . Also there's homophobia in here - - there's a gay character who is portrayed as totally evil and meets a very sickening end ( although it's staged for the audience to cheer ) . I almost stopped watching but I was ( in a way ) fascinated by seeing how disgusting and degrading a major motion picture could get . The storyline is slight - - very - - I can't even remember it . Ken Norton returns from " Mandingo " . He's still very muscular , very handsome and still can't act . Yaphet Kotto looks very embarrassed to be in this film but he's not bad . Pam Grier ( here credited as " Pamela " ) has a nothing role ( she's the mistress of Warren Oates ) but she does what she can with it . Warren Oates is actually very good here - - he's loud , obnoxious and ( occasionally ) hilarious . He really brings the movie to life . Everyone else is so-so . I realize some people think this movie is great because ( purportedly ) it shows what slavery was like . Good for them - - but I find it disturbing that anyone thinks this is a great movie . Subject matter aside , it's badly directed , looks ugly and ( as I said before ) has little plot . Also what's to be gained watching black men and women being tortured and humiliated ? Unless you're into S & M I suggest you avoid this . A very sick movie .
Insipid chick flick	SPOILERS ! Lousy movie . Pathetic loser Gigi ( Gennifer Goodwin ) takes dating advice from know it all Alex ( Justin Long ) . Mary ( Drew Barrymore ) is having trouble finding ANY man ! Conor ( Kevin Connolly ) is having the same trouble finding a woman . Married Ben ( Bradley Cooper ) to Janinie ( Jennifer Connolly ) falls into an affair with single Anna ( Scarlett Johansson ) . AND Neil ( Ben Affleck ) and Beth ( Jennifer Aniston ) have been living together for 7 years . He's faithful to her - - but she starts realizing she may need a commitment . Got all that ? I was dying to see this movie ! I love chick flicks and the cast of this had me excited . I thought with all these great actors how can it be bad ? Well - - I found out ! The script is lousy - - full of lines that real people would never utter . People in my audience were laughing at the serious parts ! A few people walked out ! Every single character in this is unlikable - - there's not ONE character you could identify with . Gigi especially was incredibly annoying . Also all the stories are utterly predictable leading to outcomes that had the audience groaning and laughing . You would think with the cast the acting would be good . WRONG ! Aniston and Johansson are easily the worst actors in this . The best were Cooper , Barrymore and Long . The rest were in the middle . Badly acted , horribly written and downright insulting chick flick . I give it a 1 .
Very overrated - - boring	SPOILERS AHEAD ! ! ! ! ! How this is considered a classic is beyond me . I saw it when it first came out in 1979 . I was 16 - - I was basically bored or disgusted by it . 22 years later my opinion hasn't changed . Why do I hate this ? Let me count the ways : 1 ) The plot is old hat . It's basically a haunted house movie set in outer space . 2 ) There is zero characterization . The crew members are virtually interchangable . How can you care about somebody getting killed when you don't know who they are ? 3 ) Getting a bunch of talented actors and giving them nothing to work with . 4 ) Overdone set design . Yes , it's impressive but it overwhelms what little plot there is . Nice set design does not make a movie . 5 ) People stumble around in dark corridors and dark rooms looking for a cat . Not once but TWICE ! And this is after they know there's a killer alien on board ! 6 ) What the hell is a cat doing on a space mission ? 7 ) The characters act incredibly stupid . 8 ) The alien looks dumb - - it's just a guy in a slightly modified alligator suit . Cool set of double teeth though . 9 ) What does the alien do with its victims ? Two of them just disappear . 10 ) Why is the alien killing them ? What reason ? We're never given one . Oh wait - - because it's in the script . That's why ! 11 ) Sigourney Weaver strips to down to her underwear for no reason whatsoever at the end . 12 ) IT'S DULL ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! The only scene that works is the chest burster with John Hurt - - but that's only a minute or two in a two hour film . Long , dull and stupid . I give this a 1 - - I wish I could go lower - - it deserves a 0 . Avoid at all costs . See " Aliens " instead . That's 100 times better than this .
Beyond belief	A woman ( Sylvia Kristel ) seduces a 15 year old boy ( Eric Brown ) . They have sex . . . but it's all tied into some stupid plot or something . Easily one of the most disturbing sex comedies ever . Does anyone realize this movie is making light of child molestation ? I suppose it's OK cause it's a teenage boy - - if we had one with a man seducing a teenage girl there would ( rightfully ) be outrage . Sorry , but having it done to a boy doesn't excuse it . It's still sick . I realize Brown was of age ( he was actually 18 when this was made ) but he LOOKS 15 . I just find it disturbing that some people find this OK . Plot aside the acting sucks ( Kristel is beautiful - - but can't act ; Brown is easily one of the worst child actors I've ever seen ) and the constant nudity gets boring and isn't even remotely erotic . I saw this drivel at a theatre back in 1981 . I was 19 and with my 14 year old cousin ( who could easily pass for 18 ) . HE wanted to see it - - I didn't but I decideD what the heck ? We got in and I actually bought tickets for three teenage boys who were obviously underage . My cousin thought is was boring and the three other kids left halfway through ! Let me make this clear - - three TEENAGE BOYS left a movie with tons of female nudity ! That should give you an idea of how bad this is . I'm surprised this was ever released . A 1 all the way .
Looks good . . . that's about it .	A family ( James Brolin is the dad . . . Margot Kidder is the mom ) move into a beautiful house in Long Island NY . Naturally it turns out to be haunted . This is a ( bad ) adaptation of a very good book . Supposedly the book was accepted as being true . . . we all know now that it's totally fictional . The book was a quick , scary read . The movie takes the book , jettisons almost all of the scary material , and ends up being a VERY dull mess . What was the studio thinking ? Why take a good book and totally destroy it ? The acting doesn't really help . Brolin appears drugged out during the entire movie and Rod Steiger REALLY overacts as a priest . Margot Kidder is very good - - she gives this movie a much better performance than it deserves . And it IS kind of fun to see Murray Hamilton and Don Stroud as priests . The film does have a few good moments : there's an opening multiple murder scene which jolts you and a certain dream Kidder has is nice and gory ( and not in the book ) . Also the film looks beautiful - - especially the house . This was AIP's ( American International Pictures ) last film - - it was also their biggest hit . THAT'S scarier than anything in this movie . Basically a dull , big-budget horror movie . Let's hope the remake is better . This is a 1 all the way .
Yeah it's terrible but . I enjoyed it	Muddled mess about a gangster drawing a nice young kid into a life of crime . His family and the police try to help him to no avail . Then he kills a cop and things really go crazy . The ending is so bad and ridiculous that I loved it ! I saw this at a theatre years ago on a twin bill with " Plan 9 from Outer Space " . This is even worse than " Plan 9 " but also funnier ! This one has a more coherent story and ( for a Wood film ) some high production values . The acting is terrible - - the worst are Dolores Fuller , Lyle Talbot and Steve Reeves ( yes THAT Steve Reeves ) . The dialogue is terrible ( no surprise ) but it's quite amusing to see this talentless cast sputter out some truly stupid lines . By the end of the film the audience I saw it with was laughing and yelling back at the screen ! There were two big reactions in my audience - - when Steve Reeves is shown with his shirt off ( VERY impressive ) there were wolf whistles from guys and girls , and when someone was rolling on the ground near a pool the audience was saying ( in seconds ) , " Fall into the pool ! " They were not disappointed and everybody burst into applause ! I actually think this is one of the best bad / good films Wood ever did . It's a textbook example of how NOT to do a movie but it's still a lot of fun ! I give it a 7 . Oh yes - - the title has no bearing in the film whatsoever !
Sheesh ! What a dog !	It's even more depressing when you consider the talent behind the camera - - Terence Fisher did this ? ? ? I won't bother to get into the plot . It's a " horror comedy " ( I use both terms very loosely ) about an old , dark house and a bunch of idiots running around doing lame slapstick and unfunny jokes . Badly acted , directed and written . Go see " Hold That Ghost " or " An American Werewolf in London " or " The Howling " . Even the remake of " The Old Dark House " ! They're all prime examples of how to do horror and comedy .
Easily one of the worst horror sequels ever made	According to this movie the killers from the original " Texas " were never caught and are still roaming around . The uncle ( Dennis Hopper ! ) of one of the victims is hunting for them . For some reason the family sets its sights on pretty DJ Stretch ( Caroline Williams ) . Pretty soon she has Leatherface running after her with his chainsaw . She's captured and then the film REALLY gets sick . Just hopeless . What the hell was directer Tobe Hooper on when he did this ? It seems like he's trying to do this as a black comedy . The problem with that is that it isn't funny - - just pretty sick . The opening attack is gory , violent and lots of fun . . . then the film slowly falls apart . The story rambles all over the place - - jumping from unfunny humor and truly sick violence never finding a consistent tone . Hopper chews the scenery every chance he gets ( was he rehearsing for " Blue Velvet " ? ) . Williams is good but really . . . this film goes way too far in what's done to her . At one point Leatherface basically tries to use his ( turned-off ) chainsaw to have sex with her ; at another point he takes the skin off of a victim and puts it on HER face ! This isn't funny or scary - - just sick . Hooper's direction is off too - - no surprise there . His movies since " Texas " have been just horrible - - " Texas " was a fluke . ( " Poltergeist " doesn't count - - Spielberg had that whole movie storyboarded before Hooper even got on the set ! ) I caught this at a theatre back in 1986 . It was unrated ( basically a self-imposed X ) so ( lucky me ) I caught it in all its " glory " . ( I heard the R rated one is edited ) . I was sickened , confused and ( by the end ) bored . The very end was just SO stupid I thought they were kidding . Just dreadful . Let me put it this way - - I'm a HUGE horror movie fan but this was so terrible I refused to see the third one that came out a few years later . Skip this one .
Almost bad enough to be funny - - ALMOST	Cult film ( mostly because of that title ) . It's about Madame Estrella ( Brett O'Hara ) who is a gypsy at a carnival . When she gets mad at guys she throws acid on their faces and locks them in her cellar ( for some reason ) . Angela ( Sharon Walsh ) visits the carnival with boyfriend Jerry ( Ray Dennis Steckler ) and some other idiot . For some reason Madame Estrella hypnotizes Jerry and sends him out to kill people she doesn't like ( ! ! ! ! ) Oh - - and the " strange creatures " mentioned in the title ? They're the deformed guys Estrella keeps in the basement ( all three of them ) and break out and have a 15 minute rampage at the end . The acting is all horrible ( O'Hara chews the scenery ) , the sound is muddled ( I had to keep replaying scenes ) and the plot ( what there is of it ) makes next to no sense . Actually the scenes with these people attempting to act are actually kind of funny . However this movie is padded out with boring musical acts and some truly hilarious dance numbers with jaw-dropping choreography ( I don't mean that in a good way ) . They even pad it some MORE with a long and stupid dream sequence Jerry has . However the film is very funny at the end when the " creatures " break out and it turns out to be a bunch of guys in dime store masks ! And wait till you see Jerry killing people ! I can see why people enjoy this ( in a bad way ) but the boring musical numbers and nonsensical plot really weigh this down . Surprisingly Oscar winning Vilmos Zsigmond helped film this fiasco - - but I guess everybody has to start somewhere . A 1 .
Pretty dreadful	A real obnoxious guy ( Wally White ) decides to leave his job in NY and spend the summer in Provincetown MA and find Mr . Right . OK - - this is LOUSY . For starters - - every gay stereotype is trotted out to go through its motions . Second , there's no plot . Third , ALL the characters are obnoxious . Fourth , I've been to PTown - - this was obviously shot off season and it REALLY shows . Fifth , almost no one can act . Sixth , did I mention the main character is really obnoxious ? Seven , all the " comedy " is lousy . A particularly bad sequence is White picking out dancers from square states ( don't ask ) . The ONLY bright spot here is Randy Becker . He turns in the sole good performance and is VERY hot ( to put it mildly ) ! But he also plays a real jerk . Basically one of the worst gay films ever - - maybe THE worst ! I wish I could give it a 0 - - it's not good enough for a 1 !
Poor Boris . . .	Ridiculous movie - - just the title should tell you something . It's something or other about a ghost ( in a bikini of course ) trying to revive her dead boyfriend . . . or make him younger . . . or something silly . He's played by Boris Karloff who watches the movie from his crypt through a crystal ball . Poor Boris . . . he was reduced to THIS ? ? ? ? Basically this was the last gasp for the " Beach Party " movies . They were loosing money so they transferred the action to a " haunted " house and some dumb plot about a fortune being hidden . This is chockful of stupid jokes , bad songs , LOUSY acting and some " teenagers " in their 20s who should not be seen with only a skimpy bathing suit . It might be fun if you're in a REALLY silly frame of mind - - otherwise this is truly an abomination . Not even bad / good - - just BAD ! ! ! Kids might go for it .
Why all the controversy ?	Movie ( purportedly based on real events ) about a bunch of amoral teens hanging out in NYC . It seems one of the guys is HIV + , doesn't know it and is spreading it around to every girl he sleeps with . His best friend is on drugs , swears constantly and sees nothing wrong with beating up people . There's more but you get the idea . I saw the NC-17 version ( which really deserves an R rating - - it's not THAT bad ) and I'm wondering - - what's the fuss ? Teenagers drink , swear , attack people , have sex , take drugs , are HIV + . Does this really surprise anyone ? I knew this before I saw the movie - - this one shows nothing new . I'm really surprised that people find this shocking . Content aside , the film is badly directed with lousy sound and has virtually no plot - - just a bunch of teens wandering around getting high , drinking etc etc . Also the rating ( as I said before ) is ridiculous . With that rating it means half the cast of the film can't even see it ! Also I read a newspaper article when this came out . A bunch of teenagers saw this with their parents and found large portions of the film unbelievable . Also remember - - this deals with kids in NYC , a very tough area . They do not represent all the teens in America . Dull , exploitive and pointless . I give this a 1 .
A Larry Buchanan classic ! That's NOT a good thing !	A group of obnoxious survivors of a nuclear holocaust are protected in a house in a valley surrounded by lead hills . They have to wait there for a few months until it's safe to go out again . Naturally they start to get on each others nerves . . . and how about the " horrible " creatures that are roaming the forest just outside the house ? Larry Buchanan is a god to bad film fans ( like me ) . He's ALMOST as bad as Ed Wood Jr . ! Basically , his films suck . They're made on no budget , with unknowns and incredibly cheap production values . This one is easily one of his " best " . Let's start with the jaw-droppingly stupid assumption that , after a nuclear holocaust , it will just take a few months for everything to be fine ! And don't get me started on the lead hills ! The script is just dreadful - - almost bad enough to be good . The lines are just stunningly stupid . A few times I had to replay the tape because I couldn't believe those lines were actually uttered ! As for the acting - - - hoo boy ! Only Paul Petersen showed any bit of talent - - the rest were truly dreadful . And what's with the sound ? It all sounds like bad post-production recording - - some of the voices don't even match the " actors " ! And the " horrifying " creature was uproariously funny ! It's some idiot in a stupid bargain-basement Halloween mask with a fright wig , silly fangs and ( supposedly ) steel claws ! ! ! ! You watch in amazement at this . I'm probably making this sound better than it is . . . it's actually pretty dull . VERY dull . Not worth wasting your time at all . Not bad-good just BAD ! ! ! And some cable TV stations have mistakenly given this an NC-17 rating ! It's PG all the way .
Hilarious	SPOILERS AHEAD ! ! ! ! I caught this a few years ago at a revival theatre in Massachusetts . They had to special order a copy of it from Germany . I knew that it was a political vampire film - - I believe it likened fascism to vampirism . Not a bad idea but the movie is a total mess . For starters some of the subtitles were misspelled ( " piece " was used instead of " peace " ) and the plot was basically nonexistent . It just had a bunch of people in bad vampire makeup mumbling some political propaganda . My audience took it seriously - - at first . Then when it became obvious that the film was going nowhere and repeating itself the audience began to laugh . When the villagers in the movie destroyed the vampires my audience was in hysterics . Gotta love the scene where a woman is slapping a dead person . . . and the guy obviously blinks ! It all leads to a truly stupid ending with the vampires being forced into water and dissolving ( ? ? ? ? ) So , the basic idea was not bad but this movie didn't know how to handle it in an interesting ( or coherent ) manner . Hard to find for obvious reasons . I give it a 1 .
Laughable campy movie	A tough rough sea captain named Thorne Sherman ( James Best ) , love interest Ann Craigis ( Ingrid Goude ) , hot-headed boyfriend Jerry ( Ken Curtis ) , two scientists and a token black and token Latino guy are stuck on an island during a hurricane with large killer shrews running loose . The scientists developed them to deal with overpopulation ( ! ! ! ) but they escaped . There is a boat offshore . . . but how will they get to it with the shrews running around ? You won't really care . Pretty silly with a stupid script ( come on - - large killer shrews ? ? ? ) and laughable dialogue . The shrews themselves look like what they are - - either puppets or dogs with extra fur on them and fake fangs . Nothing is shown when the shrews attack someone and the first ones to die are ( of course ) the black guy then the Latino . If this were a good movie I would find that offensive . The sets are cheap ( it shows ) and the ending is howlingly bad . Acting isn't that good . Best is terrible - - he just stands around with a blank look on his face and yells orders . Goude is certainly beautiful but no actress . She tries but it's no go . However her wavering Swedish accent was amusing . Curtis is stuck with the stock villain role and he's not half bad . Everybody else are stuck in clichd roles and play them out as best as they can . This played constantly on a local TV station back in the 1970s . I was in high school then and thought it was silly but fun . Now it comes across as VERY silly and more than a little campy . If you're in the mood you might enjoy this for laughs . Otherwise stay far away .
As bad as you've heard	A lowly thug named Larry Gigli ( Ben Affleck ) is hired to kidnap and watch over a mentally retarded young man named Brian ( Justin Bartha ) . " Ricki " ( Jennifer Lopez ) is sent to watch over Larry and make sure he does a good job . He falls in love with her - - but she's a lesbian . Sounds hopeless - - and it is . Constant jokes are made of and at the retarded mans expense - - I suppose we're supposed to find that funny . The movie is also chockful of swearing - - Affleck must have said " f " a few hundred times . The script is dull and stupid , the movie looks ugly and is directed with no style or taste by Martin Brest ( after this and " Meet Joe Black " his career is probably gone ) . There's also a pointless , cruel and ugly scene with an ex of Lopez popping up . It adds nothing to the plot and just consists of three people swearing at each other at the top of their lungs . I'm no prude but really - - the swearing in here goes overboard . This is also the type of movie where a lesbian finds Affleck so attractive she has no trouble having sex with him . If this were a good movie I would be offended - - but it's not . There are a few good things - - Affleck and Lopez are actually good - - their relationship was going strong when this movie was being shot and their affection for each other comes through . Affleck shows off his nice muscular body a few times - - and he is a VERY handsome man . There is one funny moment with Lopez making small flirting gestures with another woman when Affleck is trying to post a package . But this whole movie is sunk by the direction and the script and a jaw-dropping ending which had me wanting to throw something heavy at my TV . Also Christopher Walken pops up ( lousy as always ) but Lainie Kazan and Al Pacino ( ! ! ! ) show up too and briefly kick start the movie . But , all in all , this is a stupid , offensive , ugly , dull movie . I wish I could give it below a 1 .
Boring and pointless	Dreck about three beautiful women in California who go to cover some festival ( or something ) . All the hotels are booked so they have to spend the night in a creepy old house . What they don't know is that there is a creepy inhabitant there who likes to kill . . . Yawn . Boring , pointless , utterly stupid " horror " film . Bach and her two buddies are certainly beautiful but the movie itself is dull dull DULL ! Bach and her friends are no actresses - - their faces are blank all the way through . The final " revelation " is laughably predictable and there's no blood or gore to keep you interested along the way . There is some expected gratuitous female nudity but that's not enough to save this . Boring , pointless and unknown ( for good reason ) . A 1 all the way .
Pretty bad	A teenager who seems to have it all commits suicide . It leaves his family and his best friend ( Keanu Reeves ) asking a lot of questions . . . and blaming themselves . Good idea , badly handled . For starters this HAS been done before 1988 - - mostly in TV movies and After School Specials . Aside from some swearing and dialogue ( hence the PG-13 rating ) this added nothing new . The outcome is predictable and Reeve's attempts at acting were truly painful to watch . He's good NOW but not in 1988 . Aside from that his character was dressed like a slob and always looked so dirty is was hard to build up sympathy . That aside the movie is dull . I saw every scene coming and every " surprise " was telegraphed . I basically couldn't wait for this thing to get over . I have a vague recollection of seeing it in a theatre in 1988 and hating it ( it bombed BADLY ) . It still looks lousy almost 20 years later . The subject is worth handling but it's been done better ( with better acting ) in countless other movies . " Ordinary People " comes to mind . You can skip this one .
Pointless and sick	I USED to like Rob Zombie . " House of 1000 Corpses " rocks and " The Devils Rejects " disturbed me . THIS however is just horrendous . It's a disastrous redo of the 1978 classic . Here it's explained why Michael Myers was a psycho . The first 40 minutes or so are good ( if disturbing ) . We see Micahel at the age of 10 and why he became a killer . Sheri Moon turns in a wonderful performance . Then it cuts to 15 years later . Michael escapes . . . and the movie falls to pieces . The original had three teenage girls who were funny , intelligent and likable . This one gives us three girls who are foul-mouthed , obnoxious and just thoroughly despicable . Laurie ( the " good " girl ) is introduced making a joke about molestation ! You want them dead ! In the original you cared about the characters - - not here . Also - - remember the restraint in terms of violence in the first one ? Forget about it here ! Zombie pours the blood and gore on to a ridiculous degree . Also I get the feeling that Zombie hates women . Lynda ( Kristina Kleba ) is totally nude when she is killed . Annie ( Danielle Harris ) is topless and we get at least FIVE views of her topless bloody body on the floor ! Does Zombie really think we need to see nude women getting killed to enjoy a movie ? The misogyny in this film is unbelievable . And Laurie ( Scout Taylor-Compton ) is chased and threatened a LOT . The final chase takes forever to finish . Zombie said he was doing his own version of the tale . Fine - - but why does he take full portions of dialogue verbatim from the first AND doesn't even have the courtesy of naming Carpenter in the credits ! He also shoots some scenes the same way Carpenter did too . This manages to be sick and boring at the same time . The acting was OK I suppose - - the script was so dreadful I couldn't think straight . Malcolm McDowell seems to be enjoying himself . Having Harris in this ( she was in " Halloween 4 and 5 " ) was kind of cute and I caught most of the cameos from other actors but I still hated this movie . He actually makes Eli Roth ( Hostel 1 and 2 ) look good ! The good opening 40 minutes were just destroyed by what followed it . Stick with the original classic and skip this one . A real travesty here .
Saw it when it first played on TV	I was 12 and the premise sounded great - - a TV movie about a submarine trapped underwater with deadly snakes on the loose . I remember watching and , after a while , became increasingly bored . The script was by-the-numbers ( there were no surprises or anything even slightly original ) , the cast looked either bored or had a sad let-me-out-of-here look of their faces ( David Janssen ) . By the end I was fighting to stay awake ! Dull dull DULL . It's hard to believe but this was released as a theatrical feature in Europe ! Some poor suckers had to PAY to see this ! I can imagine the reactions where this played . This IS worth seeing if you have insomnia - - this will cure you completely !
Sleazy exploitation flick posing as a significant drama	Model Chris McCormack ( Margaux Hemingway ) is brutally raped by a teacher ( Chris Sarandon ) of her sister Kathy ( Mariel Hemingway ) . He is brought to trial but goes totally free . He then rapes Kathy ! Objectionable and sick rape film . This movie was advertised as an important drama dealing with rape . What it is is a badly written and ( for the most part ) badly acted drama . It purports to be sympathetic to the victim of the rape but shoves the scene in our face . To be totally honest however , Hemingway's acting is so bad in that sequence that it loses any real impact it might have had . The trial scenes were boring and predictable . And the movie just went too far when 15 year old Mariel is raped ( thankfully that wasn't shown ) . I do admit though that it did lead to a great ending when Margaux grabs a gun and shoots Sarandon dead . But seriously - - having a young girl raped is just revolting . Acting doesn't help . For instance , Margaux was no actress . She was certainly a beautiful woman ( and an actual model I believe ) but her acting left a lot to be desired . It lessens the film . Mariel was just OK but this was one of her first films . Sarandon does what he can as the rapist . He wasn't bad but the terrible script worked against him . I do remember hearing that at a screening of this back in 1976 some women stood up and cheered when Sarandon was killed so maybe this works for some people . I found this boring , simplistic and REALLY sick . A 1 all the way .
Haven't seen this since I was kid . . .	and have NO desire to see it again ! Who thought the world needed an ecological Godzilla film ? The film has worse special effects than usual ( and that's saying a lot ) , the usual lousy dubbing , animated ( ? ? ? ? ) sequences and some needlessly gruesome moments ( i . e . a guy's face decomposing ; Hedora spitting sludge / pollution in people's faces ; Godzilla pulling the eggs out of Hedora ) . Also the song - - " Save the Earth " BLEEECCCHHHH ! I don't know what the lyrics were in Japanese , but the English ones are downright insulting - - it's enough to make you cheer on Hedora . Also has the usual annoying Japanese boy who knows more than the adults . This urchin was SO annoying - - I was so hoping Godzilla would stomp him or Hedora would bury him in sludge . Probably the worst Godzilla film ever - - yes , it's that bad ! ! ! ! !
Really - - HOW could this be good ?	I actually caught this in the summer of 2005 during its mercifully brief theatrical run . I saw it because it was an incredibly hot humid day out and I thought anything was better than that . Boy was I wrong ! I went in expecting a bad movie . Well , it met my expectations and exceeded them ! It got so stupid and childish that I actually had some grudging respect for a movie that had the " courage " to be so dumb ! There are car chases ( and crashes ) galore , Johnny Knoville and Seann William Scott acting ( I think ) like a bunch of idiots and Jessica Simpson in impossibly tight clothing that must have pushed the PG-13 rating to its limit . None of them can act and , seriously , I can't remember a thing about the plot . All I remember is that it was loud , stupid and made the TV show look like Shakespeare by comparison . Might be worth seeing if you're drunk or want to see how stupid a Hollywood movie can get . Simpson and Scott have both badmouthed the movie after its release . A 1 all the way .
One of DePalma's worst	Out of work actor Jake Scully ( Craig Wasson ) agrees to house sit for a friend . The friend also has a telescope that points right to a house where a beautiful woman does a nude dance all by herself every night . Jake immediately becomes obsessed . . . until he finds an Indian is also watching the woman with murderous designs on his mind . . . DePalma didn't want to do this movie . . . and it shows . He was sick of fighting the censors to get his movies released uncut - - he wanted to make this an X rated film - - full of explicit sex and violence . The studio said no so he was forced to tone this down . His direction is off in this one - - he always imitated Hitchcock in his earlier films and it's pretty obvious here . He's ripping off Hitchcock again ( especially " Rear Window " ) and his own films too ! There are some beautiful sequences but I always felt like I was watching someone imitating Hitchcock . . . DePalma never put his own style into films until later . There's also a needlessly long sequence where Wasson is stalking somebody . It's boring and brings the movie to a screeching halt . The picture is full of gratuitous female nudity - - as much as an R rating will allow . Also there's a particularly sick sequence where someone is drilled to death and it's shown as a phallic instrument ! Also the story in this is just ridiculous - - the ultimate solution to what's going on is , to say the least , implausible . Even the ending is terrible - - it doesn't make a lot of sense and ends with a closeup of breasts with blood pouring down them ! Wasson is terrible in his role too . The only saving grace here is Melanie Griffith playing a porno actress named Holly Body . She's just great and energizes the movie . Especially good is a sequence where she tells Wasson what she will ( and will not do ) in a movie . Also they ( somehow ) fit the 80s group Frankie Goes to Hollywood into this performing the song " Relax " for a porno film ! It sounds ridiculous but it's a GREAT sequence and really energizes the film . But , ultimately , this is a dull film . Stupid , implausible , slow ( a least a half hour too long ) . It caused a lot of controversy when first released but it died down quickly . DePalma ( I heard ) doesn't like this film himself . I give it a 1 .
Silly sex movie	Emmanuelle ( Sylvia Kristel ) is happily married to an older man ( she's about 20 , he's 50s ) . He has no problem with her sleeping with other people ( men AND women ) and even hires an older man to teach her how to be a good lover . Yawn . I saw this at an movie house that showed old movies back in the early 1980s . It was showing as the midnight movie and a bunch of guys at my college encouraged me to see it . ( Actually , I'm gay but I was closeted then ) . What I saw was a beautifully photographed , very sensuous but BORING film ! Afterwords the guys agreed with me - - they all hated it too - - they said it was the most boring X rated film they had ever seen ( these are STRAIGHT college boys ) ! Film looks great but there's no plot and no motivation . Kristel is certainly beautiful but can't act . There's plenty of female nudity - - no male nudity at all . Even the sex isn't that explicit ! The one somewhat explicit sex scene is between two women - - and NOTHING is really shown ! I can't believe this still has an X - - I've seen more explicit R rated films . Still , historically , this IS an important film . It caused a major uproar in 1974 and was actually considered a serious art film ( for a while ) . Still , the entertainment value is nil . Very dull and slow . Don't bother .
I had forgotten about this . . .	An interactive movie . Basically each theatre had to be specially equipped with different video monitors and such . Each seat had a sort of device where you could pick an option . Like when someone is being tortured - - you have three options to pick from on HOW he was to be tortured . The one that most people " vote " for is shown . Sounds interesting . . . but it wore thin fast . Basically each movie is the same - - just the various options are slight detours that end up going back to the main story . I did see it once and was mildly amused but had completely forgotten about it the next day . From what I remember it was a pretty stupid movie full of crude humor with lousy acting . Billy Warlock was the only one that gave a halfway decent performance . He was also easy on the eyes which helped : ) Still , this was supposed to usher in a new era of interactive movies . Considering this was the only one made and it's been 10 years since we've seen another one , chances are it's not gonna happen again . Worth a look maybe for curiosity's sake - - but it's totally pointless to see without the options . Skip it .
Rightfully forgotten late 80s horror film	Sheesh - - what a STUPID movie ! Two cousins played by hunky Patrick O'Bryan and nerd Stephen Geoffreys get involved with a satanic phone line ( the title ) . O'Bryan ignores it but Geoffreys loves it . Naturally it possesses him and he starts to kill anybody who ever picked on him . This is Robert Englund's sole directorial movie - - it's easy to see why ! The basic story line is ridiculous ( a satanic phone line - - come on ! ) , the dialogue is horrible and this moves at a snails pace ( even at only 92 minutes ) . The makeup at the end is laughable and the " special " effects are truly dismal . At times the story doesn't even make sense ! As for the acting - - not good . O'Bryan is very handsome and has got a great body - - too bad he can't act . Geoffreys plays his role WAY too nerdy and is even lousy when he's killing - - and he was so good in " Fright Night " four years earlier ! What happened ? Small wonder that he now does gay porn . Jim Metzler appears drugged as someone investigating the strange goings on . But worst of all is the late Sandy Dennis in her second to last role . I THINK she's trying to be funny but she's not . She's loud , abrasive and incredibly annoying . But she has a great introduction - - she comes on screen wearing a Bride of Frankenstein hair do ! I'm a huge horror fan and really wanted to like this ( because of Robert Englund ) but I couldn't . I actually dozed off halfway through the film ! Boring and silly - - a complete waste of time . I give this a 1 .
Bottom of the barrel	Just dreadful " documentary " about gay stars and some of the movies they made . The narrator ( whoever he is ) is more than a little ill at ease and some the narration comes off sounding real strange . The footage is in poor shape ( most of the clips look like they were taped off of TV ) and some truly questionable information . Do we really need to know about the size of Montgomery Clift's best parts when we're looking at his movies ? Also there is endless footage of Robert Reed in " The Defenders " ( a show he did before " The Brady Bunch " ) with him and the other actors flubbing lines and mugging for the camera . I suppose this does deserve credit for trying this way back in 1980 but it ' a really lousy piece of work . Rent " The Celluloid Closet " instead - - you'll be much better off . A 1 all the way .
Horrendous	Darren Silverman ( Jason Biggs ) falls in love with Judith Fessbegler ( Amanda Peet ) a horrible , cruel , controlling woman who forces him to dump his two best friends . . . Wayne ( Steven Zahn ) and J . D . ( Jack Black ) . To get him back and " save " him , they kidnap Judith , fake her death and try to hook Darren up with sweet , lovable , soon to be a nun Sandy ( Amanda Detmer ) . Easily the worst comedy of 2001 - - and this is only February ! Very crude ( how did this get a PG-13 ? ) . Also this film has a very low view of women . They're either total bitches ( Judith ) or total morons ( Sandy ) . Men come off slightly better . All the jokes deal with pain , humiliation , violence , bodily functions or center around sex . None of the jokes are funny and you hate all the characters ( with the exception of Sandy ) . Acting - - Biggs is so passive and blank you could care less about him - - another bad performance . Peet is truly vicious as Judith - - - but it's a one note performance ( not entirely her fault . . . the script sucks ) . Zahn and Black are repulsive as Biggs ' pals - - but we're suppossed to root for them . Detmer gives the one good performance , but not enough to save the movie . AVOID AT ALL COSTS ! ! ! ! ! A truly painful film .
Saw this on TV when I was 12 ! ! ! !	There was a big controversy when this first played on TV . It was on at 8 : 00 ( I believe ) and the TV station ( I THINK it was ABC ) was blasted for showing such a movie of questionable taste so early in the evening . Well , I was 12 when I saw it and I wasn't particularly shocked or upset by it . I found it pretty lame and stupid and didn't find anything funny about a woman forcing a guy to strip nude at gunpoint . And despite what other reviewers have said here rape wasn't even suggested ( from what I remember ) . And she just did it for kicks ( ! ! ! ! ) . This movie also goes out of its way to make fun of Sorvino's character . Sorry but I don't find sexual assault that funny . There's no way this will be seen on TV now ( except maybe VERY late night ) but that's no great loss . I wonder what Paul Sorvino thinks about this now . Silly , stupid and pretty sick . Don't bother .
THIS was banned in Finland ? ? ? ? ?	A mutated baby ( with fangs and claws no less ) is on the rampage just seconds after being born . POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEADPathetic excuse for a horror film . The story is more than a little stupid , has plot holes big enough for freeway construction and is dull . The acting sucks , the direction is by the numbers and the " special " effects showing the baby are unintentionally hilarious . The baby is almost never seen - - for good reason . When they do show it attacking a man at the end it's one of the most uproarious things I've ever seen . It's very hard to sit there with a straight face seeing this tiny little baby JUMP onto a guy and " attack " him . The premise sounds interesting but , even if you suspend disbelief entirely , who is going to seriously believe a just-born baby is able to slaughter four or five doctors and get out of the operating room and wander all around town without being noticed ? Come on ! For some reason , this film was banned in Finland - - my guess is that the censors saw it and banned it for its lack of quality ! A total fiasco . Avoid .
Offensive and unfunny	Just dreadful " comedy " about two young men who pretend to be gay to avoid being drafted . The comedy is horrible - - very childish and stupid . The view of gays is simply unbearable - - all limp-wristed , mincing , lisping men . Basically this film reinforces every single gay stereotype known to man . As a gay man I got so offended I had to stop watching half way through . It doesn't help that the print I saw had color that was so faded it looked like the film was in b & w . I suppose , in a way , this is useful in a historical context ( i . e . to show how negatively gays were thought of in the late 60s ) . But its entertainment value is nil and it's so incredibly offensive it makes " Boys in the Band " look like an uplifting , liberating gay movie . For gay film completists only but be warned again . . . the view of gays here is deplorable .
Bloody , sick , senseless	An mentally disturbed man kills people . That's it . There's next to no plot , no brains , no nothing ! I saw this thing back in a movie theatre in 1981 . I was equal parts bored , sickened and just amazed at how STUPID this was ! The audience had a great time . . . after half an hour of trying to take it seriously they tore into it . They yelled back at the screen and threw things . . . it made the movie more fun than it actually was . The VERY gory finale ( in slow motion no less ) was a definite highlight . It was sick but at least it wasn't boring . That's the part when most of the audience walked out . Also Tom Savini did NOT do the gore effects here . They advertised that heavily until he sued them - - he said he made some suggestions but that was it . Still , the gore is very good . Still . . . no plot , lousy acting and slow motion axe murders . You decide whether this movie is for you .
Another crappy Fulci film	An extremely dull murder mystery about murders and a woman who has extremely strange ( and stupid ) dreams and hallucinations . Surprisingly , there's no gore in this film ( usually director Fulci rubs the audience's face in it ) . . . doesn't make it a good film though . The story is slow and confusing , the direction is very annoying ( the strobe lights were particularly grating ) and the acting is lousy . Also there's a lieutenant in the film who is CONSTANTLY whistling . . . I wanted the killer to show up and kill him to shut him up ! There is an OK chase towards the end , but that's about it . I realize Fulci has his admirers - - but why ? His films are pointless , badly dubbed , have unbelievably disgusting gore , no plots and zero characterizations . This is one of the films minus the gore . A total waste of time - - can't say talent because there isn't any .
One of the worst films of 2003	Truly horrendous dramatization of the true story of Michael Alig . A gay man , he became the king of the club kid scene in the late 1980s . Eventually he became hooked on drugs which led to his downfall and involved murder . There is only one good thing in this film - - Seth Green's performance as James St . James , Michael's best friend . He's flamboyent , hysterically funny and plays his role with just the right amount of camp . That aside , virtually everything else sucks . The casting of Macaulay Culkin in the lead is easily the worst mistake . He can't act and says everything in a dull monotone with a blank look on his face . He's worse now than when he was a child actor ! Wilmer Valderrama briefly perks up the movie as Michael's lover DJ Keoki . He's incredibly handsome , full of charisma and gives a much better performance than the material deserves . Unfortunately he disappears after the first half hour . Also the movie doesn't play fair here - - when Alig and Keoki are about to kiss , the camera goes black ! I think in the year 2003 audiences can deal with 2 guys kissing - - especially in an R-rated film . Dylan McDermott gives in a dull one-note performance as club owner Pater Gatien . Chloe Sevigny pops up late in the film . . . and is given nothing to do . Wilson Cruz ( looking just great ) also helps the movie playing Angel . . . but is also given nothing to do . The script is scattershoot - - it rambles all over the place and , by the end , you don't know where you are or what's happening . Where is Alig living at the end ? Where is he getting all the drugs when he has no money ? Why does Keoki even bother showing up at the end ? Why does Angel demand money when he knows Alig is broke ? etc etc . Also the direction is WAY off . Half the time the camera isn't even pointing at the actors who are speaking . . . other times it seems to wander around aimlessly . Boring , pointless , unpleasant and seems much much longer than it's 98 minutes . A total waste of time . Avoid at ALL costs ! ! ! ! ! !
Poorly cast and dull	In the 1920s drifter Frank Chambers ( Jack Nicholson ) starts doing odd jobs for an alcoholic cafe owner Nick ( John Colicos ) . He then meets Nick's sexy young wife ( Jessica Lange ) . Sex and murder follow . The 1946 version was perfect so , naturally , Hollywood had to redo it . They claimed the original had to be toned down because of the Hays Code ( this is true ) . This version is true to the book - - but bad casting and a SLOW pace destroy it . For starters Nicholson is far too old for the role - - they needed someone in his 20s or 30s . It seems ridiculous that Lange would fall for someone like him . Also Lange was , at that point , still learning as an actress . She's not terrible but not as good as she usually is either . The sex scenes ( which were promoted nonstop during the films production ) aren't much . They're more violent than erotic and seriously - - do YOU want to see Nicholson nude ? Also the story is morbid and slow-moving - - I was seriously bored and depressed halfway through . Nicholson manages to throw in one of his worst performances and , as I said before , Lange isn't that good . This was a major bomb ( for some reason the studio chose to release this around Christmas ! ) and has rightfully been forgotten . A 1 .
Pretty dreadful - - but kids might like it	This adorable dog ( called various names during the film ) is seemingly loved by the whole town . . . but he's alone . He is friends with two children ( Cindy and Paul played astonishingly bad ) but their father won't let them have a dog . Then Benji meets Tiffany - - ANOTHER adorable dog . They ( instantly ) fall in love and it leads to a hysterical montage of the two of them frolicking in the grass , drinking from a fountain . . . in slow motion no less ! Also Benji lives in the cleanest abandoned house I've ever seen . Then the two kids are kidnapped by the most inept , unfunniest kidnappers I've ever seen and - - wouldn't you know it - - they hide the brats in the exact house Benji lives in ! WOW was this bad ! A huge hit ( for some reason ) in 1974 which led to many sequels ( which I will NOT see ) . The film is just terribly acted with " humor " so unfunny and badly done that you just stare at the TV in amazement . The film also has a song that is played NONSTOP during the movie - - so much that you want to scream . It was inexplicably nominated for Best Song at the Oscars - - it didn't win . Yeah - - the dogs are adorable and much better than the human actors - - but I need more than cute dogs to keep me interested . You might think I'm being a little hard on a kids film but I saw it with my 5 year old nephew . Within 20 minutes he was bored silly and basically stopped watching . I kept watching in hope that it would get better - - it didn't . Really lousy - - but VERY patient kids or dog lovers might like it . Note to parents : It's G rated but a dog is viciously kicked a few times . You don't see it - - you just hear it and the dog survives but this might bother real young kids .
Pretty dreadful	Puported " comedy " about four gay high school friends who have just graduated . They're all virgins and make a pledge to have sex before they enter college in a few months . The plot is familiar - - just with gay guys this time . For the record I'm gay - - and found this movie repulsive . The humor is sick beyond belief and there are constant scenes of sexual humiliation of the most disgusting kind . More than once I seriously considered leaving . I realize there IS an audience for this type of movie - - I guess I'm not it . To make it worse , all these characters are fairly likable and seeing them constantly being humiliated or suffering severe pain and abuse ( especially Andy ) is not my idea of fun . There's also a fat , aggressive , terribly stereotyped lesbian in this who I seriously wanted to shut up . To make matters worse the actors REALLY overact shamelessly sometimes and jokes about NAMBLA are NOT funny . The few funny parts have take offs on " Carrie " and " Mommie Dearest " and the film DOES look good . . . but I was mostly appalled by what I saw . I give it a 1 but this DOES have an audience . Proceed at your own risk . BTW , it's not rated but would get an NC-17 QUICKLY - - there is plenty of male nudity in this .
WAY overrated	Rupert Everett plays a man in charge of a cemetery in Italy . The problem is that the dead keep coming back to life and Everett must kill them ( again ) by stopping their brains . Then he meets and falls in love with a beautiful woman . They make love in the graveyard , on top of a grave and things go all wrong . . . I saw this thing ( I can barely call it a movie ) when it slithered on to some art house screens here in America . On one hand I was very pleased to see a film with such incredibly graphic gore get an R rating . But that's about all I liked it about it . Like most Italian horror movies the plot is secondary to gore and imagery but I need a story or at least a character to anchor down a horror movie . . . this has neither . It's full of people with no personality whatsoever ( Everett plays the whole role with a blank face ) and the " plot " just comes and goes and makes precious little sense . Also this movie wavers VERY uncomfortably between black humor and gory horror and achieves neither . If all you care about is a pointless movie with gory violence ( and the expected female nudity ) this is for you . I was frustrated and actually very bored by the end . The movie does deserve credit - - it somehow made blood and gore LOOK boring ! ! ! ! A complete waste of time - - I can't say talent because there isn't any in front or behind the camera . A 1 .
Just dreadful	Film takes place in Massachusetts ( obviously it was shot in Spain ) . It starts in the 1940s with a mother catching her young son putting together a jigsaw puzzle of a naked woman . She freaks out , yells at him and orders him to get a plastic trash bag ( which didn't exist in the 1940s ) . He leaves , comes back in with an ax and hacks mommy to pieces . That's the OPENING SCENE ! ! ! ! Then it cuts to 1983 at a college where somebody is hacking young female students into pieces . But who . . . and why ? You won't really care . Aside from Christopher George and Lynda Day George all the actors are ( badly ) dubbed ( I love how the dean of a MA college has an ENGLISH accent ) . The story doesn't make a lick of sense , the gore is explicit and pretty sick ( this was released unrated in the US ) and it's surprisingly dull at times . Even the casting was way off - - one of the characters is ( purportedly ) the school stud but he's played by a short , below average looking guy with no body whatsoever ! There's a sequence with him and a woman in bed which is hilarious . Basically this film was made to show off tons of blood and gore . I have no problem with that at all - - but that's all the movie has . Supposedly the dreadful dubbing was purportedly done badly so people would laugh at it . . . . but it's kind of hard to laugh at any movie which is shoving VERY explicit gore in your face . I saw it in a theatre in 1983 and no one laughed once . The stupidest murder has to be when one girl is decapitated by HEDGE TRIMMERS - - in broad daylight - - on a college campus - - and NOBODY SEES ANYTHING ! That's about when I gave up on the film - - they're treating the audience like they're full of idiots . And the final revelation of who the killer is was predictable and there's a truly pathetic " shock " at the end . A very sick , nasty , stupid , dull horror film . For gore completists only
Pretty stupid	A seriously deranged puppet master ( John Hoyt ) somehow makes a machine that shrinks people down to miniature size . One of them is John Agar - - a regular in plenty of B movies from the 1950s and 1960s . They rebel against their creator and try to get back to regular size . This was rushed into production - - and it shows . The year before " The Incredible Shrinking Man " had been a big hit so AIP rushed this one out . " Shrinking Man " had an interesting plot , good acting and great special effects . This one has a stupid plot full of holes , some seriously poor acting ( the usually dependable Hoyt walks through this one ) and subpar special effects . The only thing this dud has going for it is a good performance by Agar . Boring , silly and stupid . If you're a fan of cheesy B flicks from the 1950s you might get a kick out of this . Otherwise - - avoid . A 1 .
Hilarious !	Another stupid slasher film from the 80s . Basically it involves a bunch of idiots at a summer camp ( in November ! ) unwittingly bringing to life a monster who likes axing his victims . . . or something like that . Who cares ? The movie is crap ! All the characters are annoying and ( with the exception of Gaylen Ross from " Dawn of the Dead " ) the acting sucks . There are some truly ridiculous scenes - - a man gets his head cut off and , a few minutes later , a girl comes by , looks at the bloody headless body and says " Are you OK ? " ; a couple are making love in a tent - - their friends outside tell them to come out - - the guy yells " COMING ! " etc etc . There are only two highlights here - - the death by the hood of a trunk and a nice shot of a guy's butt while going into a hot tub ( it's rare you get any male nudity in a horror film ) . But that's no reason to see this . I saw it at a theatre back in 1982 full of high school students ( despite the R rating ) . They laughed all the way through and thought it was a good comedy ! And there's even room for a SEQUEL ( which never happened ) . As it stands it's almost impossible to find a copy of this now - - that's a good thing ! Avoid .
Bottom of the barrel	The story has already been summarized by previous posters so I won't bother . This is a rock-bottom , stupid , boring , horrendous " Halloween " clone - - HORROR movie is right ! The plot is silly ( killing people for every hour it turns midnight across the U . S . - - please ! ) , the performances are truly bad ( it's truly astounding at how bad Roz Kelly was - - you just stare at the screen in amazement . It's no wonder she's not in films anymore ) . Also the music - - this was NOT punk rock ! ! ! ! This is some Hollywood studios version of it . Also the " dances " the kids did were hilariously bad ( also those are the cleanest punks I've ever seen ) . But , more often than not , I was bored . Bad acting ( everybody is bad - - I mean EVERYBODY ) , a plot that is totally predictable ( I figured out the killer within 10 minutes ) , very minor gore ( yes , that's a problem - - this IS an early 80s slasher film after all ! ) , unlikable characters , HUGE gaps in logic . . . need I go on ? A must-miss . It might be fun to sit around watching it with a bunch of friends and tear it apart .
Just dreadful gay coming of age movie	Movie about a college guy who is confused about his sexuality . He's in a fraternity and keeps it hidden from his fraternity brothers . Then he meets a male student he's attracted to and things come out in the open . PLOT SPOILERS ! ! ! I caught this a few years ago at a Gay & Lesbian Film Festival . I had blocked it - - for good reason - - until I saw it here . It's all come roaring back . First off , the basic plot is OK but this takes forever to get going . Secondly , the acting really REALLY sucks . I notice that most of the " actors " here never made another movie . Thirdly , it's flatly directed with faded color and occasionally inaudible sound . Fourth , you don't care about the characters or situations for one second . Five , the reactions of the fraternity brothers to one of their own being gay were so accepting it's almost comical . Six , it's so obvious the two actors are hating every second of the ( one ) gay kiss in this . Some people mention there was some full frontal nudity and butt shots ( I seriously don't remember any ) but you don't want to see ANY of these guys nude . You can rent a gay porno for hot nude guys . This may have been made with serious intentions but the lousy script and bad acting destroy it . At the film festival this was met with dead silence and lots of people walked out complaining how bad it was . There are many other better gay movies out there . Skip this one .
Saw it when I was 13 at 11 : 30 at night . . . .	and thought it was the stupidest thing I ever saw . For starters this was not the Superman in the comics . Where was Lex Luthor , Perry White , Jimmy Olsen ? They're not here . Also the guy who played Superman could act - - but wasn't muscular and couldn't sing . The songs I remember were dreadful , the sets were made of cardboard , the special effects abysmal ( even by 1975 TV standards ) , the jokes totally unfunny and most of the cast overacted to a ridiculous degree . I do remember sort of liking Loretta Swit . . . but that's about it . There's a GOOD reason this isn't available on video or DVD . . . it's just horrible . Makes the " Batman " TV show of the 1960s look like high art . A 1 .
Bottom of the barrel here	It WAS supposed to be the last Freddy movie ( and it was for over 10 years ) - - you would think they would have tried to get a good movie done . But they turned out giving us the worst of the series ( and that's saying a lot ) . The plot made no sense ( I seriously can't remember it ) , all the main characters were idiots ( you REALLY wanted them dead ) and Freddy's wisecracks were even worse than usual . The only remotely good bit about this was a brief ( and funny ) cameo by Johnny Depp ( the first " Nightmare " movie was his first ) . Also I originally saw it in a theatre were the last section ( reaccounting Freddy's childhood ) was in 3-D . Well - - the 3-D was lousy - - faded colors and the image going in and out of focus . Also the three flying skulls which were supposed to be scary ( I think ) had the opposite reaction from my audience . EVERYBODY broke down laughing . Looks even worse on TV in 2-D . Pointless and stupid - - very dull also . Skip this one and see " Freddy vs . Jason " again .
Next WORST Thing !	Gay Robert Whittaker ( Rupert Everett ) gets best friend Abbie Reynolds ( Madonna ) pregnant after one drunken night . She has the baby and they agree to live together and raise the child . Everything is fine until she falls in love with handsome Ben Cooper ( Benjamin Bratt ) . . . and wants full custody of their child . Yawn . This has been done before , but never this badly . The script is lousy ( some of the lines were beyond belief ) , Madonna's acting was terrible ( no shock there ) , the direction off ( I could direct better than this ! ) , badly edited and it's just plain dull ! The " comedy " wasn't funny , the " drama " has been done before in countless Lifetime movies on TV and it gets annoying that Hollywood thinks that a gay man getting a little drunk could automatically sleep with a woman . Speaking as a gay man myself , I can tell you , that isn't the case ! Also Madoona looks terrible here . She's supposed to be 34 ! She was 42 when she made this - - and looks it . SPOILER AHEAD . Also at the end , Madonna is happily married , but Everett is still alone . I guess it's OK for the straight woman to find the man of her dreams , but not the gay guy . SPOILER ENDThere are a few good things about the movie - - Lynn Redgrave shines in a supporting role and Everett was as good as was humanly possible . Also it's fun to see Michael Vartan in an early role and Neil Patrick Harris playing gay six years before he came out ! But , all in all , this is a total mess - - not worth anyone's time . Sadly , great director John Schlesinger's last film . Avoid .
Hysterical	VERY stupid adaptation of Nathaniel Hawthorne's classic . For one thing Demi Moore is totally miscast in the title role . I have nothing against her - - she can be good in the right roles . . . but casting her as a Puritan was just stupid . Gary Oldman looks like he doesn't know what the hell he's doing in this and Robert Duvall sadly embarasses himself . I ( unfortunately ) saw it in a theatre back in 1995 ( Yup - - I PAID to see this movie ! ) . There were a bunch of English school teachers in attendance . They started laughing during the opening credits which says the movie is " based on characters created by Hawthorne " and didn't let up during the entire movie . Actually their comments were more enjoyable than the movie itself . And they REALLY howled at the end which was totally different from the book ! Also , at 135 minutes , it's WAY too long . Really . . . who thought this was a good idea ? Why take a classic book and screw it over completely ? Thankfully , this seems to be forgotten - - it should stay that way . Don't bother .
One of Crawford's worst	Elaborate , star-studded movie about a jewel thief ( Joan Crawford ) falling in love with a man she's supposed to rob . . . or something like that . This is a horrible movie - - just one of the worst I've ever seen . It is beautiful to look at , has a great cast and they all give great performances ( especially Crawford - - she's gorgeous and letter perfect in her role ) . Then why do I hate this so much ? The dialogue and plot . The plot is as old as the hills and the script is chock-full of totally unbelievable dialogue that no human being would ever utter . Virtually every other line was so bewildering that I could not get into the characters or the story . Also the film is very static - - it feels very much like a stage play filmed . And it's very , very slow and dullMaybe I shouldn't judge the film - - as it is I tried to watch it twice and fell asleep both times ! I made it through an hour and then dozed off . I think the stupid dialogue kept me awake for that long . This film was unavailable ( for some reason ) from the 1960s to the early 1980s . Unfortunately it's now out there . Do yourself a favor - - if you're a Crawford fan ( like I am ) don't see this . It's really terrible .
Yawn !	Silly horror film . At a California beach people are being pulled INTO the sand and are never seen again . Obviously there's something under there . . . but the police don't want to be bothered . Hunky lifeguard David Huffman and his whiny girlfriend try to find out what's going on . I gotta admit this has a decent idea ( people being attacked BY the beach ) but is really poorly done . The story is totally by the numbers ( it's basically " Jaws " on dry land ) as are all the characters . The acting is awful , there's next to no gore and when you finally see the creature it's pretty laughable ( I saw it at a theatre in 1981 - - the audience howled when the monster appeared at the end ) . The only bright spot for me was seeing David Huffman . He wasn't that great of an actor but he's VERY handsome and fills out the skimpy bathing suit he wears quite well . Sadly he was stabbed to death in 1985 . And I do have to admit - - this is one of the few horror movies that make the guy a sex object and not a female . So , aside from his looks and body this movie has nothing to recommend it . I give it a 1 .
Terrible but amusing	OK - - this film is terrible ( I give it a 1 ) BUT I'd be lying if I didn't say I enjoyed it - - for laughs ! Lousy acting , TERRIBLE sets ( LOVE the cockpit of the plane and the obvious plastic tombstones ) and the hilarious " special " effects ( the flying saucers were painted pie tins - - and it shows ) . The script is beyond belief ! Seriously , did ANYONE think this was written by someone in the right frame of mind ? The dialogue was just dreadful . Also the actors were directed all wrong - - if they in fact WERE directed . Notice how the police inspector uses his gun to scratch his face , push up his hat , wave in a general direction . . . and everybody acts as this is perfectly normal . And Ed Wood . . . he was no director and had zero talent . I love how shots go from night to day to night again for no apparent reason . And poor Bela Lugosi ! He was reduced to doing THIS ? He has no dialogue and ( before filming was completed ) he died . So they got a guy ONE FOOT TALLER than Lugosi to play him by holding a cloak over his face ! The other actors are ( to put mildly ) terrible . This is not the worst film ever made ( " Salo " gets that dubious honor ) but it's definitely down there . It should be seen with an audience - - it's actually funnier that way . Among the amusing lines : " You're all stupid stupid STUPID ! Don't you see ? Don't you see ? " " We are all interested in the future for that's where you and I will spend the rest of our lives . " " He's dead . . . murdered and someone's reasponsible ! "
Homophobic , sexist , stupid and dull	Alleged " comedy " about two straight men - - Jerry ( Cuba Gooding Jr . ) and Nick ( Horatio Sanz ) - - who mistakenly get stuck on a gay cruise . Naturally all the gay men are blatantly offensive stereotypes - - sex-obsessed , feminine , lisping and ( of course ) they all love drag . About a half hour in they run into a all-female Swedish sun tanning team ( don't ask ) so we can have juvenile sexist sex jokes and show women in tiny bikinis . A few offensive lesbian jokes are thrown in too . As a gay man I found this horribly offensive and not even remotely funny . A certain ice sculpture shown made me want to throw something heavy at the TV . I'm sick and tired of all gay men being shown as lisping , feminine people . To make things worse the film throws in a few short lines about how great gay people are - - then goes right back to comic gay-bashing . And , worst of all , we have the very unfunny Will Ferrell do a cameo . The film has a few OK things - - Roger Moore plays a gay man very well , the soundtrack is good and the overreaction of Gooding and Sanz when they find they're on the wrong cruise is somewhat amusing . The acting doesn't really help . Gooding overacts constantly - - he got annoying real quick ( can we take back that Oscar he got ? ) ; Sanz is obnoxious and unfunny ; Roselyn Sanchez has a few good moments and Vicica A . Fox pops up briefly doing OK . This film was a HUGE bomb at the box office ( for good reason ) and is just a stupid piece of garbage . Everybody connected with this should be embarrassed . I really wish I could rate this lower than 1 .
Even for a porno this is just terrible !	This was released as a midnight movie only in a mainstream theatre here in MA back in the 1990s . It was unrated but no one under 17 was admitted ( meaning it was X rated ) . Loving 3-D effects ( and being old enough to get in ) I decided to take a chance and see it . Bad mistake ! For starters despite the X rating the hardcore sex was ( obviously ) cut down to nothing . It wasn't any more explicit than an R rated film ! The plot didn't make a bit of sense ( something about people sucking on lollipops ) , the color was VERY faded and , to be nice , the 3-D effects were abysmal . The cast was attractive enough but after a half hour of badly edited sex , terrible 3-D and no plot whatsoever I had a headache and had just had it . I walked out - - and I wasn't alone . About 3 other guys left the same time I did and we kept talking about how terrible the film was . We ended up sneaking into the " Rocky Horror Picture Show " : ) Boring , pointless with bad 3-D and faded color . Also what was the POINT of showing an X rated film with all the sex scenes cut out ? ? ? You can skip this one .
Utter trash	Gord ( Tom Green who also directed and cowrote ) is a 28 year old loser who moves in with his parents ( Rip Torn , Julie Hagerty ) while trying to become a successful animator . His father is constantly swearing and screaming at him so he tells a counselor that his father sexually abused ( " fingered " ) his younger brother Freddy . This is played for laughs incidentally . Basically , this is one of the most disgusting comedies ever made . It's vile , unfunny and just has the most horrible sequences I've ever seen . They include : an old man in a walker being knocked down ; Green masturbating a horse ; Green cutting open a dead deer and wearing its skin ( ! ! ! ) ; horses having sex ; a little boy getting hit by a car with blood all over him - - he is later hit in the face with a baseball , over the head with a bottle and chopped up by plane blades - - all for laughs ; a man falls down , breaks his leg and , while he's screaming in pain , Green licks the bone sticking out of his leg ; Green helping a woman give birth , biting off the umbilical cord and swinging the baby around sprewing blood all over . . . this is all within the first half hour ! ! ! It just gets worse and worse with tons of disgusting humor , loads of swearing and talented actors like Torn , Drew Barrymore and Hagerty struggling to maintain their dignity . Torn especially has it bad - - at one point he bares his behind for laughs . Sad . There are two good performances - - Anthony Michael Hall as David Davidson and Marisa Coughlan as Betty - - a woman in a wheelchair who gets sexually excited when Green beats her feet with a bamboo stick - - this is shown three times . The whole movie ends with a truly desperate , pointless ending which tries to throw in a little moral lesson ! I almost stopped watching five times out of pure disgust but braced myself . This is a truly offensive , sick and revolting film . Every print should be locked in the studios vaults and never let out . The worst comedy EVER ! ! ! ! !
Sick , tasteless and consistently unfunny	A mild-mannered NY lawyer ( George Segal ) is slowly going crazy . He promised his father on his death bed that he would NEVER send their senile mother ( Ruth Gordon ) to a nursing home . Years later he's taking care of a senile , dangerous psychopath . He meets a beautiful nurse ( Trish Van Devere ) and they fall in love . But his mother keeps scaring her away . Segal is ready to kill her . . . . Ummmm . . . THIS is a comedy ? I have nothing against sick , black humor but come on . . . there HAS to be some limits ! This movie goes out of its way to throw every tasteless sick joke it can think of and rub your face in it . Too bad none of the jokes are funny . The jokes involve rape , nudity , public humiliation , senile old people , swearing and racism . Basically this is a movie that thinks it's clever by trying to shock people and thinking they'll laugh at it . I was disgusted and didn't laugh once . The movie is morbid , disturbing and ( surprisingly ) dull . The cast is the only thing that kept me watching . Segal and Gordon were both wonderful in their roles - - Gordon especially . And Van Devere is pretty good also . But the script is against them . The only interesting thing ( not funny ) was a pointless courtroom scene with Rob Reiner Jr . ( and try to spot his then-wife Penny Marshall as a spectator ) . Actually this movie could have been worse - - the original ending had Segal getting into bed with his MOTHER and pretending he's poppa ! That was ( thankfully ) changed . A real lousy , sick film . Bottom of the barrel . I give it a 1 .
Mostly boring	I saw this in a theatre out of pure curiosity back in 1986 . The ads gave no indication what this was about - - it just showed Nicolas Cage with his shirt off showing his VERY nice chest . It was a dull true story of Ned Hanlan who was a world class sculler - - or something like that . It takes place in the 19th century ( the ads didn't mention that either ) and I usually hate period pieces - - that didn't help me like the movie more . The only good thing about this was Cage - - he WAS good and his body looked fantastic . But , unless you're interested in sculling , you'll probably be bored silly . There was one unintentionally hilarious scene in which Cage tries to rip open a woman's shirt - - and it wouldn't rip ! He fumbles with it before he finally gets it off . The audience I saw it with was laughing hysterically .
Another dull pointless PG-13 " horror " movie	A remake of the 1979 hit . Jill Johnson ( Camille Belle ) is hired to babysit two kids in a beautiful , very elaborate house in the middle of nowhere . There's also a live in maid ( Rosa ) and a college age son who lives in a small house nearby . Things are fine for a while . . . but then Jill starts getting crank phone calls . She answers the phone , she knows someone is there . . . but they don't say anything . The calls increase , there's a storm brewing outside and the police are far away . Then the caller asks " Have you checked the children ? " OK - - the first was no masterpiece but it had a GREAT opening 20 minutes and a great ending . It also had some good acting . This has none of that . It's a solid HOUR before anything happens ! The rest of the film has Belle wandering around the house from room to room ( with a couple of annoying " jump " scares ) until you could scream . I fast forwarded through virtually half the film . There's no blood or violence at all - - we don't even see the two murders in this ( both of which are pointless ) and the bodies don't have a bruise or drop of blood on them ( gotta get that all important PG-13 rating ) . This film duplicates the two famous lines from the original - - " Have you checked . . . " and " Your blood all over me " - - but they're not even remotely scary here . It's hard to rate Belle's performance - - the poor woman is given nothing to do ! She is certainly good-looking and screams and runs around with conviction . . . but that's about it . The script she's given has her doing nothing at all . Also - - the rating . The original was R rated , more violent and was a big hit . But studios today refuse to release R rated horror films . They just churn out these dull , pointless remakes of the original , make sure it has a PG-13 rating ( it it doesn't they'll cut it down to one ) and star unknowns . These aren't movies - - they're screen tests for young actors or actresses . I don't blame them - - I blame the producers , writers and directors who get this junk made and released . Really pretty sad . Seriously - - watching paint dry would be more exciting than this . Skip it . Bottom of the barrel .
And I thought the first two were bad . . .	Pretty bad . It starts off in 1969 where a girl ( Mary ) is accidentally murdered and the killer hides the body and she's never found . It cuts to 30 + years later and high schooler Samantha Owens ( Kate Mara ) somehow raises the ghost of Mary who starts to take revenge on the children of the jerks who accidentally caused the murder . Why she never goes after the actual killer is never explained . Sam realizes something is wrong and she and her brother ( Robert Vito ) try to figure out who killed Mary and where the body is . It's also laughably obvious who the killer is . Stupid , boring " horror " film . The script is old , the dialogue is jaw-droppingly stupid and the acting is mostly pretty bad . Only Mara and Brandon Sacks ( Steve ) show any talent . There are a few nice gory deaths to break the boredom and ( surprisingly ) there's no nudity . The closest we get is seeing Sacks in the shower ( waist up ) and wearing some very brief shorts in the tanning salon . One woman DOES take her top off but her back is to the camera . So - - no real nudity , only a few gruesome deaths , a predictable script and bad acting . Makes the first two look like unsung masterpieces by comparison . You can skip this one .
Pretty terrible	A bunch of untalented kids act out a play on Christmas Eve for the parents . Also , two of the girls do some sort of speech . Of course , the film is silent so . . . why was this done ? We can't hear any dialogue so we have no idea what's going on . I suppose this has some historical interest as a film and of what ( supposedly ) happened in homes on Christmas Eve . But it's entertainment value is nil . The only good thing is it's 5 minutes long ! A must-miss .
Dreadful	! ! ! SPOILERS ! ! ! Supposed comedy musical about a pathetic young woman ( Rachel Griffiths ) ruled by her monster of a father ( Johnathan Pryce ) . Then her father has a stroke and she learns how to become strong and self-sufficient . This is one of those films that takes place in an impossibly small town in Wales , is peopled by " lovable " eccentric characters ( including the obligatory gay couple ) and has a saintly young girl who has to die so the main character can find herself . The plot is old and depressing ; the comedy is either cruel or unfunny ; the songs are sparse and badly done and the Welsh accents render most of the dialogue incomprehensible ( this film NEEDS subtitles ! ) . Boring , predictable , depressing . Why is this film getting so much acclaim ? AVOID !
Morbid	Depressing black BLACK comedy about a woman ( Mia Farrow ) who flees her house on Christmas Eve when she discovers her husband ( Tony Goldwyn ) has hired a hit man to kill her . She ends up with a husband and wife ( Scott Glenn and Mary-Louise Parker ) and then things go wrong . Basically Farrow keeps running and is continuously meeting VERY strange people and getting into morbidly unfunny situations . This was advertised as a feel good movie when I saw it around Christmas time at its VERY short run in an art cinema . I found it sick , unfunny and just depressing . I like black humor but this was WAY too dark for me . What happens to Parker's character especially was horrifying . To make matters worse Eileen Brennan is thrown in as a nun ( ! ! ! ) later on and proceeds to chew the scenery with gusto . The only saving grace was Farrow's acting - - it's much better than this picture deserves . Also it was a relief to see the very talented Stephen Dorff pop up at the end . The ending itself was kind of nice but it couldn't erase what had gone on before . Sick , morbid , pitch black " comedy " . A 1
THIS is considered one of the greatest comedies ever ? ? ? ?	Stan Laural and Oliver Hardy belong to a strange all-male organization called Sons of the Desert . They plan to attend an annual convention in Chicago . Unfortunately their loud , obnoxious , domineering wives won't let them go . So Hardy pretends he's sick and has to go to Honolulu ( ! ! ! ) to recover with Laurel going with him . Instead they sneak off to Chicago . . . and things go wrong . I have never seen a Laurel and Hardy film in my life so I decided to start with what is considered that best . THIS is their best ? ? ? ? I didn't laugh ( or smile ) once . I found the humor VERY dated , infantile and extremely violent . I'm not a fan of violent slapstick and that's primarily what this is . Also the sexual politics here are extremely dated with all the women portrayed as controlling witches . I didn't even like Laurel and Hardy themselves ! Their nonstop mugging got tiresome and I felt like hitting Laurel when he did that incredibly loud , whiny , unfunny " crying " . Charley Chase was even WORSE as a " hilarious " prankster at the convention . However I do admit that Mae Busch did have some moments as Hardy's wife . I realize there are people who love these two . Great ! But I just don't like their type of comedy . I was bored and kept looking at my watch ( and this movie is only 69 minutes ! ) . I give this a 1 .
Sleazy but stupid and plain dull	It starts off with Anita Ekberg being attacked by an escaped lunatic . She survives but is institutionalized . A Dr . Greene ( Harry Townes ) becomes obsessed with her . Next thing we know she's playing a " stripper " called Yolanda . Crime reporter Bill Sweeney ( Philip Carey ) falls for her and Greene doesn't like that . Also there's a murderer around and it seems Yolanda may be his next victim . . . If that sounds disjointed you should see the movie ! Hopelessly confusing and extremely dull piece of work . Ekberg is certainly gorgeous but no actress . Also her " stripping " has her not taking off anything ! Then there's Gypsy Rose Lee as the owner of the " strip " club . At one point she gets on stage and sings ( and " dances " ) to " Put the Blame on Mame " ! Rita Hayworth has nothing to fear . There's also a hint of lesbianism ( very daring for 1958 ) and a constantly barking dog named Devil ! I'm probably making this sound more fun than it is . It's slow , confusing and dull with bad acting ( except for Carey ) and pointless musical numbers in the club to pad out the movie . This might be worth watching if you're an Ekberg fan or you want to see Gypsy Rose Lee - - but it's rough going . A 1 all the way .
Boring and predictable	By the numbers story of the Kid ( Prince ) , a singer , on his way to becoming a star . Then he falls in love with Apollonia ( Appolonia Kotero ) . But he has to deal with his wife-beating father ( Clarence Williams III ! ) and his own self-destructive behavior . I saw this in a theatre in 1984 . I was no big fan of Prince but I did like the three big songs from this movie - - " Purple Rain " , " Let's Get Crazy " , and " When Doves Cry " . The concert scenes in this movie are great - - full of energy and excitement . Unfortunately that's a VERY small portion of the movie . The story is screamingly obvious and have been done many times before - - and much better too . The subplots are , to put in nicely , badly handled . The love triangle between The Kid , Appolonia and Morris Day was so predictable and tired that I actually became insulted . His wife beating father is needed for the story , but the scenes are so badly handled ( in acting and direction ) that I couldn't believe it . The script is terrible - - lousy dialogue and some truly painful " comedy " routines . And there's tons of misogyny here - - The Kid's mother getting beaten ; The Kid hitting Appolonia and ( for no reason ) Appolonia strips and goes topless to swim in a dirty river . Also Williams ' and Princes ' characters treat women in a horrible manner constantly . The acting is where this movie REALLY fails . Appolonia is sweet and beautiful - - but no actor . And Prince is ( easily ) the WORST actor I've ever seen . His blank face and wooden dialogue delivery are so bad I couldn't believe it . This movie only comes to life during the concert scenes but there aren't really that many . The " dramatic " scenes are so badly acted and handled that they make this movie a chore to sit through . They should have just made this a concert film . I give this a 2 - - only for the music .
A new low in direct to video sequels	Rich high school girl Britney Harvers ( Susan Ward ) has a dead mother she misses and a lousy stepfather who hates her . He dies in a plane crash and she's left all his millions . But cruel , obnoxious school girl Maya King ( Leila Arcieri ) claims Britney's stepfather was HER father and she deserves all the money . . . Pointless " sequel " to " Wild Things " . It's basically the same exact plot with a few ( minor ) twists and turns . . . . just done with a bad cast and a terrible script . If you've seen the first you don't need to see this - - you already have . It even copies the infamous threesome sex scene from the original ! ( Trust me - - the original is better ) . This is just made to show young , attractive women in bikinis - - wet ones preferably . I'm giving this a 2 because it has some good points . Everybody looks good ( Ward and Arceri are beautiful and Joe Michael Burke has a nice body ) ; the settings themselves are lush ; there's one good performance by Isiah Washington and a nice score . But you're constantly one step ahead of this movie and it gets annoying . See the original - - you'll be much better off .
Horrendously dubbed Italian vampires	A VERY badly dubbed Italian vampire film from 1962 . A young couple , Louise and Wolfgang ( ! ! ) in the 16th century ( I believe ) are menaced by a vampire . Nice black and white photography and a beautiful score can't save a very dull horror film with lousy dialogue , atrocious dubbing ( I know I'm mentioning it a third time but it IS that bad ! ) and poor acting . More laughs than anything else . I was especially amused that the victims of the vampire have no marks on their necks ! And some of the dialogue had me laughing out loud . However , both Wolfgang and Louise are VERY attractive and Louise wears incredibly low-cut dresses . Still , that's no reason to see this film . Let's put it this way - - - this is a vampire film with a G rating ! What does that tell you ? Avoid - - unless you have insomnia .
Annoying and unfunny	I really wanted to like this movie - - I love romantic comedy-dramas ( like " Steel Magnolias " ) and I think Reese Witherspoon is a fantastic actress . But I really hated this movie . The plot has Melanie Carmichael ( Witherspoon ) , a successful fashion designer in NY , being proposed to by rich , handsome , wealthy son of the mayor ( Patrick Dempsey ) . She accepts without telling him one teensy problem - - she's still married to Jake ( Josh Lucas ) who she left in Alabama before going to NY . She goes back there to get him to sign the divorce papers . He refuses and things get out of control . Annoyingly predictable , dully made , tiredly politically correct and incredibly unfunny " comedy " . All the characters are cliches and every twist and turn is telegraphed a mile away . And it's just not funny ! I think I laughed twice ( maybe ) . The only thing that made this bearable is the acting . Dempsey , Lucas , Candice Bergen ( as the mayor of NY ! ) , Fred Ward , Mary Kay Place are all just great - - especially Lucas . He's so handsome and full of charisma - - a few closeups of him took my breath away . Best of all is Witherspoon . It's her show and she pulls it off . She's bright , full of energy , beautiful and one hell of an actress . She's got a great future ahead of her . Let's hope next time she gets a better script .
Pretty horrendous	This takes place on Fire Island back in the 1970s . A couple Peter ( Craig Dudley ) and Buddy ( J . Will Deane ) are throwing a 4th of July party at their house . Unfortunately their relationship is falling apart and they have to get ready for a house full of very strange guests . The rest of the movie chronicles the party and what happens between Peter and Buddy . OK - - I'm a gay man but I was 8 back when this was made . If this is a true view of what gay life was in the 1970s , I'm glad I wasn't around . From the puzzling opening credits which shows kids playing in the sand ( ? ? ? ) this movie slides slowly into disaster . There's a guru ( Robert Case ) who talks nonstop about nothing of any importance . I wanted to gag the guy halfway into his first LONG speech . There's the young kid Danny who is there for his first time . There's the lesbian couple ( who do nothing - - except one strips for no reason ) . There's the leather queen . Worst of all is the effeminate man named Jimmy ( Jimmy Foster ) . We're introduced to him and his friend ( whose name I never got ) when they get a flat tire . They basically scream and screech for 10 minutes and have NO idea how to fix a flat . I know some people find this funny but I found it offensive and pretty sad . The party itself is full of people you would never want to know . It's like being dumped in a party full of bad actors playing obnoxious people . With the sole exception of Dudley no one can act . This may be valuable as a portrait of what Fire Island was like in the 1970s . . . but it's pretty dull viewing . This gets a 2 only for the frequent male nudity of some very nice bodies .
Utterly predictable	Completely ordinary and boring " drama " of a bunch of third year medical students . This story is so by the numbers it's insulting . Every character has they own separate little drama and they're all tied up nice and fine by the end of the movie . Every single story line is predictable ( as are the outcomes ) so it gets incredibly boring just watching it . I also heard there were a lot of errors in terms of the medical dialogue . . . but I can't swear to that . They have a bunch of very talented actors who are just wasted . All of them struggle with their roles but they're given totally one dimensional characters to work with . No actor could make this work . I give this a 2 only for the nude and real hot sex sequence between Adrian Pasdar ( all pumped up ) and Diane Lane ( looking great ) . Still that's no real reason to watch this . Avoid .
Terrible . . . but not the worst movie ever made	That still belongs to " Salo " . A bunch of Martians ( led by Tommy Kirk ) land on Earth . Their plan is to abduct women , bring them to Mars , and use them to keep their population growing . They each hunt down women successfully but Kirk falls in love with his prey Dr . Bolen ( Yvonne Craig ) . Can he bring her with him or stay on Earth with her ? With a title like that you would expect this movie to be pure camp . Surprisingly , it isn't ! Everything is played straight-faced with absolutely no joking or winking at the audience . Now this movie is terrible - - there's tons of stock footage ( which easily take up most of the running time ) ; a LOONGGGG strip sequence ; dreadful acting ( although Kirk and Craig do try ) ; inept direction ; bad sound ( I couldn't hear some of the dialogue - - no loss ) ; hilariously inappropriate music and horrendous " special " effects ( wait till you see the Martian spaceship ! ) . The script is actually OK - - it's not stupid just dull . There are plenty of dull spots in this movie but still , there are some moments to treasure - - the introduction of Dr . Bolen on TV is hysterical and I got a laugh out of the title of a lecture she was giving - - " Sex and Outer Space " . And it was kind of fun to see how badly Larry Buchanan directed this . And I saw a new print and the colors were bright and strong . So , this is a bad movie , but I've seen worse . From what I've heard even Kirk and Craig to this day admit liking it ! I'm giving it a 2 .
This wowed me when I was 14 . . .	A couple ( Oliver Reed and Karen Black ) , their young son ( Lee Montgomery ) and aunt ( Bette Davis ! ) become caretakers for this huge Gothic mansion , in the middle of nowhere , for the summer . Everything seems fine at first but then Black becomes obsessed with the house , Reed starts having some truly disturbing nightmares and the feisty old aunt begins to get ill . . . and the son is terrified . I saw this at a theatre when I was 14 . It was packed with kids my age ( the film is PG ) and I remember it scaring me . It all led up to a bloody climax which left my audience screaming . Seeing it 30 years later I can't see why I ever liked this . The film is too long , VERY slow and the ultimate resolution struck me as pretty stupid . Nothing really happens until the very end . I was basically bored . Also Reed gives out a horrible performance - - but Davis hated him and kept telling him off - - that could account for it . Davis hated this film . She complained long and loud about the script and would basically tell off the crew and director daily . She only got along with Black and Montgomery . The film gets a 2 for a few reasons - - Davis ( despite hating it ) is good ; Black and Montgomery aren't bad ; the visions Reed has are still pretty scary and the ending really jolts you ( don't see it on commercial TV - - it's edited ) . Still that doesn't save it . Bette Davis completists might want to tune in . . . but that's it .
Stupid near porn version of Wilde's tale	Oscar Wilde's classic is updated to the 1970s with disastrous results . Dorian Gray ( Helmut Berger ) has his picture painted and , through some circumstances , finds his portrait aging while he stays young and beautiful . It leads him into a decadent life style which is basically sleeping around with any woman he can find . As the years go by his immoral behavior continues while his portrait horribly ages . Caught this on video years ago . Why they tried to turn out a virtually porno version of Wilde's story I'll never know . It's badly directed with stilted dialogue . Berger is very handsome but kind of a blank - - he says all his lines in a monotone . I can't totally blame him - - English isn't his first language . Herbert Lom ( obviously desperate for work ) plays a gay man who lusts after Dorian . Lom said in an interview many years ago that he never saw the movie after reading the reviews when it came out . Marie Lijedahl as Sylvia isn't half bad and spends a considerable amount of time nude . All in all , this is a movie made for guys who want to look at nude women . For some reason Berger is never shown fully nude . In one particularly awkward shot he is naked but his hands are covering his best parts . If you want a good adaptation of Wilde's tale stick to the 1940s version - - avoid this . I give it a 2 only for Berger - - visually he was a good choice for the role .
Pretty terrible	Cantor Rabinowitz ( Warner Oland ) wants his son Jackie to sing traditional Jewish religious songs at the temple . Jackie likes only signing jazz and , after his father beats him , he runs away from home . Twenty years later he's changed his name to Jack Robin ( Al Jolson ) and is a jazz signer . . . albeit not successful . He then meets beautiful Mary Dale ( May McAvoy ) who helps him become a big star . But his father is dying and wants him to sing for him before he dies and ( wouldn't you know it ? ) this happens on the opening night of his big break . Yawn . What a cornball story ! This was old even in 1927 when this was made . It's more funny now than dramatic . The clichs come flying left and right - - some of them were so overdone I couldn't believe it ! I was rolling my eyes and smirking almost nonstop . If this wasn't one of the first talking pictures and didn't have Jolson in it , it would have disappeared long ago . Also this ( technically ) isn't an all talking picture . It has sequences of dialogue and signing from Jolson but it's mostly a silent with title cards and everything . Cornball story aside the acting didn't impress me . I'm no fan of Jolson . I do admit his acting wasn't too bad but I hated his songs and didn't think he was much of a singer . When the sound came on when he was signing I kept hoping it could switch back to silent ! Also he does two numbers in black face . I realize that was considered OK back in 1927 but it comes across as appalling and racist today . The rest of the actors overact to a startling degree - - but that was how silent film stars DID act so I can't fault them . A real bad film but I give it a 2 because it is historically important . Anyone who interested in cinema should see it at least once .
" Hide " from this movie - - don't " seek " it out	David Callaway ( Robert DeNiro ) and his young daughter Emily ( Dakota Fanning ) are trying to deal with the suicide of his wife ( Amy Irving ) . They move to a remote country house to get away from everything . Then Emily has this new friend named Charlie - - who no one can see . But then Callaway starts to wonder who Charlie is when strange things begin to happen . And how about the creepy neighbors next door ? Dull , pointless and stupid . This is a simple by the numbers horror film that moves painfully slow and telegraphs every ' scare ' . If this was just a low budget horror film it would be easier to dismiss - - but this is a big budget horror film with good actors by a major studio . I really want to know how they got these actors to sign up for this . For starters this plot has been done many times before . . . and better . This movie adds nothing new to the formula . There is a very undeveloped subplot about some creepy neighbors . It actually looked very interesting but is dumped completely at the end with no resolution . Also this movie treats the audience like idiots . At one point Fanning has to run for her life . She has a choice - - go outdoors or upstairs . Guess which one she picks . At another part the chief of police ( Dylan Baker ) is investigating the house when the lights go out . Of course he should leave the house . Instead he checks out everything with a flashlight ! It's really hard to care about people who are such idiots . And I saw the ' surprise ' ending coming halfway through the movie . The acting wavers . DeNiro ( surprisingly ) is not that good . He isn't terrible - - it's just he's capable of being better . Fanning is excellent as Emily . She's one of the few things that kept my interest . Very well-done , believable performance . Famke Janssen is wasted as a family friend . And I think she should have guessed out what was going on long before they tell us . Irving is hardly in the movie ( a good thing ) and she is cruelly photographed . Elisabeth Shue ( a wonderful actress ) has absolutely nothing to work with . It's always good to see Robert John Barker ( next door neighbor ) but he only has two short scenes . The R rating is not necessary . There's no sex or nudity , only one instance of swearing and the murders ( both of them ) are just a little bloody . I'm assuming it got the R because it does deal with a little girl dealing with her mother's suicide pretty grimly . All in all this is just a dull horror film that will be forgotten in a few months . Skip it .
Stupid doesn't begin to cover this	High school graduate Scott Thomas ( Scott Mechlowicz ) accidentally insults his online German girlfriend . She blocks his email so he decides to trek to Europe with his idiot friend Copper ( Jacob Pitts ) to find her and apologize ( ? ? ? ? ) . Along the way they run into two friends - - Jamie ( Travis Wester ) and Jenny ( Michelle Trachtenberg ) who join them in their " hilarious " misadventures . Man - - what a STUPID movie ! It's easy to see why this bombed at the box office . Let's go over what passes for comedy in this movie . They first arrive in London and run into a vicious soccer team - - no laughs here . Next up is France when has a horrifically unfunny mime robot fight ( don't ask ) - - this sequence just is beyond belief . Then there's a train ride which throws in some tired homophobic jokes ; then there's the all nude male beach - - again not funny ) ; then some MORE homophobic train ride jokes . Next is Amsterdam which has a predictable S & M sequence , a dumb oral sex sequence and a stupid drug sequence - - ALL unfunny . Then we get to Eastern Europe with an Abstinence " Joke " , incest played for laughs . FINALLY we get to Germany with humorous Nazi touches ( ! ! ! ! ) . Then off to Rome to give us pitiful Catholic humor . THEN it leads to an ending which is so beyond the bounds of reality my brain started to hurt . I saw this with two friends - - we were all equally appalled . We wanted to stop watching but couldn't . . . it was like watching a train wreck . You WANTED to turn away but can't . The humor wasn't gross-out - - that's about the only good thing I can say about this . It also wasn't funny . There's also the tired gratuitous female nudity and even some male nudity ( quite a bit in the unrated version ) . I'm giving this a 2 instead of a 1 for a few reasons . There WAS some nice directorial touches and a great music score . Also Mechlowicz was pretty good ( and very handsome ) and Wester nicely underplayed his " nerd " role . And I've always liked Trachtenberg ( even though she's given nothing to do ) . Still this is a stupid , unfunny movie . What was so astounding is that even the predictable punchlines were done wrong ! A must miss .
Kind of sad . . . and dull	Some white stuff from the ground turns animals giant-size on a remote island . Soon a bunch of people are battling giant wasps , chickens , earthworms and rats to get off the island . It sounds interesting but this is actually a pretty pathetic adaptation of ( according to the credits ) " a portion of Food of the Gods by H . G . Wells " . The sound you hear now is Wells spinning in his grave . The dialogue is just DREADFUL ( some of the lines were so bad I couldn't believe I was hearing them ) and the script is just silly . As for the acting - - Marjoe Gortner was bad but Belinda Balaski and Pamela Franklin ( looking fantastic in her last film to date ) were very good despite their lines . The bit where Franklin tells Gortner she wants to make love to him ( when they're holed up in a house surrounded by giant rats ) had me helpless with laughter ! It's also really sad to see two fine actors - - Ida Lupino and Ralph Meeker - - reduced to crap like this . Their performances are very bad too - - Meeker the worst of the two . The special effects are mostly horrendous - - the giant chicken will have you howling and the wasps are ( very ) obviously superimposed . However the sequence with the giant earthworms was VERY bloody and admittedly a high point . And some of the rat effects weren't bad . Also there are a number of extremely bloody attacks by the rats - - I'm really surprised this got by with a PG . The attacks are the only reason I'm giving this a 2 . And when the attacks aren't on the movie is dull dull dull ! Scattered unintentionally hilarious dialogue does not compensate . Worth watching for the attacks - - otherwise a boring , silly and sad film .
Pretty dreadful	One night in a disco involving various characters and situations . Most people like this for its accurate representation of the Disco Era . Its all here - - the terrible clothes , music and casual drug taking . It also has a great five minute or so bit where Donna Summer belts out " Last Dance " ( a deserved Academy Award winner for Best Song ) . But one good bit does not excuse the rest of the movie . It's badly written and badly acted full of characters you could care less about . The dramatic moments come across as unintentionally hilarious while the intentional comedy is downright painful . It's hard to believe that Jeff Goldblum , Debra Winger and Donna Summer still had careers after this fiasco . I caught it on cable TV a few years ago and it was a real chore watching the whole thing ! The only thing I could think of after was TGIO - - Thank God It's Over ! For a much better and more accurate representation of disco rent " Saturday Night Fever " ( the R rated version ) . Avoid , at all costs , this mess . Gets a 2 just for " Last Dance " .
Almost bad / good	A vampire ( sort of ) fraternity on a college campus tries to recruit young , innocent Chris . Horrible . It looks great and is well-directed ( this has to be seen letter-boxed ) but the script is full of stunningly bad lines and ( with one exception ) ALL the acting is horrendous . And the script ! The main character Chris ( our " hero " ) comes off as an obnoxious jerk - - you could care less that he's going to be attacked . And the fraternity leaves a book describing their whole history out in the open for anyone to read ! Chris ' roomie is the sole saving grace in the picture . As played by Josh Hammond he's actually very funny and full of life . He's the only bright spot here . Some posters complained about the guys being in their underwear all the time . Please ! This doesn't happen until an hour into the movie ! And it's shot from the waist up . And the guys do look good - - they were hired for their looks and bodies , not talent . There's plenty of homoeroticism here . I'm giving it a 2 for good direction and the handsome , hunky guys . In the special edition DVD there's an audio commentrary by director David DeCoteau and " actor " Bradley Stryker . It's fun , lively and more interesting than the movie itself . In a particularly amusing aside director DeCoteau says the homoeroticism was unintentional ! Right !
Not bad-good , just BAD ! ! ! !	Very boring , very stupid and just plain lousy movie about invisible invaders taking over Earth by possessing dead bodies . The idea sounds intriguing and the cameo by John Carradine at the beginning gives one hope , but it very quickly falls to pieces . Even at 67 minutes this movie is slllooooowwwww ! All the acting sucks - - the worst being by Pelner ( ? ? ) . Notice how she handles every development in the film - - she puts her hands to the sides of her face and her mouth hangs open . The first time it's OK , second time OK , third time it gets on your nervers , every time thereafter makes you want to either laugh out loud or kick in your TV set ! ( I had both reactions ) . It's not so bad it's good - - it's too boring for that . The only way to make it through this film is get a bunch of friends , drink LOTS of beer , then watch the movie . You'll probably enjoy it more drunk than sober ! Bottom of the barrel fare .
DePalma hits rock bottom	Jaw droppingly bad movie about a jewel thief ( Rebecca Romijn ) committing a robbery with others - - but she takes the jewels and leaves them high and dry . She pops up years later with a totally new identity . . . but can't escape her past . Somehow Antonio Banderas gets involved in this . Hoo boy ! This is just beyond bad . Boring , stupid and badly acted ( although Romijn has her moments - - Banderas appears drugged - - maybe he was ) . The story is pretty predictable and ( aside from some typically nice directorial touches from DePalma ) there's nothing even remotely interesting here . And , by the end of the movie , DePalma throws in a twist that is SO bad and clichd I seriously thought he was kidding . I saw this at the movies and I was just so upset by it I yelled out , " Oh come ON ! " Not one person told me to be quiet . Also Banderas doesn't pop up in this until the movie is almost half over - - a wise choice . I give this a two only for some nice shots - - otherwise this is an all time career low for everybody involved . Avoid .
Hated the original , but this is even WORSE !	I think " Rosemary's Baby " is the most overrated horror film out there . Not scary , interesting or much of anything . It's reasonably well-directed and Ruth Gordon was wonderful but that's about it . But this sequel makes it look like " Gone With the Wind " ! I caught this on TV back when I was 14 . Unfortunately , I still remember it . From what I remember Rosemary's baby Andrew is now grown up and the coven wants him to start taking over ( the world that is ) . But there are forces trying to stop it . . . and Andrew is having doubts himself . . . I'm giving this a 2 for a few reasons : Gordon is in this ( and still very good ) ; Stephen McHattie was actually pretty good as Andrew and there is one spooky moment at the beginning with Rosemary ( Patty Duke ) being " kidnapped " by a bus . . . with no driver . Other than that it's dull , silly and needless . The original didn't NEED a sequel ! Ira Levin's book followup in 1999 wasn't much better . Tune in for the beginning with Duke . . . then tune out . Not worth the effort .
Simplistic and boring	Purported documentary that tries to examine sci-fi films of the 1950s and how they affected ( and REflected ) America . Steven Spielberg , George Lucas , Ridley Scott and James Cameron are interviewed and Mark Hamill narrates . Pretty terrible . The " insights " that are given are nothing new - - for instance - - the Cold War and the threat of nuclear war affected a whole generation of children . Well-duh ! They try to cover all of the different sub genres of sci-fi films of the 1950s - - the big bug movies , invaders from space movies etc etc . That's good but they choose the most obvious films and they've been over analyzed to death already . It was cool seeing clips from " Rocketship X-M " , " Destination Moon " , " Forbidden Planet " , " The Thing " and " The Day the Earth Stood Still " but everything the directors said was so incredibly obvious to any viewer that it's insulting . Even though it's under an hour I was thoroughly bored 30 minutes in . This gets a 2 for some of the clips but nothing else .
Not as bad as the first sequel . . . but that's faint praise	This takes place in Broken Ridge CO on July 4th . A bunch of brainless teenagers start talking about the Fisherman ( Ben Willis from the first two films ) who , according to this , attacks and kills teenagers who have a dark secret that happened on July 4th . Naturally these morons decide to play a joke . . . and someone is accidentally killed . They all agree NOT to tell anyone . Then a year later they start getting the message " I Know What You Did Last Summer " and are being killed off one by one . By the numbers sequel which is basically a complete rehash of the original . There's Amber ( Brooke Nevin ) who stands in for Jennifer Love Hewitt . There's her ex-boyfriend Colby ( David Paetkau ) doing Ryan Phillippe . Then there's Zoe ( Torrey DeVitto ) a punk version of Sarah Michelle Gellar . And there's Lance ( Ben Easter ) who has NO personality at all - - just like Freddie Prinze Jr . The film briskly goes through its premise but it's so predictable it gets annoying . Add to that some terrible acting and ADD direction that keeps jumping all over the place . There are also countless " jump " scares and the revelation of who the killer was is particularly stupid . Actress Nevin deserves credit for explaining it without laughing or rolling her eyes . However this does have some things going for it . Some of the acting is good ( Nevin and Easter particularly ) ; Paetkau is muscular and shirtless a few times ; some of the killings were nice and gory and I was honestly never bored ( it clocks in under 90 minutes ) . Also it's not as insulting to your intelligence as the last one was ( that's still the worst horror film I ever saw ) so I give it a 2 for that . Still , you can safely skip this .
A real snooze	This takes place in the future . There's a space station under the watch of Commander Mike Halsted ( Tony Russel ) with buddy Jake ( Franco Nero ) and ex-girlfriend Lt . Gomez ( Lisa Gastoni ) . Obnoxious Dr . Numi ( Massimo Serato ) is conducting some mysterious experiments . It seems he's shrinking people down for . . . some reason . To be honest I had trouble staying awake ! Sleep inducing mess full of bad dubbing , hilarious special effects ( you HAVE to see the obvious miniatures they use ) , an incomprehensible plot , gorgeous vapid babes , square-jawed bland heroes and just tons of bad lines . " Helium head " had me roaring ! Unfortunately it's more boring than funny and I kept dozing off . There is a great fight sequence between three guys and three women ( the women are winning ! ) and a fantastic ending but that's not enough to save this . Dubbed and dull . Drink lots of coffee if you expect to make it through this one ! A 2 .
Sleep-inducing mess	The title refers to a drug used that make men appear dead . . . but they can be revived . In 1872 London , Sir Joel Cadman ( Basil Rathbone ) is experimenting with the brains of others to cure his comatose wife of some brain ailment she has . He uses the " Black Sleep " on his victims and , after they've been used , keeps them chained up and disfigured in hiding . But his assistant Dr . Ramsey ( Herbert Rudley ) is horrified by what he's doing . . . What a mess ! Boring and plodding done on cheap sets with some truly laughable dialogue and questionable scientific conclusions . Also this film has Bela Lugosi ( as a mute butler ) , Lon Chaney ( as a mute strangler ) , Tor Johnson ( mute also ) and John Carradine ( who , unfortunately , is not mute ) totally wasted in small roles . Only poor Lugosi tries to act - - Chaney , Johnson and Carradine ( understandably ) don't look like they give a damn . Rathbone walks through his role . Only Rudley and Akim Tamiroff give good performances . This movie has a great horror film cast and totally wastes them on a truly stupid script . This gets a 2 for the cast only . I seriously had trouble staying awake ! Avoid .
Only worth seeing for hunky Esai Morales	He's the only reason to see this film . He gives a very good performance - - much better than this crap deserves . He's very handsome and very talented - - he deserves better than this . Also depressing is to see Malcolm McDowell in this . He's another talented actor who deserves better but , like Esai , he gives a very good performance . So , if you're fans of either of them you might want to watch . Otherwise , stay away . One more complaint - - couldn't we have had more scenes of Esai shirtless ?
Makes " Friday the 13th " look like Shakespeare !	One of the earliest rip-offs of " Friday the 13th " and easily one of the worst . It starts at a summer camp where a bunch of the kids pull a prank on a sadistic counselor . Something goes wrong and he's badly burnt . After spending five years ( ! ! ! ) in a hospital where skin grafts didn't work he's released . He goes back to camp to settle a few scores . . . with hedge clippers in hand . Notorious ( in its time ) for being cut to ribbons by the MPAA to get an R rating . Virtually all the gore was gone - - a full minute of footage was cut ! Now its out on DVD in its full uncut glory with Tom Savini's graphic and realistic gore in full view . The infamous canoe sequence gives you a REAL jolt ! It doesn't make a bit of sense but it works . The gore gives this a 2 - - but everything else about this movie sucks . The story is dull ( even by 1981 standards ) ; there are continuity lapses galore ( the sequence between Glazer and Sally changes from day to night at a hilarious pace ) ; the characters are all one-dimensional and with the sole exception of Brian Backer the acting sucks . Also there is the expected pointless nudity - - but this goes too far , even for a slasher movie . We get countless full frontal shots of a woman who goes skinny-dipping and then is forced to stumble through the woods to find her clothes ! It might be erotic at first but it gets very disturbing . Also the ending has two characters walking around the forest evading the killer - - for 20 SOLID MINUTES ! ! ! It gets boring real quick and it's obvious that the actors are continuously passing the same areas again and again . There is a nice score but it's repeated so often you're tired of it by the end end of the movie . This also has a young Jason Alexander ( with hair ! ) and is the film debut of Holly Hunter ( good luck trying to spot her ) . But , aside from seeing those two and the very realistic and disturbing gore , there's nothing here . I'm glad it's out in a beautiful wide screen print uncut for its admirers though . I can seriously only give this a 2 .
Pretty dull	Remake of the 1946 classic . Helen Mallory ( Jacqueline Bisset ) has been rendered mute after seeing her husband and only child die in a fire . She is now staying at her uncle's mansion and getting treatment . However there is a killer on the loose who kills people who have disabilities . Is Helen next ? Pointless redo . The original is a classic - - what's the point or remaking it ? I caught this on TV late at night back in the 1970s . I had seen the original and was interested in seeing how this stood up . Sadly it turned out to be pretty bad . Despite a great cast ( Bisset , Christopher Plummer , John Phillip Law , Elaine Stritch ) this is pretty slow-moving and dull . There's virtually no suspense or atmosphere and it looks like it was made on a very low budget which hurts . The cast tries their best but even their considerable talents can't liven this up . You can safely skip this one . See the original . I give it a 3 because the cast does try and Bisset looks stunning ( as always ) .
What a mess . Terence Fisher directed THIS ?	Reworking of " Phantom " . Young , beautiful opera singer Christine Charles ( Heather Sears ) begins hearing a voice in the opera house telling her it will teach her how to sing . At the same time " accidents " start plaguing the opera house leading to murder . . . If that synopsis sounds confused you should see this movie ! It's a very elaborate beautiful-looking film . . . but a total mess . First there are ill-conceived changes in the story : The Phantom here does not love Christine , he only wants to teach her to sing ( for no specific reason ) ; there are two totally pointless murders ( especially the rat catchers one ) ; no falling chandelier ( the one at the end doesn't count ) ; the Phantom is given a mute servant ( who's never explained ) . There's plenty of unnecessary comic relief and dull " dramatic " sequences . Even the direction is off ! Hard to believe Fisher directed this . The only well-directed sequence was the one showing the Phantom's origin . Also the famous unmasking scene comes at the very end when the Phatom tears off his own mask ( for no reason at all ) ! ! ! ! ! The acting varies . Michael Gough is great ( as always ) as the slimy Ambrose d'Arcy ; Edward deSouza is OK as Harry Hunter ; Sears is beautiful and has a great singing voice as Christine , but her acting is vague ( not entirely her fault - - the poor woman is given nothing to work with ) . Lom does what he can as the Phantom but he spends 95 % of the movie with a mask on . The script is lousy and ( even at only 84 minutes ) the film seems padded . ( Note : this is the original version I saw - - not the TV one with 6 additional minutes added on ) . Dull and pointless . I give it a 3 for the elaborate production and Gough . Not worth seeing at all . Considered one of Hammer's worst films .
A one of a kind	Myron Breckinridge ( Rex Reed ! ! ! ) gets a sex change from a doctor ( John Carradine - - dead drunk ) and comes out as Myra ( Raquel Welch ) . She then decides to destroy male masculinity ( or something like that ) and proceeds to teach film history at an acting college run by lecherous John Huston ( don't ask ) and break up a young happy couple ( young , handsome , hunky Roger Herren and Farrah Fawcett - - yes THE Farrah Fawcett ) . They took a great novel by Gore Vidal that was unfilmable and , naturally , tried to film it . They also hired an English guy with a decidedly Anti-American attitude and hired a bunch of actors with questionable " talent " ( Welch , Reed ) and embarassed old professionals ( Huston , Carradine , Andy Devine , Jim Backus , Mae West ) , threw it all together and . . . . SURPRISE ! ! ! An absolute disaster . The film got an X rating at its release ( it's been lowered to an R ) , mostly because of a truly tasteless scene in which Welch sodomizes Rusty ( Roger Herren ) and a scene in which Welch attempts to have sex with Fawcett . The movie is very scattershot . . . scenes jump all over the place and people say and do things that make no sense . It's not good at all but I was never bored . Acting varies wildly . . . Reed is horrible . . . really sad . Huston chews the scenery again and again and AGAIN to a nauseating extreme . Welch is actually not bad as Myra but her lines make no sense so you never know what to make of her . West is hardly in the movie ( a blessing ) and it's really kind of sick to hear a woman almost 80 years old cracking sex jokes . Roger Herren ( whatever happened to . . . ) was very young , handsome and not bad as Rusty . Fawcett is OK . It's hard to find things to say about this . . . you just watch it in disbelief . A must see movie - - to believe ! ! ! !
Aside from some cool 3D effects this is pretty terrible	This film says that the events in Jules Vernes " Journey to the Centre of the Earth " really happened . Scientist Treven Anderason ( Brendan Fraser ) , nephew Sean ( Josh Hutcherson ) and sexy Hannah Asgerersson ( Anita Brieren ) travel to the center of the Earth and discover a whole other world . As an adaptation of Vernes ' " Journey . . . " this is a disaster . As a homage to it its STILL a disaster ! Heck , its a disaster just as a movie ! Fraser , Hutcherson and Brieren fall from one disaster to another - - none of them are remotely interesting or thrilling . I was mostly bored and looking at my watch . The science in this film is more than a little questionable and logic stops short halfway through . I saw it in 3D . The 3D effects themselves are incredible and made me jump more than once ( the killer fish especially had me leaping : ) ) but the plot was stupid , the characters were seriously underdeveloped and - - basically - - this was very boring . In 2D this must me a real chore to sit through . If you can turn of your mind COMPLETELY you might like this . Otherwise this is an insultingly stupid and boring film . This gets a 3 for the 3D effects alone .
Talk about dated !	I caught this on cable years ago . It was the full uncut version - - I hear some of the DVD versions are edited . Something about a bunch of students ( among them a very young Don Johnson ) going to college and experimenting with sex , sexuality and male / female sex roles . What was probably fascinating in the 1970s is laughably dated today . The " insights " are obvious , the characters are bland , the dialogue is priceless ( " zoom " ) and the 70s hair and fashions are scary . Also the casual sex going on in this is unsettling in this day and age . It's not a good movie but I kept watching - - it's so silly that it's kind of fun . The only thing that made this bearable are the nude scenes . There is plenty of casual male and female nudity - - more than you would see in any modern film . Don Johnson is nude quite a bit and there is full frontal of him - - but back then he had long hair and wasn't exactly in the best of shape . So if you want a few good laughs and some nudity ( in the uncut version ) tune in . But this is really not a good movie . I give it a 3 .
Dismal attempt at a screwball comedy	Society deb Melsa Manton ( Barbara Stanwyck ) discovers a body late one night in a abandoned house . She goes to get the police but when they return the body is missing . The police don't believe her so Manton and her bunch of ditzy friends try and solve the murder mystery themselves . Reporter Peter Ames ( Henry Fonda ) immediately falls in love with Melsa ( after hating her on sight ) and helps them . Pretty unknown movie . . . and it's easy to see why ! Stanwyck , a wonderful actress , is woefully miscast as Manton . Fonda hated doing this movie and it shows . He's stone-faced throughout . The movie has plenty of potential but the comedy is either stupid or unfunny . Also I found Melsa's bunch of friends incredibly annoying - - they all act like idiots and they're constantly screaming at everything . The romance between Manton and Ames comes out of nowhere and isn't believable for one second . Pauline Kael once wrote that this was written by people who had too much time on their hands . How true ! Halfway through I just turned it off in disgust - - I was bored and sick of having my intelligence insulted . If you want to see a good movie with Stanwyck and Fonda see " The Lady Eve " . This one is hopeless .
Never saw the first . . .	. . . but I heard it's dreadful . This one isn't much good either . A bunch of annoying camp counselors are closing down a summer camp for the winter . A masked killer suddenly shows up and starts killing them off one by one . Who is it and why ? The movie has its good points - - it's pretty well directed ; the script isn't TOO bad and the murder scenes are VERY gory , brutal and scary . That's about it for compliments . That aside the movie is atrociously sexist - - there is a pointless shower sequence and sex scene in which the women's breasts are shown constantly ( in closeup no less ) . Meanwhile next to nothing is shown by the guys . I'm sick and tired of filmmakers throwing pointless female nudity in a film . This might shock them but not EVERY male viewer wants to see that . I see a horror film to be scared - - not have nudity rubbed in my face . It's degrading . If you're going to show it on the girls why not show what the guys have ? Be an equal opportunity sexist ! That aside the movie is slow-moving , the acting is lousy ( with Kelly Gunning as Mike being the worst ) and the final chase with the killer after the final girl goes on FOREVER ! So I've seen worse but I've definetely seen better . The appalling sexism in this really got to me . I give it a 3 .
Sure it's bad but it's an early Roger Corman film !	Robert Vaughn ( hair perfectly styled and all ) plays a teenage caveman ( duh ) who questions why his tribe can't go in a certain part of the wilderness . Defying his elders him and a bunch of dumb friends go and discover a creature who can kill with its touch . . . I only caught this once at 11 : 30 at night on a local TV station . I realized it wasn't good but nonetheless had a fun time watching it . Seeing Vaughn so young and trying to make this silly script work was amusing . The other acting ranged from tolerable to God-awful . It was shot in two days - - and looks it . I do admit there was a twist at the end that I didn't see coming and saves this movie from being a total fiasco . Basically this is only for Corman completists and Vaughn fans . Even Vaughn himself this was one of the worst movies ever made . I give it a 3 .
Dull dull dull	A horrible biography of composer Edvard Grieg's early life . It was shot on location in Scandanavia . The scenery is just beautiful and the music is fantastic - - even the songs ( based on Grieg's music ) aren't bad . The problem ? Everything else . The story is just non-stop clichs ; the movie is way too long ( 2 hours ) ; the dance numbers are badly staged and hysterically lousy and the acting . . . let's put it this way . . . Florence Henderson gives the best performance ! Grieg himself is played by Toralv Mausted . Ever hear of him ? Didn't think so . There's a reason for this . Also there are over FORTY songs shoved into this movie . Like I said , they aren't bad , but it gets to be a bit much after a while . I'm giving this a 3 for the scenery and music but everything else is hopeless . Easily one of the worst musicals ever made . Too bad - - the scenery is truly gorgeous .
Sad	Joan was obviously DESPERATE for work to do this . A predictable , boring horror film about a troglodyte ( the missing link ) being found , captured , escaping , wrecking havoc . . . yawn . The story is , to be nice , thin and the makeup on " trog " is so hysterically bad it has to be seen to be believed . It's a guy with a gorilla's head and some fur on . That's it ! I was surprised that people didn't burst out laughing when they first saw him . The only excitement I got out of this was at the beginning when a handsome hunky guy stripped down to his underwear to go into the water to a hidden cave . Some ( tame ) bloody murders pop up and there's some cool stop motion dinosaurs too but that's about it . Crawford , always the pro , manages to give out a good performance but she also appears to be drunk half the time . No surprise there - - I think anyone would have to be bombed to agree to appear in this . Micahel Gough , chewing the scenery as always , gives out the only other good performance as an evil land developer . The scenes between him and Crawford are quite interesting - - in a fun way . But this movie is really a waste of time . Too bad this was Crawfords ' last movie . . . but if it's any consolation her rival Bette Davis'last movie ( " Wicked Stepmother " ) was even worse ! Either way - - avoid . " If you're the missing link you should be missing ! "
For Ed Wood this is pretty good	Dr . Eric Vornoff ( Bela Lugosi in his last speaking role ) lives in a creepy old house in a swamp . His only companion is his big , hulking and mute servant Lobo ( Tor Johnson ) . It seems the doctor is trying to make a race of atomic supermen to rule the world . Lt . Dick Craig ( Tony McCoy ) and his girlfriend Janet Lawton ( Loretta King ) try to stop him . OK - - the script is silly - - full of terrible dialogue ( the last line especially is a groaner ) . There are huge holes in logic - - does anyone notice that all the people that Vornoff tries to make super keep dying ? With one exception the acting is pretty dreadful - - McCoy got the lead because his dad was a major investor in the film ! The sets are threadbare and wait till you see the rubber octopus ! But , for Ed Wood , this isn't bad . It seems Wood actually learned from earlier films on how to direct and stage scenes . Also the film is only 69 minutes long and doesn't outstay its welcome . The main reason to watch this is Lugosi . He was very ill when he shot it but he gives it his all . In his sequence with Prof . Strowski you actually see how good an actor Lugosi could be . So , all in all , this is no great movie but an OK B movie .
A really sick one - - what was Almavodor thinking ?	Very violent ( needlessly ) , disturbing and graphic movie dealing with a ex-matador , a very disturbed pupil of his ( an incredibly young Antonio Banderas ) and a female lawyer who has issues of her own . The plot is scattershot ( Banderas ' character disappears completely during the middle of the movie ) , the sex scenes very graphic and sick and there are countless scenes of women dying violent , gory deaths . The " comedy " seems out of place in such a gory movie , characters continuously do stupid things and plot points come flying out of nowhere SPOILER ALERT ( Banderas ' psychic abilities don't pop up until the last 15 minutes ) ! A very poor film . Looks ugly too , but it does fit the subject matter .
Has its moments . . . but not enough	A ( very ) loose adaptation of the novella " Camilla " . Starts right off with a bang when a female vampire being beheaded but that's about it for graphic violence . It's basically about a beautiful lesbian vampire ( Ingrid Pitt ) who is going after every young attractive woman around . That's about it for the plot . I have ( vague ) recollections about seeing this at a drive-in when I was 8 ! I do remember Pitt attacking some men and a pretty mild ( for now ) lesbian sequence which had quite a reaction from my parents - - my mother was disgusted , my father was enjoying it and I couldn't figure out WHAT was going on ! I figured they were just good friends . I remember liking it . . . but I was very young . Seeing it now it does have its moments . There are some very erotic , beautifully filmed sequences . There's next to no violence but there's plenty plenty of female nudity . As a gay man I found this pretty dull . It contains the same overly familiar Hammer sets found in all their other films and has a pretty vague plot ( who IS that guy in black on the horse ? ) . Also a beheading at the end is SO obviously fake . On the positive side Peter Cushing is on hand to give another good performance and Pitt is very beautiful and is a pretty good actress - - some of her expressions are priceless ! And Jon Finch is handsome and hunky as the main hero . But , all in all , I was bored . The lesbian bits are tame by todays standards ( I heard they were considered pretty extreme for 1970 ) and - - unless you're interested in lesbian vampires or pointless female nudity - - this is pretty dull stuff . I give it a 3 for some of the acting and good direction - - but I can't recommend this .
Pretty much by the numbers	A family living in a remote part of Africa are trapped in their house by a bunch of hungry lions . I caught this back in 1979 at a theatre . I was told it was a horror film . I completely ignored the PG rating and ended up seeing a pretty bland , generic story of a family that bonds together when their lives are threatened . Yawn . The dialogue and story were completely predictable . Also I got a few laughs when the family realizes they're trapped by lions and , instead of trying to escape , they sit down and start singing a medley of Beatle songs ! By the end of the movie you're rooting for the lions . The only thing that saves this is some good acting by Tom Skerritt , Michelle Phillips and Shawn Stevens . Despite their lines they're pretty good . This is pretty much forgotten - - for good reason ! I give it a 3 for the acting alone .
Hard to Watch ! ! ! !	James Roberts ( Rick Springfield ) is the lead singer of a successful band . The band also has his ex-girlfriend Nicki ( Patti Hansen ) who has a nasty disposition and temper . Roberts than meets cute Diana Lawson ( Janet Eilber ) in a car accident . . . and immediately falls in love . Naturally she doesn't know who he is . . . or care . Totally predictable complications ensure . Caught this drivel in a movie theatre way back in 1984 . Springfield was big with teenage girls back then and the theatre was packed with them . More than half walked out before the movie was half over ! It's truly that bad ! The script is moronic and painfully obvious - - all the characters act like idiots . Also the acting wavers . Hansen and Eilber are actually pretty good but Springfield . . . . OK - - he tries . He REALLY tries and it gets embarrassing to watch . He just can't act but , back then , he was a very attractive man so at least he was fun to look at . The movie does have its bright moments - - Springfield bares his butt two or three times ( within PG boundaries ) and I DO like the soundtrack . At that time the song " Love Somebody " was a monster hit and it's played twice in the movie . Also the concert sequences work very well . But the sappy love story and bad acting by Springfield do make this a chore to watch sometimes . I can honestly only give it a 3 . It's not the worst movie I've ever seen but it's definitely down there . And - - really - - teenage fans of his walked out on this !
Boring	Dull horror tale about Vincent Price keeping his disfigured brother locked in an attic . He escapes and goes out for revenge . This was advertised as being based on a story by Edgar Allen Poe . Oh really ? Which one ? It has some plot elements from The Premature Burial and that's about it . You would think that a film with Vincent Price and Christopher Lee can't be all that bad . . . but this is . The story is stupid and dull and next to nothing happens in the film . There's a few bloody murders that liven things up a little but that's about it . Also the makeup on the disfigured brother at the end was pathetic . It wasn't even remotely scary - - it just looks like the guy has a bad case of acne ! It all leads to a totally predictable ending . The sole redeeming thing about this is Price giving a very good performance ( as always ) . Christopher Lee surprisingly gives a rare bad one . Basically this is one of Price and Lee's worst horror film . Avoid .
The Final ( HA ) Chapter	This starts off great with a replay of parts 1-3 then picks up where part 3 ended with Jason supposedly dead . He's carted off to the morgue where he quickly comes to life , kills a few people and is off to Crystal Lake to kill more . I'm not sure it's Crystal Lake - - it's never made clear . Also WHY is he killing these people ? Anyways , there's a family living there now - - Mrs . Jarvis ( Joan Freeman ) , daughter Trish ( Kimberly Beck ) and son Tommy ( Corey Feldman ) . The house next to them is being rented by a bunch of brainless teenagers . You can pretty much figure out what happens next . Some of the negative things about this pic : The body count has been upped - - 6 guys and 6 girls and ( in a hysterically fake scene ) 1 dog ; as in part 3 , characters are just introduced to be killed ( the hitch hiker and the twins ) ; there's a skinny dipping scene which gives us female AND male nudity and Jason seems to know exactly where everyone will be so he can kill them ( I love it when he happens to be outside the house , standing on a ledge to kill someone ! ) Also people scream bloody murder while being killed - - and no one hears a thing . Terrible dialogue and acting too ( as usual ) . There are some good things about the film . . . Tom Savini's special effects are very realistic ; Joan Freeman , Peter Barton and Kimberly Beck aren't bad ( I LOVE how Beck fights Jason back at the end ) ; Feldman is OK too ; the last 20 minutes or so are good ( that's why I'm giving this a 3 ) with some real gruesome stuff when Jason is killed . I'm surprised the MPAA let some of the stuff in the picture . . . but I guess they thought this was it so they let it pass . There are two truly bad mistakes in the film - - When Jason kills the dog notice the dog's " corpse " is wagging its tail as it's thrown out the window ! Joan Freeman's character disappears completely from the movie - - we're left to assume she's dead . They did film a scene where Beck discovers her corpse but it was cut out - - director Joe Zito figures everyone knew she was dead so why bother keeping it in . ( ? ? ? ? ? ? ) This was supposed to be it for the series but it made plenty of money so Paramount continued it . For this series this isn't bad - - but that's not saying much . I give it a 3 .
Talk about dated !	A Russian submarine is accidentally grounded off the coat of a small New England island named Gloucester Island ( which is fictional ) . Some Russians ( headed by Alan Arkin ) go to the island to get help . Naturally everybody on the island thinks they're being invaded . " Hilarious " complications ensure . I realize this has is fans - - but most people who like it seem to have fond memories of seeing it as children . I was too young to see it when it came out and I personally find this a bad movie . It found it loud , labored , slow-moving and far too long . Also it isn't funny - - not even once . I think I smirked once but that was it . I also fail to see the humor when all the townspeople grab their guns automatically to go and kill all the Russauins . It all leads up to a horribly manipulative ending which just made me angry . Dull and unfunny . The few saving assets are some beautiful cinematography ( even though it wasn't shot anywhere near New England ) and appealing performances by Alan Arkin ( nominated for this ) and John Phillip Law ( blue eyes blazing ) . Seriously - - THIS was nominated for Best Picture ? ? ? I realize it was a big hit at the time of its release but it doesn't age well at all . I'm being generous by giving this a 3 .
Vertical Crap	Mountain climber Robin Tunney and two other stock characters , are trapped in an avalanche on a huge montain ( K-4 ) . It's up to her brother ( Chris O'Donnell ) and other stock characters to save them . Not a bad premise . . . unfortunately it's ruined by many things - - - Lousy dialogue - the lines were groan-inducing , totally predictable and boring ; every single person was a stock characters seen in other disaster movies ; and the opening set-up takes a full 40 dull minutes to get started ( the movie runs 2 hr 10 min ) . The scenery is beautiful ( wide screen viewing is essential ) and there are a few really exciting , gripping action sequences but that's only 20 minutes out of a 2 hr + film . Acting - - Tunney does very well with her victim role ; Bill Paxton can do his villain role in his sleep ( and he does ) ; Scott Glenn does what he can with his wise , old mountain climbing man role ( unfortunately , the dialogue sinks him ) . As for O'Donnell - - he's an extremely good-looking man with a nice body - - but he can't act . He's blander than usual in this film and I had no interest in him or his character after a while . If you want to see a good , suspenseful montain-climbing film , rent " Cliffhanger " .
Stupid , tasteless , boring , offensive . . .	. . . and those are this picture's GOOD qualities ! The Bubsy Berkeley numbers are the only thing worth watching and save this film from being a total bomb . The acting varies from bad ( Doleros del Rio ) to unendurable ( everybody else ) . Jolson and Powell were especially terrible . Powell grins and laughs so much you just want to punch him . Jolson overacts every single line ! I don't care how good of a singer he was - - his acting sucks ! The comedy was either unfunny or tasteless ( there's actually a running joke about a man wanting to commit suicide ! ) . The " dramatic " scenes were dull , dull , DULL ! And the final big number " Going to Heaven on a Mule " was one of the most racist things I've EVER seen in a movie . It has Jolson and other white performers all in black face , happy in Heaven where they eat fried chicken and watermelon ! ! ! ! There's actually a scene where a giant watermelon opens up and there's a white / black guy tap dancing ! If you see it on tape , pick it up just for the Berkeley musical numbers - - fast forward through everything else . I give it a .
Silly and unfunny	Stupid little German sex comedy about hunky Til Schweiger living with gay Joachim Krol after girlfriend Katja Riemann catches him having sex with another girl . Then she discovers she's pregnant and wants him back . But Krol wants him too . . . On the plus side - - the acting is good and Schweiger ( who is very handsome with a great body ) has frequent nude scenes . That's about it for positives . On the negative side - - the movie is silly ; reinforces the myth of gay men trying to seduce straight guys ; also has us believe that all gay guys LOVE drag ; ALSO tells us that gay guys are sex maniacs ; demonizes the female characters and has no real ending . Also none of the comedy was even remotely funny . The only reason this seems to have been made is to show Schweiger out of his clothes as much as possible ( but no frontal ) . Nothing wrong with that and he IS a good actor . . . but that's not enough to carry the movie . If you can sit through silly dialogue and the dumb plot to see Schweiger nude you won't be disappointed - - otherwise you can skip it . However a previous poster did say the subtitles were badly done - - that might be the problem . If I understood German I might like this better . However , as it stands , I can only give it a 3 .
Boy - - my taste must have been LOW as a kid : )	I remember seeing this a few times on TV as a kid . I vaguely remember liking it and had an amusing time hearing Judy Garland doing vocals for an animated cat ! Seeing it now ( about 30 years later ) I can't figure out WHAT I ever liked about this . The story is dull , silly and trite and the animation is ( and I'm being nice ) 4th rate . I've seen episodes of " The Flintstones " with better animation that this ! The songs were entirely forgettable , the characters were ALL annoying and it was a struggle to make it through to the end . This is getting three stars just for the vocals of Garland and Robert Goulet - - they even make the bland songs sound OK . Very young children might like this but anyone over the age of eight will be bored out of their minds ! Easy to see why this is mostly forgotten .
Top crap	Boring , predictable groaner about a cocky Air Force cadet who needs to learn a few life lessons before becoming a great pilot . Every single clich is here - - the close buddy that dies so Cruise can " grow up " ; the aeronautics instructor ( or whatever Kelly McGillis played ) in love with him ; the booming tops 40s soundtrack ; the final aerial dogfight where Cruise saves his companions - - - YAWN ! ! ! This movie was a huge hit in 1986 because it gave audiences something safe and predictable . Also the movie has a horrendous performance by Cruise ( he's always bad but he REALLY sucks here - - he grins his way through the entire performance ) , an even worse one by McGillis ( SHE has a PhD in aeronautics ? ? ? ? Hah ! More like one in makeup ! ) , a total lack of sexual chemistry between them , a good ol ' buddy who you know is dogmeat from frame 1 ( Anthony Edwards giving the only good performance ) , another cocky young hothead ( Val Kilmer sneering away ) , a tough but kind leader ( Tom Skerritt , looking totally lost ) and a film that is , basically , an Air Force recruiting poster . Also dogfights that play like video games and the film seems to make war look like kids play . There's also a totally hysterical line when McGillis ( who is about 5 inches taller than Cruise ) looks DOWN at him and breathes , " When I first saw you you were 7 feet tall ! " A total waste of time - - I'm giving it a three cause I like some of the songs ( especially " Take My Breath Away " ) . So buy the soundtrack . . . skip the movie .
Just dull	An ( allegedly ) accurate account of what happened when heiress Patricia Hearst ( Natasha Richardson ) was kidnapped by a terrorist group . They brainwashed her and she ended up helping them commit crimes . Plenty of people have gone on and on and on ( and on ) about the politics of the movie . I can't really comment on that since I was only 12 when she was kidnapped and knew little about it . I saw this movie with no preconceived notions about whether it was true or false or if the politics were accurate . So ( as a movie ) this fails badly . It's flatly directed , badly acted ( except for a few exceptions ) and has a script that has some of the dumbest lines I've ever heard . All the " revolutionaires " ideals came across as extremely questionable and I actually started to laugh when Ving Rhames started spouting off about it . This is not to say that Rhames was bad ( he was actually pretty good ) but the lines he's given are just utter drivel . The only good thing about this is Richardson . Considering she has nothing to work with she's incredible . She convincingly fakes an American accent and Hearst's pain , confusion and terror come through . Still , her acting can't save this terrible movie . This bombed in 1988 and has since sunk without a trace . I heard that Hearst herself saw it and hated it . This really isn't worth your time . Skip it .
Another crappy 80s horror film	The school nerd Marty ( Simon Scuddamore ) is sexually humiliated by a bunch of classmates and then is in a lab explosion ( set by them also ) where his face is scarred by acid . Years later all the jerks get invited back to the high school ( since closed ) for a reunion . What they didn't know is that Marty is inviting them back to kill them . Then a storm starts , they're locked in the school and Marty starts to take revenge . Pretty silly . The murders are inventive and gory and there are some creepy atmospheric shots of the deserted school - - but that's about it . The humiliations inflicted on Scuddamore are more than cruel ( he's stripped , has his head dunked in a toilet AND gets burnt ) and are just uncomfortable to watch . Considering Scuddamore committed suicide shortly after this was released make them almost impossible to view . Also this movie goes out of its way to have nudity . There is full frontal of Scuddamore ( surprising for any movie ) but one girl decides to take a bath alone . . . AFTER they know a killer is wandering around after them ! And then there's the couple that has to have sex . This is the type of film where the killer seems to know where everybody is going to be and can teleport himself to them . It ends with a twist which had me groaning and rolling my eyes then ANOTHER twist which had me wanting to throw something heavy at the TV ! The acting is bearable - - not good , but bearable . Caroline Munro is in this too . She's a very beautiful woman but not much of an actress . This gets a 3 for some effectively gory murders and atmosphere . Otherwise it's run of the mill and forgettable . Scuddamore's tragic suicide has given this film more attention than it deserves .
" Filmed in Natural Color ! "	Bela Lugosi's only color feature film . VERY strange movie about unhappily married Laura ( Molly Lamont ) convinced that her husband and his father are trying to scare her to death . ( Why they are supposedly doing it is kind of vague ) In strolls the mysterious Prof . Leonide ( Bela Lugosi ) and his mute , deaf midget friend ( Angelo Rossitto ) for no real reason . Then there's private cop Bill Raymond ( Nat Pendleton ) casually walking around the house looking for a murder ! Not a good movie - - badly directed with some of the worst color designs I've ever seen in a movie . The acting ranges from unbelievably hammy ( Lugosi ) to bad ( everyone else ) . The plot is full of holes and unexplained people and circumstances - - I'm still not sure what Rossitto is doing in this . Also someone in a blue mask keeps looking in windows - - but everyone says it's a GREEN mask ! Love the part when George Zucco listens to the heartbeat of a woman who fainted and immediately declares she's under hypnosis ! None of it makes much sense but - - in a way - - this is lots of fun . Just silly enough to enjoy and keep you interested . The " explanation " at the end is just ridiculous . The color is actually pretty strong in the print I saw and it's all narrated by a dead woman ! It's bad ( that's why I give it a 3 ) but oddly compelling . A must for bad film fans .
Just horrid	Film follows the friendship of two very different women over the course of their lives - - loud , tacky , driven CC ( Bette Midler ) and quiet , demure Hilary ( Barbara Hershey ) . CC will do everything to become an actress and singer - - Hilary isn't sure what she wants . This is commonly referred to as a " chick flick " . Now I LIKE those types of movies and I think Midler and Hershey are great actresses ( and singer in Midler's case ) but I REALLY hated this film . It starts off OK but slowly falls to pieces . At the halfway point I started to truly despise this movie . There's HORRIBLE dialogue and such clichd situations and characters that I was literally rolling my eyes a few times . I began to hate it more and more and by the end I was fed up completely . The movie is so completely obvious I was truly shocked . When a character is diagnosed with a fatal disease I came close to throwing something at my TV screen . And it takes her FOREVER to die ! The movie has at least three different endings - - all bad - - and the REAL ending is so horribly manipulative I was stunned ! Many people said they cried at the end - - I did too - - tears of JOY that this dreck was finally OVER ! ! ! It's really astounding that people think this is a great movie . It WAS a huge hit in 1988 - - that's kind of sad . I'm giving it a 3 instead of a 1 for a few reasons - - It was great to see Lainine Kazan and John Heard ( although they're given nothing to do ) ; " Wind Beneath My Wings " is a great song ; and Hershey and Midler were good despite the material . Midler especially made the most of her few good lines . But this is a morbid , sick , depressing and insulting movie . Avoid it like the plague !
Pretty bad	MGM hodgepodge of Jimmy Durante throwing a big party for everybody in Hollywood . No major stars show up - - we get the Three Stooges , Laurel & Hardy , Durante and Lupe Velez . I didn't recognize anyone else - - they were probably unknowns ( for good reason ) . The movie contains annoyingly unfunny jokes and some truly dreadful songs and choreography . The only things that save this from being a total disaster are Laurel & Hardy's " battle " with Lupe Velez and a wonderful color Disney cartoon called " The Hot Chocolate Soldier " . It's a beautiful , very colorful cartoon that gives the movie a huge boost . Otherwise , the movie is a colossal bore . There's no director credited - - what does that tell you ?
Pretty poor	" Comedy " about two warring Mafia gangs in Brooklyn . Purportedly the original book is hilarious and this movie has a great cast - - but something went wrong . The jokes aren't very funny and the cast just seems to be unable to put across the punchlines . Flat direction doesn't help either . I'm only giving it a 3 for Leigh-Taylor Young and Robert DeNiro ( who are both very good and play a very appealing couple ) and Jo Van Fleet who has the movie's only funny lines in a very broad , over the top , amusing manner . But , all in all , this really isn't worth seeing .
Advertised as a horror film . . . it's not	What it is is a slow , pointless and VERY obvious murder mystery . A family called the Tilsons ( Sharon Stone , Dennis Quaid and the two kids ) decide to move from NYC to the country . They buy a huge house called Cold Creek Manor and decide to renovate it . Things are going OK , then the former owner Dale Massie ( Stephen Dorff ) shows up and offers to help rebuild the place . It seems he was sent to jail and lost it . Then things start to happen . . . It's totally by the numbers . You've seen this plot before and it's obvious what's going on from the very beginning . To make matters work the movie is quiet - - TOO quiet ! And it moves at a VERY slow pace - - this movie does not need to run 118 minutes . Who thought director Mike Figgis was the right man for this job ? ALL his moves are quiet and slow - - you don't need that in a murder mystery . . . especially in an OBVIOUS one like this ! And , at one point , the young son is reading some poem from a book found in the house . Later on he yells the poem at Dorff who seems VERY upset about it and then . . . it never comes up or is explained . Sad . It has some pluses - - the photography is nice and it is good to see Stone back in movies after a 3 year break - - too bad she's stuck in a crappy role . Even Quaid ( a very good actor ) seems lost in this . And what the hell is Juliette Lewis doing here - - except giving another bad performance . Only Dorff is good . He's handsome , all pumped up ( nice shirtless scenes ) and plays his role to perfection . He's great - - but he can't carry the whole movie . Too bad . This movie showed some real promise . All I can give it is a 3 .
Pretty lousy	A Superman cartoon from the 1940s - - and one of the worst if not THE worst ! Dr . Jordan ( who studies Egyptian mummies ) is found murdered and his assistant Jane Hogan is unjustly accused of it . Clark Kent gets a call from a colleague of Dr . Jordan who is convinced Jordan was killed for violating a mummy's grave by opening it . He goes to the museum to check this out ( with Lois secretly following him ) and finds out the truth . But ( through circumstances too ridiculous to tell ) he revives THREE mummies who all attack the professor , Lois and Clark . A good thing Clark is Superman . Really dumb cartoon . The animation is great with some spooky mummies but the story is preposterous , there's a LONG story about the ancient Egyptian king that drags and his name is King Tush - - that had me speechless ! The fights are dull and it ends on a " joke " that had me groaning aloud . Real bad . A 3 .
Terrible acting and writing sink this one	SPOILERS Two teenage girls - - Mari ( Sara Patton ) and Paige ( Martha MacIsaac ) - - are tortured , raped and killed by a sadistic gang led by Krug ( Garret Dillahunt ) . They include his son Justin ( Spencer Treat Clark ) , his brother Francis ( Aaron Paul ) and bisexual Sadie ( Riki Lindhome ) . They end up staying in the home of Mari's parents ( Tony Goldwyn and Monica Potter ) . Also Mari has survived her attack and gets to her parents . They , in turn , torture and kill Krug and his gang . OK - - I thought the original was a sick degrading film . . . but it DID do its job ( scare the hell out of you ) . It was made on no budget and had a documentary style feel to it making it hard to shake off . Also some of the acting was good and TOO realistic . Naturally this unnecessary remake screws everything up . It's glossy and professionally made so you're always aware you're watching a movie . They also cut down on the torturing of the girls ( I'm saying that as a good thing ) . However the acting is so bad it's hard to take this seriously . Paxton and MacIsaac are just dreadful - - although MacIsaac DOES try . Paxton was always blank - - always ! Even when she's being raped she doesn't react ! ( By the way , the rape is tastefully done - - there's no nudity and ( to me at least ) it was obviously being faked ) . Dillahunt is just as bad as Krug . David Hess in the original was ugly , mean and downright frightening . Dillahunt looks great ( he's even all pumped up ) and looks as frightening as a cover boy from a fashion magazine . The same goes with all of the gang - - they look too good to be convincing . Their wretched acting doesn't help . I thought with Potter and Goldwyn we'd have some good acting . Nope . They easily give their worst performances . Everybody here is so lifeless it's hard to give a damn about anything . The writing doesn't help . The lines are stupid and the script dull . Also did you know a microwave oven works with its door wide open ? ? ? According to this movie it does ! Right there the writers are showing their total contempt for the audience by throwing in idiotic things like that . Add that to the pathetic acting and you have one hard movie to sit through . This gets three stars only because of the end when Krug and his gang get killed . The blood and gore comes barreling out and leads to some very gruesome and cool murders . But , unless you're a gore fan , you're going to find very little here . If you want to see it just for the gore wait till it comes out on DVD and just fast forward to the last 40 minutes . Another unnecessary horror movie redo .
Repulsive	Originally aired as an ABC Movie of the Week . This involves two young innocent female college students who are railroaded into a prison camp in a little Southern town . They aren't allowed phone calls and nobody knows they're there . What follows is rape , torture , beatings , humiliation and degradation leading to a very disturbing conclusion . The TV version was ( for its time ) grim . No nudity and the beatings were pretty tame but the overall feeling of sleaziness wore one down . The unrated version is even worse - - there's plentiful nudity , the violence is extreme and , in one particularly disgusting sequence , we see a crying female prisoner forced to strip while a lesbian guard " uses " her . YUCK ! There's nothing wrong with exploitation films but this one just goes over the brink . You get the feeling that the filmmakers enjoy having these poor women being tortured and degraded - - all this is shoved in your face like you're supposed to enjoy it . The needlessly downbeat ending doesn't help . I'm giving it a 3 because the acting is good - - but that actually makes the movie harder to watch . A sick , sleazy film . Not recommended .
Pretty bad	How this has such a high rating here is beyond me . This film has been blasted by critics ( and audiences ) for years . Heck , it's even in the book " The Fifty Worst Films of All Time " ! Maybe it's not that bad but it's certainly not good . In Mexico a powerful man named El Jefe orders his hired killers to " bring me the head of Alfredo Garcia " . It seems Garcia had sex with his daughter and she's now pregnant . Two gay ( implied ) assassins ( played by Robert Webber and Gig Young ) from Jefe hire a down and out piano player in a bar ( Warren Oates ) to do the job . He drags along his girlfriend Elita ( Isela Vega ) who also happens to be a prostitute . The film starts out OK - - the acting is good ( especially by Webber and Vega ) , there's a few nicely directed bits and some fairly good dialogue . But when Oates and Vega go out to do the job the film slowly falls apart . It slows down quickly , the dialogue gets silly and there's a pointless and disgusting scene where Vega is almost raped by a biker ( Kris Kristofferson ! ! ) . The last hour is almost unbearable - - the film slows down even more , it gets quickly VERY dull and director Peckinpah's slow-motion shootouts get boring . The movie somehow manages to become bloody , sadistic AND dull ! All in all this is pretty lousy . A tasteless , pointless and pretty sick story with gratuitous female nudity , dull violence and a snails pace . The 3 I give it is mostly for the acting . You can skip this one .
Gets three stars for the acting	Thomas Archer ( Ron Eldard ) has his child killed and his wife viciously attacked in a home invasion . Dr . Heller ( Christopher Plummer ) tries to help him through the post traumatic stress . Then Archer finds himself confronted with a man ( Til Schweiger ) bound and gagged to a chair . He is told this is the man who killed his child and attacked his wife and he can do whatever he likes to him . And there's a large assortment of instruments there to help him . . . Film is interesting at first ( and shows real restraint in terms of blood and gore ) but gets stupider by the minute and has some highly unlikely plot twists and turns . It all ends in a final twist that was so old and stupid that I was shocked anyone would actually think of using it anymore . How such talented actors like Eldard , Schweiger and Plummer got involved in crap like this is beyond me . This gets three stars for the acting but the stupid plot and truly unbelievable twists make this a chore to sit through .
Sick	Three crooks commit a robbery and try to escape in a speeding car . Along the way they take a young woman , a man and his sick child hostage . This was a " lost " film for many years . Unfortunately it was found . Tough , brutal and very very disgusting . Virtually the entire movie takes place in the car and two of the crooks overact to an annoying extreme . Worst of all , the young woman is constantly being attacked , humiliated and sexually abused by one of the guys . Those scenes are next to impossible to watch . Also director Mario Bava is usually a master at creating atmospheric movies and having some incredible camera shots . They're all totally missing from this film . There IS a neat twist at the end , but it's too little too late . The script is boring and sick and there's really no point in seeing this film . Avoid .
Well done but horribly manipulative	Details are a little vague ( I saw this back in 1979 ) but here's what I remember : Story about an ex-boxer ( Jon Voight ) who's bringing up his son ( Ricky Schroder ) alone when his wife ( Fay Dunaway ) left them . Then she returns and wants her son back . She's rich now . Voight has to become a boxer again to provide for his kid . . . but it might kill him . OK - - it's well acted ( all three leads are great ) and well-done but man is it SYRUPY ! The movie is just so cloying and sweet that I started to get annoyed watching it . Also the story is old and has been done many times before . You know how it's going to end . And yeah - - I cried at the end but how could you not ? This movie went out of its way to wring tears from the audience . I don't mind tearjerkers but this one is so openly trying to make you cry that it gets ridiculous . When a movie starts forcing reactions from its audience that's not good . This gets a 3 only for the actors and a well-done production .
Terrible but somewhat interesting	Movie based on Jacqueline Susann's best-selling novel . It's about Robin Stone ( John Phillip Law ) a ruthless TV anchorman who claws his way to the top . It details his love life concentrating on Amanda ( Jodi Wexler ) and Judith ( Dyan Cannon ) . It also shows his total inability to commit to anyone and instead sleeps with any woman he can get . The novel is no work of art ( it's not even good literature ) but it's a quick , silly , trashy read . But this movie makes it seem like " Gone With the Wind " ! This is a textbook example of how NOT to do a movie adaptation . First they condense the novel terribly . In the book Stone's inability to commit is dealt with and it's revealed why . Here it's brought up . . . and ignored . Also there's a truly revolting scene in which a woman is brutally beaten . It's in the book - - but there IS a reason totally left out of the movie . And the book dealt with three women - - not two . Don't even get me started on the homophobia . Adaptation aside the acting is pretty terrible . Law is just horrendous as Stone - - VERY wooden and boring - - you seriously wonder why all these women are after him . To be fair to Law - - another actor was cast but had a very bad accident before shooting began and Law stepped in at the last minute . Wexler is terrible as Amanda ; Maureen Arthur is truly astoundingly bad as Ethel Evans ; Shecky Greene is unbearable as Christie Lane . Only three performances stand out : David Hemmings ( having a GREAT time ) camps it up as a gay photographer ; Cannon is actually very good and Robert Ryan is just great . Also Dionne Warwick sings the catchy opening song ( " He's Moving On " ) . It IS bad but I watched the whole thing and it is ( in a silly sort of way ) a lot of fun . I'm giving it a 3 . Also Jacqueline Susann has a cameo as a newscaster .
Dull	Early talkie feature based on a popular stage play . A murder has been committed and a bunch of people hire a medium to conduct a sance to see who the murderer is . While the lights are out there's ANOTHER murder . . . so it's someone in that room . What follows is an obvious , dull and creaky murder mystery . Most of the cast overacts to a ridiculous degree . They act like they're on stage ( where you have to overdo things ) and it looks silly on screen . Most embarrassing is Bela Lugosi ( two years before " Dracula " ) who REALLY overdoes it as a police inspector . Static direction by Tod Browning ( who was always overrated ) doesn't help . For Browning and Lugosi completists only . I give it a 3 .
Visually interesting . . . but that's it	Movie about a website in which you get killed in 2 days after watching it . . . or something like that . The plot is vague and the explanation for the killing was particularly stupid . Also Natascha McElhone was atrocious - - I've NEVER seen a worst actress ! Her facial expressions never matched the dialogue and her romance with Stephen Dorff comes out of nowhere . I NEVER want to see her again . Stephen Rea is just as bad as the killer ( believe me , I'm not giving anything away ) . He keeps babbling away in a thin , reedy voice before killing his victims . Most of what he says is the worst dialogue every written and he says . . . it . . . so . . . SLOWLLLLLLYYYYYYYYYY ! ! ! ! ! I felt like yelling " Shut up and kill them ! " Still , this wasn't a total disaster . There was some nice photography here ; there's a sequence with thousands of cockroaches that had me squirming ; Stephen Dorff is pretty good ( and a really hot , good-looking guy - - too bad he remains fully dressed ) and there is some really disturbing imagery of dead or bound women . But , all in all , it's not worth $9 . 00 or $10 . 00 . Worth a rental if you're a Dorff fan like me .
Muddled	Pic follows Muhammed Ali from 1964 to 1974 chronicling his winning the heavyweight championship , losing it and winning it again . This could have been good , but it fails in so many ways . For starters , Will Smith is totally miscast as Ali - - Ali was handsome , full of life and charismatic - - Smith is none of those things . When he shouts out Ali's rhymes he comes off like a loudmouth jerk - - he totally lacks Ali's sing-song voice and great personality . His face is always blank all during the film - - even the fight scenes ! No depth of character comes through . Also ( although I realize this is a matter of opinion ) Smith is ugly - - Ali wasn't . All in all he's not a good enough dramatic actor to carry the film . The script is lousy - - very scattershot . It jumps all over the place and characters appear and disappear at a disturbing rate . For instance . . . Ali meets his second wife at a religious meeting . They just hold hands . The very next scene they're married , have a house AND a baby girl ! Michael Mann's direction doesn't help . It's constantly in closeups of the character's faces . This makes sense during the boxing scenes . . . you're right in there in the ring . But when it's constant it gets very annoying . . . especially at 160 minutes . And the film is way too long . Two hours and forty minutes is overdoing it . The only good thing about this is all the actors ( except for Smith ) are great in their roles - - especially Jon Voight doing a dead on impersonation of Howard Cosell . And the fight scenes are good . But this isn't worth seeing . If you want a good boxing movie rent " Raging Bull " or even " Rocky " .
Too much boring strip teases	Compilation of coming attractions of some VERY odd , stupid and downright sleazy movies . Highlights are coming attractions for : " Maihuana " ( which causes women to laugh hysterically , disrobe and run around nude ! ) ; " The Flesh Merchant " ; " Pin-Down Girls " ( about female wrestlers ) ; " Curfew Breakers " ( ! ! ! ) ; a hysterical PSA AGAINST cable and pay TV ; " The Smut Peddler " ; " Strange Rampage " ; " Young Seducers " ( which has VERY explicit female nudity ) ; " Just for the Hell Of it " and " Jailbait Babysitter " ! This is fun but it gets repetitious - - even at just 60 minutes . And there's a truly boring montage of strip tease acts ( not everything comes off BTW ) . It gets a 4 for the coming attractions . Not for the kids - - some of this material is X rated .
& stupid & boring	Jack ( a quarterback ) and Diane ( a cheerleader ) meet in high school , fall in love and ( for no reason ) Diane decides to have a baby before marrying Jack . They move in together , work jobs , attend school , etc . Diane realizes they need more money to survive so her and her fellow cheerleaders decide to rob a bank . Decent premise , but not enough for a full-length movie . Even at 80 minutes the film feels long ( also paying $9 . 00 for an 80 minute movie is ridiculous ) . The script is unfunny and obvious - - although I did laugh out loud a few times . Also the entire cast is way too old to be playing high school - - - James Marsden ( Jack ) is 27 ! The pluses are a good soundtrack and a cast all giving 100 % to their roles . Especially good is Marsden - - all grinning and full of charm and energy . Still , it isn't enough . It's boring and silly . Also I'm a an adult and I realize this was aimed at teenagers . I saw it with an audience full of kids . They watched the film in dead silence - - some walked out ! That should tell you something . Avoid . Not even worth a video rental .
Even the kids will be bored by this	Filmed in Supermariomation ( seriously ) . Feature film version of a kids TV show that used marionettes . I'm too young to remember the show and the movie assumes you already know the characters so I was little confused about what was going on . It opens with a long sequence of hilariously obvious miniatures helping launch a rocket - - the first manned mission to Mars . However it's sabotaged and crashes . They try it again - - and the Thunderbirds help them . It seems the Thunderbirds are a group of sons and their dad who help fight evil by jumping into their rocket ships and . . . doing stuff . They're helped by Lady Penelope - - a beautiful rich English woman who ( I guess ) is a worker of theirs . This involves a trip to Mars , rock creatures ( don't ask ) and tons of footage of the rocket ships flying . . . and flying . . . and flying . . . What drivel ! If you were a fan of the TV show when you were a kid you'll probably love this - - but to those of us who never saw the show it's incomprehensible and just plain dull ! Also there's a lllooonnnggg pointless dream sequence when Alan dreams of dating Lady Penelope and it even works in a sing sequence with Cliff Richards and the Shadows ( and wait till you see the obvious banana filling in for the moon ! ) . The dream sequence adds zero to the plot and has got to be the most obvious example of padding I've ever seen in a motion picture . The plot ( what there is of one ) is slow and juvenile and the special effects are incredibly silly by todays standards . The herky jerky motions of the marionettes quickly becomes tiresome too . I will admit there are some impressive visuals but they can't overcome the stupid plot and clichd characters . A sleep-inducing bore . I give it a 4 .
Lousy film but , in a way , a classic	1962 : Faber College . A fraternity ( Delta House ) has for years tormented Dean Wormer ( John Vernon ) by trashing his campus and wrecking havoc with really sick , immature behavior . He finally decides to do everything he can to close them down , but they won't go out without a fight . . . This was a HUGE hit in 1978 ( and a hit again when it was rereleased in 1980 ) . I never understood why . The jokes are lame and the humor was , for its time , pretty risque . Nowadays it's pretty tame ( for an R-rated film ) . Also I saw it in a theatre in 1978 when I was in high school - - I didn't laugh once . Seeing it again over 20 years later it's even worse . But , this was the first film of its type ( the slobs vs . the snobs ) and lead to many VERY bad imitators . Compared to those this IS a classic . But still not good . It has some good things in it . It's amusing to see then unknown Kevin Bacon so young ; Peter Riegert and Karen Allen make a very appealing couple ( but their dramatic back story is dull ) ; John Vernon is excellent , and very funny , as Dean Wormer ; Tim Matheson is also very good - - he nicely underplays his role ( and flashes his butt briefly ) ; this made John Belushi a star ( he IS funny - - sometimes ) ; there's great direction by John Landis ( especially during the " Shout " number ) ; there's a bombastic Elmer Bernstein score that helps and seeing Tom Hulce and Stephen Furst so young is incredible . BUT that doesn't excuse the lousy script ; horrible jokes ; the sexism ; the racism ; Donald Sutherland's pointless and lousy performance and the fact that this film is DULL ! ! ! ! ! ! I'm giving it a 4 . . . and I'm BEING generous !
MIGHT scare kids	Boring , obvious " horror " film about 2 idiots who go to search for the title creature . Obviously this is just another ripoff of the legend of Bigfoot . I saw this back in 1976 at a local theatre when I was 14 . I went because the local paper gave it a positive write up . I also dragged along my 9 year old brother and his friends . Basically they LOVED it . They said it was scary and " cool " . I did not agree at all . I was bored and extremely angry - - I expected them to SHOW the creature but ( except for one half-way clear shot ) they don't . You hear it's roar and you might see a hand or a foot but that's about it . In retrospect this was probably a good idea - - the unseen is much more scary than what we CAN see . But when you're a young kid you could care less about subtlety - - you want to SEE the monster . This movie came ( and went ) without a trace . It hasn't popped up on VHS or DVD yet ( and hopefully won't ) . I give it a 4 because it IS an OK monster movie for kids - - YOUNG kids . All others - - stay away .
Boring with a capital	Very dull , totally predictable " romantic " drama about a self-absorbed ad ex Buddy ( Affleck ) who gives his airline ticket away to a married man ( Tony Goldwyn ) so he can get to bed a sexy blond he just met . The plane crashes , everyone diews , Buddy blames himself for the man's death ( why ? ) and , a year later , meets the man's widow ( Gwyneth Paltrow ) and , of course , falls in love . It's well-directed , has attractive stars but the movie is unbearable . The dialogue is among the worst I ever heard - - every single line rings false and you always know exactly where the movie is going . Also Paltrow gives a one-note performance and looks horrible with brown hair . The only thing that kept me in my seat was Affleck . He's a superb actor and drop-dead handsome . He gives the material a better performance than it deserves and is just beyond good-looking ( yeah , I've got the hots for him ! ) , Still , a must-miss - - Affleck's talent and charisma can't save this one .
Great cast , bad film	Vincent Price stars as Trumbell , a New England funeral director who decides to drum up business by killing people . His assistant Felix ( Peter Lorre ) is forced to help him . Also on hand is Boris Karloff as Price's father-in-law , Basil Rathbone as an obnoxious landlord and Joe E . Brown ( very briefly ) as a grave robber . Oh , and it's a comedy . With a script by Richard Matheson and direction by Jacques Tourneur this should be great . Sadly , it's not . The script is pretty poor - - very scattershot and filled with unfunny lines . The acting carries this film . Price speaks every line with relish and overacts wonderfully - - he gives his all to some truly bad jokes . Lorre looks miserable but he gives a good performance . Karloff is sadly wasted and Rathbone chews the scenery . So , this is a historic movie for teaming up such great horror stars , but it gives them nothing to work with . See it for them .
Rightfully forgotten but has its moments	The print I saw of this was in terrible shape with sometimes inaudible sound so my synopsis may be a little off . The evil Dr . Elwyn Clayton ( George Zucco ) is being laid to rest . His twin brother Dr . Lloyd Clayton ( Zucco again ) is a kind man . He oversees his brother's funeral and begins to burn papers of the work he was doing . Elwyn's assistant Zolarr ( Dwight Frye playing a hunchback - - again ) tries to stop him to no avail . Then Elwyn ( somehow ) rises from the dead as a vampire . He goes after his niece Gayle ( Mary Caslisle ) who begins to slowly die of blood loss and the townspeople think Lloyd is responsible . . . OK - - the acting is pretty bad ( except for Zucco and Frye ) with a truly terrible performance by Fern Emmett ( playing Kate ) ; the dialogue is terrible ; the direction is pedestrian and the sets show the VERY low budget this picture was made on . Still this isn't a total disaster . The plot is ( to say the least ) pretty interesting and Zucco has a field day playing two brothers . As Elwyn he really chews the scenery in an enjoyable way . Also it's impossible to dismiss any movie that has Frye as a humpbacked assistant . There are also some eerie scenes involving Frye moving Clayton's coffin around in a graveyard . So this is pretty badly done ( and the only prints available seem to be in terrible shape ) but it has it's moments . Horror fans might want to take a look .
OK for a rainy day	Chris Flynn ( Desmond Harrington ) is driving through West Virginia for a job interview . While driving through the woods he ( accidentally ) runs into a group of friends whose car is broken down . They go for help and find themselves face to face with a group of inbred cannibals . . . and they're stuck in the middle of nowhere . . . . So-so . The plot has been done MANY times in the past - - this turns into a variation of " The Hills Have Eyes " ( which I didn't like ) . The acting is OK I guess , but no one is given anything to work with . Harrington and Eliza Dushku try . On the plus side this moves fairly quick ( it's only 84 minutes ) , delivers the goods in terms of gore and violence ( one murder made me jump ) and Dushku plays a strong intelligent woman who fights back full force . But there's nothing really new here . Worth watching on a rainy afternoon if you have NOTHING else to view . I give it a 4 .
Pretty silly , and unnecessary sequel	Like father , like son . This is a black & white sequel to the color original . The sone of the originals ' father starts the same experiments as his father and the same thing happens to him . The acting is pretty good ( Price and Halsey do a very good job ) but the makeup on Halsey is laughable , the plot has nothing fresh or original to it and it's nowhere near as intelligent as the original . A pretty dull little film . For Vincent Price completists only . Even the sequel after this " Revenge of the Fly " was better !
OK I guess	Mean old Ebenezer Scrooge ( Reginald Owen ) is visited by his dead partner Marley and the ghosts of Christmas past , present and yet to be . They are there to warn him to change his ways or die a miserable old man . I know it's probably considered blasphemy to dislike this movie but I do . It was done on a big budget with a pretty good cast but I found it slow even though it's only a little over an hour long . Maybe it's because I know the story so well I couldn't enjoy this . Also this is REALLY syrupy and pours it on . The sequence with the ghost of Christmas ' yet to be was so overdone that it had me rolling my eyes . By the time Tiny Tim said , " And God bless us everyone " I was actually smirking at the movie ( I don't mean that in a good way ) . I didn't think Owen was that good as Scrooge either . He's not terrible but his performance lacks the passion that I think the role really needs . It's too bad Lionel Barrymore couldn't do this . On the plus side it IS well-done and the ghosts themselves work ( for 1938 this has pretty good special effects ) . Also it's fun to see June Lockhart as a child ( it was her debut ) . But I was just bored and couldn't wait for this to end . So - - maybe I'm a Scrooge myself but I didn't like this at all .
Horrible but fun , in a silly way , . . .	ONLY if you grew up during the 1970s . David Cassidy ( looking great ) , Olivia d'Abo ( with English accent intact ) and Geoff Hoyle ( WHO ? ? ? ) travel from 2176 to 1976 by mistake . While there totally predictable " hilarity " ensures . The jokes are horribly bad ( there's not one good one ! ) and the story and dialogue are truly abysmal . Also it contains a character called Snodgrass ( ho ho ) who gives one of the worst performances in comedy history - - his idea of acting is SCREAMING every line full force . Still , I ( sort of ) enjoyed it . They caught the 70s dead on - - as a child of the 70s I can attest to that ! The fashions , the music , the cars , the horrible furniture and carpets - - all perfect ! For me it was a trip back to the past . Also , the cast gives their all to the awful script . And the movie does come to life in one sequence in which d'Abo and Leif Garrett ( another 70s icon ) do the Hustle ! Boy , did that bring me back ! Worth seeing only for those who remember or lived through the 70s . All others - - beware !
Sexist , stupid and boring	Wow ! What a load of cp ! I didn't think it was possible , but this movie is even worse than the TV show ! The plot is beyond stupid - - to be totally honest I can't really remember it . Anyways , it's just an excuse to have Drew Barrymore , Lucy Liu and Cameron Diaz get into VERY tight outfits and prance around . I'm really surprised this film got a PG - - there's so much flesh shown on these girls ! It goes VERY close to an R more than once . Also the jokes are very stupid - - one of them has Liu being a lousy cook ! I thought that stereotype disappeared in the ' 50s ! As for the acting - - Lynch is very good in her role ; Bill Murray looks miserable ; Barrymore looks confused ; Liu can't act ; Matt LeBlanc ( as Liu's boyfriend ) is basically playing Joey from " Friends " and Tom Green is REALLY annoying as Barrymore's boyfriend . Only Cameron Diaz gives out a good performance - - she's so lively and fun . Also Luke Wilson is very good as her boyfriend . Those two have great chemistry together . So , I gave the film a 4 only for Diaz , Wilson and some good fight scenes . Otherwise , this is a mess .
Loved it as a kid	When I was growing up ( late 70s ) a local TV station used to show this constantly on Saturday afternoons along with other AIP horror movies . I liked it back then . . . the vampire woman spooked me and the " attack " sequences gave me nightmares . Seeing it now as an adult it , unfortunately , doesn't age well . The print I saw was brand-new so it looked good - - that helped a lot . The vampire woman is still spooky ( what an evil little smile ! ) and there are plenty of eerie scenes . But the film is punishingly slow and dull . . . I was fast forwarding through most of it . The only saving graces were good performances from the whole cast - - especially Basil Rathbone , John Saxon and Florence Marley . Also some of the special effects ( stolen from a big budget Russian sci-fi film ) are great . Neat ending too . And who ever knew Dennis Hopper was that young ? : ) Still , it's slow going and there are much better films to be seen . Skip it .
I didn't like it	Spiritual ( I guess ) tale of a man named " Little Joe " ( Eddie " Rochester " Anderson ) who is saved from the Devil by the prayers of his wife . But the Devil's son ( Rex Ingram ) has 60 days or something to get him back . Sorry about the confusing synopsis . . . but I had trouble staying awake through this . I was VERY bored and it's beyond me why this is considered a great musical . For starters , the story is just silly and the script is pretty bad . Also the acting is bad . Ethel Waters OVERacts all over the place ; Anderson's idea of acting is bugging out his eyes ( I got tired of it after the 20th time ) ; Lena Horne is given nothing to do and most of the other actors either underact or overact . Only Rex Ingram and Kenneth Spencer give out decent performances . As for the songs - - I didn't enjoy one of them . Not one . And what's all this about Waters ' being such a great singer ? Her voice was OK - - that's all . . . and Anderson's singing was downright painful . Only Horne really put a little life into her numbers . And the " dancing " - - it was good in the pool hall sequence , but there's a tap dance bit in Little Joe and Petunia's kitchen that was SO bad and clumsy that I couldn't believe it stayed in the film . And it is VERY racist . Some people can ignore it but I couldn't . Actually , after 70 minutes , I turned it off . I was bored and sick and tired of the overacting and lousy script . I give this a 4 because of Horne and Minnelli's direction . Aside from that I hated this film .
Nice color and imagery but little else	Plot less short about some Greek gods ( or something ) getting together in a pleasure dome . There's no dialogue - - only music which is supposed to match the images ( I think ) . The color ( in the restored print ) is incredibly vivid and rich and some of the images are eye-catching but this is more boring and self-indulgent than anything else . The same images are shown again and again and AGAIN . . . it gets tedious rather quickly . With no plot or story to follow this gets to be a chore to watch . This might be of some interest to some since it has author Anais Nin as Astarte and artist Paul Mathison looking incredibly handsome as Pan . But , all in all , this is boring and pointless . It comes across as little more than director Kenneth Anger and his friends playing dress up . I give this a 4 for the imagery and color alone .
Extremely dated	White students are being bused into an inner city all black school . The students aren't happy with it . . . will violence erupt ? This movie dealt with a very hot topic in 1970 that doesn't really exist anymore . The plot ( and characters ) and the the racism angle are played very broadly and simplistically . There's also a needless and very ugly sequence in which five black girls attack and tear all the clothes off a white girl . Aside from that scene and some mild profanity this plays like a made-for-TV movie - - a BAD one ! The confrontations , dialogue and resolutions are all too obvious . ALMOST worth seeing for a very young Jeff Bridges and Rob Reiner . Trivia : This movie was banned from Boston TV stations in the early 70s . Opposition to busing was very violent in the city and officials were afraid the movie might incite riots .
I just didn't like it	The words of a dying thief ( Jimmy Durante ) sets off a cross country race from various parties to get a stash of money . I know this film has its audience but I never found it funny . I saw the uncut version on a big screen years ago and didn't laugh once . Seeing it on TV ( letter boxed on TCM ) didn't change things . I have some friends who find this hysterical but it really escapes me . I find the humor in this film labored and obvious with tons of unfunny slapstick . There's next to no characterization and the all star cast just seems intent on seeing who can scream the loudest ( Ethel Merman wins hands down ) . Also it's embarrassing to see the great Spencer Tracy reduced to this - - I find nothing funny about seeing him ( actually a very obvious stunt double ) running up and down flights of stairs again and again ( a very strained running joke ) . The only fun in this film is seeing all the actors who pop up for small cameos ( my favorite was Jack Benny ) . Still , they aren't enough to stop this film from being stupid , boring and ( sometimes ) quite violent . If you love violent slapstick you might enjoy this . I can honestly only give it a 4 .
Silly and confusing	An Oxford don ( Patrick Mower ) goes to Greece to study mythology . Suddenly he disappears and nobody hears from him . A bunch of his friends and fiance travel there to find him . They discover he is traveling all over Greece - - and wherever he goes there's a murder . He's also under the spell of beautiful but deadly Chriseis ( Imogen Hassell ) . . . This DOES have some good points . The initial story is intriguing and there is some beautiful location shooting in Greece and a few exciting fights here and there . Also Peter Cushing and Patrick Macnee are in it - - they're not given much to do but they're both very good . Also Mower is pretty good and Hassall is VERY good ( and beautiful ) . But the plot gets increasingly confusing ( and sillier ) as it goes on . When they threw in the vampirism it was badly handled and just too ridiculous to take seriously . There were obvious production difficulties - - quite a few scenes just have narration . Also Madeleine Hinde is just horrible playing Mowere's fiance . Basically though - - it's boring ! I dozed off a few times . . . and didn't miss a thing . And , as a horror movie , it just doesn't work . It plays more like an action film or a travelogue of Greece . Not totally worthless ( because of Cushing and Macnee ) but not really worth seeing . I give it a 4 .
Nice title . . . that's about it	VERY confusing horror has three different story lines : one involves a man killing women in London and draining their blood ; another has people being kidnapped and slowly have their body parts being removed one by one ; the last deals with some strange Nazi-ish organization trying to take power ( or something ) . It all ties in with Vincent Price as a scientist . The movie starts off confusing and it ( somewhat ) makes sense at the end . But it has a horrible script , terribly fake gore and director Gordon Hessler never was that good . This could be easily dismissed if it weren't for three cast members - - Price , Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee . OK - - you have three of the best horror movie stars ever to do a movie together . So what do they do ? Give them a nonsensical script ; give Cushing only one short sequence ; make sure they NEVER show up together ( aside from Lee and Price briefly ) and just hope it will work . Well , it didn't . I know some people find this fascinating for its political implications but this is supposed to be a HORROR movie - - not a political statement . Dull , heavy-handed and a terrible waste of talent - - although Cushing , Lee and Price ARE good . Just for them I give this a 4 .
Innocuous	Two friends ( Michael Caine , Joe Bologna ) go to Rio with their daughters ( Michelle Johnson , Demi Moore ) for a month . Bologna is getting divorced and Caine is having problems with his wife ( Valerie Harper ) . While there , Johnson seduces Caine and immediately thinks she's in love with him . He's attracted to her too , but there's over 20 years age difference and it's his best friends daughter . . . Saw this in a art house theatre ( ! ! ! ) back in 1984 . I vaguely remember finding it pleasant . I saw it last night and my feelings have totally changed . The scenery is beautiful and the movie is full of innocuous female nudity but this is basically just a bad movie . The script is horrible - - full of sniggering sex jokes and dreadful one liners - - it's on the level of a bad TV sitcom . It's way too long for it's own good and it's very dull . All the beautiful scenery in the world couldn't help this . Caine is just great ; Johnson is OK ; Bologna , Moore and Harper are just horrible . Some people think this movie is so bad that it's funny but I think it's too dull for that . This gets a 4 for Caine and Rio itself .
Prententious , pretentious , pretentious	Nick ( Kevin Anderson ) goes back to his hometown to take care of his dying mother ( Kim Novak ) . There he encounters an old college buddy ( Bill Pullman ) and his beautiful wife ( Pamela Gidley ) . He also gets involved with a 40 year old sex murder that may have something to do with him . . . I caught this in a theatre back in 1991 . It was part of the Boston Film Festival and I had heard it had some incredibly beautiful cinematography . Well - - it does . It just doesn't have much of a story to go with it . Also the film moves so SLOWLY - - I literally fell asleep ! Seeing it again 14 years later , I fell asleep AGAIN ! This film is dull and slow . It's one of those art films full of strange characters who act oddly and mutter obscure dialogue ( especially the police chief ) . Gorgeous images don't make up for the leaden pace . Acting doesn't help . Anderson ( a good actor ) acts terrible here . He appears to be drugged out at all times . Gidley TRIES to give a good performance but she's given nothing to work with . Pullman is the only one who pulls off a good job . Novak is ( sadly ) wasted and reduced to being bed ridden and screaming for no good reason . Also watch the part where the police chief has the longest urination sequence in cinema history . Why it's there I have no idea but at least it's somewhat funny . Otherwise this is a dull , slow-moving bore . Avoid .
Nice photography - - little else	The untold origin of the Lone Ranger . It shows who he was and how and why he became the Ranger . Legendary bomb . The idea was not a bad one - - reinvent and introduce the Lone Ranger for 1980s audiences . Right off the bat though there were problems . The studio ordered Clayton Moore ( the original Ranger ) to stop appearing anywhere as the Lone Ranger . It led to a nasty little battle that made headlines . I know of people who refused to see the film because of how Moore was treated . Also they hired the awesomely untalented Klinton Spilsbury to play the Ranger . Spilsbury was very handsome and muscular but had absolutely no charisma and just couldn't act . In fact his whole vocal performance was redubbed by another actor ! Also his off screen antics ( public drunkenness and beating people up ) didn't help matters . Acting aside , the script is dull and slow . Also the Ranger himself doesn't show up until an HOUR in ! There were some complaints at the time that the movie was too violent for a PG . However I don't think it was that bad . There are a few ( very few ) things done right here - - the photography was truly beautiful ; Michael Horse was excellent as Tonto ; Christopher Lloyd is lots of fun as the villain and when the Lone Ranger finally shows up ( with the William Tell Overture booming from the soundtrack ) it's really rousing . But , all in all , this is a boring and terrible attempt to bring back the Lone Ranger . It's easy to see why this bombed . A 4 - - mostly for the photography .
Time has not been kind to this one	Film about a British photographer ( David Hemmings ) who may , or may not have , accidentally shot a crime . Wow - - is this dated ! In 1966 this was considered a masterpiece - - it was also one of the first movies to have some ( very minor ) female nudity . Unfortunately it has dated badly . The nudity is not even remotely shocking now ; the symbolism and message are laughably obvious ; the movies takes it self WAY too seriously and basically , this is one BORING film . Even the acting is off - - Hemmings ( a good actor ) appears drugged and Redgrave isn't much better . This is only good now as a time capsule showing what " swinging " London was like back in the 1960s . Other than that it's a badly dated art film . I actually had trouble staying awake during this ! I give it a 4 .
I've seen worse . . .	. . . but I've seen better too . The story here is predictable - - a film crew trying to film a horror movie in a place where murders occurred . Three guesses what happens . This isn't a total bomb - - the cast is fairly good with pros John Ireland , Faith Domergue and John Carradine giving the best performances . It's reasonably well-made - - for a low budget film . Just don't expect any nudity , swearing , blood OR gore ( the film has a very mild PG rating ) . I was never totally bored - - it's OK viewing on a quiet night . I saw it on video - - it was a HORRIBLE print - - very dark and some scenes were impossible to see . Still I didn't hate it and it does have a cool ending which surprised me - - basically nothing happens up till then so it catches you off guard . Worth seeing but only if you're a horror film completest .
Pretty poor sequel	The Silver Surfer ( Doug Jones with the voice of Laurence Fishburne ) is a man all in silver who whizzes around the Earth on a surfboard . He also spreads radiation and causes disasters everywhere he goes . The Fantastic Four ( Ioan Gruffudd , Jessica Alba , Chris Evans and Michael Chiklis ) are hired to do battle with him . . . but also have to work with their hated enemy Victor von Doom ( Julian McMahon ) . And Mr . Fantastic and Invisible Woman are trying to get married . The special effects are OK and Gruffudd and Chiklis are good - - but that's about it for the good things about this . Some of the special effects are lousy - - Mr . Fantastic's stretching looks so fake and why do his clothes stretch with him ? Alba's acting is even worse than usual . Evans again seems to be holding back and not doing what he could as the Human Torch . Kerry Washington appears as Alicia Masters - - but she's given no introduction . I don't remember her being in the first movie at all , and why is she black ? She's white in the comic books . I'm not racist - - it's just that you don't go around changing characters from comic books for no rhyme or reason . McMahon is given next to nothing to do as Doom - - and what's with his hair ( or lack of ) ? It looked terrible ! The script is awful - - it gets boring and there are far too many unexplained events ( especially the end ) . SPOILERS AHEAD ! ! ! ! Galactus is in this - - but he's not personified as he is in the comics . Here he's just some huge intergalactic force that consumes planets . It looks dumb and not at all impressive . The only really good thing I can say about this is it's fairly short - - only 92 minutes . Still this is a boring , stupid and confusing movie . Skip it .
Just so-so	Documentary showing clips of dancing from old Hollywood movies up to the present . . . well , 1985 actually . Also there are the stars introducing the clips and talking about them . Sounds interesting but isn't . For starters I remember seeing some of these clips from the two " That's Entertainment " movies from the 1970s so it comes off as somewhat repetitious . Some of the clips they show aren't all that good and do we really have to hear the stars talking during the dance numbers ? It's not terrible - - just nothing special . I was one of the few people who saw it in a theatre in 1985 . I remember people walking out ! Nothing offensive about this - - they were probably just bored . If you're a dancer or dance enthusiast you might like this . Otherwise use caution .
More misses than hits	The idea was fun ( Jay and Silent Bob traveling to Hollywood to try and stop a movie being made ) but it doesn't work . There are plenty of jokes but for every good one there are five or six that fall flat . Also , to get most of the jokes you have to have seen every Kevin Smith movie ever made . If you haven't , you'll be lost . The plot rambles all over the place . . . there are constant detours that just make no sense . The cameos by many actors sometimes work - - but more often than not the actors seem embarrassed by what they're doing . The only really funny one involves Ben Affleck and Matt Damon . Also we ( unfortunately ) get Jason Lee - - unattractive as always and giving another bad performance . Also we see director / writer Kevin Smith's fascination with young , gorgeous women in tight-fitting clothes walking around in slow motion - - in fact , we're treated to this THREE TIMES ! ! ! Keep your sexual fantasies out of your movies next time , OK Kevin ? And ( since it's a Kevin Smith ) a certain four-letter work beginning with " f " is uttered about 100 times - - in a 90 minute movie . I'd like to see if he could write a script NOT using that word . Probably not . I'm not recommending this ( of course ) but some of the jokes do work and I did get a kick out of the constant references to the crap Miramax cranks out . Still , there is an audience for this . . . so if it looks good to you , you might like it .
Silly	I have to admit that I've never seen a full episode of the TV series . I've seen bits and pieces of enough to know the basic premise and the characters . This is just to let you know that I'm reviewing it without comparing it to the TV series . But still - - with the silly premise who ever thought this would work as a full length film ? The Clampetts strike oil , become billionaires and move to Beverly Hills . An evil bank assistant ( Rob Schneider ) and his girlfriend ( Lea Thompson ) plan to swindle them out of it all . There's very little plot , even for 90 minutes . There are some good jokes but most range from lame to insultingly stupid . It's all up to the actors to carry this off . Luckily , they're up to it . Deidrich Bader is very good as dumb as dirt Jethro ( and his sister ) - - he's full of life , engaging and has a great smile . Dabney Coleman is good but given nothing to work with as Mr . Drysdale . Erika Eleniack is cute and perky as Elly May - - she can't act but she was hired for her body not comedic talent . Cloris Leachman is good but a little too loud as Granny . Lilly Tomlin is hysterical as Miss Hathaway - - she looks great and provides the few true laughs in the film . The late Jim Varney is surprisingly very good as Jed - - who would have thought ? Schneider and Thompson try to be funny but their material is very poor . Guest appearances by Buddy Ebsen , Dolly Parton and Zsa Zsa Gabor ( in a VERY dated joke ) don't help . With a better script this could have been great . As it is , it's almost worth seeing for the actors ( especially Tomlin ) . Maybe the TV series is better . . .
So-so	Three part " horror " film with some guy in a boarded up house imploring the viewer not to go " out there " and ( unfortunately ) gives us three tales to prove why . The first story involves a young couple in a car accident who meet up with two psychos . It leads up to two totally predictable twists . Still , it's quick ( about 15 minutes ) , violent , well-acted and well-done . Predictable but enjoyable . The second involves a man on the run after stealing a large amount of money . His car breaks down , he's attacked by a dog and stumbles into a nearby clinic . VERY obvious , badly done and extremely slow . Even at 30 minutes this is too long . Good acting though . The third is just barely a horror story . It involves a beautiful , lonely woman looking for Mr . Right . It has beautiful set designs , a nice erotic feel and a nice sex scene . But ( again ) predictable and not even remotely scary . It ends very stupidly . All in all , the first one is worth watching , but that's it . Tune in for that one then turn it off .
Big , loud , noisy . . . and dull	Silly time travel movie . A archaeologist ( somehow ) finds a " wormhole " to 1347 France . That's when there was a huge battle ( or something . . . history isn't my best subject ) . He goes back to get artifacts . . . and never returns . So his stupid son ( Paul Walker ) and friends ( Gerard Butler , Frances O'Connor and some others who are just there to get killed ) travel back to find him . Naturally everything goes wrong and they may be stuck there for good . What's wrong with this movie ? Just about everything . The script is REAL stupid . . . full of implausible situations and characters and some truly jaw-dropping twists and turns . Aside from the dubious " science " I find it hard to believe a bunch of people from 2003 could even remotely understand French from 1347 . Yet they have no trouble talking here . The stupidest subplot ( and that's saying a bit ) has Butler's character falling in love ( very quickly ) with a French lady who he knows will be killed . Oh , the irony ( sarcasm ) ! There are tons of explosions and fights to keep the audience awake . It all ends with a big huge battle which LOOKS expensive but I was bored silly . There's also lots of casual violence and killings in the movie - - but there's never any blood so that makes it OK for a PG-13 rating . As for the acting - - Paul Walker ( the " star " ) is VERY handsome with a nice body but simply can't act - - at ALL ! His blank stare ( flashing his big baby blue eyes ) quickly becomes annoying . I was SO hoping he would get killed . He makes Keanu Reeves look like an accomplished actor . The rest of the cast either overacts ( Butler and O'Connor ) , underacts ( Billy Connolly ) or just have this pained look on their faces ( understandable ) . The biggest surprise was Gerard Butler being so bad . He's been very good in other movies . This was a HUGE box office bomb - - it's easy to see why . Purportedly if you're a scientist or a history major this is hysterically funny . Otherwise stay away . I give it a 4 .
Come on ! A masterpiece ? I think not .	Travis Bickle ( Robert De Niro ) is a Vietnam war veteran who drives a cab in NYC . NYC is shown as an utter hellhole - - full of unpleasant characters and events . He tries to romance classy rick Betsy ( Cybill Shepherd ) but shocks her instead . He meets 12 year old prostitute Iris ( Jodie Foster ) and decides to save her from her sadistic pimp ( Harvey Keitel ) . I've seen this multiple times over the years and it's always escaped me why people find this a masterpiece . It's slow , boring and pointless . I mean really - - what was Scorsese trying to show or tell us with this movie ? We just spend two hours watching a sick pathetic man and his final explosion of violence . And the point is . . . ? There are credibility gaps galore - - when he first takes out Betsy he takes her to see a porno movie ! No way is he so dumb that he's take a classy woman like her to that . He shoots four ( I believe ) guys dead to " save " Iris yet is never punished for the crime . And just why was he trying to save her ? She didn't ask him . Why not just report it to the police ? This deserves just one star but the acting of Keitel and especially De Niro and Foster adds some points . Only for those who enjoy wallowing in sick unpleasant situations and characters for no good reason for two hours .
Not very good or original	The main idea of this animated feature was good - - follow a Russian Jewish family from when they came to America in the 1920s up to 1981 . Along the way use music of the time to move the story ahead . For example - - the 1960s sequence had " Somebody to Love " and " People Are Strange " - - 70s had " Night Moves - - 80s had " Hell Is For Children " etc etc . I saw this opening night at a huge theatre with the stereo sound cranked up full blast . I was just out of high school and interested in seeing an R rated cartoon . I was not impressed . The music was great BUT all the characters , situations and stories were clichs I've seen hundreds of times before . I was always one step ahead of the movie . The animation sucked - - the characters just didn't move fluidly - - very herky-jerky . Basically I was bored . Also - - THIS got an R rating ? There's no nudity , minor violence and I think someone swears once . I heard it got it because of the ending - - SPOILER AHEAD ! ! ! It ends with the last member of the family being a drug dealer and , because of that , becomes a huge rock star . End of movie . END SPOILER ! ! ! ! Basically the MPAA thinks teenagers are idiots and would think that they would try to live that lifestyle . Let's ignore the fact that this is a CARTOON and " Hell Is For Children " is played during the drug dealing sequence . I was a teenager when I saw it and it didn't make me want to be a drug dealer . This is PG-13 today . Regardless it's not a good movie . Poor animation , a by-the-numbers story , clichd characters . . . only a good soundtrack . This movie was a bomb has ( deservedly ) disappeared . Not as bad as Bashki's " Cool World " but close . I give it a 4 .
Visually impressive but that's it	Silly horror tale about the soul of an executed murderess possessing the body of another woman . Film starts off well but quickly becomes slow and boring . Some impressive visuals throughout , but the main plot is absurd - - according to this , the spirits of executed killers possess living people and have them perform " copycat " murders ! It's ridiculous and we're supposed to take it seriously . The cast doesn't help . With the sole exception on Vivienne Osborne as the murderess everyone is horrible - - even Carole Lombard and Robert Montgomery ! Lombard was forced into this movie - - she really didn't want to do it - - and it shows . Montgomery is certainly handsome but VERY bland and dull . The rest of the cast is just hopeless - - none of them went on to become well-known - - it's easy to see why . An old , creaky boring horror film . Don't bother .
Dreary , dull and dated	SPOILERS THROUGHOUT Hopelessly outdated film about sex . It follows the sex lives of two guys - - Jonathan ( Jack Nicholson ) and Sandy ( Art Garfunkel ) - - from their college years in the 1940s up to 1971 . Sandy falls for Susan ( Candice Bergen ) in college . Jonathan also falls for her too . In later years Sandy is married to Susan and Jonathan gets involved with Bobbie ( Ann-Margret ) who is much younger than him . It all ends badly . The message of this movie seems to be that some men ( Nicholson ) only see women as sex objects and can't relate to them . Other men ( Garfunkel ) are too timid . Basically both of the men are pathetic ! Nicholson keeps saying revolting sexual asides about women left and right . Garfunkel is just blank . The women don't fare much better . I couldn't figure out Bergen at all . She's sleeping with both of them but we never understand why she's doing it - - or how she really feels . Ann-Margret comes across as needy and passive . Basically there's not one person in this film you can relate to - - or like . The " insights " here are ridiculously obvious ( maybe they were meaningful in 1971 ) and the film is full of pointlessly long silences that seem like they're profound . It's also very coldly directed by Mike Nichols - - but that was the point . Add to that two horrible performances by Garfunkel and Bergen . Nicholson and Ann-Margret are great however - - but they're given little to work with . Ann-Margret was justly nominated for an Academy Award as Best Supporting Actress for this . Also it has Rita Moreno as a prostitute ( ! ! ! ) and is Carol Kane's first movie . This was a controversial picture in 1971 . The dialogue is sexually frank and shocked a lot of people . By today's standards it's laughably tame and the movie comes across as a self-important dated dud . Worth seeing only for Ann-Margret and Nicholson . Another one time shocking movie that just doesn't date well . I give it a 4 .
Boring , stupid , obvious , cringe-worthy dialogue	Boy ! This was worse than what I expected ! I expected a light film with good acting and a happy ending ( Rob Reiner NEVER has a depressing ending ) . What did I get ? Well it was light . . . TOO LIGHT ! ! So light that I didn't give a damn about the characters or their situations ! These people do not talk or act like real people at all ( Pfieffer's speech at the end is particularly horrible - - give her credit for saying it without gagging ! ) , the kids are WAY too goody-goody , their friends are annoying , and not one person in the theatre laughed for the entire movie ( there were a few smirks when Willis broke down - - it isn't supposed to be funny ) . The acting was as good as can be expected with such a lousy script and you know a film is in deep trouble when there are THREE occasions where we have voice overs of something we had just heard 10 minutes ago ! It wasn't good the first time around . . . it's unbearable the second . As for the climax . . . well , without giving anything away , it comes out of NOWHERE and ( as I've said before ) Pfeiffer gives a speech that will have you bolting for the exits . Avoid at all costs ! ! ! ! ! !
Pretty dreadful	Stupid horror film about five 20 somethings ( 3 guys , 2 girls ) going to this place in the middle of nowhere . What they don't know is Dr . Chopper and his female assistants attack and kill anybody who ventures in their woods . They use their body parts for some experiments . . . or something . Also five college girls and two lesbians are thrown in to be killed off and show some cleavage . Pretty desperate . The story is confusing and boring ; the gore is laughably fake ; Dr . Chopper and his assistants overact TERRIBLY ; there's some dreadful black " humor " in here and people just stand around while their friends are being attacked or just stand there and let the people kill them . This was pretty insulting . There are a few pluses . A twist an hour in was pretty good and the five young actors are actually good ! Chase Hoyt is great as Reese ; Butch Hansen is OK as Jimmy ; Ashley McCarthy is also good as Tamara and Robert Adamson has his moments as Nicholas . Best of all is Chesley Crisp as Jessica - - she was excellent ! Some of the dramatic scenes between these five were well-acted and interesting . Unfortunately the dialogue wasn't really there for them . I'm giving it a 4 for their performances - - but nothing else here is worth mentioning . Hopefully these actors will get roles worthy of them .
A searing expose on teenage drug use ! Just kidding	Silly exploitation movie . It's about tough kid Tony ( Russ Tamblyn ) going to live with his nymphomaniac aunt ( Mamie Van Doren ) and attending a new school . He meets the head kid J . I . ( John Drew Barrymore ) , gets involved with his girlfriend Joan ( Diane Jergens ) and gets involved with selling drugs . But Tony may not be who he seems to be . At times funny but mostly boring teen flick . This throws reality out the window right at the beginning with Jerry Lee Lewis on the back of a truck ( with a band no less ) " singing " a tune and all the " high school " kids ( they're easily all in their 20s ) start dancing ! The 50s slang is way out of date and makes most of the " teenagers " sound like a bunch of idiots . The story is predictable and the attempt to sell this as a serious drug movie are just laughable . And seriously - - Russ Tamblyn as a tough kid ? ? ? ? ? ? He's terrible but he's totally miscast and the dialogue does him no favors . Barrymore adopts a hysterically stupid Southern accent and Van Doren shows off her " assets " by wearing VERY tight shirts ! Sterling and Jergens try to act but nobody could make this work . I suppose this might be fun for some people but I was mostly bored . Might be worth catching to see some of the actors so young and Michael Landon in a small role but the dull story , bad acting and real jaw-dropping vamping by Van Doren make this a chore to sit through . I give it a 4 .
Never really worked for me	Killer Charles Lee Ray ( Brad Dourif ) is shot and killed by policeman Mike Norris ( Chris Sarandon ) in a toy store . Before he dies he transfers his soul into a Good Guy doll named Chucky . Mom Karen Barclay ( Catherine Hicks ) buys the doll for her son Andy ( Alex Vincent ) and Chucky sets out to settle the score with a few people . Andy knows Chucky is alive and dangerous . . . but nobody believes him . OK - - this movie does have its fans . Its led to four sequels ( so far ) and does have two great sequences - - when Hicks slowly realizes the doll is alive and when Sarandon is attacked in his car . But this movie never really worked for me . I personally never found the doll scary and had a hard time taking some of the attack sequences seriously . It DOES look pretty stupid when the doll " attacks " Hicks . The special effects making the doll talk and move are impressive ( no CGI used here ) but I found the movie slow - - even at 88 minutes . Also Vincent was a TERRIBLE actor - - but he was only 7 when he did this . Surprisingly even Sarandon ( a VERY good actor ) sleepwalks through this . On the plus side it has the few neat killings , Hicks is actually very good , Dourifs lines are pretty cool coming out of the doll and ( again ) the lifelike movements of the doll are impressive . But I was basically pretty bored - - and I'm a big horror movie fan . Director Tom Holland did much better a few years earlier with " Fright Night " . Rent that instead . I should mention I find one of the sequels " Bride of Chucky " a lot of fun but the rest are pretty terrible . Personally I can only give this a 4 .
Overdone	Terrible adaptation of S . E . Hinton's novel . Rusty James ( Matt Dillon ) lives in awe of his older brother the Motorcycle Boy ( Mickey Rourke ) who had moved . He returns and the relationship between the two brothers changes . Seriously - - that's all I could get out of this . This came out in 1983 . Director Coppola said he was trying to make an art film for teenagers . However the R rating for this probably kept teenagers from seeing it . I was in college when it came out and caught it at the theatre . I found it boring , overdone and muddled . Seeing now over 20 years later my feelings haven't changed much . It's shot in b & w ( which works because the Motorcycle Boy is color blind ) with one brief flash or color at the end and some rumble fish also shot in color . The dialogue used here is strange and off-putting - - these characters don't speak like any teenagers I ever knew . There's constant noise on the soundtrack and a score that fades in and out . The story is needlessly convoluted and muddled - - there are these strange , surrealistic passages ( Dillons ' " death " dream ) that make little sense and the characters either keep repeating themselves or go off on these tangents that are bewildering . Also the ending is telegraphed and laughably obvious . What did Coppola think he was doing with this ? A straight forward approach like he used with " The Outsiders " would have worked much better . He let his b & w imagery ( which IS beautiful ) overpower what little story there is . He made the same mistake with " One from the Heart " made around the same time . Acting helps a little . Dillon ( who can be great ) is pretty lousy . He mumbles his way through the movie . He seems to be at a loss about what he's playing . Rourke however is excellent - - but he can't carry the whole movie . In supporting roles Vincent Spano , Dennis Hopper , Laurence Fishburne and especially Diane Lane are wasted . The same with an impossibly young looking Nicolas Cage . Most people seem to like this because of the imagery . That's fine but I need a story to work WITH the images . It doesn't happen here . This was a major bomb and quickly forgotten . Muddled , boring and depressing . I give it a 4 - - and that's mostly for Rourke's performance .
Saw it MANY years ago . . .	at a Gay & Lesbian Film Festival . Porno black & white parody of horror films . On a dark and stormy night a bunch of people are stranded in a very strange house run by a very strange woman . During the night various ( hardcore ) sex occurs . And they throw in a gorilla too ( ! ! ! ! ) I saw an edited print ( it only ran 90 minutes ) but the hardcore sex was in there . There's a ( mild ) lesbian sequence and an explicit gay sex scene where Toydy ( Rick Johnson ) tops Bond ( Ken Scudder ) . What's surprising is how casually it's all treated . . . but this was before AIDS hit . The gay scene has never left my mind . Johnson looks like a hippie but Scudder was handsome and had a nice body . The acting sucks ( no pun intended ) , the straight sex scenes are dull and the plot goes hilariously out of control at the end . Not good but the gay scene is nice . I'd like to know where to get a print of this .
THIS is what we got for making " Pirates of the Caribbean " such a big hit !	Eddie Murphy plays a workaholic real estate man . He loves his beautiful wife and two kids - - but can't resist working . He gets a call to see an old , rundown mansion ( the title one ) . He arrives with his wife and kids . They meet the mysterious butler ( Terence Stamp ) and his even stranger master ( Nathaniel Parker ) but they soon realize they're there for a sinister reason . . . and their lives many be in danger . . . Believe me it's NOT as good as it sounds ! This is a supposed " family movie " from Disney . It OPENS with two suicides and includes sequences with the kids in danger and being attacked by the ( pretty gruesome ) living dead . This would give most little kids nightmares . That aside this is supposed to be a comedy . . . but none , and I mean NONE , of the lines are funny . The plot gets increasingly stupid as it unfolds and ( for no reason ) the main villain tells Murphy his whole part - - giving Murphy plenty of ammunition to use against him . That's just lazy writing . The ending is extremely stupid and pointless - - it's as if the scriptwriters just threw up their hands and gave up . Murphy is pretty good but even he can't overcome the stupid script . Marsha Thomason ( as his wife ) is good and so are the kids - - acting like real kids would ( for once ) . But Stamp walks through his role ( not really his fault - - he has nothing to work with ) and Parker is very good - - TOO good for this movie . Jennifer Tilly has a FEW somewhat cute lines too . This film is chockful of ( admittedly ) fantastic special effects - - but there's no story and it's filled with painfully unfunny one liners . This was obviously made for two reasons : 1 ) Eddie Murphy desperately needs a hit and 2 ) " Pirates of the Caribbean " was such a huge hit . I didn't like " Pirates " either but it's not as bad as THIS ! This movie bombed badly at the box office . That's good - - it hopefully means no more Disney theme park rides will be made into movies . I give this a 5 - - and that's just for the special effects . But I can't recommend this at all .
Early Coppola film	You probably never heard of this film - - there's a good reason why . 19 year old Barnard ( Peter Kastner ) is on his own in NYC and obsessed with girls . He's extremely attracted by a beautiful , but cruel , actress named Barbara Darling ( Elizabeth Hartman ) while sweet , nice Amy Bartlett ( Karen Black - - supposedly her film debut ) likes him . Then there's his domineering parents ( Rip Torn , Geraldine Page ) and his holier than thou landlady named Miss Thing ( Julie Harris ! ) . As you can tell this is not an ordinary coming of age tale . Great acting by everybody , but this film is very much a product of its time . It's very strange , very quirky and throws in psychedelic images , drugs , sex , horrible fashions and hairdos with fast inter cutting and voice overs - - basically , a good example of 60s independent , extremely low-budget films . Looks nothing like a Coppola film . I didn't really like it . With the exception of Amy , all the characters were annoying , the comedy was very cruel at times and the flashy camera-work really wore me down . A big bomb when it was released and how often do you hear Coppola gloating about this one ? Worth seeing just for the cast ( Black is so young ! ) but don't except much . A must for 60s fans and Coppola completists .
So-so	Not bad for a low-budget film , but not great either . It's about three black gay males and one gay Latino male searching for sex and / or love in L . A . It is good to see an ( almost ) all-black cast in a movie not involving drugs , guns or non-stop profanity . Also , this is one of the few movies dealing with GBMs . Still , it's acting is erratic - - some of the guys play it too straight , others camp it up WAY too much . There's absolutely no complexity to the characters ' motivation or desires ; the plot is , to be nice , old and done to death ; and the direction is horrid . Also some really bad sound muffled a good portion of the dialogue . I saw it at a gay / lesbian film festival with a mostly black / white GM audience , and even they weren't too thrilled by it . A few good lines and some cute guys help . Still the low budget hurts and the movies not as funny or as clever as it thinks it is . I don't like blasting a movie like this , but I really didn't like it . Still , it's one of the few of its kind .
What's the point ?	Testosterone started as a gay novel written by a gay author suffering from depression . It's a VERY grim , dark tale of Dean who is deserted by his lover Pablo . But it seems Pablo has left him a gift - - an HIV infection . He spends the entire novel driving around Los Angeles meeting various dark , disturbing characters and circumstances to track Pablo down . The ending is very bleak . This movie took the basic story , threw out the HIV angle completely and has Dean tracking Pablo to Argentina to seek closure ! ! ! ! There he encounters various hot men while trying to see Pablo . It ends ( almost ) the same as the book - - but this version seems to be a light-hearted black comedy ! I know that sounds strange but the tone kept shifting around . I was never sure how to take this . The script meanders all over the place , moves VERY slowly and ( more than once ) I wanted to hit Dean and tell him to get over it ! As an adaptation of the novel , it's worthless . But on its own it's not that good either . I'm giving it a 5 because David Sutcliffe was very good ( and very hot ) as Dean ; it was great seeing Sonia Braga again ( looking fantastic ) ; it was fun to see Antonio Sabato Jr . out of his clothes - - he can't act but has a great body ( and has a brief frontal shot ! ) ; and has a real HOT Latino guy ( Leonardo Brzazicki ) . Also the frequent shirtless shots of Sutcliffe are nice and there's some real hot man-on-man kissing ( Sutcliffe and Sabato are straight but they seem very at ease in the kissing scenes ) . But the meandering script does everybody in . And Sabato is hardly in it ( maybe 10-15 minutes ) . I really can't recommend this film . I am wondering what they intended - - if they weren't going to be faithful to the novel why bother ? As it is this film is bombing . I saw it opening night in Provincetown during Mens Weekend - - including me there were THREE people in the audience !
Spooky	Interesting short narrated by Orson Welles about a ghost story " told in Dublin " ( as the film says ) . Only about a half hour long , it's not really scary and the acting is uneven ( to say the least ) , but it's beautifully shot . Some of the scenes in it were breathtaking and even though I knew the ending , I was interested . A most interesting little movie . Good thing it's available on video . Worth seeing on Halloween night .
I guess it could have been worse . . .	A bunch of obnoxious college idiots on spring break decide to ride from South Carolina to Florida and party there . Along the way they are ( purposefully ) detoured and end up in Pleasant Valley - - a town that seems stuck in the Civil War - - and they're JUST in time for a celebration . Soon five other airheads show up and the fun begins as the towns folks begin to kill the kids one by one . . . but why ? Then again what can you expect in a town where Robert Englund is the mayor ? Besides if you've seen Hershell Gordon Lewis ' " 2000 Maniacs " you know the answer . I knew I was in trouble with this when I saw Eli Roth listed as a producer . This man makes horror films full of unlikable characters , homophobia and blatant sexism . This film falls right into his sort of movie . The eight outsiders who are attacked and killed are either idiots or over-sexed morons - - you WANT them to die ! Also when the final four realize something is wrong - - what do they do ? Why they stay AND separate ! ! ! There's also a bit of homophobia ( a gay guy is killed in a really disgusting way ) , gratuitous female nudity and the expected lesbian scene . There's also a running joke involving bestiality ! The acting is actually not too bad considering - - Jay Gillespie and Lin Shaye come off best . Also the gore is strong and explicit . But the film has lousy dialogue , annoying characters and Englund overacting so badly you want to hit him . The original " 2000 Maniacs " was no masterpiece but it looks like " Citizen Kane " compared to this ! I give it a 5 - - I HAVE seen worse .
Can't say I liked it . . .	The government hires a scientist ( Kevin McCarthy ) to develop man-eating piranhas to use in combat ( ? ? ? ? ) . Unfortunately they escape into a public stream . . . which runs into a summer camp , a resort and then the ocean . Can Bradford Dillman and Heather Menzies stop the creatures ? This is a Roger Corman production with all his trademarks - - stupid script , bad acting , pointless nudity , bad dialogue and some truly pathetic special effects ( the piranhas themselves are obviously cardboard cutouts in a few shots ) . Purportedly a spoof on " Jaws " but ( aside from a few lines ) I didn't find this funny . It does move quickly but the plot is just too ridiculous ( and not funny ) to be taken seriously . Also the piranha attacks are VERY vicious and bloody and they show them attacking ( and killing ) children . I draw the line when any horror movie needlessly throws in children being killed for " entertainment " . I also fail to see how that is funny . Also it has a very downbeat ending . It is well directed by Joe Dante and some reasonably OK acting helps . Dillman is pretty good but Menzies just basically says her lines with a blank face . Corman regulars Paul Bartel and Dick Miller pops up but they're not even remotely funny . However Barbara Steele appears as Dr . Mengers and she's having a whale of a time with her role . She plays it with just perfectly - - smiling at the audience while acting seriously . I found this too violent to enjoy and too stupid to take seriously but this does have an audience . There is one exchange that made me laugh out loud : " Sir the piranhas . . . " " What about the piranhas ? " " They're eating the guests sir " .
Average creature feature	Back in the 1800s an miner finds tons of gold and refuses to share it . Instead he hides it and kills everybody he thinks it interested in it . He's shot but curses anyone who finds his gold and then . . . disappears . Cut to present day ( well . . . 2003 actually ) . A young guy finds some gold . The miner immediately comes to life and kills him . His friends come looking for him . They're the usual horror movie clichs - - three couples all stock characters . The women : one's a bitch , another is a slut , the last is good girl with NO personality ( meaning she'll live ) . The guys : one's a whiner with REAL greasy hair , another is a sexist jerk and the last is a nice guy with NO personality ( he'll live ) . They find the gold and the miner comes after them . That's about the whole plot . Also pros like Karen Black , John Phillip Law and Martin Kove show up VERY briefly to give the movie some much needed class . Actually this movie isn't that bad . The actors are all pretty good , the script is OK , the makeup on the miner is actually pretty scary and there are a few nice gory deaths . Only real complaints : did we REALLY need the supposedly " comic " scene where a guy takes a dump in the woods and the ending is just silly . All in all an average by the numbers horror movie but not bad OF ITS TYPE . I give it a 5 .
Sure it's sexist but fun in a non-think sort of way	Three beautiful women ( Kate Jackson , Jaclyn Smith and Farrah Fawcett ) are the only employees of a detective agency run by the unseen Charlie ( voice of John Forsythe ) and his helper Bosley ( David Doyle ) . Every week these women went out to solve laughably obvious crimes and never break a nail or get one hair out of place . Just like real life huh ? : ) This came on TV when I was in high school and it was trashed ( for good reason ) by the critics but was a HUGE hit . The ratings went through the roof and this started the Farrah Fawcett phenomenon of the late 1970s . Also , for its time , this was pretty sleazy . The women all wore very tight and / or revealing outfits and in one episode ( " Angels in Chains " ) they were sent to a prison camp , forced to strip and sprayed with disinfectant ! There was a huge outrage over this show but the rating were incredibly strong . It was also originally broadcast at 10 : 00 at night so the kids couldn't see it ( I was 14 and I remember being angry that I couldn't watch ) . However the series toned down the scripts and it was put on at 9 : 00 with ( I believe ) the second season . Now this show WAS sexist to a ridiculous extreme but it did show strong female characters solving crimes each week . Of course they used every opportunity they had to get them in bikinis too : ) Fawcett walked out after the first season ( to become a movie star - - which never happened ) and was replaced by Cheryl Ladd . Then Jackson was fired ( she rightfully complained that the scripts were " sht " ) and was replaced by Shelley Hack . Then SHE was fired and Tanya Roberts stepped in . By the time Roberts joined the series was seriously dying in the ratings and was cancelled right after . I watched it every week for the first few seasons . Being a closeted gay teenager I wasn't watching it for the women or the acting ( which was terrible ) or the scripts ( pretty bad ) . But the show was beautiful to look at and was pleasant in a no-brain sort of way . You could relax for an hour and not think at all : ) But , after Hack joined , the series just got dull . This was not Hack's fault - - the scripts just got plain boring ! I stopped watching around then - - that's around the time the ratings dropped steeply . They tried to pump life into the series by introducing another detective agency run by Toni ( Barbara Stanwyck ) and she has three hot guys solving crimes ! However that was only for one episode . Also this is known as starting " jiggle " TV . So I won't say this is any masterpiece but it was fun to watch .
Black is the whole show here	Prostitute Elizabeth Lucy ( Karen Black ) is found dead at the beginning - - she fell ( or was pushed ) from the top of a building . Police sergeant Jim Henderson ( Christopher Plummer ) investigates and finds himself involved in satanic rites , ritual killings and more . Also there are flashbacks to the last few days of Lucy's life to see what happened to her . Interesting but very confusing . It starts off pretty good with Black singing ( and doing a credible job ) over the opening credits and throughout the film . Then it gets very involved , the story gets muddled and murky and leads to an unsatisfying end . To be honest I'm STILL not sure what happened ! Also there's bad overdubbing of voices , poor direction and a hysterically bad score at the end which sounds like a bunch of Munchkins signing ! The acting is pretty good considering the material . Plummer ( a great actor ) looks miserable and gives a rare bad performance . Black however was just great . It's a very difficult role and she pulls it off . I kept watching solely for her . So - - if you do want to see it see it for Black . Be warned : The St . Clair DVD is in terrible shape . It ( obviously ) inserts a new title ( calling it " The Hooker Cult Murders " ! ) , has faded color and jumps VERY badly at the beginning . Also the sound quality is poor and the movie ends a full nine minutes before it's 111 min running time . That may have some reason for me not understanding it .
I've never really liked this	Two old army buddies ( Bing Crosby , Danny Kaye ) are a successful dancing and singing act . They try to help their ex-general ( Dean Jagger ) from loosing his Vermont inn . The love interest is provided by Vera Ellen and Rosemary Clooney . I've seen this multiple times ( once in a brand new print at a repertory theatre ) - - and I've never really liked it . It starts off great with Crosby singing the title song to soldiers during WWII - - that scene really works and is quietly powerful - - but then the film falls to pieces . The script is - - to be nice - - pretty terrible with a totally predictable plot and tired comedy . None of the actors are given roles to play . Kaye seems lost and Clooney and Ellen try to inject life into their characters . Jagger is also far too mild-mannered to play a tough Army general . Only Crosby with his easy-going charm and Mary Wickes ( with the few funny lines ) really pull off any acting . The songs are pretty unmemorable - - " What Can You Do With a General " has got to be one of the all time worst songs I've heard in a movie . All the sets look impressive - - but they're very obviously sets - - especially the outdoor ones . And there's no snow or anything Christmas-like until the last 5 minutes ! This film does have its good points . It was the first film shot in VistaVision ( a wide screen process ) and the movie takes full advantage of it with a few elaborate production numbers in bright beautiful Technicolor . Also Kaye and Crosby do have a funny number in drag ( sort of ) and the beautiful , bright color and some interesting costumes keep you mildly interested . All the singing is good and some of the dancing is just incredible ( especially with Ellen ) . But all in all this is too long ( a half hour could have been chopped off ) , too slow and too badly written for me to like it . Give me " It's A Wonderful Life " or " Holiday Inn " over this . I give this a 5 .
Joan Crawford's 2nd to last film - - a true horror	Monica Rivers ( Joan Crawford ) is the owner of a traveling circus . One night the tightrope walker's rope breaks . He falls and ( somewhat impossibly ) is hung by his own rope . The next day Frank Hawkins ( Ty Hardin ) shows up looking for a job - - and he just happens to be a tightrope walker . Rivers hires him . . . and almost immediately begins romancing him ! But then a bunch of gory murders begin happening . Michael Gough gets a spike through the head - - Diana Dors is cut in half and there's a real surprising killing at the end . This is pretty awful . The murders themselves are pretty well-done but that's about it . By today's standards they're not that violent but were really pretty strong for 1968 . Most of the film is padding - - endless circus acts and pointless , uninteresting material detailing the personal lives of ther performers . Also seeing 64 year old Crawford romancing 38 year old Hardin is kind of scary . And Crawford ( looking pretty good considering ) has many needless dramatic scenes and she overacts all the way . Hardin is very handsome but can't act . Diana Dors does what she can with the miserable sex pot role she was given . Even Michael Gough was bad . Only Judy Geeson gives a halfway interesting performance . And the revelation of the killer at the end is ludicrous . If you think about it , it was impossible for the killer to even perform two of the killings ! Boring , stupid with only a few nice bloody killings to liven it up - - but they're few and far between . A real come down for Crawford . Skip it .
Pretty terrible but never dull	DEFINITE SPOILERS This film is a direct sequel to " Black Caeser " . The first 7 minutes show the ending of the first film in which Caeser ( Fred Williamson ) was being chased and then beaten to death . This movie conveniently ignores that he was killed and has his father rescuing him . He survives and kills all the people that double-crossed him . He then tries to go legit . . . but his past won't stay away . END SPOILERSThe first movie was dull and stupid - - it just had some violence and a good performance by Williamson to keep it going . This sequel was made quickly ( it shows ) and is REAL stupid - - but it's never dull . The plot moves very fast and there's tons of violence and plenty of blood . All the violence is pretty funny - - it's ineptly staged and obviously faked with some hilariously bad post dubbing . The acting is bad except for Williamson and this actually left room for another sequel ( which thankfully never happened ) . This is a pretty bad movie but I was never bored - - all the action and violence kept me entertained . If you liked the first you'll probably like this . I give it a 5 .
Harrowing	A woman ( Monica Bellucci ) is savagely raped and beaten and her boyfriend ( Vincent Cassel ) sets out to kill her attacker . This film is almost impossible to watch - - there's an extremely horrifying and VERY graphic murder in the first 20 minutes and the rape / beating goes on for at least 10 minutes . The worst was the rape because both of the actors are so good that it looks very realistic . I was basically crying my eyes out during the rape and considered leaving the theatre . Usually I can sit through anything but this was really sickening , disgusting and beyond belief . After that sequence the movie does lighten up - - but the effect lingers on . Also the story is told backwards - - why ? It serves no purpose that I can see . In something like " Memento " it worked - - in this one it's just annoying . This is a hard movie to rate - - on one hand the acting was very good and the script interesting but there's very annoying camera-work at the beginning ( the camera keeps spinning around and never focuses ) , loud , ugly sounds and there was no need for this film to be so graphic . Seriously - - why shot a 10 minute rape scene in all its " glory " ? What's the point other than to sicken the audience ? So I liked the actors and the plot and dialogue but didn't like the direction , camera-work , audio or the unrelenting violence . Use your own judgment on viewing this .
Interesting but a failure	Adaptation of a play . A pre-stardom Kevin Bacon plays a sleazy , grimy , gay prostitute . He offers an older trick ( Orson Bean ) a young gay man . The problem is the kid dies and Bean is on the way . What to do ? I never saw the play but it can't be as dull as this . The acting here is good - - Bacon looks terrible ( as he should ) and Bean tears the scenery , and the plot is interesting . . . but this is just boring ! People just stand around and talk , talk , talk endlessly . I looked at my watch more than once . And seeing the nude , dead body of a young kid constantly during the second act is disturbing . Director Paul Morrissey does try different things to liven this up . There's a break in between where the two acts took place on stage ( the screen stayed black for a minute or two and the last section is shot in split screen . It's interesting but Morrissey doesn't seem to know how to USE split screen ( like Brian DePalma does ) and it ends up not adding anything to the movie . However there is one very funny sequence when the hustlers argue on how to use the NYC subway . It's too bad the script didn't match up with the acting . Worth seeing to see Bacon play a totally amoral , sleazy hustler . Also Esai Morales ( ! ! ! ) is the cast . This is probably his first film .
Obscure little thriller	An updating of Jack the Ripper made on the centennial of his infamous murders . A murderer in Los Angeles is imitating Jack the Ripper - - he kills only prostitutes and in the exact same way Jack did . Idealistic kind doctor John Westford ( James Spader ) stumbles into the last killing and finds a coworker there who said he didn't do it . This leads to a fight , a very unpleasant killing . . . . and a plot twist that will either have you laughing out loud ( in disbelief ) or thinking " what the f where they thinking " ? Obviously I'm not going to give it away - - but it comes about 30 minutes in - - your reaction to the twist will determine how you like the movie . If you accept it you might like it . If you find it totally ridiculous ( like me ) you'll probably hate the movie . Also this is being sold as a horror movie . Hardly . There is one bloody killing and another unpleasant one . . . but that's it . This is a murder mystery - - you try to figure out who the killer is . The acting varies . The supporting cast is very good but the two leads aren't . Cynthia Gibb is TERRIBLE as the love interest . As for Spader . . . he's an excellent actor but way too laid back for this role . Also the movie just looks ugly . So . . . an OK murder mystery - - but a bad script and some miscast actors really hurt it . I can only give it a 5 . You might just want to watch the beginning for the twist - - it IS quite different !
Not that good	" Corky " Withers ( Anthony Hopkins ) plays a very successful ventriloquist with a particularly foul-mouthed little dummy called Fats . He realizes he's slowly losing his grip with reality ( he's starting to think Fats is alive ) ands runs away to a secluded cabin . He runs into an old high school flame Peggy Ann Snow ( Ann-Margret ) and starts to fall in love again . But she's married to a very jealous husband and Fats doesn't like it either . . . So-so . The book by William Goldman was great . For instance you don't realize until halfway through the book that Fats is a dummy ! However the film is slow and pretty boring . Hopkins and Margret ( both good actors ) give their worst performances . Ed Lauter too . The dummy Fats shows more animation than them ! Only Burgess Meredith gives a good performance as Ben Greene . It's not a total washout - - Hopkins did learn to become a ventriloquist for the role ( that's really his voice for Fats ) and pulls it off . There are two pretty gory killings and the scene were Greene tells Corky to shut Fats up is well done but , all in all , this is just pretty dull . Director Richard Attenborough just did this to get funding for " Gandhi " . His heart wasn't in it . . . and it shows . A 5 .
Hopelessly confused	Ralph Bakshi had a good idea - - do " The Lord of the Rings " trilogy as three separate animated films . Back in 1978 it would have been impossible to do this live action . I saw it in a theatre in 1978 with my brother and some friends . I had just read " The Hobbit " but never the trilogy - - my friends have never read any of it . We did like it and it made sense at first - - but the film slowly got more and more confused as it went on . For whatever reason Bakshi did the first book AND half of the second book . Trying to cram all that into a film only a little over two hours was unwise ( to say the least ) . Characters were introduced at light speed and the story barreled ahead full force never stopping to explain events or plot . By the end we were all totally lost and couldn't figure out what was happening . A woman in front of us had read all the books beforehand . She said they ruined it afterwords and urged us to read the books instead . It's a good thing we got that incredible trilogy all those years later live action . This is , at best , a curiosity item . The animation IS good but the story is impossible to follow and it ends very abruptly . Animation fans might want to take a look but it's not really worth it .
THIS was a big nit at Sundance ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ?	Why ? It's a boring , totally by-the-numbers story of a girl with attitude ( Michelle Rodriguez ) who has no self-esteem , finding it with boxing ( and a boyfriend too ) . This story has been done many times before and done better also . Every single frame of it was predictable . Aside from the predictable story line , the movie was badly directed . The boxing scenes were so choppy , I couldn't tell what was going on ! And why focus so many shots of their feet ? Also Santiago Douglas ( playing the boyfriend Adrian ) is very handsome and has a nice body . Unfortunately , he can't act . The scenes were he tells Diana ( Rodriguez ) he loves her were laughable - - there's not a single emotion on his handsome face . The only worthwhile thing about the movie were two performances - - Michelle Rodriguez and Jamie Tirelli as her coach . They were very good , but can't carry the whole movie themselves . This has a made-for-TV feel to it - - just remove the swearing and you got a Lifetime movie ! A total waste of time .
OK action flick	I only saw this because the late Brandon Lee was in it . His acting was so good in " The Crow " , I wondered how he was before that . Sadly , not that good . He was a very handsome man with a beautiful body ( nice butt too ) , but his acting is pretty stiff . He's not horrible just not good . I guess between this and " The Crow " he learned a lot . The film itself is OK - - typical fare . The scenes where Lee uses martial arts are impressive and the acting is pretty good by everybody else . So an OK action flick - - it'll probably only be remembered as the second to last film Lee made before his tragic death .
Lesser known Woody Allen film - - for good reason !	Allens first film as writer and director . He took a serious Japanese spy film , threw out all the dialogue , wrote his own and had the lines dubbed in . I saw this on TV when I was a teenager , back in the late 1970s , and found it hysterical . Seeing it now I can't figure out WHY I found this funny . There are some good lines and some of the voices are actually pretty funny , but it wears quite thin after about 30 minutes . And some of the lines that don't work or are unfunny are just unbelievably bad . The humor is pretty childish and the non-stop sex jokes ( all about women of course ) got on my nerves . I do realize Allen likes Asian women but did we really need the strip tease at the end ? ( It's tame but really not needed ) . And the musical interludes with the Lovin ' Spoonful were pointless - - but , in all fairness , they were added without Woody Allen's knowledge and he was furious . It is of interest to note that one of the voices is from Louise Lasser who was briefly married to Allen . Unfunny , boring , sexist - - - a real disappointment . I'm giving it a 5 for some of the jokes - - and I'm being VERY generous !
Starts off great . . . then falls apart	A babysitter named Julia ( Jill Schoelen ) is home with her charges asleep upstairs . . . and hears a knock at the door . A man says his car has broken down and he needs to use the phone ( you never see him - - you only hear his voice through the door ) . She offers to place the call for him and finds the phone is dead . She lies and said she placed the call . He leaves but comes back later and is angry and somehow knows her name . . . The opening 25 minutes of this are great - - tense and frightening . Even Schoelen's bad performance can't hurt it . Then the story cuts to 5 years later with Schoelen still traumatized and Jill ( Carol Kane - - reprising her role from the first movie ) , now a college counselor tries to help . She calls in John Clifford ( Charles Durning - - also reprising his role ) to help . First off it is connected to the first film but Kane's character was happily married with kids at the end of the first film . Now she's single and a counselor . ( ? ? ? ? ) The acting is so-so . Schoelen is terrible ; Kane walks through her role and Durning tries but has no character to work with . Also , like the first , this has a great opening and ending - - but a very dull middle . The ending is great - - especially when Kane goes one on one against the killer but the very ending is terrible . We're told the killer's name - - but that's it . We never find out why he's doing all this and what he did with the kids - - it's VERY annoying to end a movie that way . Also , we never see his face ( the one time he's shown full face it's covered in black makeup ) . So - - this is worth seeing for the opening 25 minutes and the ending - - but skip the rest of it . I'm giving this a 5 .
Half a good movie	The plot is not bad ( if far-fetched ) and it's well-directed but this movie is only partially successful . Two brothers Lewis ( Paul Walker ) and Fuller ( Steve Zahn ) drive cross-country to Colorado to pick up Lewis ' " friend " Venna ( Leelee Sobieski ) . They play stupid games on their CB , inadvertently cause a man to get mutilated and beaten into a coma and then have a psycho trailing them . For the first hour this is pretty good . Walker is beautiful but sort of bland and Zahn is lots of fun ( Sobieski doesn't show up until the second half ) . There are creepy sequences ( the motel during the dark , stormy night ) and the killer's voice on the CB is spooky . Also the chases are exciting and well-done . Then they get to Colorado , pick up Venna and the movie falls apart . Logic disappears , the story gets increasingly stupid and Sobieski ( a good actress ) is given nothing to do except play the helpless female . Also Walker's constant blank face gets annoying - - good thing he's good-looking . Zahn tries his best but he can't totally save the film . The best scene is when Walker and Zahn are forced to walk into a diner nude - - Walker has a very nice body - - Zahn needs to work out . Then when they try to imitate a scene from Alfred Hitcock's " North by Northwest " - - well , that's just asking for trouble . Also the ending is just horrible - - it makes absolutely no sense and tries to throw one more cheap thrill at the audience - - I felt like throwing something at the screen . If you do see it , leave after an hour - - unless you want to get annoyed . The film DOES get a few points from me for having male nudity in it instead of exploiting females .
Terrible direction , stupid script but sometimes it works	A white bigot ( Godfrey Cambridge ) wakes up one morning to find himself a black man . Good idea , horrible execution . The script hits all the jokes you expect and then goes nowhere . The dialogue is terrible - - people don't talk like that ! Also , there's no ending - - the film just stops . And Van Peebles direction is annoying beyond belief . Yes , I realize he was one of the first black independent directors - - it does NOT make him a good director though . He puts annoying music on the soundtrack without rhyme or reason . . . sometimes it almost drowns out the actors ! The color filters he uses don't help at all and scenes go on WAY too long . He's worse than Spike Lee ( and that's saying a lot ) . Still , some of the jokes are very funny and the film makes a strong comment against racism . Also Godfrey Cambridge gives a wonderful performance - - he has some horrible dialogue , but he pulls it off . The main problems here - - the direction , the script and boy is it dated ! However not Van Peebles worst movie - - that goes to " Sweet Sweetbacks Bada Song " .
Unpleasant , bloody and boring	Five extremely annoying college students decide to spend a weekend in a cabin in the woods . They're attacked ( sort of ) by a man infected by a flesh-eating virus . He's killed but not before infecting them and they start to unravel as they battle the virus . . . and themselves . The plot is totally by the numbers and the dialogue is just OK , but there are passages of jaw-droppingly stupid lines . There is one horrendous sequence in which they meet a " partying " sheriff who is stupid and annoying , and says things that no human being would ever say with a straight face . Also we're never told where the virus came from . I suppose that's supposed to make it scarier but I just found it annoying . The special effects are very good but downright sickening . Seeing a bunch of young kids having their flesh peel off or spitting out blood is not my idea of entertainment . And you know next to nothing about these kids - - how can you care that they're dying when you don't know a thing about them ? The only things that make this bearable is some nice wide-screen photography , a very good score and some pretty good acting . Paul ( Rider Storm ) plays the good guy - - he gives a good performance but his goody-goody nature got on my nerves . Karen ( Jordan Ladd ) is very good but given next to nothing to work with . Jeff ( Joey Kern ) is terrible but he's not in the film enough to destroy it . Bert ( James DeBello ) is the - - sigh - - beer-swilling , stupid , dumb , sexist " comic " relief - - definetely one of the most disposable characters . Best of all is Marcy ( Cerina Vincent ) . She's strong , intelligent and sexy . Her performance was dead on target . But mostly the film either disgusts you with the special effects or bores you with the totally predictable story line - - one characters demise was so telegraphed and predictable I seriously thought they were kidding . Inexplicably this has been getting good reviews from horror fans . Well . . as a HUGE horror fan I can say don't go ! I give it a 4 .
Failure is right !	Stupid comedy . 35 year old Tripp ( Matthew McConaughy ) still lives at home with him mom and dad ( Kathy Bates and Terry Bradshaw ) . They hire Paula ( Sarah Jessica Parker ) to romance him , get him to move out . . . and then dump him . Naturally she ( sigh ) falls in love . There's also a pointless subplot where a friend of Tripps ' named Ace ( Justin Batha ) falls for a friend of Paulas ' named Kit ( Zooey Deschanel ) . Utterly predictable and really stupid . Are there really women like Paula around ? Do they do that for a living ? Also , after she dumps him wouldn't that make him move BACK home to recover ? Oh who cares ! I'm obviously giving this more thought than the screenwriters did . Aside from the inane plot this just isn't funny . I saw every joke coming and some were real groaners . Also when Bartha and Deschanel shoot a bird then revive it with CPR it's just sick . Also Tripp is attacked by a chipmunk , a dolphin and an reptile . Why ? Because he isn't ready to commit to a woman ! ! ! ! Seriously - - that's the explanation the movie gives us ! The acting is so so . McConaughy and Parker are OK and Deschamel and Batha are very good . Also Bates is wonderful and Bradley Cooper is handsome , hunky ( in better shape than McConaughy ) and acting his little heart out but they can't save the movie . Dull , stupid and pointless . A 5 .
ALMOST works	Mel Brooks ' spoof on Dracula . It follows Dracula ( Leslie Nielsen ) from Transylvania to London where he battles Dr . Seward ( Harvey Korman ) , his assistant Jonathan Harker ( Steven Weber ) , Lucy ( Lysette Anthony ) , Harkers ' fiance Mina ( Amy Yasbeck ) and van Helsing ( Mel Brooks ! ) . It follows the 1931 movie fairly closely - - it sometimes picks up entire lines and sequences and tweaks them to make them funny . There are plenty of good things about this film - - it LOOKS just great ; Nielsen plays Dracula very well just like Lugosi ( accent and all ) but never makes fun of the character ; Yasbeck and Anthony are just great ; Korman does a hysterical imitation of Nigel Bruce and even Peter MacNicol has some moments as Renfield . Also there are two standout sequences - - Harkers ' staking of a vampire and an uproarious sequence where Dracula hypnotizes Mina and her maid . Still I can only give this a 5 . The main problem is that it's not very funny . It seems to be so intent on retelling the Dracula story that they forgot to add jokes . Most of them were just lousy - - very unfunny . Also Brooks was no fun as van Helsing and Weber was TERRIBLE as Harker . Brooks was hoping for another " Young Frankenstein " with this but it didn't work . This was savaged by the critics but it's not THAT bad .
Very good for what it is	An annoying bunch of 20 somethings go to spend a weekend at an abandoned ski resort . They plan to go " shredding " ( snow boarding ) and whoop it up . All the stereotypes are in place : the nice girl ; his girlfriend ; the female slut ; the maybe lesbian ; the crazy " funny " guy ; the constantly stoned guy and the mysterious European guy they pick up along the way . Also the " funny " crazy guy is constantly videotaping everything and we get extremely annoying , jarring cuts to his footage . This has quickly become a clich since " The Blair Witch Project " . Can we put it to rest now ? It also seems the resort was the site of an unsolved murder . . . and there are rumors that the killer is still around . . . It all starts out great with a bloody , gruesome murder . . . then falls apart quick . All the characters are annoying with the girls constantly prancing around in their underwear and being used ( and filmed ) as sex objects . Some people have complained that there wasn't enough female nudity in this film . Well . . . you know what ? Not EVERYBODY wants female nudity in a horror film ! As a gay man I find it boring and pointless . This film deserves credit for not having too much . And they do have hunky handsome Brad Hawkins shirtless a lot ! That's a good thing . Also we have to wait 40 minutes in till the next murder . There's also a really stupid final revelation at the end and I love how a dead person mysteriously is alive at the end ! On the good side : the acting isn't bad . That's surprising in a film like this . The best acting comes from Hawkins and Juleah Weikes . The only bad performance is from Scott Weinger . It's not entirely his fault . . . he's given little to work with but he does try . And there are a few very amusing lines . At one point Cole ( Weinger ) is constantly accusing one person of being the murderer . When they find that person dead he say's " All right - - it's not him . Let's get out of here ! " Also when a woman finds some dead bodies in the basement she goes screaming upstairs . Pike ( Weikes ) confronts her saying , " For future reference , the next time we're stalked by a serial killer do NOT go into the basement . " Also the murders are VERY violent and incredibly bloody ( I mean this as a good thing ) . The film also really picks up speed and the final half hour is good , fast and violent . The film has high production values ( for a direct to video feature ) . It has some nice direction during the shredding episodes and the cinematography is nice , clear and crisp . A lot of people have blasted this film but . . . come on ! It's a direct to video horror film ! What were they expecting ? " Gone With the Wind ? " It's a fairly good , fast horror flick . Worth a rental but don't go out of your way to see it .
Badly cut and doesn't work	In the small town of Cherry Falls VA , a vicious killer starts hacking up teenagers . The thing is he only attacks virgins ! The town sheriff ( Michael Biehn ) tries to warn parents and teenagers and also protect his own teenage daughter ( Brittany Murphy ) . The movie tries to mix black humor with strong violence . While it has its moments it ultimately doesn't work . The humor isn't very funny at all - - most of the jokes are real groaners . To make things worse , every character in the school is quirky and strange in purportedly interesting ways . This was a BAD idea . There's not one normal likable character to latch on to or identify with . To make matters worse , all the adults come off as complete idiots . Also this film went through some huge edits by the stupid MPAA . The violence was cut down to next to nothing . One girls death which originally ran for 5 minutes ( ! ! ! ) now lasts about 20 seconds . And a massacre sequence at the end is virtually gone . That's too bad because the stalking and attacking scenes ( what's left of them ) are actually pretty scary . Dumb censors ! And the revelation of who the killer is was REALLY REALLY dumb ! Most of the acting is very good . Murphy is convincing in her role and she has strong support from Natalie Ramsey ( her best friend ) , Douglas Spain ( a very convincing stoner ) and Kristen Miller ( her talk about sex with other high school girls is a definite highlight ) . Unfortunately we have Gabriel Mann ( playing Murphy's boyfriend ) who looks about 30 ! Jay Mohr is downright horrible as a school teacher and even Biehn is bad ! That's surprising because Biehn is a very good , talented actor - - what happened here ? Candy Clark does have a few cute scenes as Murphy's mom . Also , as an added " bonus " , one of the worst music score in memory . It's too bad . . . this has a real original idea but just doesn't know what to do with it . Avoid .
Takes itself way too seriously	Basically this is a slasher flick that thinks it's an art film . May ( Angela Bettis ) is a very shy , withdrawn woman who lives alone , has no friends and talks to her dolls at home . She falls for a man ( Jeremy Sisto ) and a lesbian coworker ( Anna Faris ) is also attached to her . Things get complicated , bad things begin to happen , May starts to unravel and then the body count begins . The lead performance by Bettis is great - - she totally gets into the loneliness of her character and makes you understand her feelings . But that's about the only thing this movie has going for it . Sisto is just OK as her boyfriend and Faris is unbearable as her coworker - - she tries to be cute and ditzy but comes across as silly and annoying . Also the film plays like an independent film - - lots of jump cuts and some hysterically bad sexual imagery . Also the director seems to go out of their way to deny that this is a slasher film by dressing it up with song montages and holding off any blood and gore until the last half hour . But this IS a horror film and there's nothing more annoying when a movie tries to dress itself up and deny what it is . But the real culprit is the script . It's just horrible . I was laughing out loud ( along with most of the audience ) at just some terrible lines . And the people don't talk or ( in Feris ' case ) act like real people . After an hour though the dialogue ceases to be funny and just lays there . If you want to go see a good psychological horror film rent " Repulsion " . Avoid this .
If you liked the original . . .	This film very closely follows the plot of the original " classic " . An all American family gets stranded in the middle of nowhere ( New Mexico desert here ) and are attacked by a family ravaged by nuclear radiation . I'm no fan of the first one . I thought it was stupid , unpleasant with lousy special effects and acting . Well this one is STILL stupid but more unpleasant , the gore has been upped to an incredible degree ( this was edited to get an R rating ) and the acting is much better . But - - that makes it harder to watch . The acting is so good that I was horrified ( and not in a good way ) by what I was seeing . Seeing a normal American family attacked and tortured and killed AND acting like it's really happening can get to you . It didn't scare me - - it just disgusted me . Also , surprisingly , this was pretty boring . The graphic gore is in small , but powerful , doses . It's surrounding by boring dialogue and one endless sequence when one man wanders all over a deserted town . It's not creepy or chilling - - just dull . It was so dull that when the violence kicked back in I was so bored it had no effect . Also a good portion of the audience walked out - - in boredom . So if u liked the first one you MIGHT like this one . Otherwise - - stay away . I give it a 5 .
Silly and crude but has its moments	This takes place in Victorian England . It deals with four lusty men and their attempts to have sex . The plots were hard to follow ( the thick English accents didn't help ) but I THINK I figured them out . Shaftoe ( Tom Bell ) is lusting after virginal sweet Hilaret ( Sussannah York ) . Lusty ( Jim Dale ) is after Cloris ( Elaine Taylor ) by posing as Lord Foppington ( Christopher Plummer ) to get her money . . . and sex . Rambles ( Ian Bannen ) is basically going after any woman he sees . The jokes are sexually crude enough to make Benny Hill blush . . . but they're actually more silly today than anything else . It's really hard to believe this got an R rating back in 1969 . There's no nudity , sex , swearing or violence - - just a lot of sex talk that wouldn't raise an eyebrow today . In fact TCM played it on afternoon TV recently ! This is not a good movie ( far from it ) but it does have its moments and it is amusing to see Plummer play it WAY over the top as Lord Foppington . I kept having to remind myself that this was the same man who did Shakespeare on stage ! Actually all the acting is good and has people going full tilt with many asides to the camera . No one is really bad but some are very good - - Glynis Johns goes full tilt as Mrs . Sqeezum , Ian Bannen is having the time of his life playing Rambles and Jim Dale hams it up nonstop . Also this was a pretty big budget movie - - it shows an accurate portrayal of how grubby and dirty England was back then ( even though it was shot in Ireland ! ) . So this isn't a good movie but has enough moments to take a look at .
Needs editing - - A LOT ! ! !	Yeah , it's well acted , yeah it's got an intelligent script but those two elements do NOT make a great movie . This movie is a ( needless ) 2 hours and 35 minutes . There's no suspense ( anyone who reads the newspaper or watches TV knows how it's going to end ) and we get ENDLESS scenes repeating the same themes ( tobacco industry is dangerous ; CBS backed out ; yadda , yadda , yadda ) . How this is getting good reviews is beyond me . I saw it in a packed movie house . When the film was over a lot of people came out complaining about the length and pointing out how half an hour could have been cut with NO loss to the story ! Director Mann has made great long movies ( Heat ) , but remember this guy is also responsible for real crap ( The Keep ) . Unfortunately this falls somewhere in between . Wait for the video , so you can fast forward through the boring stuff ( about half the movie ) .
Nice atmosphere does not make a picture great	In a remote Transylvanian village people are killing themselves . It seems whenever they see a little ghost girl that means they are going to die . A doctor and a local witch both try to find out what's going on and stop it . If that plot sounds vague you should see the picture ! The plot rambles all over the place making little sense . It SORT OF pulls together at the end - - but people don't talk like real people , things are done that make NO sense and there are endless sequences of people walking around huge castles - - or something . A lot of people have commented on the eerie atmosphere in this movie . True - - it looks great but nice atmosphere does not make a movie for me . I need a coherent plot and characters you understand . This is basically a dull horror film . . . but I've always thought Mario Bava was overrated . Maybe I'm being too harsh on the film . Purportedly the original Italian version is not available in the US . Also the DVD I saw of it was in terrible shape - - the print had faded color , lousy dubbing and inappropriate music during key sequences . Add to that a vague story and bad acting . You can skip this one . For Bava completists only .
Saw it in college in 1980	This was actually shown as part of a psychology class I took in college in 1980 . It was used to demonstrate the stages of sex among couples ( male / female ) . To be honest it was hardly exciting . The women were , to put it bluntly , not good-looking and the guys weren't much better . No plot or story - - just sex . It was made on next to no budget ( it shows ) and was actually interesting in a psychological sense . It DOES show the stages couples go through in a sexual relationship and the film was hardcore but not in an offensive way . Also the on screen couples seem to be enjoying themselves . So it's OK to see for psychology only . A few of the actors went on to pretty successful porn careers .
Bad , but so was RHPS	I'm a BIG RHPS fan but , seriously , it's not a good movie . Take away the audience and what you have is a stupid , confusing movie with good good acting and great musical numbers . " Shock Treatment " is a lot like that . Some good acting and fantastic musical numbers . . . but that's about it . The plot is confusing and vague ( WHY is Janet becoming a star ? What do her parents have to do with anything ? Why lock up Brad ? What are the Judge and Betty Hapschatt doing in this movie ? ) and ( compared to " Rocky " ) VERY tame ( it's PG ) . Jessica Harper replaces Susan Sarandon as Janet Weiss and she's a good choice . She seems a little lost at times ( not her fault , the script is against her ) but mostly is very good and sings better than Sarandon ( although that doesn't take much ) . Cliff De Young replaces Barry Bostwick as Brad Majors and he's horrible . He manages to overact and underact and his singing is . . . . . um , unmemorable . Also Barry Humphries plays Bert Schnick , an evil TV host . He's loud , annoying and very unfunny . . . unfortunately , he has a major role . Richard O'Brien and Patricia Quinn ( who looks wonderful ) are a brother and sister doctor team and are good . Nell Campbell is uproarious as a nurse and her boyfriend ( played by Rik Mayall ) is also very good but they are both sadly underused . Charles Gray does what he can with a nothing role . The set design is impressive ( with WAY too much red lighting ) and the songs are very good and performed with gusto by the entire cast ( LOVE the title tune ! ) . Still , it's not a good movie . If only comes to life during the music numbers . It's worth seeing for those and some of the performances . Otherwise , it's a waste . Also , O'Brien ( who wrote it ) disowns this film now - - what does that tell you ?
Loud , stupid , violent but kind of fun	Vice copy ( Burt Reynolds ) falls for a high-price call girl ( Rachel Ward ) who's under the thumb of an underworld lord ( Gassman ) . The storyline is highly improbable , has a VERY slow stretch with Reynolds watching Ward through binoculars , has tons of gunfights and gallons of blood . Also , very sleazy . Still , I was never really bored . I was in the mood for a stupid , violent movie and this delivered . Reynold is OK in the lead ; Charles Durning is very funny as his boss ( he basically walks around yelling and cursing - - and enjoying it ) ; Gassman is appropriately slimy as the underworld leader . Best of all is Ward - - she is incredible gorgeous and gives this movie a much better performance than it deserves . Worth watching , solely for her .
An S & M love story posing as a horror film	Pretty bad . An evil nobleman Kurt ( Christopher Lee ) terrorizes his family . He especially gets his kicks by whipping his brother's wife Nevenka ( Daliah Lavi ) . . . but she enjoys it ! He's then killed off brutally . . . but Nevenka keeps seeing him . He starts visiting her at night and whipping her and making love to her . And then someone else is murdered . Is it Kurt's ghost or is he really dead ? Who cares ? Mario Bava was never my favorite director . I admit his films LOOK great and are drenched with an eerie atmosphere . But the stories usually make no sense and you don't know ( or care ) anything about the characters . This is no exception . The story is vague and SLOW ! There are endless walks through dimly lit corridors to discover . . . . nothing . I don't care how beautiful this film looks . . . it's DULL ! ! ! ! ! The acting by most of the cast is dreadful - - especially Tony Kendall . He is handsome but very bland . The movie does have its good points . Christopher Lee is excellent ( despite his voice being dubbed in ALL prints ) and Lavi does wonders with a badly written role . She's also quite beautiful . And the music score is exquisite ( but played much too often ) . Seriously - - do YOU want to see a 19th century S & M love story shot like a horror film ? Not recommended .
An OK murder mystery	Dr . Steele ( Lon Chaney Jr . ) is a psychiatrist married to a cheating wife who refuses to give him a divorce . He's in love with his nurse ( Patricia Morison ) who loves him back . Then he blacks out one weekend and awakens to find his wife was brutally murdered . Did he do it or is he being set up ? The first of Universal's " Inner Sanctum " series based on a popular radio show of the time . It's introduced by a floating head in a crystal ball ( ! ! ! ! ) . Not a horror movie as believed but a murder mystery . It was made on no budget with a half hour script padded to an hour ( notice how many times J . Carrol Naish's policeman hounds Chaney ) . Also I had the murderer figured out about 20 minutes in but I had no idea why . Still , for what it is ( a low-budget B picture ) it's not bad . Chaney is OK and Morison and Naish are actually very good . This is not some unsung cinema masterpiece just a quick , efficient B movie . There are worse ways to kill an hour .
Great color - - little else	The adventures of Sinbad ( Douglas Fairbanks Jr . ) . Maureen O'Hara plays the love interest and Anthony Quinn plays the villain . A VERY elaborate film from RKO Radio Pictures . The sets are huge , the costumes beautiful and the color is great . . . but I really didn't enjoy this . For starters , Fairbanks is in lousy shape and looks way too old for the role ( he was 38 ) . Also he overacts CONSTANTLY to an embarrassing degree . He's supposed to be dashing and charming - - he comes across as loudmouthed and immature . And what's with that silly arm gesture he gave during the " fights " ? The fights basically had him doing acrobatics and little else . Quinn underacts and plays an Arab ( ! ! ! ) but he's easily to take then Fairbanks . O'Hara is absolutely gorgeous but she comes across as bad as Fairbanks ! She was so obnoxious - - I kept wondering what anyone saw in her . And then there's Walter Slezak ( who's very good ) playing an Oriental ( ! ! ! ! ) . The dialogue is silly and the plot wanders all over the place . I had my finger down on the fast forward button a LOT during this film . Also there really isn't a lot of action in this film - - it's mostly talk . The only thing that kept me watching was the truly breathtaking Technicolor . The colors are rich and vibrant and the movie looks fantastic . Too bad the script and acting weren't up to the visuals . Kids might like it but there is some extreme ( for the time ) violence - - whippings , caning , arrows - - but never any blood . I can only give this a 5 .
Saw it quite a while ago . . . but still remember it	An enthusiastic young and talented cast try to put on the first nudie musical with numbers such as " Dacing Dildoes " and a totally incompetent director . I caught this years ago on cable ( early 80s ) . I remember when it came out in 1976 people were shocked that Cindy Williams ( of TV's silly " Laverne & Shirley " sitcom ) would star in an R rated movie . Just in case you're curious she remains fully clothed throughout the entire film . The entire cast is young , healthy , good-looking and out to please . There's plenty of female nudity ( some full frontals ) but , strangely , no male nudity ( from the waist down at least ) . There's a constant air of amiability about the film and some of the jokes and songs are pretty good . . . but there are an equal number that are pretty bad . So it was kind of amusing but no blockbuster . The fact that I can still remember scenes and lines from it 20 + years later should tell you something . Good luck finding it - - it seems to have disappeared .
A John Holmes gay porn	No sound . Two young attractive guys ( John Holmes , Dave Harris ) are drinking and talking . Then they get up , go to the bedroom , undress and have sex . Holmes is on top . They then shower . That's about it . This was made to show off Holmes ' legendary appendage . What's surprising is seeing him making love with another guy . There's plenty of kissing and making out and Holmes seems to be enjoying every second of it . Still , if you're a porn star , you probably have to have gay and straight sex . For the record I'm a gay guy and this footage was definitely erotic and you see Holmes in all his glory . Both of the guys are young and pretty good-looking ( especially Holmes ) so that helps . The print I saw was in horrendous shape but that's probably the only print left .
Too smart for its own good	SPOILER BEGINSA rich couple are brutally murdered when they take a little nighttime stroll through the bad part of NYC . Detective Albert Finney is called in to investigate . It turns out the murderers aren't even human - - they're super intelligent wolves just trying to protect their hunting ground . But it seems the city plans to demolish their area to make room for apartment buildings . . . and the wolves aren't happy about that . This movie has good things - - it's well-directed ; Gregory Hines attacks his role and has fun with it ; Edward James Olmos has a surprising nude scene and there is some very good special effects showing how the wolves see things . But , ultimately , this movie doesn't work . It's a " message " horror film - - it tries to give us a little moral message about civilization , the environment , Indians . . . You know , I go to horror films to be scared NOT have messages shoved down my throat . Also the film is VERY slow ( I fast-forwarded through a lot of it ) ; Albert Finney looks like he's drunk most of the time and the surreal touches just annoyed me . And , worst of all , the wolfen weren't scary ! They looked kind of cute and cuddly not frightening . This movie was dumped by the studio on its release . It's easy to see why . Horror fans would be bored and people who like message movies wouldn't see a movie like this . Basically this is an interesting misfire . I give it a 5 .
Boy was this STUPID ! ! ! !	A bunch of divers ( played by Paul Walker , Jessica Alba , Scott Caan and Ashley Scott ) accidentally come upon a plane under water that contains heroin . They pledge not to say anything but - - naturally - - Caan and Scott stupidly tell the local drug lord what they found and things predictably go wrong . The plot is obvious and REAL stupid . . . they threw in some last minute " twists " that I saw coming a mile away . The script is pathetic chockful of campy dialogue and clumsy exposition . Also there were some " male bonding " scenes between Caan and Walker that are hysterically bad . But this movie was just made to show off the bodies of their stars . Walker is shirtless 90 % of the movie - - he is very handsome and muscular and , surprisingly , wasn't too bad . Caan looks pretty good too and enjoys himself . Alba looks great - - attractive and a hot body . Too bad she can't act . Scott is pretty good too . Also the women are photographed MUCH more explicitly then the men . Caan and Walker are ALWAYS wearing baggy shorts when they dive - - that's pretty stupid . They should be wearing Speedos for more freedom of movement . Meanwhile Alba and Scott wear the smallest bikinis possible . There's nothing wrong with that but it reached the point where I got the uncomfortable feeling that director John Stockwell was enjoying himself WAY too much photographing them . One shot of Scott unnecessarily photographs her lying down from the bottom of her feet so we can get a very clear view of . . . . well you know ! Then she's topless for no particular reason ( we don't see anything ) . That aside the underwater photography is stunning as are the overhead shots . Basically though I was bored - - the plot was insulting and I need more than endless shots of Alba and Scott practically nude to keep me entertained . The teenage boys in the audience seemed to like this - - they're probably the best audience for this movie . Adults - - stay away ! I give it a 5 - - for the photography and Walker being shirtless so often .
Plodding but has its moments	This takes places in 1795 England . Young Catherine ( Stephanie Beacham ) marries Charles Fengiffen ( Ian Ogilvy ) and moves to live with him at his remote ancestral estate . She's attacked by a spirit on her wedding night , starts seeing an eyeless grinning man and a disembodied hand crawling around . Is she going mad or is there some family curse ? Sounds good but this turns out to be a dreary , slow-moving horror movie . The drama drags along and seems longer than it's 90 minutes . It's also horribly edited with scenes ending just when they're starting to get interesting . Ogilvy and Beacham are pretty bad but the script does them no favors . Even old pros like Herbert Lom , Peter Cushing and Patrick Magee seem bored in supporting roles . However this does have a few things going for it . There's some incredibly beautiful art direction and nice cinematography . Also the ending does work . Worth a look for horror fans . I give it a 5 .
Not as good as " 2 " , but OK	" Boys Life 1 " and " 2 " are a collection of short movies dealing with gay youths . " 2 " actually contained an Oscar-winning short - - " Trevor " . This movie isn't as good as the first two , but occasionally works . It contains 5 shorts - - " Majorettes in Space " comes first . It's a French film that juxtaposes gays , straights and the Pope in a very interesting way . Short and very well-done . Second is " hiTCH " - - a very boring story about a young gay man and straight man on a road trip . Annoying direction and a pointless story . Third is the longest ( 27 min . ) and called " Inside Out " . It's about a young man ( Jason Gould - - son of Elliot and Barbra ) dealing with being a celebrity's son and gay . Well-done with a few good lines and a nice cameo by Christina Crawford , but it lacks a specific point of view and is kind of dull . 4th - - " Just One Time " is basically a promo for the feature film of the same name . Cute and quick . Last is " $30 " - - an excellent short about a prostitute ( Sara Gilbert ) and a closeted young man trying to lose his virginity . Predictable , but sweet and entertaining . Worth seeing for the first and last episodes . Hopefully , there will be a " Boys Life 4 " with a better selection .
Sad to say but Hitchcock's last is one of his worst	Movie about a couple - - Blanche ( Barbara Harris ) and George ( Bruce Dern ) - - searching for the long-lost nephew of a very rich woman . Unfortunately they get involved with two kidnappers - - Adamson ( William Devane ) and Fran ( Karen Black ) - - and Adamson is VERY evil . Hitchcock's heart wasn't in this one - - and it shows . He was in ill health all during the shot and kept butting heads with Black and Devane - - they were Method actors ( which Hitchcock hated ) and drove him crazy asking what their motivations were for every scene . He got along well with Harris and Dern though . The plot itself is ( to put it nicely ) pretty light-weight and needlessly convoluted . Also the film is indifferently shot ( only a few sequences look even remotely good ) and it's far too long . To be honest , I was dozing off halfway through ! The only things keeping this from being a total bomb are good performances by Harris and Dern , a hair-raising ride in a car with no brakes down a twisting road , John Williams ' jokey score and Harris ' final wink at the camera . But , all in all , this is overlong , boring and sub-par piece of work . Hitch should have stopped with " Frenzy " ( 1972 ) . I can only give this a 5 .
Predictable and poorly made	Movie starts out in 1953 where we see young black Tommy Gibbs doing jobs for the mob . He starts developing his own little gang . As he gets older ( and becomes Fred Williamson ) he works his way into the white mob - - even though they don't want " niers " ( as they say throughout the film ) . Then he steals some damaging ledgers and uses it to run crime in the city , help black people and keep the evil white people at bay . But the white guys in the mob aren't about to give up . . . Perhaps I'm not the best person to review a Larry Cohen movie - - he's the producer , writer and director of this . I've never liked any of his movies and he makes really bad low budget films ( unlike Roger Corman who makes good ones ) . This one is full of goofs - - I love it when you hear a baby crying on the soundtrack but you can clearly see that the baby isn't making a sound ! This is full of bad dialogue and has a very predictable script . This is the type of gangster film Hollywood was making in the 1930s - - it's just done with black characters now . The movie also contains plenty of swearing and some pretty graphic bloody violence . Also I can't think of any film I've ever seen that has such a negative view of women - - they're either vicious witches , use sex to get what they want or are slapped around left and right . It doesn't help at all that Gloria Hendry ( the main victim ) gives a terrible performance . To be truthful I was struggling to stay awake . The bursts of violence helped and Williamson is tall , handsome and pretty good in the title role . But the technical goofs ( there are plenty ) and the by the numbers story got annoying . Poorly made on a low budget . Check out " Foxy Brown " , " Coffy " or " Blacula " for a good blaxploitation film .
Bright , cheerful and totally unmemorable	Doris Day is great in this movie . She's full of life , she's sparkling , her singing is great ( as is her dancing ) . Also Eve Arden is very funny . That's about it for the good things . Otherwise the film has a stupid plot ; unmemorable songs ; and Gordon MacRae is ( suprisingly ) horrible as the male lead . He was so good in " Oklahoma ! " and " Carousel " . My guess is that this was early in his career before he learned how to act and , truthfully , he has no character to play . So , it's a very pleasant movie , but nothing great . An acceptable time-waster .
What's the big deal ?	I love Hitchcocks ' movies - - he was undoubtedly one of the greatest directors of our time - - but what's the big deal about this movie . It's well-directed ( obviously ) and the acting is good , but the story is predictable , the dialogue dull ( except for a few of Thelma Ritter's wisecracks ) and it's just plain boring ! Also I can't seriously accept the fact that someone as beautiful and classy as Grace Kelly would fall in love with Stewart . He's old enough to be her father ! So , I don't see why everybody loves this film , and I consider it one of Hitchcocks ' lesser works .
What's happened to Soderbergh ?	Steven Soderbergh's newest " movie " has him directing Francesca ( Julia Roberts ) and Calvin ( Blair Underwood ) in a movie which is shown in crisp , clear film and then shows their real lives in VERY grainy video footage using a constantly jerky hand-held camera going in and out of focus . It also shows other characters and how their lives intersect with Francesca and Calvin . There's absolutely nothing new or inventive here , but the attitude seems to be that Soderbergh is breaking new ground . The characters have all been done to death as have the stories with totally predictable resolutions . Also , I realize Soderbergh has a fondness for grainy video images ( just look at " Traffic " ) , but it's hell to watch . It's exceptionally annoying and I thought of walking out more than once . Also all the characters are unlikable . I couldn't find any reason to care about them or their situations . What kept me watching was the acting . Everybody is good , but Blair Underwood was exceptional . Very talented , very handsome - - a total pleasure to watch . And where's the full frontal we're promised in the title ? But , all in all , this movie was too satisfied with and a real ordeal to watch . It's real sad to see a director like Soderbergh doing crap like this . Avoid .
Half a good movie	Two 17 year olds Tenoch ( Diego Luna ) and Julio ( Gael Garcia Bernal ) meet a 28 year old married woman Luisa ( Maribel Verdu ) at a wedding . They convince her to go on a road trip with them to a nonexistent beach . Basically they both want to sleep with her . But things get WAY out of hand . I hated the first half of this movie - - Tenoch and Julio are ugly and obnoxious , screaming at each other constantly and really dumb . . . but then they ARE 17 . Luisa is much more likable . I was ready to leave but halfway through the film something happens ( I won't say what ) and the film switches gears . Then I started to enjoy it . It got very funny , interesting and there is some beautiful scenery . It all leads up to an unexpected and somewhat downbeat ending . There is a lot of nudity - - most of it male and frontal - - and plenty of sex , but almost none of it is particularly exciting . However there is a final sex scene which is erotic and exciting . So , it's half a good film . Don't go see it for the sex or nudity - - you'll be disappointed .
The 3-D animation is all this has going for it	Powerful Beowulf journeys to a village to destroy a monster named Grendel . Unfortunately he doesn't realize Grendel has a mother to deal with too . OK - - the 3-D animation is incredible . The characters look and act like real people . The voices match the characters perfectly also . Also , despite the PG-13 rating , this has plenty of nudity - - mostly male . Beowulf has a long battle with Grendel - - and he's completely nude during it ! Still there are no frontal shots and you're always aware that you're looking at a computer-animated figure . Also the female nudity is pretty minor - - you see breasts but no nipples . There's also some pretty extreme gore but it all comes across as fairly unrealistic . If this had been done live action it probably would have gotten an R . But , that aside , this is pretty routine and boring . The story has been read by probably every kid in U . S . so you know exactly what's going to happen . Also they speak in Old English and it gets tiresome . Some of the speech is unintelligible - - I couldn't understand half of Grendel's lines and Angelina Jolie ( playing his mom ) puts on a very strange accent . Also there's an ending that ( surprise surprise ) actually leaves room for a sequel ! However I've never liked fantasy movies ( except for the Lord of the Rings trilogy ) so maybe it's no surprise that I was bored by this and looking at my watch far too much . But , again , the 3-D animation was superb and doesn't leave you with the blinding headaches that the old 3-D did . So - - use your own judgment on how much you like fantasy for this .
Very good for what it is	It's an episode from the British TV series " Hammer House of Horror " . A film composer David Winter ( Jon Finch ) is unhappily living with his wife Mary ( Prunella Gee ) who's having an affair . One night he's home alone and a witch ( Patricia Quinn ) appears - - it seems she transported herself from the 1600s where she was about to be burnt at the stake . She proceeds to make life hell for David - - she wants him body and soul and prepares to take his wife out of the picture - - permanently . For a TV show it's very well-done . There are some beautiful sets with top-notch production values . The story is more than a little far-fetched but the cast gives it their all . Quinn and Gee are very good - - Finch is just OK and Ian McCullough is pretty good in his small role . My only complaint was the gratuitous nudity - - it's not needed and was distracting . An enjoyable 50 minute little film . Perfect viewing for a rainy day ( which is how I saw it ) !
" Things walkin that ain't got no business walkin "	A somewhat fun Monogram horror movie . The wife of Dr . von Altermann ( John Carradine ) has died mysteriously . Her brother and a hired detective ( hunky Robert Lowery ) investigate . It seems the doctor is quite mad and experimenting on human beings and turning them into zombies . Yes , it's a cheap no budget movie but it's fun . It has a nice atmospheric opening , a few amusing lines , some funny bits by Mantan Moreland and an interesting plot . Also Carradine gives a good performance and Lowery is tall , handsome , muscular and pretty good in a nothing role . A light enjoyable horror flick . Good viewing around Halloween . I give this a 5 .
Not bad but a disappointment	The second remake of the " Front Page " - - there was a 1931 version , a 1940s version titled " His Girl Friday " AND a 1980s version called " Switching Channels " . The best is " His Girl Friday " but the others aren't bad . In 1920s Chicago Hildy Johnson ( Jack Lemmon ) , a reporter , wants to leave the newspaper business and get married ( to Susan Sarandon ) . His editor Walter Burns ( Walter Matthau ) is dead set against it and will do anything to get Hildy to stay . And then there's the execution of Earl Williams ( Austin Pendleton ) coming up . . . Elaborate , star-studded and very good-looking movie . It did keep me entertained BUT it's a very bad adaptation of " The Front Page " . The original was filled with quick , very funny dialogue to be delivered at lightning speed . This movie " updates " the dialogue ( that means throwing in swearing ) , adds some really crude jokes and throws in unnecessary slapstick sequences . As some other posters have mentioned this movie is VERY loud - - too loud . The cast does what they can - - Matthau is horrible but doesn't destroy the movie ; Lemmon , although too old for the role , is just great ; Sarandon is shamefully wasted ( but she was unknown when she did this ) ; Carol Burnett is ( surprisingly ) not that good as a prostitute ( yes - - you read that right - - Carol Burnett plays a prostitute ) ; Austin Pendleton is letter-perfect as Earl Williams ; Vincent Gardenia explodes and yells ( a lot ) as the sheriff and Harold Gould ( wisely ) underplays the part of the mayor . So this is a good movie but too loud and crude . And it's a real travesty if you compare it to " His Girl Friday " . See it for the cast and the great sets .
I guess it lost something in the translation	French movie about a couple ( Stephane Freiss , Valerie Bruni-Tedesch ) getting a divorce . Then the movie moves backwards showing key moments in the couples relationship . It ends with their first meeting . Director Francois Ozon is ( I think ) a great director . His previous two films - - " 8 Women " and " Swimming Pool " - - were beautiful , intelligent well-made films . I can't figure out what happened with this one . It's just basically a story about a couple falling in love , marrying , having a kid and divorcing . For no reason that I can see it was told in reverse . This sometimes works in a movie ( like " Memento " ) but there seems to be no reason to do it here . It's well done and the acting by the two leads is great ( although Bruni-Tedesch is a little better ) but it's just a simple story that's been told before - - it adds nothing new to it . I saw it at a film festival and the audience was unimpressed too . So , well-done but no point . I can only give this a 5 .
Good acting but too familiar	A 40ish , repressed school teacher is raped by a young , black janitor in the 1950s . It truly disturbs her , but she realizes she enjoyed it and begins a secret sexual relationship with him . But how long will this remain a secret ? Very well acted by everybody . . . but why was this done ? The story has been done many times before and this adds nothing new . As I said , the acting keeps you watching but it adds up to very little . Try to avoid the cable TV version - - all the male nudity ( there isn't much ) is cut out and a crucial sex scene is badly edited . Try to see it on video .
Well-done and acted . . . but no depth	Movie about a man ( William Hurt ) dealing with the death of his son . His wife ( Kathleen Turner ) abandons him and he's all alone . He meets a wonderful woman ( Geena Davis ) but is she enough to help him ? It looks fantastic ( superb direction ) and great acting by all ( Geena Davis won an Oscar ) . . . but I was bored by this movie . It only scratches the surface of Hurt's character . . . I never once got a clear feeling of what was inside . Turner is given VERY short shrift in this movie too - - there are NO insights to her . Ditto with Davis - - but she's having so much fun with the role it kind of rubs off . I suppose the script was OK but I seriously had trouble staying awake ! The movie plods on endlessly with pointless , mind-numbing dialogue . A clear point of view might have helped here ! Also , when it came out , a lot of my friends saw it and said the same thing - - it was boring . It's only known for Davis winning the Oscar . I'm giving it a 5 for the acting and direction - - but that's it .
Cast changes made this unwatchable	Silly soap but kind of fun . I barely remember the plot but I DO remember Jo Ann Pflug being very good as an evil woman . George Lazenby was fun as was Greg Mullavy . The rest of the cast was adequate . The worst actor on the show was easily Kevin Spirtas . Ironically he was the best LOOKING actor too . It had the usual plots dealing with sex , murder , rape etc etc . It was no better and no worse than any other soap on the air . However there were multiple cast changes throughout the whole two seasons it was on . Figuring out who played who got annoying and confusing . When Pflug left , the show basically fell apart . I watched up until she left then I stopped . Not a bad soap but no different than the tons of others already on the air .
Too quiet , too slow	This takes place in the 1940s . Carrie Watts ( Geraldine Page ) , an elderly woman , is living with her son Ludie ( John Heard ) and his wife Jessie Mae ( Carlin Glynn ) . Ludie is henpecked by Jessie Mae and Jessie treats Carrie like dirt . All Carrie wants is to visit her home town before she dies . Ludie and Jessie won't help her so she decides to go on her own . This is one of those quiet movies that people ( mostly critics ) fall all over themselves praising . Page won a well deserved Oscar for this but , aside from her acting , this is a slow-moving and frankly dull tale . Perhaps it worked well on stage but it certainly doesn't transfer to film . I have no problem with quiet slow-moving movies at all as long as they're interesting or innovative . This is neither . I knew exactly where this was going and exactly how it would end up . There were no surprises at all . Page's excellent performance doesn't disguise the fact that this is a totally predictable and boring movie . Just because a movie is quiet and slow doesn't automatically make it some work of art . Worth catching for Page and Rebecca De Mornay ( a passenger Page meets on the bus ) but little else . To make things worse the character of Jessie Mae is so unpleasant and cruel that she becomes a caricature . I don't blame the actress Glynn for it - - I blame the writing . A slow , dull , wildly overpraised movie . I can only give it a 5 .
Dated and overdone	A kind Chinese man ( Richard Barthelmess - - who's white ) travels from China to London to teach peace and kindness to white men . Years later he lives in the Limehouse section of London - - a real slum . He's depressed but not beaten down . He meets sweet , innocent Lucy ( Lillian Gish ) who is beaten and whipped by her cruel father ( Donald Crisp ) . She finds friendship with Barthlemess - - but her evil , racist father might find out . . . For 1919 this must have been pretty racy . Even suggesting a friendship between a Chinese man and a white girl was pretty extreme . Today it's laughably dated and WAY overdone . It's also racist in itself - - Barthelmess plays a Chinese man and is constantly referred to as " the Yellow Man " in the title cards . Still , for its era , this was pretty brave . Also this is , for director D . W . Griffith , a small quiet film - - he was used to doing epics . It is well-directed and the color filters help . Gish overacts a LOT as does Crisp - - they're hard to take seriously . Barthelmess , on the other hand , underacts like he's afraid to show any emotion . So , for its time , it's daring but it just doesn't hold up . I give it a 5 .
Not good but fun in a silly sort of way	A bunch of people go to the island of Mora Tau . Right off the coast of it , a ship sank with diamonds aboard and they want them . There's nice guy Jeff Clark ( Gregg Palmer ) , Dr . Eggert ( Morris Ankrum ) , George Harrison ( ! ! ! ) ( Joel Ashley ) and his slutty wife Mona ( the immortal Allison Hayes ) . What they don't know is that the ship is guarded by zombies who kill anyone who tries to take the jewels . Admittadely novel idea is almost completely destroyed by a silly script and some pretty bad acting . The " underwater " scenes are actually pretty hysterical . They're obviously shot on a sound stage with the actors moving very slow and having bubbles pour out of their diving suits ! Notice how the plants on the " ocean " floor never move . Still I have a certain fondness for silly movies like this . It takes me back to my childhood where these popped up on Saturday afternoon TV constantly . It does have a little creepy scene when the zombies attack at the end and Hayes ( a seriously under rated actress ) is very good in a nothing role . Also I saw a nice , clean , letter-boxed ( ! ) version of this on TCM . Silly but fun .
McNichol and Quaid are worth seeing . . . but nothing else is	Dennis Quaid plays Travis Child a skirt-chasing ( yet lovable ) guy who is constantly sleeping with married women and getting in trouble with the law . His sister straight arrow Amanda ( Kristy McNichol ) tries to keep him out of trouble but can't do it . She tries to get policeman Conrad ( Mark Hamill ) to help her . . . but has Travis gone too far ? If you've heard the title song you basically know the outcome . This is a dull , totally predictable , by the numbers drama . I was one of the few people who actually paid money to see it in a theatre in 1981 . I remember the snickers coming from the audience during the " dramatic " scenes . . . especially at the ending . The only thing that made this endurable where Quaid and McNichol . They effortlessly give out good performances and make this somewhat interesting . Also McNichol play a singer and she was a good singer so she belts out a few songs . Also , in case any one is interested , Quaid bares his butt in this one . Hamill is just terrible . . . but it's not entirely his fault . His character is badly underwritten and he's just there to provide a love interest for McNichol . So . . . this is pretty bad story-wise but worth catching if you like Quaid or McNichol . Or you can just listen to the song and get virtually the entire movie in three minutes . Pretty much forgotten . . . and for good reason . I give it a 5 .
Overblown and boring historical epic	Takes place in 12th century England . Sir Wilfred of Ivanhoe ( Robert Taylor ) tries to help the imprisoned King Richard . However Richard's evil brother Prince John ( Guy Rolfe ) will do anything to stop him . Joan Fontaine and Elizabeth Taylor play the love interests . This movie has its good points . It's obvious tons of money were spent on settings and costumes - - everything looks just beautiful . Elizabeth Talor although miscast was good and Fontaine was even better . Rolfe sneers his way through his role in an amusing manner and there's a rousing 10 minute battle sequence . . . but all this can't save the movie . Basically the script for this is boring . The lines are clunky and everything is dragged out . There's next to no action ( except for the aforementioned battle ) , the jousting tournament was dull , Robert Taylor gives a terrible performance ( not good since he's the lead ! ) and even the wonderful George Sanders is bad ! How this is considered a great movie is beyond me . Dull and pointless . I give it a 5 .
Not up to the original	This sequel ( to a movie that promised " no sequel " ) opens with an uproarious parody of " The Exorcist " ( with James Woods ) then goes downhill fast . The " plot " has a bunch of college students ( four returnees from the original - - never mind that they died - - and three untalented others ) spending the weekend in a haunted house for some reason or another . They get to the house , the plot goes out the window and it's a non-stop barrage of crude humor and countless parodies of other movies . The big problems with this movie is the plot ceases to make sense halfway through , there are more bad jokes than good ones and the cast members are either annoying ( Tori Spelling and especially Chris Elliot ) or wasted ( Tim Curry - - why Tim ? ) . The jokes do ocassionally work , but this seems much longer than 80 minutes . Too bad - - the opening was so good .
Surprisingly OK	The plot basically has a large wooden puppet coming to life and killing people . . . or is he ? The title is stupid and this was made on no budget , but it was quite interesting . All the acting is good , the story moves quickly and you're kept guessing until the very end about what's going on . The only bad part - - there was a totally unnecessary shower scene just put in to show off female nudity . And there are some BAD special effects . Still , worth catching .
Boring attempt to redo the werewolf legend	Wealthy hunter Tom Newcliffe ( Calvin Lockhart ) invites 5 people to his hi tech estate . He knows one of them is a werewolf - - but he's not sure which one . When they all arrive he won't let them leave . The next three nights will all have a full moon . . . and he expects to figure out who the werewolf is then . Hardly an original idea - - anybody ever read Agatha Christie's " Ten Little Indians " ? Also why exactly does Newcliffe want to kill a werewolf ? It's never made clear . This movies has tons of things wrong with it - - there's a long unnecessary car chase at the beginning ; Lockhart overacts to an embarrassing degree ; there's plenty of painfully obvious day for night shooting ; with a few exceptions all the characters are obnoxious ; dinner sequences go on forever ; Peter Cushing has a laughable accent and the " werewolf " itself is just a big dog with extra fur stuck on ! Also it's just painfully dull . Violence and gore is virtually nonexistent ( for the PG rating ) and there's not even a transformation scene ! What saves this from being totally unwatchable is some good acting by Cushing , Charles Gray and Marlene Clark and a " Werewolf Break " towards the end of the film . The audience is given 30 seconds to figure out who the werewolf is ! Still that's not enough to make you sit through this . A 5 all the way .
Pretty good , colorful	It's not as good as the 1936 version and condenses the script dramatically , but pretty good on its own terms . Most of the songs are retained , but not all . Ava Gardner is very good as Julie ( even though her rendition of " Can't Help Lovin ' That Man " is way too slow ) ; Howard Keel is better than the material ; Joe E . Brown and Agnes Moorehead are wonderful . The only really bad part is Kathryn Grayson - - she looks terrible and her singing is way too shrill . Irene Dunne was much better in the ' 36 version . Still , the beautiful costumes , settings and color compensate . Worth catching , but still see the ' 36 one .
Typical	Arnold Schwarzenegger plays a fireman ( for no particular reason that I could see ) , whose wife and kid are accidentally killed in a Colombian terrorist attack . 10 minutes later he's in Columbia searching for the terrorist . Typical Arnie film but very fast-moving with tons of fights , explosions , gun play , really implausible situations and loads on violence . But it's hard to watch a Hollywood film about terrorists after the Sept 11 tragedy . In fact , it's downright uncomfortable . All in all it's OK but very familar and really silly . There was a good twist at the end though . One thing - - Arnie is 55 and looks it . Isn't he getting a little too old to be doing this ? In some shots he looks terrible !
Pretty pointless	Daredevil Andy McDermott ( Tom Everett Scott ) and two buddies ( Phil Buckman , Vince Vieluf ) travel to Paris . While there Andy saves beautiful Serafine Pigot ( Julie Delpy ) from killing herself . . . and immediately falls in love . Turns out she's a werewolf , he gets bitten and starts changing while his friends try to help him . . . This has no connection to the superior " American Werewolf in London " . That was a good movie - - this isn't . It's OK for the first 40 minutes or so then it seriously goes off track . The story becomes needlessly convoluted with lame comedy thrown in . It doesn't help that Scott gives a lousy performance . And the ultimate plot is really pretty stupid ( a secret society of werewolves killing American tourists - - PLEASE ! ) . There are a few pluses . It's reasonably well done , Buckman and Vieluf are engaging , Delpy is very good and the special effects are impressive ( even if most of them are CGI ) . But it can't save the film . Also Delpy has some needless nude scenes and Scott has to get on all fours and crawl around on the floor in one scene ! These parts are just embarrassing to watch - - I felt sorry for the actors . It's gets a 6 for the special effects and a few nice gory parts but you can skip this one .
Not THAT bad	All the critics in the country have torn this film ( Mariah Carey's " acting " debut ) to shreds . I saw it expecting a camp classic . You know what ? It's not that bad . Now , it's not a GOOD movie - - just an ordinary , totally predictable , but mildly watchable rags-to-riches story . Carey can sing - - too bad her songs suck . And her acting is . . . to be nice . . . horrendous . Any time she's called upon to show any emotion other than happiness she fails miserably . Co-star Max Beesley ( who plays her boyfriend / producer ) is handsome , buff . . . and a lousy actor . He looks totally miserable all through the film . The story is . . . well , you've seen it - - trust me you have ! Still it's undemanding , somewhat pleasant viewing . It has flashy direction , it looks and sounds good . It's not really bad until the ending which ( I have to admit ) had me laughing out loud . But everything before is pretty OKSo , it isn't good , but I've seen worse .
One of Hitchcock's worst	This takes place in 1962 right before the Cuban Missle Crisis . French intelligence agent Andre Devereaux ( Frederick Stafford ) , who's working for the US , gets involved with finding out what the Russians are doing in Cuba . There's more to it but you'll be so bored you won't care . Hard to believe Hitchcock did this . The story and characters are uninvolving ( and unlikable ) , it moves far too slowly and it goes on at least half an hour too long . This is the kind of movie Hitch did so beautifully in the 1940s ( like " Notorious " or " Foreign Correspondent " ) but it's pretty obvious his heart wasn't in this one . Also he said he was trying to use color to tell the story - - he later admitted it didn't work . The most surprising thing about this is how badly it's directed ! It's very flatly done . With the exception of one shooting it looks like something any hack director could have filmed . Acting is pretty bad . Stafford has his moments as Devereaux and Roscoe Lee Browne and Karin Dor are very good in small roles - - but that's it . Everybody else seems drained and walk through this stone-faced just reciting their lines . And seeing John Vernon as a Cuban is actually pretty hysterical ! Hitcock himself called this a complete disaster . It was also an understandable critical and commercial failure . For Hitchcock completists only .
Predictable but fun	A woman , Jane ( Ashley Judd ) falls in love with an executive ( Greg Kinnear ) at work . She plans to move in with him , gives up her apartment . . . and he dumps her . She reluctantly moves in with hunky , womanizing co-worker Eddie ( Hugh Jackman ) who she hates . Naturally , they fall in love . Utterly predictable from first frame to last , but I enjoyed it . The script was OK and there are plenty of good performances . Judd and Jackman are both sexy and funny , and we're treated to a sequence when they're both in nothing but underwear ( so we can admire their buff bodies ) . Kinnear has played this louse role once too often - - he looks miserable too . Ellen Barkin and Marisa Tomei , however , are very good in supporting roles . So , you always know what's coming , but Judd and beautiful Jackman ( what a face and bod ! ) make this worth watching .
Wanted to like it but couldn't	A comic homage to sci-fi films of the 1950s updated with extreme violence . A small Southern town of Wheeley is infested by some disgusting alien slugs . The main slug infects Grant Grant ( Michael Rooker ) to the confusion of his young , blond-haired beautiful wife ( Elizabeth Banks ) who is secretly loved by the towns sheriff ( Nathan Fillion ) . Soon the slugs are infecting everybody and its up to the sheriff , Grant's wife and a plucky teenager ( Tania Saulnier ) to save the town . Horror comedies are hard to pull off - - they can become either too gross or too funny . Only a few have pulled this off - - " Evil Dead II " , " Re-Animator " , " Night of the Creeps " and " Dead Alive " . Unfortunately this isn't as good as those . The cast does play it straight ( wisely ) and it's well-made with some great ( if disgusting ) special effects . But the humor and horror never mesh comfortably . I DID laugh out loud a few times and was impressed by the gross out effects - - but the movie was always wavering uncomfortably between the two . It never found even footing . It's not terrible and the cast is good - - but I still wasn't entertained . LOTS of plot holes too . I can only give this a 6 .
Too low key to have much of an impact	Set in 1917 New Orleans . This is the story of a brothel and the women working there . One of them , Hattie ( Susan Sarandon ) , has a 12 year old girl named Violet ( Brooke Shields ) . Bellocq ( Keith Carradine ) pays to photograph the women but doesn't have sex with any of them . However he seems strongly attracted to Violet who is being set up to be a prostitute like her mom . This sounds a lot worse than it plays . It was hugely controversial when it came out mostly because Shields was 12 and has nude scenes . The subject matter alone caused outrage but seriously . . . this film has no impact . It's extremely low key to a ridiculous degree . Everything is done in such a calm laid-back manner that it doesn't seem even remotely exploitive . Considering the subject matter the film is incredibly tame . The only nudity comes from Sarandon and Shields and it's never sexual in context . The film looks great too and it's ( purportedly ) factual . The low key tone works - - but after a while it gets downright boring . EVERYBODY acts low key . I was just hoping somebody would overreact to something . Also the story gets more than a little unbelievable towards the end . The acting is good by Sarandon and the other women . Frances Faye as the head of the house is great and it's always good to see Barbara Steele . However Shields is terrible - - but she WAS only 12 . Carradine is even worse . Very stiff and wooden . This isn't a bad movie just a dull one . Hard to believe a movie about a 12 year old prostitute could be dull - - but it is . It definitely would not be made today . I give it a 6 .
Good Woody Allen but awfully familar	Well-done comedy-drama following a neurotic family over the course of three years . Well-acted , well-written , but Allen covers no new ground here ( except him trying on other religions ) . He's examined these characters and situations before . What makes the movie watchable is excellent acting , Farrow excepted ( she's shallow and her acting is REAL bad ! ) . Hershey is brilliant as a woman who gains strength and courage over the course of the movie and Weiss is very good as a woman who starts out not knowing what to do with her life , and ends up getting everything in order . Everything is nicely resolved , no depressing endings ( OK - - that IS original for Allen ) , but nothing we haven't seen from him before . Worth seeing , but not up to " Annie Hall " or " Manhattan " .
Way overpraised	The movie is good , all the acting is superb ( with the exception of Jason Robards ) and the direction is excellent . But the movie is needlessly long ( there are a lot of scenes that could have been shortened or cut completely ) , has HUGE leaps of logic ( an especially idiotic event at the end almost destroys the movie as a whole ) and basically deals with characters who are depressed . Spending 3 hours and 10 minutes with a bunch of depressed people gets a little tiring . Also , the movie offers no new insights to anything it brings up ( love , incest , misogyny , drug abuse ) . It's watchable but way too long and what is the point ? the director's previous effort " Boogie Nights " was much more cohesive and better . Rent that one - - skip this .
The title is wrong but this is OK	A bunch of 20 somethings are going camping in the Bitteroot Mountains , Montana . However their car overturns ( not shown - - this is VERY low budget ) . They all try to get to the road but come upon a huge concrete structure . They get in to get help . . . but find dead bloody bodies and something stalking them . . . The reviews for this have ranged from some saying this is one of the worst movies ever made to others who love it . I'm somewhere in the middle . It's not good but it's hardly the worst horror movie ever . Let's deal with the bad things first . Fot starters - - the title is wrong . An incubus is a demon that comes to you in your nightmares . That's NOT what this is about . SPOILER ! ! ! ! It's about a madman who uses his thoughts to take over your body ( when you fall asleep ) and force you to kill . That's about possession - - not a demon . END SPOILER ! ! ! The cast has no personalities and are pretty interchangeable . The plot is pretty run of the mill too with that stupid " it's not over " ending . On the plus side it's pretty well-made , the acting actually isn't bad ( top billed Tara Reid is good ) , the cast are all attractive ( especially Russell Carter as Josh ) and there's some explicit bloody gore . For the record there's no nudity in this one at all . So - - all in all - - a pretty good horror film with some decent gore and a capable cast . I was never bored which isn't something I can say for most recent horror films . I give it a 6 .
Scariest thing about this is the poster !	Calire Marrable ( Geraldine Page ) is left with nothing after her husband dies . She then proceeds to take in women as housekeepers , has them invest their savings in the stock market , kills them , plants them in her garden and lives off their winnings ( or something like that ) . Alice Dimmock ( Ruth Gordon ) comes to work for her . . . but she's really looking to find out what happened to her friend who Marrable had killed before . . . A " Baby Jane " rip off . It's not terrible but it's not scary . It moves slow and the script is kind of vague . Page is great , really chewing the scenery , but she ( and that silly laugh of hers ) get real annoying after a while . Gordon ( a great actress ) is given nothing to do ! Just once I wanted to see her break loose but the script wouldn't allow it . The killings are tame and bloodless and Page's character is so incredibly unlikable you could care less by the end . There's also a HUGE plot loophole at the end and a really silly twist ending . So , it's ( sort of ) worth seeing for Page but nothing else . This can be missed .
I wanted to like this but couldn't	Holly Kennedy ( Hilary Swank ) and husband Gerry ( Gerard Butler ) seem to have a happy marriage . Gerry dies of a brain tumor . . . but it seems he has arranged to have Holly sent messages AFTER his death telling her how to get on with her life . OK - - I love silly romance movies . " Sleepless in Seattle " is one of my favorites . This is VERY silly - - but I didn't like it . For starters there are WAY too many love songs in it - - I was getting he impression they were trying to sell a soundtrack album and could care less about the movie . Also they ( stupidly ) keep using clips from classic movies that had nothing to do with the plot . Seriously - - WHY is Holly lip syncing to Judy Garland belting out " The Man Who Got Away " ? Also the love " lessons " here are utterly predictable . It's far too long ( over 2 hours ) , is flatly directed and badly staged . Also some really bad acting doesn't help - - Kathy Bates looks blank , Lisa Kudrow is astonishingly lousy at the comic bits ( that's inexcusable for someone who was on " Friends " ) and James Marsters is given nothing to do . Also Hilary Swank ( a wonderful actress ) can't do much with a horribly clichd role . The plot rambles all over the place and there are WAY too many coincidences to believe in this . The few good points : There's a trip to Ireland and the movie makes good use of the beautiful locations there ; Gina Gershon is just great in a small role ; there's a nice flash of male nudity ; Jeffrey Dean Morgan is just great as William ( a guy Holly meets in Ireland ) and Gerard Butler is fantastic . He's not in the movie too much and he overacts , but his performance is so good and he's so likable and handsome that he gives the movie a much needed jump start . Critics have savaged this . Now it's not good - - but it's not a total bomb either . Butler made this movie bearable . I give it a 6 .
Dull and stagy , but essential viewing	The film starts off extremely well with a visit to Dracula's castle in Transylvania . Then the movie moves to London and falls apart . For one thing , they changed the characters from the novel - - Jonathan Harker went to Castle Dracula not Reinfield and everybody stands around talking about things . EVERYTHING is talked about , never shown . It's like watching a very static stage play . Also , a woman ( Lucy ) becomes a vampire early on . She's discussed . . . then ignored . It seems she's still wandering around after the movie ends ! Also David Manners is very very good-looking as Harker , but his acting is bad . It's not entirely his fault - - he has few lines and they're all pretty bad . Still , it should be seen for three reasons - - Bela Lugosi , Dwight Frye and Edward Van Sloan . Lugosi is , of course , Dracula . He gives a great performance ( hard to believe he was doing the lines phonetically ) and his interpretation defined Dracula . Frye is really creepy ( and funny ) as Reinfeld - - that laugh of his is REAL spooky ! And Edward Van Sloan plays Van Helsing perfectly . Only Peter Cushing did a better job in the Hammer films . Also , Helen Chandler has one great moment playing Mina . She's under Dracula's spell and is hungrily looking at her boyfriend's neck ! So , if you're a horror fan ( like me ) this is essential viewing , but expect lots of dull stretches when those three aren't on . Let's go listen to the children of the night . . .
" Don't say it - - hiss it ! "	Pretty silly horror movie about Dr . Carl Stoner ( Strother Martin ) who has perfected a drug that turns men into King Cobra snakes . ( Yeah - - I know it's ridiculous ) . WHY he wants to do this is never fully explained . He wants to use it on young David Blaine ( Dirk Benedict ) . . . but his daughter ( Heather Menzies ) is falling in love with him . OK - - the story is more than a little silly but this is fairly watchable . They used real snakes in the film ( as a statement at the beginning tells us ) and just watching them is pretty interesting . The story itself moves pretty quickly and ( science aside ) is pretty involving . The acting helps - - Martin is actually not bad as the doctor ; Benedict ( so young and handsome ) is also pretty good as Blaine and Menzies overdoes it a little ( particularly in an argument with Martin ) but she's not bad . There's also some fairly impressive ( for the time ) makeup and special effects . It's OK . Trivia : Flashes of nudity ( mostly from Menzies ) are inexplicably " covered up " in the prints now in circulation . Strange - - it was OK for a PG in 1973 .
Beautiful . . . but that's about it	Two married people in 1962 Hong Kong , realize their siblings are having an affair with each other . They comfort each other and think about doing the same thing . Beautiful cinematography ( by Christopher Doyle ) , but that's all the movie has going for it . The story moves at a snail's pace , the male lead ( Tony Leung ) is wooden and I actually fell asleep at one point ! The only thing that kept me watching was the cinematography , the beautiful costumes and the female lead ( Maggie Cheung ) . She's very good and looked breath-taking in her dresses . But the film is ssslllloooowwww and dull . I'm giving it a 6 ONLY for the imagery .
Classic black comedy doesn't hold up	Meek and mild Walter Paisley ( Dick Miller ) is a busboy at a beatniks club . He desperately wants to be an artist but doesn't have the nerve . . . or talent . One night he accidentally kills a cat . He covers it with clay and presents it as his creation . Immediately he becomes famous . . . but has to make more statutes . . . This was pretty extreme for its time and considered pretty sick by most critics . Now it comes across as laughably tame and VERY dated ( the beatnik talk sounds pretty stupid and pointless now ) . It was made on no budget ( you can tell ) and with the sole exception of Miller no one is good . Even at 66 minutes I was bored . Still , this is considered a classic and should be seen for Miller's acting alone and a few good moments here and there . Also Miller used his characters name here in many other films over the years . If you're into horror movies ( like me ) you might get a kick out of that . But it still doesn't make this a very good movie . I can truthfully only give it a 6 .
Kids will like it	A young boy doesn't believe in Santa Claus at all . On Christmas Eve a huge , magical locomotive pulls in front of his house . The conductor ( Tom Hanks ) tells him to get on - - they're going to the North Pole . It seems the train is full of kids who don't believe in Santa . Well . . . that's about to change . This is not a live action film . The characters look like humans ( Tom Hanks has FIVE roles ) and sound like them but are clearly computer-generated . In fact the whole movie is like that - - EVERYTHING is computer generated . I saw it in an IMAX 3D theatre . I admit the visuals were incredible ( if somewhat creepy ) - - - but I really didn't like it . There's very little plot , no characterization and I was basically bored silly . The " adventures " on the express didn't impress me and there's a pointlessly long episode with three of the kids lost in Santa's town ( or whatever - - we're never told what it is ) . Tons of characters and situations are left unexplored or unexplained and it gets annoying . The waiters on the train serving hot chocolate had me going " huh " ? Also the meaning of the film ( believe in Christmas ) is heavy-handed even for a kids movie . They go out of their way to make you cry and choke up - - - I found it overly manipulative . Basically you just sit there and are bombarded by tons of visual tricks . For some people , that's enough . For me I needed more . The actors voicing the figures do pretty good except for Eddie Deezen - - his voice is INCREDIBLY annoying ( as is his character ) . So I didn't like it - - I looked at my watch more than once . Still the kids in the theatre were spellbound - - they sat there in silence watching the screen . So - - I think kids will like it but , to be honest , I think some kids might get nightmares from this . These CGI characters look so strange . More than once I was feeling very uneasy looking at them . Adults MIGHT enjoy it . I give it a 6 - - and that's mostly for the visuals .
Sad	This could have been great . The music and lyrics are wonderful ( of course ) , the acting ( with one exception ) was good and they had beautiful on location shooting in Hawaii . . . and they STILL managed to screw it up ! First off , most of the singing was dubbed and it's VERY obvious . . . especially with Brazzi . . . he gives out a good performance but he lip syncs horribly and the singing voice doesn't match his speaking voice ! John Kerr ( as the guy who falls in love with a native woman ) is a lousy actor with an annoying voice . Also , he has no body - - that's not too good considering he spends a lot of time with his shirt off . You really start to wonder why that woman fell for him in the first place . But worst of all are those stupid color filters - - they totally destroy the film . I almost gave up watching it because the color changes were hurting my eyes ! Also , you have beautiful scenery in Hawaii - - why screw it up by making everything appear yellow or orange ? It's extremely distracting and adds nothing to the film . The director Joshua Logan said , in later years , that the color filters were a big mistake . No kidding ! ALMOST worth watching . Somebody should really remake this correctly .
Light . . . VERY light	Fluffy tale of Jonathan ( John Cusack ) and Sara ( Kate Beckinsale ) who meet cute in a department store , spend the day together and then part without revealing names . She puts her name and number in a book and he puts his on the back of a 5 dollar bill . Sara says if fate wants us to meet , we'll find those . As you can see reality stops right here . Years later they're both set to marry other people . . . but still pine after each other . Then they set out to find each other . Guess what happens ? Utterly predictable with a seriously stupid plot line that works somewhat well . It's got a nice romantic feel , good music and very good acting . Cusack and Beckinsale are both attractive and utterly believable as the couple and there is very strong support from Jermey Piven as Jon's best friend and Molly Shannon as Sara's best friend . Also Eugene Levy throws in a hilarious performance as an anal store clerk . Still , I'm only giving this a 6 - - and that's mostly for the acting . The movie is not that funny and , even at 88 minutes , it feels padded . Also you know EXACTLY where this movie is going to end up so there's no suspense . Basically we got a 1 hour TV movie padded out to a 90 minute theatrical feature . Way too light but somewhat enjoyable .
Silly but OK	Movie designed to introduce Ricardo Montalban to American audiences . It's a drama - - NOT a musical . There are a few musical numbers but that's it . This takes place in Mexico and has Montalban and Esther Williams playing twins . No - - I'm not kidding ! If you can swallow that you might like this . Their father is a great bullfighter and expects his son to be the same . However his son Mario ( Mantalban ) wants be a musician . His sister Maria ( Williams ) is better at bullfighting then him . You can probably guess the rest . EXTREME PLOT SPOILER IN THIS PARAGRAPH ! ! ! Pretty forgettable as a drama . The situations are just silly , the dialogue pedestrian and you just KNOW how this is going to end . Also Williams isn't much of a dramatic actress . This film could have ended after an hour but this drags it out and gets REAL stupid during the second act . Williams has to bullfight in place of her brother - - but nobody notices the difference ! Seriously - - everybody thought Williams was her brother ? ? ? ? Even for a 1940s movie that's pushing it . Still it's not completely terrible . It's done with the usual MGM gloss and is shot in bright Technicolor . Montalban , Williams and Cyd Charisse are so young and beautiful and so full of life that it rubs off on the audience . The dance sequences with Montalban and Charisse are just incredible - - I never knew he could dance ! Williams even has a ( brief ) swimming scene . There's also some good acting from Akim Taminoff as Chato and Mary Astor as Williams and Montalbans mother . So it's silly but enjoyable as a no brainer . The dancing scenes alone make this worth seeing . I give it a 6 .
Kids might like it	Story about Tom Thumb ( Russ Tamblyn ) who is no bigger than someone's thumb . He gets involved with two bumbling crooks ( Terry-Thomas and Peter Sellers ) and such . Kids might like it but this is pretty hard going . Basically this is more of a musical than anything else . The songs are ( to be nice ) unmemorable and annoying . It got to the point that I was dreading each song - - and there are LOTS of them ! The story ( what there is of it ) is very slight and the lapses in logic were puzzling even for a fairy tale movie . Terry-Thomas ( chewing the scenery ) and Peter Sellers were stupid and unfunny and Alan Young and June Thorburn were unbelievably bland as young lovers . On the plus side Tamblyn was good in the title role , the dances are colorful and there's some really cool stop motion animation with Tom's toys . So kids will probably like this ( although they might howl at the stop motion animation which looks clumsy next to CGI ) but I was bored silly and couldn't wait for this to be over . I give it a 6 .
Doesn't age well	I loved this film back in 1988 . . . 13 years later I don't . John Waters first PG rated film was considered fresh , innovative and funny back then . It was . . . back then . It just doesn't hold up well . The plot is ( to put it mildly ) thin , all the characters are skin-deep and the jokes are either forced and / or unfunny . The small roles filled by various stars are sometimes good ( Debbie Harry is wonderful ) but , most of the time , are really off ( Sonny Bono ? ? ? Pia Zadora ? ? ? ! ! ! ? ? ) . Also Waters isn't such a great director - - some of the sequences are horribly staged and he does NOT know how the shoot dances . Remember , his films are well-known for their content not their cinematic quality . What keeps this film going is a great soundtrack ( all from the early 60s when the movie takes place ) , fun hairstyles & costumes and some very good acting . Divine ( in , sadly , his last role ) is fun as Edna Turnblad , Tracey's harried mother . As Tracey herself , Ricki Lake is perfect . She's plump , pretty and absolutely adorable . Colleen Fitzpatrick is also good as Amber , a rich witch . Ruth Brown is having a whale of a time playing Motormouth Maybell ( interesting clothes Ruth ! ) . The only real bad performance is by Michael St . Gerard ( notice his career went nowhere after this ) . He's handsome and a dead ringer for Elvis ( who he played in a 1990 TV mini ) but bland . Of course , the script doesn't give him much to do . Considered to be Waters ' most accessible ( I agree ) and best ( I disagree ) film . Give me " Pink Flamingoes " or " Serial Mom " anyday over this !
For a sequel it was pretty good	This picks up 10 years after " Halloween " ( which is correct - - this WAS released 10 years after the original ) . Michael Myers is being transported to a hospital and he hears he has a 9 year old niece ( Danielle Harris ) still alive . He quickly escapes from the ambulance ( after killing everybody ) and heads back to Haddonfield to kill her . Dr . Sam Loomis ( Donald Pleasence ) is hot on his trail . We're supposed to believe him and Michael survived the blast from the end of " Halloween 2 " ! For a sequel it's not bad . This one thankfully doesn't go for nonstop graphic gore ( like " Halloween 2 " ) and is pretty tame . There IS some gore but it's mild compared to other 80s slasher films . There's good acting by Pleasance , Ellie Dornell ( as Rachel ) and Harris is incredible . There's also a nice restrained use of the original " Halloween " score . And the ending is GREAT ! However there are problems with this . Continuity error abound ; Myers hair turns WHITE twice ( ! ! ! ) ; he can seemingly transport himself to wherever the victim is ( must have taken lessons from Jason Voorhees ) and Harris ' character goes through an amazing amount of abuse for any child ( but it does figure into the ending ) . I caught this in a theatre back in 1988 and was underwhelmed - - but it was MUCH better than " Halloween 5 " ( which followed the next year ) . So - - for a sequel - - it's not bad .
Pretty interesting	Thriller about a drug called " Blue Sunshine " . It seems a bunch of kids took it in college in 1966 . Ten years later it starts to affect them . They have horrible headaches . . . then all their hair falls out . . . THEN they become homicidal maniacs ! Jerry Zipkin ( Zalman King ) is unjustly accused of the murders . While on the run from the police him and his girlfriend Alicia ( Deborah Winters ) try to find out what's going on . And what does politician Ed Fleming ( Mark Goddard ) have to do with it ? Interesting premise but this movie does have some problems . King and Winters are just dreadful actors and have zero sexual chemistry between them ; some of the dialogue is horrendous ( and delivered badly ) ; the plot has huge loopholes and where's the ending ? Still , I did keep watching and found it pretty good . The plot itself is interesting ; there's some great acting from Goddard and Robert Walden ( as a doctor ) ; there are some suspenseful scenes ; some very violent ( and bloody ) murders and lots of nice directorial touches by Jeff Lieberman ( love the opening credits ! ) . This got virtually no release in 1976 and is now ( understandably ) a cult film . Worth catching .
So-so sequel to " Dirty Harry "	Interesting plot - - a bunch of cops take the law into their own hands and execute those they think deserve it . Good thing Harry Callahn ( Clint Eastwood ) is on hand to stop them . The original " Dirty Harry " had its problems - - it was stupid , sadistic and sexist . But it moved quickly and was never dull . This one isn't stupid but it's VERY cruel ( the murder of a hooker is particularly sick ) , sexist ( not one positive female character at all and when the hooker is killed , it's shot to turn on the men in the audience ) and moves way too slowly and is too long ( at least 20 minutes too long ) . We get a hijacking sequence and a gun shootout contest which are not needed and bring the film to a sceeching halt . Also the extreme violence ( car chases , crashes and lots of bloody gunfights ) is curiously unexciting . The only fun here is seeing Eastwood and unknowns Tim Matheson , David Soul and Suzanne Somers ( blink and you'll miss her ) so young and full of energy . Also , the acting is pretty bad . . . especially Hal Holbrook who walks through his role .
Has its moments but gets repetitious	Originally X rated version of Allen Funt's Candid Camera TV show . This involves people running into naked women ( and men ) in the most ordinary situations . One involves a totally nude woman trying to get help with her car that broke down . Another has a nude woman in an office building casually waiting for the elevator . Another has a nude statue of a man that starts talking to a secretary at work . At first this was funny but it gets tiresome . It's basically different variations of the same joke done over and over again . The reactions are hilarious however , the movie has a very light-hearted tone and all the nude people ( men and women ) are attractive . This was cut down in 1982 to get an R rating and that's the version I saw . . . but it was long enough . My favorite reactions : a guy looking at a nude woman up and down while waiting for an elevator casually says to her , " Nice outfit " ; a secretary while on the phone tells a nude talking male statute near her desk to be quiet ! So it is fun but it's just the same thing over and over . I'd love to see the complete X version someday .
So-so	George Romero directed and Stephen King scripted this five part horror film . Romero directed this as a homage to EC horror comics of the 1950s and does a very nice job . Unfortunately King's stories and overlong , dull and pretty obvious . " Father's Day " , about a murdered man getting his revenge , is enjoyable and has a good jolt in it with a fun performance by Viveca Lindfors . Also a young Ed Harris ( with hair ! ) pops up . " The Lonesome Death of Jody Verrill " is horrible - - really dull . It's all about Verrill ( Stephen King acting like he's on " Hee Haw " ) having an unfortunate encounter with a meteor . Bad acting , unfunny script , lousy special effects - - just terrible . " Something to Tide You Over " ( about two murdered people coming back from the dead for revenge ) is OK with two dramatic turns by Ted Danson ( ! ) and Leslie Nielsen ( ! ! ) . " The Crate " about a monster with a bad attitude is great - - funny , gory and scary . The best out of all of them . " They're Creeping Up On You " has a good performance by E . G . Marshall as a man with a severe bug phobia . An OK horror film with very good , inventive direction by Romero . If only the film had been shorter ( it's too long at 125 minutes ) and the stories better .
Not as bad as I heard	A bisexual young man ( Michael Cunio ) gets a job at a porno company to get close to a porn star ( Scott Gurney ) that he's in love with . Unfortunately , the star is straight and living with his girlfriend . This film got some savage reviews in the gay press so I expected the worst . But it was pretty good . It starts off as a mild but very funny comedy and suddenly veers off into depressing drama at the end . It's jarring but it does end up working . Still , the ending was pretty bad and very negative . All in all , it's an OK film with a funny view of the gay porn industry . The acting is good - - especially by Gurney . He absolutely gorgeous with an incredible body . . . and he can act ! He's VERY pleasing to the eyes . Cunio is just OK as the kid . Not bad , not good , just OK . Also Deborah Harry ( Blondie ) turns in a strong performance as a strip club owner . One big problem : Despite the subject matter , there is no frontal male nudity ! ! ! ! Whose idea was that ?
Too long , too depressing	A movie about the events leading to Pearl Harbor and the aftermath up to when America bombed Tokyo . The movie looks beautiful - - some of the shots literally took my breath away . The special effects are very realistic . The film is historically accurate ( but the three main characters are fictional ) and the action scenes are exciting if a little bit too fast and furious ( I almost wish I had brought some Dramamine with me ) . A rousing music score is great too . All the acting is good too ( especially Ben Affleck and Kate Breckinsale - - Josh Hartnett is OK ) . Also there's strong supporting roles done by Alec Baldwin , Jon Voight ( as President Roosevelt ! ) and Dan Aykroyd ( very good in a straight dramatic role ) . But I don't like the movie . It's way too long ( 3 hours - - this easily could have been done in 2 or even 2 hours ) ; the script is chock-full of every war movie cliche you can think of ( right down to all the Japanese being evil and cold-blooded ) and the direction - - Michael Bay is very good at action - - he is horrendous at romance . The love scenes between Kate Brekinsale and Ben Affleck have some of the worst dialogue I've ever heard in my life - - the actors deserve credit for keeping a straight face while mouthing those lines . Also you do not film a love scene with the camera jammed in the actors faces - - Affleck and Brekinsale are both beautiful - - we don't need constant close-ups to prove it . Also , there are reports that Michael Bay was uncomfortable directing the women in the film . . . it shows . Beckinsale and the other women in the cast are good , but they seem to be unsure of how to play scenes . I don't blame them - - I blame the director . Also , Cuba Gooding Jr . ' s part is little more than a glorified cameo . What is he doing in this ? His total screen time amounts to ( maybe ) 15 minutes ! The destruction of Pearl Harbor is unbelievable . It's also very grim and looks way too realistic . It's 40 minutes of ships blowing up , men ( and women ) getting gunned down in cold blood or drowning to death . It's not entertaining - - it's depressing . Also , I saw it at a preview audience - - people were hissing the film at the end . What does that tell you ? I can't recommend this film . But if you're a history buff you might enjoy it . Just brace yourself for some really bad dialogue .
Not uninteresting but slow and kind of silly	Dr . Paul Holliston ( Rock Hudson ) is experimenting with fetuses . He manages to remove one from the body of a dying dog and keep it alive AND make it a full grown dog within a few weeks ! He gets the body of a dying pregnant woman . He removes her fetus and also keeps it alive and , within a few weeks , has a full grown female named Victoria ( Barbara Carrera ) . Oh yes - - she also is a genius . But it seems her and the dog acquire some homicidal tendencies and things slowly fall apart . . . I'm no scientist but I find the science in this questionable . I realize it's just a movie but it's introduced with a statement from an ( allegedly ) actual scientist who says the events in this film could happen . Uh huh . Well . . . it's been 30 years and I've never heard about this actually taking place . Factual issues aside this is OK . It moves slowly and , really , the plot is kind of silly but it's somewhat interesting . Unfortunately it falls apart completely at the end and gets pretty sick ( and stupid ) . ! ! ! PLOT SPOILERS ! ! ! One of the more interesting scenes include when the dog actually kills another dog . Sounds sick but there's no blood and it's hysterically obvious that the dog being killed is a dummy and not real . Actually the dog here is super intelligent and seeing in preform tricks that a normal dog couldn't do was fun . Also note the now antique technology shown at one point . There is a VERY fun scene where Carrera whips obnoxious Roddy McDowell ( chewing the scenery ) at a chess game ! This may or may not be a selling point to some , but there's a bit of fairly explicit nudity ( for a PG film ) from Carrera . ! ! ! SPOILER END ! ! ! The acting wavers . Hudson ( who could be good ) is terrible . He looks miserable and doesn't try to hide his disinterest . Diane Ladd is totally wasted as a helper of his . Carrera is very beautiful and surprisingly good as Victoria . She manages to keep the movie going almost single handedly . So - - it's an OK sci-fi movie . Just pretty silly and slow at times . I give it a 6 .
OK but nothing exceptional	Fictional tale of Jack the Ripper ( here played by Jack Palance ) and his trying to keep his identity secret and falling for a beautiful actress . This is well-made - - it seems a lot of money went into the sets , costumes and furnishings . Also it's atmospheric with fog-bound streets and shot in moody black and white . Still , this is nothing great or new . The story has been filmed many times before and better ( notably Hitchcock's silent " The Lodger " and the sound version ) . You know how it's going to end so there's little suspense . But - - it's worth seeing for Planace - - he's mostly the whole show . He was born to play this role . He adopts a soft , quiet voice and gentle disposition . . . but you always see the violence and madness lurking underneath . So it's worth seeing for him but - - overall - - I found this kind of drab and lifeless . Also there are two LONG dull musical numbers shoehorned in . I give it a 6 .
Silly	Pretty dumb comedy about neglected wife Natalie Wood becoming a kleptomaniac to get her husband's ( Ian Bannen's ) attention . She even sees a psychiatrist ( a very annoying Dick Shawn ) to try to be cured . Then she robs her husband's bank and things just get sillier . . . This isn't a total bomb . It's beautifully photographed - - I've never seen NYC look like this ; the settings and costumes are incredible ; Wood is just gorgeous and Bannen is handsome and actually quite amusing as her husband . But two things destroy this - - the script and Shawn . Shawn is WAY over the top in his performance - - he's not funny just annoying . The script is pretty poor - - there are a few good parts here and there but most of the comedy is just BAD ! ! ! Wood and Bannen give it their all but the material just isn't there . The rest of the cast just overacts ( horribly ) . It leads to a " happy " ending which had me rolling my eyes . So it's worth seeing for Wood , Bannen , the cinematography ( letter boxing is a must ) and some mildly humorous material . Otherwise - - forget it . I give it a 6 .
Pretty good but lacking	This was being pushed as a sexy camp TV movie . It's not . It's a ( purportedly ) factual account of how the TV show Dynasty was developed and what eventually killed it . It follows the married producer and writer team of the show - - it shows how their lives were affected and why they came up with the more outrageous plot lines ( the lily pond fight , the Moldavian massacre , etc . ) and the 1991 reunion show that wrapped up everything . There are also a few vicious but funny jabs at the Dynasty spin off The Colbys . I do like the fact it doesn't ignore the gay fans of the show and on it and Alice Krige is obviously having a whale of a time playing Joan Collins . The most fun out of this comes from seeing unknown actors playing well-known actors ! With a few exceptions ( Krige especially ) they look nothing like the people they're playing ! Also it shows all the actors in a positive light - - even Collins and Evans are shown as being great friends ( no way that's true ) . Still , it was not that good . It moved slowly and , on TV , they loaded the commercials during the last hour so it took forever . And I do question how factual this movie is . Still it's fun for a mindless two hours .
Interesting but not successful	Story about Judd ( Neville Brand ) who runs the decrepit Starlight Hotel . He has a pet crocodile around who he regularly feeds visitors he doesn't like . Things get out of control when a family consisting of a mother ( Marilyn Burns ) , a very weird father ( Frank Finley ) and a little girl ( Kyle Richards ) drop by to spend the night . Tobe Hooper's second film ( after " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " ) is bizarre ( to say the least ) . The hotel ( where most of this takes place ) is pretty obviously a set on a sound stage but it looks convincingly run down and Hooper shoots most of the scenes through a red filter . It gives everything a very unhealthy look . He also has strange songs and noises continuously on the soundtrack to keep you feeling uneasy . The plot itself doesn't make a whole lot of sense but Hooper got a very good and interesting cast - - most of them were in horror movies or shows of the past and future . Carolyn Jones ( who plays a madam ) was in " The Munster " TV series ; Brand himself was in quite a few horror films ; Burns was in Hooper's previous " Chainsaw " ; Richards played one of the kids in " Halloween " and even Robert Englund ( Mr . Freddy Krueger himself ) has a small role . Old pros Stuart Whitman and Mel Ferrer pop up too . The film also has the expected gratuitous female nudity and few good gory killings . As for the crocodile - - you only see it a few times and it looks pretty fake . Still it manages to work . The cast is great - - especially Brand , Burns and Englund . Only Finley is bad ( he acts like he's in another movie altogether ) . This was Hooper's first Hollywood film and ( supposedly ) there were tons of problems . There's an unconfirmed rumor that Hooper was fired early on and Carolyn Jones finished directing this uncredited . That would explain why the red filter shots stop abruptly halfway through the film and it would explain the choppiness of the final product . This was badly distributed ( it played mostly drive-ins ) and sank without a trace . This is no unsung masterpiece but it is a quick , sleazy and pretty disturbing horror movie . I like this better than " Chainsaw " ( which I hated ) . I give this a 6 .
Seriously - - how can you hate this ?	A " red plague " has hit the Florida Keys and fisherman Porter Ricks ( Chuck Connors ) and son Sandy ( Luke Halpin ) can't find fish to make a living . But Sandy saves a dolphin from dying and they became buddies . ( I know I know - - but this IS a kids film ) . Flipper ( as the kid names him ) leads them to a place with plenty of fish and saves Sandy from a killer shark ( stop smirking ! ) . OK - - the plot is ridiculous and the same shots are used a LOT but it's really hard to hate this film . The underwater photography is impressive and Flipper himself is so cute he's hard to resist . Despite the totally stupid plot I found myself grinning whenever Flipper did cute things like jump out of the water or " talk " to the kid . Also Connors is surprisingly good as a tough ( but nice ) father and Halpin is easily one of the most likable child actors I've ever seen . He's nice and friendly - - he acts just like a kid would . I admit the title song ( first played about an hour in ) is hysterically bad but I sort of enjoyed it . This is a perfect kids movie - - especially if they love animals . I know not everyone loves dolphins but I do and I found this silly movie quite enjoyable . I give it a 6 .
Not as good as the first . . .	. . . I never saw the second , but this was OK . The story is kind of confusing . Juni Cortez ( Daryl Sabara ) has to enter a video games designed by the Toymaker ( Sylvester Stallone ! ! ! ) to save his sister Carmen ( Alexa Vega ) and aided by his grandfather ( Ricardo Montalban ) . And the game , if activated , will control all the minds of the children playing them . I didn't like the movie at first . The plot was vague , the jokes silly and when Juni enters the game no rules are given . Very annoying . . . and I never liked video games anyways . But eventually the story clears up , the special effects are impressive and ( best of all ) the whole trip inside the game ( 95 % of the movie ) is in 3-D ! I've always loved wearing those glasses and having things thrown at you . The effects didn't always work ( sometimes I saw double images instead of 3-D ) but when it did work it was great ! And I didn't have one of those 3-D headaches afterwards ! The acting was just OK - - this movie was basically made to show off the special effects . And top-billed Antonio Banderas and Carla Gugino have maybe 10 minutes screen time combined - - although Banderas is clearly having a FUN time ! Montalban is just great as the kids grandfather but Stallone is disappointing as the main villain . He tries but he was never good at doing comedy . So I'm giving it a 6 mostly for the special effects and the 3-D . Forget what little there is of a story . Also stay seated for some funny outtakes right after the 3-D closing credits .
Axe murders ala Coppola	Louise Haloran's ( Luana Anders ) husband dies suddenly . She realizes she won't get a cent from his inheritance if this is found out . She hides the body and goes to the Haloran estate ( an Irish castle ) for some creepy ceremony saying her husband had business concerns . Then axe murders start . . . This has REALLY been overpraised by a few posters . Just because Coppola made it it doesn't mean it's automatically a good movie . And Coppola later on went to make one of the worst horror films of all time - - " Bram Stoker's Dracula " . It was made on next to no budget ( it shows ) with a script Coppola whipped up overnight . Also , with the exception of the axe murders , the direction is uninspired . The script is bad with plenty of dull spots ( one character talks endlessly about the same dream TWICE ) ; the identity of the murderer is laughably obvious and the acting is just terrible . Most of the prints available are in lousy shape too . The only reasons to really see this are the axe murders - - they're VERY scary ( especially the first when Anders comes out of the water ) and pretty gory for its day ( it would probably still get an R today ) . Also there is a creepy music score and the setting ( an actual castle in Ireland ) is beautiful . I just wish the acting had been better and good luck figuring out the plot . A 6 - - only for the murders .
It's OK but what's the big deal ?	Young father Amaro ( Gael Garcia Bernal ) is assigned to a small church in a small town in Mexico . There he finds corruption in the church running wild . He wants to stay pure and believes in his vows , but he finds himself very attracted to a young girl ( Ana Caludia Talancon ) . . . A huge and controversial hit in Mexico but why ? Corruption in the Catholic church is old news here and - - compared to what's going on in the church now - - everything that happens in this movie is pretty tame . This story has been done before - - and much better . Every single twist and turn was predictable - - by the end , I got the feeling I was watching a Mexican soap opera ! It's pretty well done with good performances by Bernal and Talancon but it has a punishingly slow pace and the constant predictability wears ones patience . Maybe in Mexico this is pretty strong stuff , but not here . Just so-so .
Interesting but little else	Adaptation of a Raymond Chandler novel . Private investigator Philip Marlowe ( Robert Montgomery ) is hired by Adrianne Fromsett ( Audrey Totter ) to find the wife of her boss . This quickly leads to killings , dead bodies , double crosses and some very dangerous women . This picture has a potentially interesting gimmick - - you see almost the whole movie through Montgomery's eyes . The only times you see him is when he's reflected in mirrors or narrating the movie . It sounds like it might work . . . but it doesn't . It quickly gets tiresome and Montgomery's tough guy voice gets annoying . Add to that a VERY convoluted story ( I'm still a little lost at what was happening ) , a totally unbelievable happy ending ( although that was probably imposed by the Hays Office ) , some way over the top acting by Jayne Meadows and non-stop tough guy talk and macho posturing by virtually all the male characters . On the good side - - it does move quickly , I was truthfully never bored , Dick Simmons has fun with his very small role as Chris Lavery and Totter does try in her role . This was ( understandably ) not a big hit and thankfully stopped any studio from trying this again . Still , there are worse movies and it IS interesting in a strange sort of way . The biggest problem is that Raymond Chandler's novels are almost impossible to adapt into movies . They're good but so much happens in them that trying to cram it all into a two hour movie is next to impossible . This one deserves credit for trying . I give it a 6 .
Not the disaster I heard it was - - but not good at all	In the 18th century , Gabriel Van Helsing ( Hugh Jackman ) who is working for the church ( ? ? ? ) travels to Romania with a monk Carl ( David Wenham ) to battle Dracula ( Richard Roxburgh ) , his three brides , the Wolf Man ( Will Kemp ) and the Frankenstein Monster ( Shuler Hensley ) . He's helped by feisty Anna Valerious ( Kate Beckinsale ) . This has been trashed by critics everywhere . No it isn't good at all . . . but I've seen worse . It starts off great with a black & white prologue dealing with Dr . Frankenstein creating the Monster for Dracula . The doctor is killed and so is his creation ( supposedly ) . Then it cuts to a year later with Van Helsing being sent to battle Dracula and his three wives who are attacking a nearby village for blood . There he finds a werewolf roaming about also and the Monster is alive . But Dracula wants the monster to . . . . FORGET IT ! The plot just gets more vague and sillier as it goes on . Anyways plot is not the reason this movie exists - - it's done to push CGI down our throats . There's LOTS of action in this film , incredible special effects ( all are CGI ) and tons of explosions and such - - - but I was bored . The plot is WAY too vague and the dialogue is on the level of an Archie comic book . There's no characterizations or depth to ANY of the characters - - how was I supposed to care for these people when I didn't know who they were ? Also this film has way too much going on it in - - the opening has Van Helsing killing Mr . Hyde ( and Dr . Jekyll too ) ! And pitting him against THREE monsters was just overkill . Jackman was very good ( considering he had nothing to do ) . Beckinsale was terrible but it's not her fault . Wenham unfortunately plays the " comic " relief ( and is hating every second of it ) . Kemp has little screen time but he is good ( and VERY handsome ) . Hensley is good as Frankenstein's monster . The makeup on the vampires and werewolves was VERY impressive too . And there was a great fight between two monsters at the end . But it's all money and CGI and no plot or characters . It's also frustrating that the violence was really toned down for the PG-13 - - there's next to no blood or gore in this film . And it's TOO LONG - - an elaborate masquerade party could have been left out completely ( and is a total ripoff of Roman Polanski's " The Fearless Vampire Killers " ) . This was a bomb at the box office so we're ( thankfully ) not going to get any sequels . I can't recommend it - - but kids will like it .
Paws in the woods	Rip-off of " Jaws " . A giant grizzly bear is ( inexplicably ) attacking humans in a forest . It's up to Christopher George and friends to track him down . I saw this in a theatre when I was 14 and never forgot it . At the time it ( sort of ) scared me . The bear itself I thought looked kind of cuddly - - even when it was growling and showing its fangs . The attacks were ( for a PG movie ) pretty bloody and had me actually cringing in my seat ! The show stoppers were when a little boy is attacked ( we don't actually SEE it , but we do see half his leg torn off ) and when , with a swipe of its claw , the grizzly decapitates a horse ! Silly . . . but effective ! Also there's some really beautiful scenery here ( if you see it letterboxed ) . So , this is a good gross-out movie for kids - - there is a lot of blood but you don't take it seriously . As for the rest of it - - the acting and characterizations are strictly by the numbers . Good example of a 1970s exploitation film .
Scared me silly as a kid	Hilarious little horror film involving a curse on the Drake family - - each male member of the family is killed at age 60 and decapitated ! There's more but it's really too complicated ( and unbelievable ) to go into . I originally saw this on a local TV station on a Saturday afternoon in the 1970s . I was in the fourth grade and it scared me silly ! A shot of a headless corpse in a coffin really did it for me . I saw it again in high school and just thought it was silly . Seeing as an adult it still IS silly - - - but in a good way . This is a LOW budget film with tacky looking sets ( obviously borrowed from another picture ) and a cast of virtual unknowns . The only name here is Henry Damiell who looks miserable . Also Valerie French is just terrible . Good acting is given by Grant Richard ( as Lt . Rowan ) and Eduard Franz ( as Jonathan Drake ) . This is not a good movie but worth seeing - - for laughs . The plot is really out there ( especially a twist at the end ) . Also notice the vault with electric lighting ( ! ! ! ) and a knife used at the end that is ( pretty obviously ) rubber . LOVED the way it shook ! A camp classic !
Great special effects	Ray Harryhausen's special effects are the only reason to see the movie . The script is somewhat literate but boring , the acting is pretty bad ( although some people were dubbed over ) and it doesn't really end . But when Harryhausen's creations are on-screen , the movie is fantastic . There are some quibbles - - some of these creatures move REAL slow and the harpies don't look anything like harpies . But these are minor points . The stop-motion animation is flawless and the climatic fight with skeletons is truly amazing . Worth seeing , but don't go out of your way to see it .
It's OK - - that's about it	Purportedly based on fact story set in Australia in 1999 . Three likable 20 somethings - - Ben ( Nathan Phillips ) , Liz ( Cassandra Magarth ) and Kristy ( Kertie Morassi ) - - go to Wolf Creek . It's a remote part of Australia where a meteor had landed . The car breaks down and they're stuck in the middle of nowhere . Then , after dark , a local man shows up and says he'll help them . . . and then the nightmare begins . I can't understand why there's so much hype surrounding this . It IS gory and brutal . . . but nothing special . I've seen this story before and saying it's based on real events doesn't make it anymore different . It's a little - - only a LITTLbetter than similar American horror flicks . It's done with the same shaky camera-work and washed out color - - but it DOES have three characters you actually like and who have personalities , unlike the cardboard cutouts that most American horror films have . It works in the films favor because when the violence starts it really is hard to watch . You actually like and know these people - - seeing them tortured is horrifying . The film one fatal flaw is it takes a full hour before anything happens - - everything in that first hour is just the three main people talking and interacting . I have nothing against character development - - but a full HOUR ? ? ? They're all pretty good in their roles so that makes it somewhat interesting . Phillips is very handsome , buff and cheerful as Ben - - Magarth is strong , intelligent and completely convincing - - Morassi unfortunately is given the victim role so she has little to do but scream and whimper . By the time everything kicked in I was more than ready for it . Be warned the violence is STRONG and incredibly bloody - - three people walk out when I went to see it . So it's OK - - but nothing great or groundbreaking . I give this a marginal recommendation to horror fans - - all others stay away .
It's OK	Movie based on part of James Michener's massive novel . In the 1860s Father Hale ( Max von Sydow ) and his wife Jerusha ( Julie Andrews ) go to Hawaii to bring religion to the Hawaiian people . This movie follows their lives through about 20 years and involves rape , disease , death and incest ( pretty taboo for 1966 ) . LONG , lumbering " epic " . It's 3 hours but felt more like 30 hours ! The pace is very slow and von Sydow's character is very annoying . He's always preaching and von Sydow overacts to an embarrassing degree . More than once I wanted to take his Bible and hit him over the head with it . Andrews is a wonderful actress - - but not here . She seems to be constrained by her role and very muted . The film has some good things about it . It is well-directed on location in Hawaii with beautiful cinematography . The score is very good too - - it matches the images perfectly . And it's fun to see Carroll O'Connor and Gene Hackman in early roles . Also there's a superb performance by Jocelyn LaGarde ( Oscar-nominated ) as the island ruler . Also von Sydow's two real life sons play his sons in this movie ! I watched to the end because I was interested in some of the characters and the scenery was gorgeous - - but I was mostly bored by the slow pace and von Sydow's histrionics . I can only give this a 6 .
Troubling . . . but I did like it	Rich man Edward Lewis ( Richard Gere ) gets lost in CA looking for Beverly Hills . He asks directions from prostitute Vivian Ward ( Julia Roberts ) . She quickly gets in the car with him , they get there . . . and he invites her to stay for the night . And slowly they ( sigh ) fall in love . . . SPOILERS ! ! ! OK - - on one hand this movie is pretty sick . All the prostitutes look like models - - perfect health , clothes , teeth etc etc . Prostitution is shown as an OK lifestyle ( that's how Roberts meets Gere ) but just a little risky . Also everything looks perfect in this film - - even the prostitutes apartment ! It also ends with Roberts giving over herself to Gere totally . First of all is the implication that a woman NEEDS a man to survive and , second , she still is a prostitute - - but just for him . That's a pretty disturbing message . The film plays lip service to occasionally telling us how horrible the career is - - but everything they show is picture perfect . Also the film's R rating won't prevent kids from seeing it . I can imagine what they're gonna get from this . There's also a particularly sick sequence when Jason Alexander tries to rape her . THIS is a romantic comedy ? END SPOILER ! ! ! That aside I DID like the film . The script is sharp ( Roberts pulls off some great lines ) , there's a great soundtrack and even the supporting cast works . The two best are Laura San Giacomo and Hector Elizondo ( nominated for a Golden Globe ) . Gere and Roberts are excellent - - they're both attractive people and have a great chemistry together . This is a little too long and I find the ultimate message troubling ( and kind of sick ) . . . but I'd be lying if I said I hated it . A 6 .
Well-done , but I was bored	Good acting and direction in scary tale about a false nuclear alarm warning . The children and adults are believable and the story has a very downbeat conclusion ( that's probably the reason it's unknown nowadays ) . Still , I was bored . This is a really great idea for a 45 minute short stretched out to 90 minutes . The point is driven into your head repeatedly ( that nuclear war is bad ) and the ending was predictable . So , I can't really recommend this movie . Shocking in its day , but not anymore .
First drive-in movie of the millenium	Brian O'Conner ( Paul Walker ) wants to join the family of the head of California street racing ( Vin Diesel ) . . . but why ? The plot is comic book level ; the dialogue is very VERY bad . . . but who really cares ? This is a throwback of those dumb 1970s drive-in movies . . . it's for people who like loud , fast films filled with mindless action , attractive women , cars . . . and nothing else . I didn't like the film . It was too loud , too silly and way too long for a dumb action flick . What saves it is some truly incredible action sequences ( the " hijacking " sequence towards the end was unbelievable ) , some very nice , innovative direction , a cast that manages to be good despite the script and a very good performance by Vin Diesel . This was supposed to be Walker's breakthrough film but Diesel steals it away . Also it looks kind of silly to have tall , lean , pretty boy Walker against tall , muscular , severe-looking Diesel . See it for the action and Diesel . During the slow spots admire the cars or the women .
Could have been great	Few people seem to remember how big this movie was when it came out 1970 . It was HUGa true blockbuster . Lines formed around the block and people kept seeing it again and again and again . Yet today it's virtually forgotten . Seeing it now over 30 years later , it's easy to see why . The story is simple : Boy ( Ryan O'Neal ) meets girl ( Ali McGraw ) , boy gets girl , girl dies of an unnamed terminal disease - - the end . The movie has a lot of good things about it : the absolutely beautiful views of Harvard University and Harvard Square in the winter ; O'Neal and McGraw are both gorgeous ; the theme music ( a deserved Oscar-winner ) is haunting and truly beautiful ; seeing Tommy Lee Jones in his first movie is fun ; old pros Ray Milland and John Marley are having a great time ( and give the only good performances ) and seeing what Cambridge looked like in the early 70s ( it was working class back then - - it's now wall to wall condos ) . Unfortunately there are bad things which greatly outweigh the good . The bad : O'Neal can't act and McGraw is truly abominable - - her character is very foul-mouthed and her acting is wooden ; the dialogue is on the level of an Archie comic book ( with swearing ) ; that line " Love means never having to say you're sorry " is the STUPIDEST line I've ever heard , and two characters you really could care less about . I'm a sucker for sappy movies like this , but I was dry-eyed when McGraw died at the end . All I could think was , " Good ! Maybe she'll stop swearing now ! " But what really bothered me is these two characters had no personality or attraction to each other . I spent the whole movie wondering why they were together . Also the dialogue is pretty horrendous . A better script and actors would have helped . I'm only giving it a 6 for the music and the scenery and one exchange - - " Oliver , you're driving like a maniac ! " " It's Boston - - I'm supposed to drive like a maniac ! " Too true !
Not a horror movie and not a good movie either	Most of the film is a dream of almost 13 year old Rosleen ( Sarah Patterson ) . She dreams of living in some remote village in ( I'm guessing ) the 1800s . There her sister is killed by a wolf and she's watched carefully by her mother and father . She also is warned by her lively old grandmother ( Angela Landsbury chewing the scenery ) to never stray from the path in the forest and NEVER talk to a man whose eyebrows meet . It also seems there are wolves roaming about who are actually men . . . SPOILERS VERY odd film . I saw this in 1985 expecting a horror film ( that's what it was pushed as being ) . I was bored and confused and hated it . Watching it now , and realizing it's NOT a horror film , I understand it - - but I still don't think it's a good film . It refuses to have a linear plot and the film is dripping with sexual symbolism - - just look at the forest . It's all about a young girls coming of age . That's about it . Seriously . This film has been praised to the high heavens for the beautiful visuals . . . but pretty pictures don't make a film . I got the point early on and the movie moves very slowly and is confusing . There are also stories within stories that , as far as I can tell , have no bearing on the central plot . There are two man into wolf transformation that are impressive but ( I've heard ) were added at the last minute at the urging of the studio who found they had an art film and not a horror film on their hands . The acting is great across the board - - Patterson was only 13 when she did this and she's just great ; David Warner actually turns in him a restrained ( for him ) and nicely played performance ; Landsbury is clearly having a whale of a time and Micha Bergese turns up towards the end as the Huntsman and gives the movie a big kick start . And wait till you see Terence Stamp playing the Devil ! SPOILERS ENDSo , if you love symbolism and could care less about logic you'll probably love this . I found it slow and boring . It gets a 6 for the acting and the visuals .
Cute but dumb	Liev Schreiber ( badly used and miscast ) travels from NYC 2002 to NYC 1862 ( the how and why are never really explained ) . While coming back he accidentally brings a 19th century duke Leopold ( Hugh Jackman ) with him . Leopold meets Kate ( Meg Ryan ) and . . . well , you can figure it out from there . The movie looks beautiful , is VERY romantic and Jackman is incredibly handsome , sexy , funny . . . God , those eyes of his . . . but this movie is really dumb . There are some plot turns that are unbelievable ( the time travel is never explained ; Jackman saves Ryan's purse from a mugger on horseback - - literally ; Jackman gets used to the 21st century way too quickly ; do New Yorkers always leave their windows open so someone can clamber in off the fire escape ? ) . Also Ryan has played this part once too often - - she's getting too old and ( sadly ) she looks it . However , Breckin Meyer is very good and funny as her brother . The only reason to see the movie is Jackman - - he's just great . And it IS cute . So , it's worth seeing .
Sometimes it works	An interesting idea - - the director shot Puccini's opera in three different ways - - in gorgeous color and in full dress on a soundstage ; in black and white of the singers recording the soundtrack in street clothes and some VERY grainy color video of the actual locales in Italy where the opera takes place . It doesn't totally work . The very grainy footage is off putting and totally unnecessary - - luckily , it's not used much . The b+w footage is interesting but distracting at times ( and badly shot ) . The full color playing out is beautiful - - wonderful costumes , gorgeous music and singing ( of course ) but I kept dozing off . The story is very predictable and the opera remains stage-bound . . . it isn't opened up which might have helped . It also moves very slowly . Of the three leads only one is good - - Ruggero Raimondi as the villain . Roberto Alagna and Angela Gheorghis look absolutely beautiful and those voices , but their acting is only so-so . A must-see for opera lovers , but if you're not an opera fan ( like me ) it's slow-going .
Mostly of historic interest . . . but not bad	Short in which Bert ( Lynne Overman ) brings his boss ( Berton Churchill ) home to dinner . It seems there's a big promotion that's going to happen in the company and Bert hopes he gets it . His wife ( Sylvia Sidney ) wants it too . Interesting short showing how bad it really was during the Depression . It's made quite clear that the couple barely has enough to eat ( Sidney says she had to go from door to door begging for food ) so you're rooting for them . Sidney was unknown when this was made but she's great . Churchill is good as the boss . Overman was a little TOO whiny for me . No great shakes and more historically important than a good drama but worth seeing if it's on . TCM shows this between movies occasionally .
What's the big deal ?	An LAPD cop ( Al Pacino ) and his partner ( Martin Donovan ) , are sent to Alaska to help solve the murder of a 17 year old girl . They're helped by a young , eager policewoman ( Hilary Swank ) . Problem is that Pacino can't sleep , things start going horribly wrong and the killer is playing games with Pacino's mind . Sounds a lot better than it actually is . The movies is very quiet and punishingly slow at times . There are twists in the story but they're presented so casually that they have no effect at all . The direction is annoying ( especially during a junkyard sequence ) but there is some stunning cinematography ( Alaska is gorgeous ) . Also , the story has been done before ( and better ) . The performances help somewhat . Pacino is great ( as always ) . He really anchors the film . Swank is just wonderful but criminally underused . SPOILER - - KILLER'S IDENTITY REVEALEDIt's not really a spoiler - - everybody knows Robin Williams plays it - - and he's just dreadful . For starters , he doesn't show up until the movie is half over and he's so wooden and stiff . He ( unwisely ) underplays the role . It doesn't work . Why is this movie being so heavily praised ? Yes , Pacino is great and the director's last movie was " Memento " , but that shouldn't automatically make this a great movie . Very OK - - highly overrated .
The last 1940s Superman cartoon	A beautiful blonde ( who is never named ) is running away from some men who are shooting at her . Clark Kent intervenes and is knocked out , captured and tied up by the men . It seems the woman is a secret agent - - she has a list of saboteurs and their evil plans . She must get the list to Washington . The police try to escort her but they are also attacked by the saboteurs . The woman escapes but becomes trapped on a bridge about to be crushed . Will Superman find out and save her ? This is barely a Superman cartoon . Lois Lane is nowhere to be found ( but that blonde sounds a LOT like her ) . It plays more like a WWII drama with plenty of violent shootouts ( I was really surprised to see a cop shot down out of his motorcycle ) and action . Superman only pops up at the last few minutes to save the day . But the action more than makes up for his absence . Pretty good . A 6 .
Interesting but not successful	An alien from outer space ( Joe Morton ) crash lands in NY . He looks like a black man , is totally mute and can fix machines and heal wounds with his bare hands . He's taken in by the citizens of Harlem who grow to like him . . . but he's being followed by two men in black ( John Sayles and David Stratham ) who want to bring him back to outer space . An interesting change of pace for director / writer and editor John Sayles . . . but it doesn't really work . I caught this in 1984 at an art cinema and was pretty unimpressed . My thoughts haven't really changed much . There's no real plot . . . just Morton wandering around and meeting all these odd but always friendly people . The dialogue is great and Morton is excellent ( that's why I'm giving it a 6 ) but the rest of the acting is pretty bad ( except for Sayles and Stratham ) and nothing really happens . It just sort of lays there . It also leads to a real ambiguous ending which could be interpreted a number of different ways . Still , this was the kind of independent film that came out in the 1980s and 90s before Hollywood took them over . For that alone this is interesting to watch . It has been beautifully restored by the Anarchists Covention ( ? ? ? ) and UCLA . It looks better now than it did in 1984 !
By the numbers , but watchable	Beautiful waitress Slim ( Jennifer Lopez ) meets Mitch ( tall , handsome , muscular Billy Campbell ) . In the space of 20 minutes screen time ( along with silly little title cards ) , they fall in love , get married , buy a house and have a kid who is about 6 when the story really begins . Turns out that Mitch is cheating on Slim . When she confronts him with evidence he beats her ( within a PG-13 rating ) . She tries to run , but he always finds her . What will she do ? Beat the crap out of him ! An OK thriller but it has gaping plot holes and huge implausibilities - - for instance , Campbell would cheat on sexy , beautiful Lopez ? ? ? ? ? Come on ! He also finds her way too easily each time she runs away and , at the climax , she learns how to break into his house and totally fix it so he can't get away . Also seeing small , thin Lopez beat up Campbell looks more than a little laughable and it does seem to trivialize wife beating . I have a definite problem with that . Still , it's not too bad . Lopez is good and Campbell ( cast totally against type ) is exceptional . There's also strong supporting roles from Juliette Lewis and Dan Futterman . So , an OK movie . Wait for the DVD or video .
OK no budget horror movie	This movie transplants Edgar Allan Poe's classic short story to 1965 Texas ! Lou ( Robert Frost ) and Diana ( Robyn Baker ) are happily married . She buys a black cat for him as a pet . He becomes obsessed with the cat and ignores her . Then he ( inexplicably ) becomes a violent alcoholic . . . The movie gets pretty incoherent from then on . Why Lou is an alcoholic is never explained . He also viciously attacks the cat he supposedly loves and then has a complete nervous breakdown ! Still , if you ignore logic or continuity , this movie is OK . It has some very graphic gore for its time ( an axing at the end is particularly gruesome ) and it's actually pretty well done . There's also some inappropriate ( but not bad ) rock numbers worked in - - there's a real nice visual gag on the second number . The acting is pretty good . Frost and Baker were pretty obviously hired for their good looks but aren't that bad . Baker has her moments and Frost is actually pretty good ( even if he does overdo it a few times ) . And it does have a real nice ending . So - - no great shakes but an OK horror film .
Loud , lively but too long	Musical about the life of Jews in pre-Revolutionary Russia . Well-done with good acting ( especially Topol ) and some good songs and incredible dances . . . but at 3 hours it's way too long . Some of the songs are real duds and should have been cut and some of the dances go on forever . From what I've heard , this was never a big hit - - in fact it was reissued in 1981 cut by 30 minutes ! I'm usually against editing films but in this case it needs it . So it's good but overlong .
Well done but far too grim and violent	Thomas ' Babe ' Levy ( Dustin Hoffman ) gets unwittingly involved with a gang of vicious people . . . especially Dr . Christian Szell ( Laurence Olivier ) . It seems his brother Henry ' Doc ' ( Roy Scheider ) works for a secret agency and , not knowing it , targeted his brother for danger . That synopsis may sound a little confused but then the movie is too ! This movie has a lot of admirers and I can see why . It's grim , negative and strong . However , for me , this is far too depressing and the violence is really overdone . There's strangulation , stabbings and shootings all done with blood gushing out in every direction . There was even a graphic torture scene with Olivier using dental torture on Hoffman . Director John Schlesinger saw it with a preview audience and noticed quite a few people walking out during that section . He realized it was too strong and stopped the movie cold so he had it cut completely . Violence aside , the plot is confusing and there are plot holes galore . There's some truly terrible dialogue too . Also Marthe Keller and William Devane are terrible in small roles . The only thing that makes this bearable are the acting and directing . Hoffman and Olivier are both just great in their roles and Scheider is strong in a small part . The directing by Schlesinger is great too ( no surprise there ) . But the grimness , violence and plot holes really wore me down on this one . I can only give it a 6 . " Is it safe ? "
Doesn't work	By-the-number medieval tale about a peasant ( Heath Ledger ) posing as a nobleman to be allowed to joust . He falls in love with Jocelyn ( Shannyn Sosamon ) and has to joust with an evil nobleman ( Rufus Sewell ) for her . The story has been done MANY times before , so the outcome is never in doubt . The filmmakers decide to add rock music ( by Queen , David Bowie etc etc ) to certain scenes and , at a dance , have everybody dance modern . It doesn't work . The addition of the rock music wasn't cute , funny or dramatic . . . just annoying . It reached the point where I wish I could have turned the sound off . The movie is also too long ( 135 minutes ) for such a predictable story . . . also if contains some of the WORST romantic dialogue I have ever heard . The actors deserve credit for keeping a straight face . However , it's not unwatchable . There are some very nice shots of London ( including an absolutely beautiful birds eye view ) and Heath Ledger is attractive and pretty good in the lead . Paul Bettany is absolutely wonderful as his helper Chaucer ( yes , THAT Chaucer ) . Sossamon and Sewell aren't as good . It's not entirely their fault - - they aren't given much to work with . And will someone cast Sewell as a good guy ? He's much too good ( and handsome ) to always be playing a jerk . So , not a very good movie , but worth a look - - on TV .
It was OK but has serious problems	Movie based on the unsolved Zodiac killings in California in the 1960s-1970s . A man was killing people with no rhyme or reason and sent notes to California newspapers daring them to figure out who he was . Reporter Paul Avery ( Robert Downey Jr . ) and cartoonist Robert Graysmith ( Jake Gyllenhaal ) try to figure out who he is while police inspector Davod Toschi ( Mark Ruffalo ) and his partner ( Anthony Edwards ) try to catch him . This film has a lot of good things going for it - - it's well directed ( excellent use of wide screen ) , has some good acting ( especially by Downey ) and manages to wring some suspense out of the story despite the fact that you know how it ends . There's also good supporting performances by Chloe Sevigny and Dermot Mulroney . Still this film has three serious problems . One is Gyllenhaal . He is a good actor but appears totally out of his depth here . He wears one expression the entire movie and his acting quickly becomes annoying . The second is the length of this movie - - it's way too long . It rambles on for 160 minutes and gets tedious more than once . I kept looking at my watch and more than once considered leaving . I stayed because I figured I had paid my $10 . 00 so - - why not ? Also the story keeps jumping around and , if something has nothing to do with the killer , it's tossed off casually . For example . . . Sevigny is introduced as a date of Gyllenhaal . We don't see her until about 30 minutes later and by this time she's his wife AND they have kids ! No mention was made of them getting married or having kids . This is a little thing but it caught my attention and was distracting . So - - it has good acting and direction but goes on far too long and was too disjointed . I give it a 6 .
It's just OK	During the 1940s housing shortage in Washington DC , Constance Milligan ( Jean Arthur ) decides to take in a boarder to help the war effort . Benjamin Dingle ( Charles Coburn ) moves in and he , in turn , invites hunky Joe Carter ( Joel McCrea ) to move in . Complications ensure . It's beyond me why this is considered a classic . It's not a bad movie just an OK movie . It does have lots of things going for it : Arthur is just wonderful - - and beautiful ; Coburn is a delight ( he won an Oscar for this ) ; it's well-directed and some of the romance works . But I never believed the story for one second and I didn't find this that funny at all - - I thought most of the jokes fell flat . Arthur and Coburn tried by McCrea ( never a good actor ) just could not do comedy . He did wonderfully in one scene ( his expressions when Colburn introduces him to Arthur are quite funny ) but he was his usual expressionless self the rest of the movie . He was handsome and hunky - - that was about it . Also the ending was just REALLY going too far . I realize I'm in a minority here but I just thought this was so-so . I can truthfully only give this a 6 .
Just OK	Charles ( Hugh Grant ) keeps attending friends ' weddings one after the other . He realizes he's the only one not getting married - - because he can't commit . Then he meets Carrie ( Andie MacDowell ) at one of the weddings and falls immediately in love . . . but does she love him and can he overcome his fear of commitment ? I remember loving this in 1994 - - but it doesn't hold up 14 years later . It has its definite good points - - two of Charles ' friends are a gay couple and are presented very matter of factly with no big fuss ; it LOOKS beautiful ; the cast is as good as they can be and there are some solid laughs . But it doesn't really work . For starters we know nothing about these characters - - heck Charles isn't even given a last name ! We don't even find out the name of one of his friends till halfway through the movie . They're just stock characters . Also the movie is too long and slow - - it needed tightening up . The acting is as good as it could be . Simon Callow is fun as Gareth and David Bower is drop dead handsome and good but talented actors like Kristen Scott Thomas are left with nothing to work with . Grant does wonders with his under-written role - - he's utterly charming and likable . Unfortunately MacDowell doesn't match him but she's incredibly beautiful - - Grants obsession with her is understandable . Also this ends with a bunch of happy endings that strain credibility ( even for a romantic comedy ) . But this film was a huge hit and made Grant a star so use your own judgment . Also be aware of the R rating - - there's tons of swearing and VERY frank sexual dialogue . Don't let the kids see this one . I can only give it a 6 .
Unoriginal but not bad	The doctor of the title is Dr . Frederick Holmes ( Lester Matthews ) . He comes upon a small , fog-bound English village in WWII England . It contains a tin mine - - tin which is badly needed in the war against the Nazis . But the local men are terrified to go into the mine because of the headless ghost that roams the mine and kills people . The bodies start piling up and the village starts to get very panicked . . . . Strange combo of patriotism and horror story . The plot is totally predictable ( although there were a few surprises at the end ) and this has a cast of B actors ( John Loder , Eleanor Parker ) or total unknowns . Still , it's pretty good . The settings are fairly elaborate ( I suspect they were shooting on the sets of other films ) , the constant fog provides a nice spooky atmosphere , the appearances of the ghost are kind of fun and the acting is pretty decent - - Parker especially does wonders with her role as " the girl " and Loder is tall , handsome and seems to be really enjoying himself . Nothing new of thrilling but compotent and quick ( 59 minutes ) . There are worse ways to kill an hour .
Has its moments but not enough of them	There is a society of four old gentleman - - the Chowder Society . They are played by Fred Astaire ( in his last movie ) , Melvyn Douglas , Douglas Fairbanks Jr and John Houseman . They get together and tell each other horror stories . They are also bonded together by a horrible tragedy that happened 50 years earlier involving Eva Galli ( Alice Krige ) . But that secret has come to life and sets out to kill all the members of the society and one of their sons ( Craig Wasson ) . Peter Straub's 600 + page novel which this was based on , was next to impossible to put in a 2 hour movie - - but that didn't stop Hollywood . They simplified the complex story to a ridiculous degree and managed to somehow drain all the scares the novel had . What's left is a slow moving , convoluted and puzzling movie that plays more like a soap opera than a horror film . For instance it never is explained why the ghost waited 50 years to appear and why it's going after a son of one of the guys . Also the acting is pretty terrible : Astaire , Douglas , Fairbanks and Houseman look shockingly old and give dreadful performances . Poor Wasson seems totally lost in his role and the wonderful Patricia Neal is horribly wasted . It has some good points : Some of the jump scares do work ; Krige has a very creepy laugh ; the movie looks good ; it's fun to see Ken Olin in an early role ( acting as bad as he can ) ; Miguel Fernandes is downright terrifying as Gregory Bate and there's a good music score by Philippe Sarde . Also Krige is just great as the ghost - - she single handedly manages to keep this movie alive . So it does have its moments ( I admit I jumped twice ) and I was mildly interested but it's just not scary or good . The scariest thing about this movie is that Ken Olin grows old and becomes John Houseman ! I give it a 6 . " I heard you were DYING to meet me . "
Well acted but ridiculously predictable	Harry MacKenzie ( Gene Hackman ) leaves wife Kate ( Ellen Burstyn ) for waitress Audrey Minelli ( Ann-Margret ) . This causes huge complications with his adult children Sunny ( Amy Madigan ) and Helen ( Ally Sheedy ) . Stephen Lang and Brian Dennehy throw in strong supporting performances . This is well made and everything . . . but this has been done to death before and this adds nothing new . Aside from some swearing ( the R rating for this is not deserved ) this plays like a made for TV movie . I knew what was coming constantly all through the movie and quickly tired of it . It doesn't even have a conclusion ! It just sort of stops . ( One of my friends said , " I can't say if I like it or not until I see the end ! " ) All the acting was great - - especially Burstyn , Ann-Margret and Madigan ( she was Oscar nominated for this one ) but all the great acting in the world can't overcome the predictable storyline . If you're a sucker for Lifetime movies or predictable family dramas this is right up your alley . This came and went quickly in 1985 and is now ( rightfully ) forgotten . I believe Ann-Margret was asked about this a few years back in an interview and she couldn't remember doing it ! That should tell you something . I give it a 6 .
VERY loose remake of " Out of the Past "	Ex football player Terry Brogran ( Jeff Bridges ) takes a job from sleazy friend Jake Wise ( James Woods ) - - find his ex girlfriend Jessie Wyler ( Rachel Ward ) who shot him and ran away with a large amount of his cash . Terry tracks Jessie to Mexico . . . and immediately they fall in love . That's the first hour - - the second hour becomes very convoluted with murders and double crosses all over the place . Interesting movie which is a semi-remake of " Out of the Past " . In fact Jane Greer from the original plays the mother of her character here ! The original was a strong , well-written film noir . This is not film noir - - it's a combination romance / mystery / melodrama . Also Greer played a totally amoral woman in the original - - here Ward isn't amoral , just misunderstood . Also Bridges is all pumped up and him and Ward work wonderfully together . Their frequent very R rated sex scenes really work . And it looks great - - a portion of the film takes place in Mexico . Still there are definite problems here . One character , Edie ( Swoosie Kurtz ) is introduced to provide some REAL clumsy exposition . . . and doesn't pop up again until a HOUR later . I had forgotten who she was ! Alex Karras is incredibly bad in his role . The plot gets way too confused . And the movie isn't sure what it wants to be . It switches gears so much I thought I was gonna get whiplash ! The best part of the movie - - an incredible car race down Sunset Blvd . has NOTHING to do with anything in the movie ! The acting is pretty good . Bridges ( in one of his few commercial films ) and Ward LOOK fantastic , have great bodies and are both good in their roles . Woods is , surprisingly , pretty wooden . Greer isn't in much but she IS very good . And Richard Widmark hams it up in his small role . Also the film has a surprisingly somewhat downbeat ending . And there's a wonderful title song by Phil Collins ( nominated for an Academy Award ) . A very interesting movie . I give it a 6 . A sizable hit in its day - - but that's because of the steamy sex scenes between Ward and Bridges .
Very colorful but . . .	I didn't really like this . It's about a family in Delhi , India getting ready for their daughter's wedding . All the relatives gather and things go spinning out of control . It's supposed to be funny ( I think ) but I wasn't laughing - - neither was anyone else in the theatre . For starters - - the cast was huge - - way too many people . I'm still not sure who was who's cousin or whatever . As a comedy this is pretty grim . It's more of a serious drama than anything else . Also the cast keeps switching back and forth between Indian ( there are subtitles ) and heavily accented English ( no subtitles ) . Often they do it in the middle of conversations ! It gets annoying and confusing . However it is very colorful ( including the opening and closing credits ) , the cast is just great ( there are some VERY attractive men and women in it ) and it is interesting to see how another culture celebrates a wedding . But the little dramas that happen have been done before and end very predictably . More often than not , I was bored . I knew how the stories would work out and I was always right . The acting kept me watching . SLIGHT SPOILER AHEAD ! ! ! ! ! ! ! Also , I find it more than a little disturbing that they worked child molestation into the plot . It's treated seriously , but do you really want to see that in a comedy ? So , I'm giving it a 6 for the color , acting , gorgeous people and some nice , assured direction by Mira Nair . . . but I didn't really like it .
Very unpleasant	OK - - I HATED the original " Chainsaw " . I found it boring and stupid with lousy acting , no script and no scares . This remake sure isn't boring , the acting is much better , it has a script and it DID scare me . It's not a remake . . . it's a reimagining . As the original , it takes place is 1973 . Five college-age people are driving to a concert through Texas . They are the nice girl ( Jessica Biel ) , the slutty hitchhiker ( Erica Leerhsen ) , the annoying ' comic ' relief ( Jonathan Tucker ) , a studly but bland guy ( Mike Vogel ) and the take-charge guy ( Eric Balfour ) . They almost hit a near comatose girl walking on the road . They take her in where she promptly shoots her brains out . They try to find the sheriff . . . and the nightmare begins . Purposedly shot in muted color this is a good movie . . . but extremely unpleasant . There is plenty of gore , screaming , yelling and ( of course ) good ol ' Leatherface with his chainsaw . The scenes of him chasing the screaming kids through the night really scared me and the " treatment " of some of his victims was harrowing to watch . Also I jumped more than once . So it did scare me . . . but it was a real trial to watch . It's virtual nonstop mayhem after about 20-30 minutes in . . . and doesn't stop till the end . So , I can't say I enjoyed it . The acting is very good . Balfour , Tucker , Vogel and Leerhsen are given little to work with , but pull it off . Biel is excellent as one of the last ones left - - very convincing . R . Lee Ermey was downright terrifying as one of the maniacs . And Leatherface was a true nightmare . So , it isn't the sacrilege that most fans were afraid of . If anything , it's on par with the original . Recommended with STRONG reservations . Avoid if you don't like horror films .
It's OK	A handsome young dancer starts falling in love with his dance instructor - - another guy . This happens just as his girlfriend is moving with him . He doesn't know what to do - - he seems to love his girlfriend but he has a strong attraction to this other man . . . Nothing new here . Basically another short about a man slowly realizing he may be gay . The dancing in the film is impressive as is the music . Unfortunately the lead actor is pretty terrible . He is handsome but he's blank-faced almost all of the time . I didn't know what he was feeling or how to take his actions . It leaves the short somewhat hollow . His acting really brings down what could have been more compelling . A 6 .
I really wanted to like this more	Cartoonist Joe Landsdale ( Michael Caine ) is in a troubled marriage with Anne ( Andrea Marcovicci ) . She wants to be on her own with their daughter Lizzie ( Mara Hobel ) . In a freak accident Joe's right hand is severed - - but the hand itself seems to disappear . He lives but can't draw anymore and his marriage completely falls apart . His disembodied hand also seems to come to life on its own and kills anyone who Joe gets mad at . But is it is hand . . . or is Joe going mad ? The film has potential with a great cast and a VERY bloody scene at the beginning where Caine losses his hand . Then it just falls to pieces . The script becomes very disjointed and all the characters are extremely unlikable . Landsdale comes across as obnoxious and sarcastic and Anne just stands there and takes it . If you're expecting blood and gore from this , don't bother . Aside from that gory opening no one is killed until OVER an hour in ! Also director / writer Oliver Stone's sexism comes roaring through - - especially in the character of Stella ( Annie McEnroe ) who is treated horribly . Also bad dialogue doesn't help . Good performances by Caine , Marcovicci and Viveca Lindfors ( briefly at the end ) can't save this one . It's unpleasant , depressing and full of characters you couldn't care less about . The 6 is for the acting and gore scenes alone . Also Caine mentioned in his autobiography he hated this film . That should tell you all you need to know . Oliver Stone appears as a bum that the hand kills . Too bad it didn't get him before he made this movie !
Interesting but not very good	Interesting combo of documentary and recreations of a muscle magazine done for ( primarily ) gay men in th 1950s . It's interesting when they show actual footage and pictures from the 1950s . . . it falls apart when they try silly factual recreations . They just don't work , they all look very fake and ( I'm being the kind ) the acting is LOUSY ! ! ! Yeah the guys are handsome and muscular . If that's enough to keep your interest . . . fine . It got real annoying when you weren't able to tell if it was actual footage or recreations ! Also putting new dialogue over old footage was not needed . Interesting film , but a lot of bad choices made in presenting the material .
Didn't really work for me	The first 20 minutes or so of this are fantastic . It's a cartoon where Gisella meets handsome Prince Edward and wants to marry him . However , his evil mother Queen Narissa doesn't want her to become queen . So she sends Gisella to the real world ( New York City ) . She is followed by Prince Edward , a spy named Nathaniel and Pip - - a chipmunk . Will Edward find Gisella there ? The idea is a good one and this has a lot of things going for it : the opening cartoon is wonderful - - it's like a whole Disney film running at top speeds and going WAY over the top in an amusing way . Amy Adams is just wonderful as Gisella . She doesn't overplay her character's naivety too much and avoids becoming too goody-goody . Also Pip is a CGI animated chipmunk here and he's just hysterical . His facial expressions and body movements had me laughing . Also the movie looks great - - tons of bright color and great special effects . But that's it for the good things . The bad : James Marsden overplays Prince Edward to a degree that it becomes annoying . Susan Saradon is badly underused as Queen Narissa ( her role is little more than a glorified cameo ) . Patrick Dempsey looks miserable ( and acts it ) . But , most of all , the story has leaps of logic that are just impossible to ignore . There are so many of them that I don't have enough space to list them . A few : how does Gisella get on a subway-with no money ? Why is Nathaniel in a kitchen to contact Narissa ? Where does he get the various costumes and disguises he wears ? How does Gisella get back into Robert's apartment after she left ? That's just a few of the problems . So I really wanted to like this but the story inconsistencies kept annoying me . I might be being too cynical about this so use your own judgment . Kids will probably love it but , be warned , there is a somewhat scary sequence at the end .
Not bad	Murders begin happening at a burlesque house with Barbara Stanwyck as one of the star performers . An adaptation of " The G-String Murders " by Gypsy Rose Lee . I've never read the book ( just try hunting down a copy ! ) but I heard it was really cleaned up for the screen . I can believe it - - the girls wear lots of clothes during the acts , there's no nudity ( of course ) , the jokes are tame ( and lame ) and all the acts mostly show some admittedly great acrobatics and dancing - - but very little skin . That's NOT burlesque . That aside , the movie is pretty good . The script is great - - full of quick , sharp one-liners all acted to the hilt by the cast . The murder mystery itself is interesting and has a very satisfying ( if complicated ) resolution . And Stanwyck looks really great considering she was 36 when she did this ! Worth catching .
NOT a horror movie but not uninteresting	A young couple and a diverse group of people are stranded in a mansion in the middle of nowhere when fog makes any further travel impossible . There's a graveyard next to the mansion and they hear strange noises and hear talk of vampires roaming about . Are they safe until the morning ? SPOILERS AHEAD ! ! ! ! This is a Spanish film with some atrocious English dubbing which makes a fair assessment next to impossible . Also it switches gears towards the end and we find out that all the undead corpses and such that we saw were really a needlessly elaborate plot to scare people to death . No blood , violence , gore or sex either . That aside this isn't bad . The acting is OK , the plot is somewhat interesting and there are a few creepy moments here . There's also an ending which is both touching and tragic . The only problem is that all the horrific elements are explained away at the end . So , for what it is , it isn't bad .
Silly , but kind of cute	Oscar winner for Best Short Subject of 1943 . A composer tries to get admitted to the Hall of Music in Heaven . He has to convince some of the world's greatest dead composers that he's worthy . This leads to " humorous " talks and interplay among the composers . The songs and music are the only reasons to see this short . The acting is pretty bad and the humor is very lame . Still , it's kind of fun ( in a silly way ) and it's only 22 minutes . Worth catching .
Time has not been kind to this one	A Western parody by Mel Brooks . Dastardly Hedley Lamarr ( Harvey Korman ) needs to run a railroad through a town . To get rid of the townspeople he has villains run wild , attacking townspeople . Black sheriff Bart ( Cleavon Little ) and the Waco Kid ( Gene Wilder ) fight back . This was a huge hit in 1974 - - it was considered daring and uproariously funny . Seen today it doesn't hold up . The daring parts are very tame in the wake of comedies we have today and some of these jokes are pretty despearate . Also I got more than a little tired of hearing a certain word beginning with " n " constantly used as a joke . And there's virtual nonstrop swearing from the rest of the cast . Most of the movie is pretty dull ( when the jokes in this movie bomb they REALLY bomb ! ) And the last 10 minutes are just dreadful ( and horribly homophobic ) . I'm giving it a 6 for a few reasons . Little is very good , handsome and heroic in his role . Wilder is VERY funny as the washed up Kid . Some of Korman's snearing and scheeming is funny . And Madeline Kahn is absolutely hysterical doing a Marlene Dietrich impersonation as Lily von Shtupp ( she's terribly underused but got a nomination for Best Supporting Actress ) . Also there's a Count Basie cameo and some very good songs throughout . Still , all in all , this isn't that funny . The movie's most infamous scene has a bunch of cowboys sitting around a fire eating beans and breaking wind . THAT'S what this movie considers funny . Mel Brooks ' best film is still " Young Frankenstein " .
Subtle horror - - but it doesn't really work	Jessica ( Zohra Lampert ) has just been released from a mental institution . She , her husband and a best friend buy a house in a secluded Connecticut town so she can recuperate . They also meet Emily and ( inexplicbaly ) invite her to stay with them . Things are OK at first but slowly unravel - - Jessica starts hearing voices ; she sees dead bodies and a mysterious girl in white and something in the lake tries to pull her under when she goes swimming . Is something going on . . . or is she loosing her mind again ? Despite the title this is a quiet moody little horror film . It has a lot of good moments but never pulls together . There are too many unexplained things - - especially who IS the mute girl in white ? Also the ending doesn't make a lot of sense . Some clumsy dialogue doesn't help and Lampert's performance goes all over the place . She has said she didn't like doing this movie - - and it shows . The film does have some things going for it . There lots of eerie noises ( a constantly blowing wind especially ) and spooky music on the soundtrack that works . There are some moments of quiet horror that work - - especially when Emily walks out of the lake . Also the DVD release looks incredible - - the colors are rich and sound loud . Still this is a quiet little horror film that just doesn't work . With a better lead actress and a clearer storyline this might have really been great . Worth a look if you're a horror fan . I give it a 6 .
Has its moments . . . but not enough	Cassidy ( Tyler Hanes ) and his younger sister Jessica ( James Katharine Flynn ) are in the same university . Cassidy is also gay but not out to anyone . He sees a Latino hustler named Victor ( Carlos Alberto Valencia ) and starts having visions of his sister Jessica covered in blood . He realizes he has to reconcile his gay identity to discover what the visions mean . Sounds confusing doesn't it ? It's not a bad movie . It's well directed and shot . There's also some good acting by Flynn , Valencia and Robert Dionne and some hot guys with their clothes off once in a while . However the plot gets muddy and increasingly sillier as the movie goes on . Also there are TERRIBLE performances by Alison Faser and Maria Bova . Worst of all it has a homophobic ending and Hanes is REALLY bad in his role . He's supposed to be a popular guy but he comes across as ugly , obnoxious , controlling and WAY too protective of his sister . I also find it hard to believe that any college student in this day and age ( especially one enrolled in a college in NYC ) would have trouble coming out . This movie does have its moments ( the sex scene between Hanes and Valencia is a highlight ) but the lousy ending and a REAL pointless last shot destroy this .
Not bad	OK - - I'm a big horror fan and while I don't disagree with any of the former posters ( who all hated the film ) I sort of like it . A bunch of college kids buy an old condemned brownstone with plans to renovate it into a dance club . Unfortunately , a murder took place their years ago and the spirit is waiting around for revenge . . . Predictable but fairly well done . Director Ernest Dickerson uses a lot of flashy camerawork and good special effects that provide a few effective jolts ( I jumped three times ) and works in some spooky scenes - - I wasn't scared but damned if the movie wasn't trying . The story doesn't make a lot of sense ( there are glaring lapses in logic ) and the acting by Snoop Dogg is pretty terrible ( don't give up your day job Dogg ) . Still , it's worth a look at matinee prices or on DVD . . . especially for horror fans . Also there is a good performance by Pam Grier and a fun ripoff of a scene from " Suspiria " .
Starts off well . . .	then becomes a standard cop drama . A woman is raped ( not shown ) and in shows in graphic ( for TV ) detail the indignities she goes through with the police to prove she was attacked . This part is very good , well-acted and interesting . SPOILER AHEAD ! Then it turns into a standard wrong guy gets convicted story . When they throw in his evil twin at the end I gave up completely . So , it's good until about the halfway mark . For early 1970s TV this was pretty strong stuff .
More funny than anything else	Totally plot less movie of the homo erotic images of some hot young guy . I caught this years ago at an art cinema as part of their gay and lesbian film festival . It's safe to say the entire audience consisted of gay men . When it started there was silence . . . which mostly continued throughout the movie . Some people walked out and there was scattered laughter during some of the sillier scenes . The color was bright ( and blinding ) and the print we had was in good shape but with no plot or point ( that I could see of ) this quickly became boring . The guy in it was handsome and hot ( and nude some of the time ) but that wasn't enough to keep me interested for 90 minutes . Maybe back in 1971 this was considered erotic and shocking but it sure isn't today ( although it would still get an NC-17 ) . Pretentious , pointless and overdone . It gets a 6 for some truly striking and beautiful images but I can't recommend it . When it was over at the art cinema most of the guys left complaining how stupid and boring it was . That should tell you something .
I'm not sure how I feel about this	Two penguins Norma Jean ( voiced by Nicole Kidman ) and Dallas ( Hugh Jackman ) give birth to a baby called Mumble ( Elijah Wood ) . According to this movie the penguins sing constantly ( from 1950s to present day music ) but Mumbles can't sing . . . but he CAN dance . However the tribal elders said his singing is evil and the reason their fish supply is dwindling , and he is banished . I could go on but basically you've seen this before . . . only with human beings . It's another story telling children that it's OK to be different and this one has an environmental message with it . There's nothing wrong with that ( the kids in my audience were dead silent and seemed to love this ) but I was unimpressed . The CGI was incredible , the songs were good and the voices matched the characters completely . . . but I didn't know how to take this movie . I mean when a bunch of penguin kids started singing " In My Room " by the Beach Boys i didn't know how to respond . It wasn't funny , it wasn't cute , it was just . . . weird . SPOILERS AHEAD ! ! ! There are also sequences where the penguins are attacked by other animals which might disturb real young kids . And Mumbles ends up in a zoo towards the end . . . and begins to go crazy . THAT'S for kids ? ? ? ? I found it disturbing and I'm an adult ! END OF SPOILERS ! ! ! ! It does all end on a very happy but totally unbelievable note - - even for a kids movie that end was pushing it . So I ( sort of ) liked it but it all left me kind of cold ( no pun intended ) and the movie slams you in the face with its message again and again . When you see a whole colony of penguins break-dancing and it's not funny ( my audience was dead silent ) something is wrong . The only real humor here was a bunch of penguins ( with Spanish accents ) which befriend Mumbles - - they were absolutely hysterical . So kids will probably love this but adults should use caution . Some adult couples walked out of this when I saw it ! I can only give it a 6 - - but put that rating higher if you're seeing it with kids .
WAY overdone - - only Barbra is worth watching	BIG musical adaptation of the popular Broadway show . Matchmaker Dolly Levi ( Barbra Streisand ) is in love ( God knows why ) with Horace Vandergelder ( Walter Matthau ) . Naturally he hates her . Also involved are Cornelius Hackl ( Michael Crawford ) and his pal Barnaby ( Danny Lockin ) and their love for Irene Malloy ( Marianne McAndrew ) and Minnie Fay ( E . J . Peaker ) . A textbook example of how NOT to adapt a Broadway show . For starters , Streisand is far too young for the lead role ( even though she's the only thing worth seeing ) - - Carol Channing should have gotten it . The dances and musical numbers - - there are too many of them , they're HUGE and far too long . They go on and on and on and on . I ended up skipping to the next chapter on my DVD . All the dancing was great but it was overkill . Also Matthau and Streisand hated each other - - it comes through loud and clear . Matthau is terrible . Also Crawford and Peaker overact to an embarrassing degree . On the plus side - - it IS colorful , McAndrew was delightfully as Malloy , Lockin nicely plays Barnaby and it was GREAT to see Louis Armstrong pop up briefly . But Barbra is the whole show - - she's young , full of energy and belts out the songs full force . She also shows her incredible comedic skills - - some of her scenes are hilarious . Streisand herself said she was all wrong for the role ( age-wise ) but doesn't let it affect her acting . When she's on screen the movie leaps to life - - - but it's not enough to save it . The endless musical numbers numb you after a while and I was getting bored by the last half hour . Director Gene Kelly obviously thought shoving dance numbers in the publics face would work . It didn't . This was a big budget flop for 20th Century Fox . This was made in the late 1960s when all the movie studios were making big expensive musicals thinking that was what the public wanted . . . and they all bombed . This is not a good movie but worth seeing for Streisand . I can honestly only give it a 6 .
So-so Italian horror	Handsome and wealthy Alan Cunningham has just been released from an asylum . He was put there after a breakdown he had when his unfaithful wife Evelyn died . He now picks up women who look like Evelyn , takes them to his remote castle , tortures them and kills them . But he seems cured later on when he marries Gladys - - who looks just like Evelyn . But then people are being killed , Alan starts seeing Evelyn's ghost , her tomb is found empty and he starts to slowly go mad . . . The synopsis may sound strange but so is the movie ! There's plenty of things wrong with this : the plot refuses to make sense , the acting is pretty bad , the dubbing is awful and the film is relatively bloodless . Also there's an astounding amount of misogyny in this ( even for a horror film ) . It's actually quite dull - - until the end . There's a double twist ending which caught me by surprise and it gets very bloody too . Still , that's only the last 15 minutes or so - - the preceding 80 minutes are hard to slog through . There is also a fair amount of nudity ( all female of course ) and the main actors are attractive - - but that's not enough to recommend this . Completists of Italian horror cinema but enjoy this . Also most of the DVD versions of this are in terrible shape - - mine was incorrectly letterboxed , had faded color and nonstop jumps and scratches . One sequence even started with the top of the image on the bottom of the screen ! So - - beware . I give it a 6 - - mostly for the ending .
So-so	Plot heavy - - TOO heavy - - horror sci-fi film about 4 friends ( Thomas Jane , Jason Lee , Timothy Olyphant , Damian Lewis ) in the Maine woods squaring off against disgusting killer aliens and the Army led by Morgan Freeman and Tom Sizemore . The film is well-directed by Lawrence Kasdan and well-acted ( especially by Jane , Lewis and Olyphant ) but there's too many plots going on and the movie rambles on for 135 minutes . I did sit through the whole thing , but I was never really involved or interested . On the plus side , the special effects are great ; the aliens are slimy and disgusting ; the attack scenes are brutal ( and bloody ) and I LOVED the way Kasdan visualized Lewis ' mind . Still , the film has too many plots to handle and it's constantly loosing its focus . Not terrible or unwatchable , just disappointing . I give it a 6 .
For WHAT it is - - it's OK	This movie begins with a REALLY stupid premise : they recreate the SIL from the first film ( who killed many people and is still played by Herstridge ) and they try to figure out a way to kill her in case creatures like her invade Earth ! ( ! ! ! ? ? ? ) Meanwhile a manned mission to Mars returns to Earth unknowingly infected with an alien virus which produces a MALE version of SIL ( Justin Lazard ) . Like the first he has to mate with women who get pregnant immediately and the babies FORCE their way out . Now this IS a stupid movie - - no two ways about it . The plot is dumb full of plot loopholes , the dialogue is howlingly stupid ( I THINK some of the lines were meant as jokes ) , it's VERY gory and contains a large amount of female nudity ( naturally Lazard is never shown completely nude ) . BUT , as a stupid B movie , it does work . I was truthfully never bored . It's only 90 minutes and DOES move quickly . Also the special effects aren't bad . . . but not as good as the first . The acting , like in the first one , varies . Herstridge is actually not bad - - she was terrible in the first one . Michael Madsen walks through his role . Marg Helgenberger was surprisingly good ( considering she has the worst dialogue ) . James Cromwell is excellent as a slimy senator . As the main SIL here Lazard tries - - but he's given nothing to work with . He is a very handsome man with a very nice body but can't do anything with his character . And it has a silly ending which sets up Species III ( which never happened because this one bombed ) . There is one very disturbing aspect of this picture - - there are MANY views of nude women torn open and dead as their babies come out . We get the idea with the first one but they keep constantly showing other victims . It's unpleasant and sick . . . it gives the film a very sick edge . Because of that I can only give this a 6 . Again - - this is NOT a good movie but a very good / bad one .
OK little thriller	Sherlock Holmes vs Jack the Ripper . That's basically it for the plot . The movie uses the names of the Ripper's victims but everything else is mostly fiction . It's no great movie but it's pretty good . Also , for its time , it's pretty bloody and very atmospheric . John Neville is OK as Holmes but won't make you forget Basil Rathbone . Donald Houston plays Watson much better than Nigel Bruce - - Bruce played Watson as an idiot ; Houston plays him as an intelligent ( if sometimes befuddled ) man . The rest of the cast is pretty good - - especially John Fraser . Also it's fun to see a young Judi Dench and the late Robert Morley in small roles . The final revelation of who the Ripper is was no big surprise - - I had it figured out long before they told us . The 1979 " Murder by Decree " ( which told the same story ) was better than this one but , again , this is pretty OK .
Not bad	Artist Dave Stewart is engaged to beautiful rich Heather Hayden ( Jean Parker ) . Unfortunately his model Tania ( Acquanetta ) loves him too and is insanely jealous . One night he accidentally ( ? ? ? ) puts acid in his eyes and becomes blind . There is one chance to regain his sight - - an eye operation . . . but who's eyes will he use ? Then someone dies . . . A little convoluted but enjoyable , compact murder mystery . It's briskly paced and never dull . The acting is OK - - Chaney is just OK in his role , Parker is very good but Acquanetta , while being very beautiful , is a terrible actress . The only problem with this is that it IS pushing credibility to believe that Parker and Acquanetta are head over heels in love with Chaney ! Still , not bad . I give it a 6 .
Interesting but this movie has problems	Allan Mann ( Jason Beghe ) becomes paralyzed from the neck down after a car hits him . He falls into a deep depression until a scientist friend ( John Pankow ) gets him a trained monkey named Ella ( Boo ) to help him . Allan also begins to fall in love with Ella's trainer ( Kate McNeil ) . . . but Ella begins to get very attached to Allan - - TOO attached . This was supposed to be director / writer George Romero's comeback film . He said the studio loved it and was going to put a big promotional push behind it . But , for whatever reason , when this came out in the summer of 1988 the studio just dumped it . There was next to no ads for it or coming attractions . Romero remains bitter about it to this day . It's too bad this film was just ignored . It's no masterpiece but it isn't bad . The movie does have problems - - it's far too long ( almost two hours ) , the ending goes on forever and some of the plot is really hard to believe ( I thought the psychic link between Allan and Ella was really stupid ) . Also the POV by the monkey was annoying and overused and there's a REAL embarrassing sex scene between Beghe and McNeil . Still I do like this movie . As I said it's too long but I was never really bored . Beghe is excellent in a very difficult role ; Pankow nicely underplays the scientist and McNeil is fresh and appealing . Also Boo ( who plays Ella ) is a good " actor " . I realize she was just trained for her role but the expressions on her face and body movement was incredible . The plot is also quite interesting - - until the end when it just strains credibility . So not a bad film or a good one but worth catching . I give it a 7 .
Interesting	A totally self-absorbed man Hal ( Jack Black ) who just judges women by their bodies , is put under a sort of spell by Anthony Robbins so he sees what they're like inside . He falls in love with Rosemary ( Gwyneth Paltrow ) who he sees as - - well , looking like Gwneth Paltrow ! Actually she's very VERY fat . His pal Jason Alexander can't figure out what's going on and tries to stop him . Who would have thought the Farrelly Brothers could make an interesting , low key comedy ? The jokes are sparse and obvious but I liked the movie even when it wasn't funny . It's well-written , well-acted ( especially by Black and Paltrow - - who I usually hate ) and makes the far-fetched plot believable ( sort of ) . It makes the obvious points of loving someone for who they are inside not outside but doesn't overdo it . The only real bad thing about the movie is Jason Alexander . He's loud , obnoxious and totally unfunny - - I started to dread it when he appeared on screen . Other than that , this is a quiet comedy - - don't go if you want a laugh out loud movie . Also , stay seated for the closing credits .
My first " Road " picture	This is actually the first Cosby / Hope " Road " picture I ever saw . I knew it was the last ( after a 10 year break ) and ( for some reason ) was in b & w - - probably because Cosby and Hope looked better that way . I also heard it was pretty bad . While it's not great , I sort of enjoyed it . The plot was REALLY silly and involves the boys in espionage with Joan Collins along for the ride and a ( surprisingly ) very bad job by Robert Morley as the lead villain . Dorothy Lamour decided to not costar in this one but she does pop up ( playing herself ) in an amusing cameo and sings one song ( Cosby sings too ) . There's also a really silly and pointless bit when Cosby and Hope are sent to outer space . And the ending is desperate . Still , it was well-made and Cosby and Hope were a wonderful team - - their easy banter is great to watch and they made the worst lines seem funny . Also it's fun to see Collins ( who's quite good ) so young and full of sex appeal . So , it's enjoyable way to kill 90 minutes . I'm seen better but I've seen worse too .
Sure it's terrible . . . but those monsters !	A spaceship from Earth travels to Mars to see what's up there . Aboard are the usual bunch of idiots with the obligatory hot woman . They land on Mars ( where everything is shot through a red filter ) and encounter some truly memorable monsters . Yeah it's silly and stupid but if you saw it as a kid you probably have fond memories of it . I caught this on TV in the 1970s . I thought the red scenes in Mars looked cool and the infamous rat / bat / spider creature scared me silly the first time I saw it . It LOOKS real ( I think the red tint had something to do with it ) . Then there's the monster from the ocean with a revolving eyeball ( ! ! ! ) , a man-eating plant and the space amoeba holding them down . It all ends with an ending that actually spooked me when I was kid but just makes me smirk now . The acting is , considering the script , not bad . No great movie at all but the red color and those cool monsters really make this one stand out !
Unpleasant but worth catching	A young boy ( Brad Renfro ) who's obsessed by the Holocaust recognizes a former Nazi war criminal ( Ian KcKellen ) living near him . He starts up a strange sort of friendship with him - - he won't tell anybody who is if he tells him true stories about how they treated and killed people in the concentration camps . Things slowly escalate and go out of control . This is based on a novella of the same name by Stephen King ( part of his " Different Seasons " book ) . The plot is interesting at first but , like the book , it gets increasingly unpleasant as the movie goes on . They did tone down the violence in the original story but enough remains to disturb you . Also it's a little too long and Renfro's constant swearing got on my nerves . Still this is worth seeing . It's beautifully directed by Bryan Singer with exceptional use of color . The beautiful colors in McKellen's house work in contrast with the grim story and I love how the shower scene was handled ( Renfro has guts doing a nude scene when he was only 16 ) . Also the acting was just great . Renfro is incredible - - hard to believe he was so young when he did this . Sadly he seems to get in trouble with the law so much that he might have completely ruined his changes for a long term career . McKellen realistically fakes a German accent and is just excellent in his role . He really hit it big a few years later with the " Lord of the Rings " and X-Men movies . Also Bruce Davison is very good in a small role . " Dawson Creek " lovers might get a kick out of seeing Joshua Jackson in a few scenes . So it is unpleasant and too long but the great direction and performances make this worth seeing .
Not bad	In 1890 England , Sydney Greenstreet is forced to retire as the chief of Scotland Yard . It seems he accidentally sent an innocent man to be hanged . He's more than upset over this . Then an seemingly " perfect " murder baffles the Yard and Greenstreet is called in again . But can even he find out the murderer ? Also Peter Lorre is along as his best friend . This was the ( I believe ) 9th and last teaming of Greenstreet and Lorre - - they had made a number of films together after they met doing " Casablanca " . It was director Don Seigel's first film . All in all , it's a pretty good murder mystery . It's VERY atmospheric ( the streets are always covered in fog ) and moves nicely . Shot in b & w it takes place always at night and in dark , gloomy rooms - - it gives the film an appropriately grim feel . Lorre is very good in his small role . However Greenstreet is not - - he seems tired and listless . His face always has the same grim look on it . When he tries to register surprise in one scene he fails miserably . It's pretty well-written but I had already figured out what was going on long before the ending . Still , it's entertaining enough . Worth seeing if it's on TV - - but don't go out of your way .
Dated but somewhat worthwhile	Robert Redford plays a reference assistant for the CIA in New York . While he's out getting lunch the entire staff are brutally shot to death . He comes back , discovers the bodies , calls the CIA . . . and soon discovers that they want him dead too . He has nowhere to turn to and the CIA after him . . . The technology in this film is laughably dated ( the dial phones and the computer search made me giggle ) but , that aside , this is reasonably entertaining . It's extremely well shot - - NYC looks just great . There's also some good acting - - Faye Dunaway is just great as a woman Redford kidnaps ; Max von Sydow is very good ( and scary ) as a killer ; Cliff Robertson is just so-so as a CIA head and John Houseman is very commanding in his small role . I was entertained for 2 hours , but I can only give it a 7 . The problems : the film was too long ; Robert Redford gives another lousy performance ; the dialogue is occasionally very bad ( especially in the scenes between Redford and Dunaway ) and there's a very silly , needless romance and sex scene between Dunaway and Redford . Still , the film has its moments and might have had more with a better leading man . The R rating on this film should be lowered to a PG-13 . By todays standards the violence is pretty tame and there's only fairly mild swearing .
Very glossy . . . and very slow	Young innocent Ann Hamilton ( Katharine Hepburn ) marries tall , dark , handsome and mysterious Alan Garroway ( Robert Taylor ) after a whirlwind romance . She's happy , but slowly starts to realize that something's wrong . Her husband flies into rages whenever she mentions his missing brother Michael . . . and then she starts to realize he isn't who she thought he was . . . Unfortunately she arrives at it too damn SLOWLY ! I saw this on the late show way back in the late 1970s . I remember sort of liking it but not a lot . Seeing it now I see why . It is well-directed by Vincente Minnelli and has incredibly beautiful settings , costumes and set designs . Also Hepburn is just great ( even though it's kind of surprising to see her play a frightened woman ) and Robert Mitchum is also good in the few sequences he's in . And Jayne Meadows shines in her part . But the movie is WAY too slow and dragged out . There's no need for this to drag on for 2 hours . And Taylor is pretty bad in his role . Very stiff and unconvincing . I kept watching because of Hepburn and the production values - - and it DOES have an exciting climax . But , all in all , this is not really a good movie . I'm giving it a 7 but I can't really recommend it .
Good Woody Allen comedy	This is Woody Allen's first movie as a writer and director and unlike any other of his comedies . It doesn't open silently with the main titles in white on a black screen and it doesn't have his standard use of old music . No drama either . It's basically just a mocumentary ( complete with narration and interviews ) about the life of criminal Virgil Starkwell ( Allen ) . It chronicles how he started his life of crime , met and fell in love with Louise ( Janet Margolin ) and can't seem to stop being a criminal . This was considered a comedy classic when it came out . Today it's kind of weak . Some of the jokes work but there are a large number that don't . The jokes are also pretty silly for a Woody Allen film and it just drags along . This isn't a total bomb - - it just isn't as funny as you would expect from an early Allen film . Also , surprisingly , Allen doesn't play a Jewish guy here ! That's probably the first ( and last ) time he did that . It's OK but you can safely skip this one .
Entertaining old dark house movie	Fun little movie about a novelist ( Agnes Moorehead ) renting a remote , eerie old house for the summer . The house is huge and she's all alone out there with only a couple of servants . Someone who owned the house had just died and has left a million dollars hidden in there . A killer known as " The Bat " appears looking for the money and will kill to get it . . . The kind of movie that they churned out in the 1930s . It has a huge , old , dark , creepy house ; money hidden away somewhere ; a killer out to get it ; a dark and stormy night ; plenty of suspects and a few ( minor ) murders . No blood or gore but enjoyably creepy . The script moves QUICK so there's no chance for you to stop and think about how silly the plot really is . The acting really puts this over the top . Basically everybody is good . Vincent Price pops up from time to time as a doctor but he's hardly in this . This is Moorehead's film and she knows it . She grabs the film and overacts constantly ( but in a good way ) . She has some really good one-liners . Some opening sequences with her and her maid ( played by Lenita Lane ) are hilarious . So , no masterpiece but an enjoyably fun old dark house movie .
Very good , especially for Argento fans	A writer notices a woman being attacked and tries to save her . She survives . . . but now the killer is after him . A very early Argento film ( I believe his first ) shows all the trademarks that he perfected in his later films - - shots from the killers POV ; the killer being in a black trenchcoat ; the stalking sequences ; the eye looking through the hole in the door ; the killings ; the great use of wide screen . The only thing missing is graphic gore ( the film is PG ) . . . there are murders but they're pretty tame . The story is fairly interesting with huge gaps in logic ( an Argento trademark ) and has some very good , suspenseful moments . The dubbing does detract and the acting is pretty bad , but Argento keeps things moving quickly and some of his direction is astounding . Worth seeing . If you're an Argento fan ( like me ) this is a must-see . Also , it has the be seen in a theatre or letter-boxed . . . that's the only way it would work .
Saw it when I was 16 !	This played at a suburban cinema in my town back in 1978 when I was in high school . Back then they were sneaking foreign films from the city into the suburbs hoping to broaden their audiences ( it didn't work ) . I remember fighting with the ticket lady to get in . It didn't have a rating originally but the theatre gave it an R on its own . When I pointed out that that was illegal ( I was bluffing - - I have no idea if it was legal or not ) she quickly gave me the ticket . The movie wasn't THAT bad - - there's only some pretty tame female nudity here and there . As the the content I have never forgotten the first scene when the main character is in a beautiful forest enjoying the sunshine and birds - - and then comes upon the bloody mutilated body of a little girl . The juxtaposition of beauty and horror shocked me and that scene has never left me . That aside I found the film quite funny - - I didn't try to understand what it was about . Back then I loved movies ( and still do ) and just saw anything I could see . The chicken coop sequence was uproarious and I found the waterfall sequence with the nude teenagers quite beautiful . I haven't seen this film since 1978 ( that's when it opened in the U . S . ) and I'm afraid to . I don't think it will live up to my memories . Still , if you get a chance , I do recommend this movie .
Pretty good but overrated by some	Story about first year law students at Harvard Law School . Movie primarily focuses on James Hart ( Timothy Bottoms ) and his dealing with tyrannical law professor Charles Kingsfield ( John Houseman ) while romancing his daughter ( Lindsay Wagner ) . This is a good film but wildly over praised . The script is very good , it's well-directed and acted . . . but this tells me nothing more deep than other college movies . I always knew where this was going . Also the romance plot between Bottoms and Wagner is sort of ridiculous - - no way would she fall for him . And Bottoms looks horrible with a 70s Afro and mustache . Still this is worth seeing . It's very well written and ( partially ) directed in Cambridge MA ( where Havard Law School is ) which really gives the film a good shot of realism . Also the acting is good by almost everybody except for Wagner . She's very beautiful but lousy . Bottoms is just great but best of all is Houseman . He deservedly won a Best Supporting Actor Oscar for this role . This movie is just worth seeing for him . Also it was surprising to see how casually sex was treated in this picture - - but this was long before AIDS came around . So it is good and worth seeing - - but no masterpiece .
Pretty good - - but no masterpiece	The story takes place during the Depression . Con man Moses Pray ( Ryan O'Neal ) is unwillingly paired with young 9 year old Addie Loggins ( real life daughter Tatum ) who has lost both her parents . He tries to get rid of her thinking she's just a dumb kid . . . but Addie isn't and they form a partnership . This was a HUGE hit in 1973 and Tatum O'Neal won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress - - the youngest person ever to win an Academy Award . I liked it - - sort of . It's well-directed ( although director Peter Bogdonovich seems WAY too fond of long shots ) and is shot in beautiful black and white . It is well-acted ( Tatum in particular ) and Madeline Kahn is wonderful as Trixie Delight - - but I didn't find this very interesting . It was episodic and WAY too quiet and laid-back . The comedy wasn't that funny ( Tatum smoking and swearing was considered hysterical in the 1970s - - not now ) and the drama was just OK . I was mildly entertained . It's not bad - - just not great . I also give the movie credit for not turning soapy or sentimental at the end . Worth seeing but no great shakes . I give it a 7 .
Saw it only once in 1984 but I've never forgotten it	A poor rebellious high school kid named Johnny Rourke ( Aidan Quinn ) , from the wrong side of the tracks , falls in love with rich beautiful Tracey Prescott ( Daryl Hannah ) . She's attracted to him too but has a jealous jerk of a boyfriend ( Adam Baldwin ) and she can't date anyone who is poor and rebellious . Three guesses what happens next . There's absolutely nothing new here story wise but I saw it only once OVER 20 years ago and have never forgotten it . For one thing the acting is excellent . Quinn and Hannah really clicked together on screen . They also have two lengthy sex scenes where you get to see plenty of skin on both of them . ( Quinn does a quick full frontal ) The soundtrack really rocks too . I LOVED how they used " Kids in America " when Quinn and Hannah are " fighting " . Even though the story is completely predictable it moved pretty quickly and I was never bored . I especially loved the final scene ( I'm not gonna give it away ) . This movie should have made Quinn ( he's just incredible ) but didn't for some reason . If you can see it it's worth catching . Don't bother with the commercial TV print - - the steamy sex scenes are completely gone .
Holmes fights WWII	Sherlock Holmes ( Basil Rathbone ) and Dr . Watson ( Nigel Bruce ) have been hired by the British government to protect a Swiss scientist Dr . Franz Tobel ( William Post Jr . ) . He has a bomb that the British want to win the war . Unfortunately the evil Dr . Moriarty ( Lionel Atwill ) is working with the Nazis and will stop at nothing to get the doctor - - and his invention . Moving Sherlock Holmes to the 1940s sounded like a stupid idea but it does work for one reason - - Basil Rathbone . Arguably he is the BEST Sherlock Holmes ever put on the screen . He plays the character so well ( and accurately ) that it doesn't matter what era he's solving crimes . As for Nigel Bruce as Watson . . . everybody has problems with it . He plays Watson as a bumbling old fool . . . that is NOT the Watson of the books . You seriously wonder why Holmes puts up with him . Still , he does grow on you ( in a way ) . Then there's Atwill having a whale of a time playing Moriarty - - the discussions and battle of wits between him and Holmes are just great ! I've never liked Dennis Hoey as Inspector Lestrade - - he's such an idiot . Makes Watson look like a genius . And Post Jr . is pretty good as Tobel ( even though his accent amusingly keeps changing ! ) . This movie is done elaborately and runs only a little over an hour . Still , it does have it's slow spots and I never understood the secret code section . Still , worth catching if just for Rathbone and Atwill .
Funny , entertaining	Cute comedy about a novelist ( Claudette Colbert ) who meets a soldier ( John Wayne ) and realizes she loves him . There's more to it than that , but that's the bare bones of the plot . The movie moves quickly , is VERY funny and who knew John Wayne could do comedy so well ? Colbert beautiful and charming ( as always ) . There's also a few appearances from stars of that era . Bright , breezy . . . well worth seeing .
Another homoerotic horror film from David DeCoteau	The lead singer of a boy band is killed by his band members because he wants to reveal their " secret " . They cover up the killing and audition for a new lead singer . Their ultimate pick is Shawn Walker ( Coltin Scott ) . . . but he doesn't want it and finds out their secret . . . OK - - this isn't a good movie . Like other DeCoteau movies it has a bad script . The opening number clued me in that I was in trouble - - the song sucks and there's some hysterically bad " dancing " . Also these guys make other boy bands ( like N'Sync and the Backstreet Boys ) look like they have talent ! Also the auditions are painful to watch - - Scott gives the WORST one - - but they pick him ! The acting is ( with one exception ) dreadful . When Adrienne Barbeau gives the best performance you KNOW something is wrong ! Ryan Starr ( as Walkers girlfriend ) is easily the worst offender . The film ( even at 80 min ) has endless padding full of bad songs , shots of the ocean and pointless dream sequences . Still I'm giving this a 7 . Why ? Cause I'm a gay guy and this film is full of strong homoerotic images - - the guys are good-looking and have nice bodies . DeCoteau is a gay man and he makes these films to appeal to a gay audience - - nothing wrong with that ! He also does throw in a few untalented , big-breasted women to assure us that these guys are straight - - but it's always clear who this film was made for . The best looking guys are Jeff Peterson ( who plays Jonah and actually gives a good performance ) and Scott - - and Scott definitely has the best body - - the sequence with him running around in black shorts shows this ! So this is a pretty bad film but most gay guys will be pleasantly entertained by the images .
No masterpiece but lots of fun !	Jessica Martin ( Kim Basinger ) is kidnapped from her house . They lock her in a dark , dusty attic - - it seems her husband did something and they need the information from her . All that's in the attic is a busted up phone . She frantically keeps connecting wires until she gets somebody's phone to ring . It's the cell phone of Ryan ( Chris Evans ) a 20 something guy . He agrees to help her get the kidnappers while keeping her on the line . The plot sounds kind of lame but it actually works . The movie has tons of twists and turns and almost never stops moving . Basinger is ( surprisingly ) very good . William H . Macy has a few good moments too as a cop and Jason Statham is downright horrifying as one of the main bad guys . But this is Evans ' movie all the way . He's very handsome and in great shape ( he's introduced with his shirt off to show his great body - - woof ! ) . He is also a very good actor and is convincing throughout the film . My only complaints are minor - - the story DOES have its dead spots and the villains are TOO violent - - Basinger is beaten up a LOT and it looks all too realistic . Still this is 99 % better than most of the crap churned out by Hollywood . So far this is the best Hollywood thriller of 2004 . Worth catching - - especially for gorgeous Evans .
Pretty good	Another of the Roger Corman / Vincent Price films based VERY loosely on three Edgar Allan Poe tales . The first is " Morella " where a dying girl comes to visit her father ( Price ) and find out why he abandoned her as a child . It has to do with her mother ( Morella ) and her death . Well-done but it doesn't make a lot of sense . " The Black Cat " is about a man ( Peter Lorre ) finding out his wife is cheating on him with someone else ( Price ) . It's pretty good but Lorre's acting turns it into a comedy more than a horror story . " The Case of M . Valdemar " has an evil mesmerist ( Basil Rathbone ) keeping a man's spirit alive while his body wastes away . Well-done with a pretty gruesome ending . Basically this a good anthology of horror stories . They're well-produced , well-acted and written . Just don't expect them to be anything like the Poe tales ( especially " Morella " ) . GREAT liberties have been taken with the stories - - they just use them as a starting point and build on it . Also try to see it letter-boxed - - the pan and scan TV version is pretty terrible . I give it a 7 .
Scared the hell out of me the first time I saw it	Four dangerous psychopaths ( two played by Jack Palance and Martin Landau ) easily escape from an asylum run by a VERY liberal doctor ( Donald Pleasance ) during a blackout . They proceed to terrorize a doctor ( Dwight Schultz ) , his wife , their little daughter , the doctor's sister ( who is on the verge of a nervous breakdown ) and a stranger . And the electricity is out , the phone lines are cut and the house is completely isolated . . . I saw this in a theatre in 1982 and it scared me silly . It had me jumping and two sequences ( one involving a baby sitter on a bed and the other with blood dripping on a woman's face ) had me cringing . Seeing it over 20 years later , it's not as scary but still is an above average horror film . The film moves quickly , there are nice directorial touches from Jack Sholder ( who went on to direct " Nightmare on Elm Street 2 " ) and it has an above average cast - - Pleasance seems a little embarrassed but Palance is good and Landau is clearly enjoying himself . There are quite a few scary moments , a good spooky score and the final half hour is an all out assault on the family . Also it's pretty restrained in terms of gore . But there are huge gaps in logic which I didn't notice the first time and I really did not need a sequence where it is insinuated that a little girl has been molested . Also the young girl of the family is the most annoying little brat I've ever seen - - I was desperately hoping she'd get knocked senseless just to shut her up . And it really has no ending . Still , if you ignore the plot holes this film really can work on you . Best seen at night , in a dark room . . . and all alone : )
Great while watching but . . .	I had a lot of unanswered questions afterwords . M . Night Shyamalan is a great visual director . . . there are some beautiful shots here . But with plots . . . Farmer Graham Hess ( Mel Gibson ) finds gigantic , interconnected circles in his cornfield . His brother Merrill ( Joaquin Phoenix ) and Graham's two children ( Rory Culkin , Abigail Breslin ) think there's something supernatural going on . Graham disagrees . . . until things start getting real scary . Also Graham keeps having nightmares about his dead wife who died in a car accident and made him give up being a pastor . . . SPOILERS AHEAD ! ! ! ! ! The film is very creepy and eerie in the first half ( the first full view of the aliens made me jump and the pantry sequence ! ) but drops the ball in the second half . For one thing , you think it's an alien invasion story but it turns into a story about faith . The aliens are just there as a plot device ! Also giving us long shots of the aliens was not a good idea - - it's very clear that they're guys in rubber suits . Still , it did scare me occasionally . MORE SPOILERS ! ! ! ! But , afterwords , I had a lot of questions . Why do the aliens ( who can be killed by water ) attack a planet that is water ? Why do they attack in the first place ( there's something about harvesting people . . . what does that mean ? ) ? One alien is locked inside a pantry and can't get out ? ? ? ? Also how exactly are they defeated at the end ( we're not told ) ? These are nagging questions that I couldn't shake off . And the film is quiet . . . way too quiet at times . And the faith story is awkwardly handled . The acting doesn't help . Gibson is blank-faced the entire time and Culkin and Breslin are terrible . Phoenix tries but the slow pace and insistence on quiet drags him down . So , it's worth seeing . . . if you don't think about it afterwords .
Can't say I liked it	First of , I LOVED the first two movies . Well-written , beautifully directed with eye-popping special effects and never boring ( despite their length ) . Well . . . it doesn't hold true for this one . Yes - - the direction is good , the special effects still fantastic . . . but I was bored . It had an air of " been there - - seen that " about it . I've seen these special effects , I've seen these creatures . . . there were no surprises . And the story moves VERY slowly . . . much slower than the first two . Frodo , Sam and Gollum's trip to Mount Doom took FOREVER ! Also Viggo Mortensen ( after giving a good performance in the second one ) really was lousy this time around . Orlando Bloom and John Rhys-Davies were good but hardly in it . The best acting was from Ian McKellan ( a tower of strength as Gandalf ) and Sean Astin as Sam . Also it was good to see Liv Tyler and Cate Blanchett back again . . . and I DID enjoy the battles somewhat . . . but I was continuously looking at my watch . And the film has at least FIVE endings ! Also the tone of this film was darker than the first two and this film is WAY too violent for a PG-13 - - this is an R rating all the way . I can only give this a 7 . I just really didn't like it .
Good Carpenter movie - - his first for TV	Leigh Michaels ( Lauren Hutton ) moves into a beautiful apartment building in LA . She also gets a new job , makes friends with lesbian coworker Sophie ( Adrienne Barbeau ) and makes a new boyfriend with charming Paul Winkless ( David Birney ) . But she starts getting threatening phone calls and letters by a man who seems to know her every move . Sophie and Paul try to help her but they can't and it seems he's getting more and more dangerous . A good movie for Capenter that's obviously made for TV - - there are blackouts every 20 minutes or so . It's not as good as " Halloween " but how could it be ? It's more like Hotchcock's " Rear Window " than anything else . It's well-directed by Carpenter with a few nicely placed scenes that will make you jump . The script is very good too with believable characters and a fairly intricate plot . Also it's unusual that Carpenter got a lesbian character in the movie . There's nothing wrong with that at all - - it was just a fairly gutsy move for a 1978 TV movie . Hutton is surprisingly very good in her role . You slowly see her character crumble under the pressure . Barbeau is also excellent in her role . Only Birney is off - - he seems a little uncomfortable in his role . Still this is a good suspense film from Carpenter . Well worth catching .
Not that good but it works	Stefano ( Lino Capolicchio ) goes to Venice to visit his brother - - priest Don Paolo ( Craig Hill ) . While there certain people are being murdered for no rhyme or reason . Also Don Paolo is getting letters threatening his life . Plot wise there's nothing new here . You've seen these characters ( and situations ) in giallos of the past . Also Capolicchio and Stefania Casini ( playing his blank girlfriend Sandra ) are pretty terrible actors . We're supposed to identify with them but they don't come across at all . And , of course , there's the obligatory pointless sex scene and a long trip through the canals that leads to nothing . Still this works . The cinematography here is just great - - virtually every shot here takes your breath away . Hill is very good as Don Paolo - - more of him could only have helped the movie . There's also a great score by the group Goblin - - almost as good as the one for " Suspiria " . The ending is effective too . So - - it's no great shakes but you could do worse . See a wide screen print . I give it a 7 .
Spooky little psychological thriller	June Allyson can't accept stepmom Cluadette Colbert and ( after her father dies ) , begins to lose touch with reality . A very eerie film . . . sometimes seems more like a horror film . The performances are excellent ( especially Allyson and Colbert ) and it looks fantastic . The psychology is a bit dated , but the film still works . Not for everybody , but worth seeing .
The Latino Dracula	Shot the same time as the English version of Dracula , this Spanish version was shot on the same sets during the night . Some people consider this superior to the English version . In SOME ways it is . The English version was badly directed by Tod Browning . . . but it was Browning's first sound film . His direction ( which was great in the silents ) suffers from having to have the actors speak into concealed microphones . Also the camera seems rooted to the spot . The Spanish version however was exceptionally well-directed . The camera moves and the director seems very at ease with using sound . Also the first appearance of Dracula in the English version was badly handled - - in the Spanish one it's actually very good and a little frightening ! Also we find out the fate of Lucia ( Lucy ) in this one . And the plots with Renfield and Eva ( Mina ) are more fleshed out . And Pablo Alvarez Rubio gives a good performance as Reinfield . AND the girls wear more revealing nightgowns : ) But that's about it . This film is VERY slow ( it runs 25 minutes longer than the other ) and the acting isn't that good . The man playing van Helsing overacts ( badly ) and Barry Norton and Lupita Tovar are just OK as Eva and Juan . But Carlos Villatias is all wrong as Dracula . He tries but he can't carry the role . His villainous looks are actually rather silly and he totally lacks the screen presence of Lugosi . If that had teamed this director with the English cast there might have been a GREAT movie . But , unfortunately , it didn't happen . I do give this a 7 though .
Pretty good	Sherlock Holmes ( Basil Rathbone ) and Dr . Watson ( Nigel Bruce ) are hired by Roland Carstairs to travel with him and his mother on a train from England to Edinburgh . His mother is in possession of the Star of Rhodesia - - an expensive and beautiful diamond - - and Roland wants to make sure Holmes is there to protect it . In short order Roland is murdered and the Star is stolen . Holmes has to figure out who on the railway car killed him and stole the diamond . One of the better Holmes & Watson movies done for Universal . It moves VERY quick ( it runs under an hour ) and has a very ingenious plot . To be honest I had guessed who had done it before it was revealed - - but I still didn't know why . Rathbone is excellent as Holmes and Bruce unfortunately plays Watson as an idiot - - BUT he surprisingly does help quite a bit in getting the killer at the end . The acting is pretty good by everybody else if a little broad ( we're to suspect all of them so they ALL act suspicious ) . Unfortunately we get the incredibly annoying Inspector Lestrade ( Dennis Hoey ) in this too . He's an even bigger idiot than Watson and his " comic " relief is downright painful . Still a fast-moving pretty good murder mystery . Perfect late-night viewing .
Good crime drama	Bank clerk Miles Cullen ( Elliott Gould ) is robbed at the bank by psycho Harry Reike ( Christopher Plummer ) . Cullen uses the robbery as a cover to take a few thousand dollars for himself . But Reike discovers that and wants it for himself . What follows is a cat and mouse game between Cullen and Reike with a few twists and turns . Well-made suspense movie . It's well-directed and scored but the script has problems . Some of the twists and turns are predictable ( I know who Celine Lomez's character was from almost the get go ) and improbable . Also the female characters played by Lomez and Susannah York are totally wasted . They're just there to play the women for the men to use . This film belongs to Plummer and Gould . Gould is just OK . I never thought he was much of an actor and this doesn't change my mind . Plummer however was just great . He plays the character to perfection . He may act cool and confident on the outside but you see the rage and violence inside him . When it comes out you believe every moment of it . And wait till you see him at the end ! Also there are bursts of pretty graphic violence that seem out of place . So I did like this movie but it was far from great . This was ignored at the time of its release and still remains unknown . Worth a look . Also interesting to see John Candy in a small role at the bank .
Slow and depressing but worth seeing for Lemmon	This is about a dress manufacturer named Harry Stoner ( Jack Lemmon ) . He hates his job and has to pimp out for people just to get them to buy his outfits . He's even considering arson to cover up some mistakes . He misses his youthful life and wants to go back to a time when things were easier and quieter . This isn't a plot driven movie - - it's more of a character study than anything else . It's a slow movie and I found the observations in the script pretty obvious ( but they may not have been in 1972 ) . Also it's depressing seeing what Stoner has to do to succeed . This would probably be unbearable to watch if the acting weren't so good . Lemmon rightfully won a Best Actor Oscar for this . He's just incredible ! You see him struggling to survive and dreaming about the good old days . Jack Gilford matches him as a business associate . In fact he was nominated for Best Supporting Actor - - but didn't win . Also Thayer Davis is just wonderful in his two short scenes as Charlie Robbins . He doesn't move a muscle on his face but you can't stop watching him . This is not for everybody . It's slow and bleak with very little of a plot - - also it bombed in theatres . But , for acting alone , this is a must-see . I give it a 7 .
Not as bad as I heard	What's the problem ? This film is no classic , but it's not the disaster critics have been calling it . WARNING : Possible spoilers ahead ! ! ! ! Winona Ryder discovers that Ben Chaplin will play host to the Devil , become the Anitchrist and take over the world . Can it be stopped . . . and how ? This is a very odd horror film for 2000 - - there's next to no blood , no gore , no extreme violence and only a few well-placed shocks . ( How it got the R rating is beyond me ) . It's easy to see why New Line didn't release it for a year - - it's not a typical horror movie . What it is , is very well-made , creepy , exceptionally well-directed ( by Janusz Kaminski ) and a great performance by Winona Ryder . The film isn't perfect - - it's sometimes hard to follow , the ( purposely ) grainy and drained of color look of the film wears on you and Chaplin gives out a pretty bad performance . He's stated in interviews that he didn't want to do the movie - - he only did it because Ryder asked him . Unfortunately , his reluctance shows . Still , the movie is a near-perfect example of quiet horror - - it creeps up on you slowly and leads to a downbeat ( in a way ) conclusion . Again , why are people saying the ending was so stupid ? I thought it ended perfectly ! So , it's no classic but not a disaster . I gave it a 7 . Worth catching .
Very colorful - - perfect for kids	Musical retelling of " A Christmas Carol " . The film looks fantastic and Albert Finney is great as Scrooge . The kids should love it , but there are some scary scenes that may frighten very young kids , so use caution . Adults will probably be a little bored . For one thing , Alec Guinness is in it as a ghost and looks absolutely miserable . You can tell he hates being in this movie and it gets depressing to watch him . Also , the story is VERY familar , the music is completely forgettable along with dreadful lyrics ( but I did like " Thank You Very Much " ) and the ending goes on forever . What kept me watching was Finney's performance and the film looks absolutely beautiful - - rich color with beautiful scenery and costumes . So , worth seeing , but be prepared to sit through some really dreadful songs .
Powerful but disjointed	Be warned - - there are spoilers all throughout the review . Somewhat fictionalized biography of 1930s film actress Frances Farmer played by Jessica Lange . It follows her stormy relationship with her mother ( Kim Stanley ) and her wrongful institutionalizations . I've read Farmer's autobiography " Will There Ever Be A Morning " and this movie plays hard and loose with the facts . It throws in Harry York ( Sam Shepard ) a totally fictional character and make him the narrator . It also gives Farmer a love interest ( which isn't needed ) . It also has her hating the 1936 movie " Come and Get It " - - in reality she loved that film . It does show correctly how badly she was treated in Hollywood but REALLY drops the ball when she in an institution . The book goes into gruesome and harrowing detail over how she and other inmates were treated - - the movie cuts it down to maybe 15 minutes . Also they sanitize it a lot . And the lobotomy shown never happened - - she did not spend the rest of her life as some zombie . So , as a factual biography of Farmer its WAY off base . As a movie it's not too great either . It's flatly directed and the story skips around all over the place . Also Farmer's self-destructive tendencies are never really explored - - far too much time is spent working on her relationship with York . On the plus side there are impressive recreations of 1930s and 40s New York and Hollywood . What makes this worth seeing is the acting . No one is bad but Lange and Stanley are just superb ( both were nominated for Oscars for this ) . Stanley plays the " loving , caring " mother role to the hilt - - you see the darkness in her that she tries to cover up . Lange just explodes in this one . She later said playing Frances almost killed her - - you can tell ! Her screaming and rage comes roaring off the screen as well as her confusion and vulnerability . A truly great performance - - she deserved the Award for this not " Tootsie " . So it's worth seeing for the acting but don't look for a factual bio on Farmer . For that read her book . I give this a 7 .
Not that bad	I was expecting a truly dreadful horror film judging by the reviews . It's no classic , but it wasn't the bomb I was expecting . It's about a young man ( Kerr Smith ) driving a car from CA to FL . He's told not to pick up hitch hikers . Naturally he does ( Brendan Fehr ) . The next thing he knows , he's being chased by a gang of blood thirsty vampires . The vampires are called the Forsaken and have a real stupid origin ( which I won't get into ) . The film moves very quickly , I jumped twice and it's occasionally VERY gory . Unfortunately the film also has tons of misogyny ( all the female characters are monsters , victims or sex objects ) and tons of gratuitous nudity ( all female of course - - in one particularly repulsive scene a very ill girl is stripped practically nude to find the bite marks on her ) . Those scenes are unpleasant and not necessary . Still , the acting is not bad ( Smith and Fehr work well with each other ) and the direction is nice and flashy . So . . . no great movie but never dull - - if only the female characters had been treated more respectfully !
Must be seen in the Cinerama format	Fictionalized ( ? ) account of the brothers Grimm ( Laurence Harvey and Karl Boehm ) - - their lives and loves . Three of their fairy tales are dramatized . " The Dancing Princess " stars Russ Tamblyn , Jim Backus and Yvette Mimieux . It's cute but there's a dance sequence that goes on much too long . However there is a long coach ride which makes full use of the three screens in Cinerama and provides some fantastic scenery ( even on TV ) . " The Cobbler and the Elves " stars Harvey and includes a little Puppetoon ( stop motion animation ) sequence . It's OK for the kids . " The Singing Bone " has Terry-Thomas and Buddy Hackett fighting a very bad stop-motion animation dragon . As with the first two , it will appeal to kids . This film must be seen in the Cinerama format - - that was a short-lived process in which three screens were used to project a full picture along with three projectors running . The triple screens are used effectively all throughout the film - - I can't imagine this working in a pan & scan format . Luckily , Turner Classic Movies always shows it in that format . It's perfect family entertainment except for a few minor quibbles - - at 129 minutes it's a bit too long ; there are too many ( bad ) songs ; the dances could be cut and the stop-motion animation is stunningly bad . Still , it's beautiful to look at , the cast is very good ( except for Boehm ) and the whole picture has a playful quality about it . Also I've never seen Laurence Harvey so animated and full of life ! Worth catching - - in wide screen only .
Purportedly based on a true story ( I have my doubts )	Ivanhoe Martin ( Jimmy Cliff ) lives in Jamaica . He goes to the big city to become a singer . However he gets his song taken ( for $200 . 00 ) by an unscrupulous record producer and ends up selling marijuana . When he shoots three policeman dead he becomes sort of a hero . . . and his record starts selling . This was a HUGE cult movie in the 1970s and 80s . At one art cinema in Cambridge Massachusetts it played OVER 10 YEARS as a midnight movie ! I tried to see it there back in the 1980s but had to leave after 15 minutes . Quite a few people were smoking pot openly in the theatre ( Ah ! The 80s ! ) and the smell was terrible . I finally caught it in the 1990s and I honestly can't see what all the fuss is about . It's not a terrible movies ( I'm giving it a 7 ) but it's no great shakes . It's crudely made with terrible acting , a predictable story and dialogue that's almost impossible to understand ( due to the strong Jamaican accents most of the cast has ) . This film also introduced ( I think ) reggae to America . The songs are great and Cliff really belts them out . Unfortunately there's only two or three songs and they're repeated again and again and AGAIN ! The direction is good for such a low budget movie . So - - I didn't hate it but I honestly can't see why people kept seeing this over and over . If it's just for the music they could have bought the album .
Odd French horror film	In 18th century France , Gregoire de Fronsac ( Samuel Le Bihan ) and his Indian companion Mani ( Mark Dacascos ) try to capture a beast which is killing people in a remote village . That's the main plot , but there are many others thrown in . Among the elements put in - - a love story ; politics ( LOTS of it ) ; racism ; incest ; rape ; murder ; gratuitous female nudity and kick-boxiing ! A few of the fight scenes would not be out of place in a Jackie Chan movie . SPOILERS AHEADBasically , this film is all over the map . . . way too much . The film tries to cover too much material ( and characters ) , it runs over 2 hours and there are HUGE plot holes ( the explanation of the beast makes no sense and one character is killed and then brought back to life , yet we're never told how or why ! ) . On the plus side it is well done and Dacascos ' Mani is a very interesting , complex character ( as Dacascos is a good actor , is very handsome and has a great body ) . Le Bihan is OK as Fronsac . Also Monica Bellucci is on hand looking great , giving a wonderful performance and really boosting the movie . So , it's too long , too serious , too plot-heavy but somewhat worth seeing for the fight scenes , the beast ( which is incredible ) , Dacascos and Bellucci .
For Drew Barrymore fans	A VERY predictable story ( girl who was an ugly duckling goes back to high school undercover years later , meets and falls in love with her high school sweetheart . . . ) done pretty well . You're always two steps ahead of the plot , but it's pretty well-acted ( with the sole exception of David Arquette - - God , is he annoying ) and never really dull . But it's a great movie if you're a Drew Barrymore fan ( like me ) . She gives out a terrific performance and makes her character warm and believable . My only big complaint is the ending . The movie should have wrapped up everything at the prom - - the ending at Shea Stadium was VERY anticlimatic . That aside though , I enjoyed it .
A strange John Woo film	I liked this film a lot , but I was constantly having to remind myself it was a John Woo film . Yeah , there are explosions , gunfights , violence , etc . etc . but it's all kept reasonably tame ( for Woo at least ) . The movie was funny and charming - - nothing like you'd expect from one of his films . Worth watching , but Yun-Fat ( sp ? ) should stick to drama - he was overacting WAY too much in this one when he tried to be funny .
I'm giving it a 7 but this is WAY overrated	Some critics have been raving to the high heavens about this film . It's about a bunch of misfits who go to a summer camp which teaches dancing , singing and acting . As the summer progresses they all bond and become stronger . . . . sigh . This has been done hundreds of times before and this movie adds nothing to the old formula . The plots are very trite and predictable . There was one at the end ( about the alcoholic teacher who " finds " himself ) that was so old that I couldn't believe I was seeing it in a 2003 film . Also characters appear and disappear with no warning ( who WAS that handsome Latino boy who was buddy buddy with Michael in one scene ) and some of the performances were either overdone ( some of the gay boys were doing everything but lisping ) or pretty bad ( Daniel Letterle is VERY handsome - - but he can't act and he grins way too much ) . So why am I giving it a 7 ? There is some good acting ( Joanna Chilcoat and Robin de Jesus are standouts ) and the musical numbers . These kids can REALLY belt out songs and the dancing is incredible . Those musical numbers alone make the film worth seeing . But director Graff really doesn't know how to shoot some numbers - - some of the quick cuts in one number were really annoying . So - - it's worth seeing for the dancing and singing . . . not for the cliched story and some lousy acting .
Dated but OK	A look at teenage life and love ( and sex ) circa 1980 in California . I loved this film back when it came out . I graduated from high school in 1980 , so I knew these characters and the movie treated teenagers realistically and was well-acted and funny . It was a rare Hollywood film that showed true-to-life teenagers . 20 years later I still like it's honesty but I don't find it funny anymore and it's actually kind of boring . Also the approach to sex is very naive ( the pre AIDS talk is very uncomfortable to sit through ) . There are some sex scenes but not many . Supposedly there were a lot more shot but they were cut before the movie was released . What saves this film is the great soundtrack ( starts right off with the Go-Gos " We Got the Beat " ) and some very nice , natural performances from Jennifer Jason Leigh , Phoebe Cates and Judge Reinhold . However , Robert Romanus ( playing the school scalper ) is ugly and gives out a horrible performance . The best scenes in the film belong to Sean Penn ( as Jeff Spicoli , a constantly stoned teenager ) and Ray Walston ( as Mr . Hand a very tough teacher ) . Their verbal battles are hilarious and definitely worth catching . So , it's an OK film on late 70s / early 80s teen life .
VERY frustrating movie	Sleepwalkers are creatures who drain the life force completely out of humans to survive . . . but they can only use virgins ( it's not explained why ) . Charles Brady ( Brian Krause ) is one such who needs to feed his mother Mary ( Alice Krige ) . He goes after likable Tanya ( Madchen Amick ) . Will she escape ? On one hand this is a GREAT horror film . Fast-paced , plenty of blood and gore and a nice , twisted sense of humor . There are plenty of in joke references for horror buffs ( Castle Rock is mentioned once ) . Also Krause is excellent ( who would have thought he could act after " Return to the Blue Lagoon " ) as is Kirge and Amick . But I find this film annoying . It was written for the screen by Stephen King and it's maddeningly vague . The sleepwalkers are never fully explained . Where are they from ? Why are they called that ? Why does the son have to feed the mother ? Why do cats hate them and can kill them ? What are their powers after all ( at one point Krause makes a car disappear AND change color and style ! ) ? Why do they need to feed off peoples ' life force ? Why does it have to be only virgins ? Why is the son having sex with his mom ? None of these are explained leaving the story confusing . It's really too bad because , those questions aside , this is an excellent horror film . Excellent makeup and special effects too . Fast , gory and lots of fun . If only the script were better . Also a fairly explicit sex scene between Krause and Krige was edited ( you can tell ) to get an R rating . I can only give this a 7 .
One of the first caper films - - and one of the best	Four men plan a daring robbery in France . Everything goes well until one of the robbers does something real stupid and things fall apart quickly and violently . A film noir caper film shot on a shoe string budget in France . It's very well-done and acted and ( for its time ) extremely violent . My only complaint is that it goes on too long ( a little over 2 hours ) and the plot seems so familar - - but that's because many later , inferior films stole from this . Nonetheless , this is a must see .
Camp classic	Hilarious mess based on a Harold Robbins novel . It starts in 1945 in the ( fictional ) South American city of Corteguay . A young boy named Dax sees his dog shot dead in front of him . Then he sees his mother stabbed to death and his sister raped and murdered . He then shoots to death several men responsible . He goes to another place and everybody there gets murdered too ! This is all in the first 20 minutes - - and the film runs three hours ! Eventually Dax escapes to Rome with his father . He grows up and is played by that international star ( cough cough ) Bekim Fehmiu . The rest of the film follows him through his life and his frequent sexual couplings and desire to help Corteguay . Wow - - what a disaster ! To say this is bad is putting it mildly . It's incredibly stupid but keeps throwing in so much sex , nudity and violence that you're never bored . Some of the things here are so badly done they boggle the mind . At one point Dax is romancing a young woman ( Candice Bergen looking so young and beautiful ) but the montage of the two of them falling in love is so clichd it's hilarious . Then there's the scene where they first make love - - with actual fireworks bursting overhead ! There's a hospital scene between the two of them that was so stupid I actually laughed out loud ! There's a fashion show about two hours in that's a real eye popper . Most of the dialogue sounds ( and looks ) badly overdubbed . Old pros Ernest Borgnine , John Ireland and Olivia deHavilland are shamefully wasted but still manage to give good performances despite the script . Leading man Fehmiu is ( to put it mildly ) a bad actor . He's totally expressionless throughout the whole movie . He's also ugly and not in good shape at all . There are a few good things about this movie . The location shooting in Rome and South America is just great - - there's some beautiful locations and cinematography here . Fehmiu aside everyone else gives pretty good performances . There's also some cool battle sequences too . As a serious movie this is a disaster . But , as camp , it's a laugh a minute ! This was originally R rated mostly for the frequent female nudity . It was reissued a few years after its initial release and was cut to get a PG . The DVD says it's the PG version but it's not . The PG version runs 170 minutes - - the R rated runs 177 minutes and that's the one on the DVD . Worth catching for laughs .
Not great but I liked it	A pretty good cop show by Steven Bochco . It got a lot of controversy at the time because the pilot show had ( for TV ) a pretty graphic scene where a man gets shot in the head . It started out with fairly good ratings but slowly sank till it was canceled . It was was no masterpiece but people kept comparing it to " NYPD Blue " which was a better show - - there was no way they could compete . Still it was well-acted and written - - I especially liked Jon Tenney as one of the main characters . Towards the end ( in a desperate attempt to get higher ratings ) they had an episode where Tenney showed his butt and publicized it a LOT . Unfortunately it didn't save the show . So , a pretty good show that deserved a better chance .
Ahead of its time	A satire on soap operas dealing with a VERY strange housewife named Mary Hartman ( Louise Lasser ) and her heavily dysfunctional family and friends . It dealt with homosexuality , alcoholism , wife beating , drug abuse , rape , murder ALL done with a comic twist . Most TV shows wouldn't touch those subjects - - but this one did . This was considered very strong material for its time . It usually played during the afternoon hours but parents were horrified that their children were being subjected to this . Personally I was 14 when it started - - I just found it funny and not even remotely shocking . It was moved to late night ( 11 : 30 ) in most areas on the country . It had a successful run for a few years until creator Norman Lear decided to end it . There was a final episode that tied together all the loose ends . In terms of subject matter this was extreme . . . but its also very much of its time . The show didn't get too controversial ( two gay characters were only allowed to talk to each other - - no kissing or hugging ) and the off the wall humor kept giving the show a light touch . So it was ahead of its time - - but today it comes across as pretty slow and dated . The humor seems pretty silly now and the subject matter isn't even remotely extreme anymore . TV Land tried to revive it a few years ago and it didn't work . So - - it did help push the boundaries of what could be shown and talked about on TV but , unfortunately , it doesn't age well .
Silly but fun	Short about the employees of the Homey Foamy Washing Machine factory wanting to put on a show . The boss doesn't want it but they try to get a Broadway producer to support them . Mixed up in this is a romance between factory worker Tom ( Kenny Stevens ) and the boss ' daughter Martha ( Doris Weston ) . The story is old , some of the acting is dreadful and it was made on next to no budget but this is still an enjoyable musical short from MGM . Stevens and Weston are young , good-looking and so full of life and energy that it's hard not to like them . And when Steven sings this is just great ! The man had a beautiful voice and the songs , while corny , were enjoyable . No unsung masterpiece but a silly , short and fun little movie . I give it a 7 .
Brutal but a landmark	A young man ( played by director / writer Kenneth Anger ) is gay and goes to pick up sailors . But the sailors attack him and ( maybe ) kill him . That's about it . I saw this at a gay cinema class many years ago . I hated it from beginning to end . The print was in terrible shape and the explicit violence and blood was horrific . It was just reissued in a brand new print with commentary by Anger . I respect it a little more now . Like it or not this is a landmark in gay cinema . The sailors are sexualized more than a little and some of the imagery is striking . The director explained this all came to him in a dream which accounts for the lack of story . I still find the fact that his character is beaten by sailors quite disturbing - - but this was shot in 1947 . So I can't say I like it but it has its place in gay cinema . I'm giving it a 7 but that's mostly for its historical status .
Good , could have been great	It's a mystery to me why this film sat on the shelf for 5 years . It's no masterpiece , but it's colorful and entertaining . The songs are beautiful and well performed by ALMOST the entire cast . The story is interesting but gets confusing at the half-way point - - I'm assuming it's because of the 15 minutes cut out of the original print . Unfortunately there's one huge problem with the movie - - Joey McIntyre . He can sing OK , but sounds bad compared to everyone else . And his acting is horrendous ! At one point he's trying to be romantic with his girlfriend on a porch bench - - he was so bad the audience I had was in hysterics by the end of the scene . Also , he's not good-looking at all ( sorry ! ) and just unbelievable . Without him this might have been a great musical . Sadly , it just misses the mark . Still worth seeing though .
Silly but energetic	SPOLIERS AHEAD ! ! ! A bunch of guys ( including Kevin Costner , Kurt Russell , Christian Slater , David Arquette ) rob a casino dressed as Elvis ' . Too bad Costner is a psycho - - he kills Arquette and Slater and tries to kill Russell . Unfortunately , Russell survives , gets the money and goes on the run ( with Cortney Cox and her annoying son ) with Costner in hot pursuit . The plot is predictable and silly with huge gaps in logic , but the film works . The acting is good especially Cox and ( surprisingly ) Costner - - he's very good and convincing as a psycho . The direction is flashy , the movie moves quickly and there are some neat twist and turns . Only real complaint is Cox's son - - the kid is annoying and I spent most of the movie hoping he'd get blown away . So , a quick , silly , violent , fun film .
Brutal	Grim horror story about two strange sisters - - Brigette ( Emily Perkins ) and Ginger ( Katharine Isabelle ) . They're very close - - too close ! Their relationship got really creepy . Then Ginger is attacked by a werewolf and starts becoming one herself . Brigette wants to protect her and cure her , but then Ginger starts killing people . . . Dead serious horror film from Canada . Well made with tons of blood and gore . . . I'm surprised ( and pleased ) that this got an R rating . Cool werewolves too . This is an unusual horror film . There are no jokes , very little humor and the attack scenes are strong ( this is NOT for weak stomaches ) and there's an overall very depressing atmosphere . Also good acting by the entire cast , especially Perkins , Isabelle and Kris Lemche - - a real cute guy who tries to help the girls . Strong stuff but a good film for horror fans especially . This was barely released theatrically in the US . It's well worth searching out in video or DVD .
Pretty good , gory little movie	Adam ( Eric Jungmann ) and obnoxious best friend Harley ( Justin Urich ) are driving cross country to a wedding . Along the way they pick up sexy hitchhiker Sarah ( Aimee Brooks ) . Then , for no reason , a monster truck keeps trying to run them off the road . . . and maybe kill them . Who is doing this and why ? Pretty good horror film . Its energetic and full of flashy direction which gets you right into the action . It's also a horror comedy . Most of the humor is infantile and REALLY gross but actually somewhat funny . Also this movie really piles on the gore at times - - but that's a GOOD thing ! The acting is OK - - Jungmann overplays his nerd role a bit much ; Urich is stuck with the hopeless role of the foul-mouthed , sex-obsessed best friend - - but pulls it off ; Brooks is good too in a limited role . BUT I could see the " twist " ending coming long before it happened and logic totally disappears at the end ( especially the rescue ) . Still , this is a gory , sometimes funny and sometimes scary horror movie . I give it a 7 .
Good	Interesting movie of super-rich James Coburn trying to find out who accidentally killed his wife Sheila . He gets the 6 most likely suspects and invites them for a weekend of " games " . But the games are cruel and someone turns up dead . Then this turns into a whodunit . The script is fantastic ( written by Anthony Perkins ( ! ) and Stephen Sondheim ( ! ! ) ) . The dialogue is believable and there are many ingenious twists and turns . There's also a great cast at their peak - - except for Raquel Welch and Dyan Cannon . Both are incredibly beautiful but Welch has never been good and Cannon is way too loud and shrill . Keeps you guessing to the very end . Also it's fun to see James Coburn enjoying himself in a role . And it all ends with a Bette Midler song !
Creaky but somewhat fun silent film	An old man ( Cyrus West ) dies accusing his relatives of hovering over him - - like cats over a canary . 20 years after his death his relatives get together as his will is read in his creepy mansion on a dark and windy night at midnight ( of course ) . One person gets all the money and estate - - unless they are proved insane . And how about the escaped lunatic from the nearby asylum . . . ? This is probably one of the first ( if not THE first ) movie about the reading of the will , a dark and ( purportedly ) haunted house and people being murdered . Plotwise it's nothing new and contains some terribly unfunny " comedy " . Still it's worth catching . It's very well directed by Paul Leni ( the juxtaposing of images was clever ) and he has fun with the title cards ( see how " HELP ! " is done ) . The acting is a little bit overdone ( but that's common in silent films ) and star Laura La Plante is pretty good . I saw the restored print ( which is still in pretty bad shape ) and it has an excellent music score that helps too . So , worth catching . No great shakes though .
Strange and quirky doesn't even begin to cover this one	Phillip Marlowe ( Elliott Gould ) is a washed out private investigator in California . One night old friend Terry Lennox ( Jim Bouton ) asks for a quick ride to Tijuana . Marlowe agrees then gets caught up in a VERY complex plot involving sexy Nina van Pallandt , alcoholic Sterling Hayden and violent hood Mary Rydell . The plot is WAY too complicated to get into . Odd take by Robert Altman on Phillip Marlowe . He changes the story drastically . He moves it from the 1940s to the 1970s - - yet Marlowe dresses like the 40s and even drives a 40s car . He is rumpled , mumbling and run-down here . There's a security guard who does celebrity impersonations ( for no reason ) . Everybody talks strangely and the complex plot moves VERY quickly . It's never dull and it's beautifully directed . . . but I'm not quite sure what Altman's point is here . On one hand he seems to be doing a straight-forward ( albeit a little strange ) detective story - - on the other he seems to be making fun of Marlowe and his attempts . The tone of the film wavers uncomfortably between humor , violence and satire . I'm still not quite sure how to take this . The acting is great - - Gould is just wonderful - - probably his best performance ever ; van Pallandt is also very good ( interesting costumes - - VERY 70s ) ; Hayden yells and screams a lot ; Rydell is downright terrifying as a crime lord . Since it an Altman film there's pointless female nudity ( Marlowe's neighbors ) and a sick scene where a Coke bottle is smashed across a woman's face . It's also highly unbelievable - - no Coke bottle would break that easy . Also David Carradine and Arnold Schwarzenegger pop up in cameos ! A VERY odd movie and ( understandably ) a commercial failure but it's acquired a cult following . I'm not quite sure WHAT it's saying - - but I liked it - - sort of . I give it a 7 .
Not as good as the original - - just OK	On New Years Eve a HUGE ship called The Poseidon is hit by a tidal wave . It's turned completely upside down . A small group of survivors must work their way up to the bottom of the boat to escape . They're all stock characters - - the handsome , muscular hero ( Josh Lucas ) ; the older hero ( Kurt Russell ) ; his headstrong daughter ( Emmy Rossum ) ; her bland boyfriend ( Mike Vogel ) ; Latina stowaway ( Mia Maesno ) ; Latino waiter ( Eddie Rodriguez ) ; single mother ( Jacinda Barrett ) with an annoying son ( Jimmy Bennett ) and depressed gay guy ( Richard Dreyfuss ) . The " character " sequences are laugh out loud funny - - thankfully they are brief and there are few of them . The boat being capsized happens VERY early on and the rest is all narrow escapes , countless explosions , lots of screaming and a needlessly loud soundtrack . The special effects are just superb - - very believable and realistic . Still there's nobody to care for . There characters are all predictable and the actors really try to bring something to their parts - - but can't . Lucas and Rossum come closest to succeeding . Also , despite all the noise , this movie does have its dull spots . MAJOR SPOILER ! ! ! ! Maybe it's just me - - but is anyone else worried about the only two ethnic characters ( Rodriguez and Maestro ) being killed ? Rodriguez ' death is especially horrifying . Maybe I'm seeing too much into this but it bothered me . SPOILER END ! ! ! ! So - - pretty good . A turn off your brain to enjoy movie . I give it a 7 .
Sheesh ! That ENDING	The Harringtons are driving to a relatives house for Christmas . There's the father ( Ray Wise ) , mother ( Lin Shaye ) , obnoxious teenage son ( Mick Cain ) , daughter ( Alexander Holden ) and daughter's boyfriend ( Bill Asher ) . Then they almost crash and strange things start happening - - the road never ends and who IS that Lady in White ( Amber Smith ) who keeps appearing ? Starts off strong . The characters are very real - - not likable but you don't hate them either - - just like real people . Also there are two deaths in the movie where we never see the bodies - - but this works ! What I was imagining was a lot worse than anything they could have shown . Also there's the eerie setting and lots of impressive overhead shots of the car driving down the road surrounded by a forest . The acting is good too - - especially the always impressive Ray Wise . Good to see him headlining a movie . But it goes on too long . It starts to feel like an R-rated 30 minute " Twilight Zone " episode padded out to 80 minutes . It gets tiresome and repetitious and I was just watching to find out what was going on . A lot of people don't like this ending ( me too ) but really - - you're not going to find an ending to satisfy everyone . For what it is it's OK . It's worth seeing though despite the slow stretches and the ending . I give it a 7 .
Very familiar but OK	Rats eat corn which inexplicably is coated with steroids and grow into large rats with nasty tempers , huge teeth and seem even more intelligent . Science teacher Sam Groom and health official Sara Botsford find out and try to save the city ( carefully not named but it was filmed in Toronto ) . The plot is old hat but this is reasonably well done . The script is OK and the acting is pretty good ( especially Botsford ) . But what really makes me give this a 7 is the rats . Yes , I know they're dogs in rat suits but they look convincing and the scenes of them chasing victims are scary . Also the attack scenes ( especially the one in the theatre ) are vicious , bloody and very gory . So a worthwhile movie for horror fans - - especially those who like early 80s horror ( like me ) . But if rats bother you , stay far away from this !
Actually entertaining	Part of MGM's " Crime Does Not Pay " series of the 1940s - - they were all short films ( about 20-25 minutes ) showing crimes and how the criminal was brought to justice by police work . This one , obviously , deals with a hit and run driver . Driving drunk one night he accidentally hits two people and drives off leaving them to die . There are no witnesses and the two victims are in comas . We see very quickly , yet realistically , how the police gather enough evidence to identify the man and get him . Well-done on no budget with some very good acting from a no name cast . Worth seeing . You'll probably only see this between movies on TCM but it's worth catching . They have a great print and it's very interesting .
Starts off well but becomes predictable	Commerical artist Daisy Kenyon ( Joan Crawford ) is in love with married Dan O'Mara ( Dana Andrews ) . She wants him but realizes he'll never divorce his wife ( Ruth Warrick ) . She instead marries a man she doesn't love ( Henry Fonda ) to break it off with Dan completely . But things don't turn out all that well . . . This starts off as a very interesting Crawford movie . It's beautifully shot in a film noir style which gives an appropriate tone to the film . She plays a woman who wants to move ahead but can't because of her love for the wrong man . The direction is good , the dialogue sharp and the acting is great by Andrews ( never more romantic ) and Crawford ( never stronger ) . But it falls apart completely at the halfway mark and turns into a dreary romantic triangle . The ending especially was SO predictable it had me rolling my eyes . Still this is worth seeing for the direction and acting alone . Also there's a strong subplot dealing with child abuse ! So this is worth seeing . I give it a 7 .
Pretty good early Carpenter flick	A bunch of people ( a cop , 2 criminals and 2 women ) are trapped in an abandoned , isolated police station . Outside is a gang that is set on killing all of them . One of Carpenter's first films . It's not really a horror movie - - it's more of a thriller and a Western ( it's a direct homage to " Rio Bravo " ) . It's not a great movie - - the acting is bad and the dialogue is just horrendous . Also the opening 45 minutes are slow and clumsy . But when the attack begins the movie really kicks . The attacks are long , violent , exciting and more than a little scary . The gang members are never identified , never speak and are almost never shown - - they're always in shadow or darkness . This makes them all the more frightening . Also he used the idea of the faceless , never seen killer in his next film - - a little film called " Halloween " . The film is worth seeing just to see Carpenter's direction . Even back then he used the full frame of the movie screen very well ( this has to be seen letter boxed ) and he composed a very eerie score that fits the film perfectly . Look for a very young Kim Richards who plays a crucial role in the film . Worth seeing - - but no great shakes .
No masterpiece but OK	Meryl Streep is superb ( no surprise there ) as a violin teacher trying to teach inner city youths to play the violin . All the acting is good ( even the kids ! ) , the music is beautiful and the story doesn't shy away from the kids painful home life . One problem - - Streep plays the teacher a little too harsh - - she never seems to even LIKE the kids , so why is she teaching them ? Also the kids are never really shown falling in love with violin playing . I started wondering why they were doing it - - cause they were scared of Streep ? Still , I enjoyed the movie but director Wes Craven should really stick to horror movies . He's not too good at this type of movie .
A little creaky but worth catching	I never saw the 1925 silent so I won't compare them . A trio of circus performers - - a ventriloquist ( Lon Chaney ) , a midget ( Harry Earles ) and a strongman ( Ivan Linow ) leave the circus and , along with beautiful Rosie ( Lila Lee ) , turn to crime to get rich . But not everything turns out like they hoped . Lon Chaney's first talking film and , sadly , his last film . He died of cancer shortly after this was completed . Basically he's the whole show here . He was always a good actor who could change his appearance in incredible ways , but this movie showed he could change his voice too . He plays a old woman quite convincingly in this one . He overacts in all his roles but in a fun manner ( like Vincent Price ) . The rest of the actors are just OK with Earles being completely incomprehensible ! It's not his fault - - early sound recording was never good . The plot moves quick but it's full of highly unlikely events . Wait till you see the animal Chaney gets ! Still it's a good movie and worth seeing just to see Chaney in his only speaking - - and last - - movie .
If you liked the first one . . .	The five " lovable " morons from " American Pie " are back . This movie is about their first summer after freshman year in college . They all get together and rent a beautiful cottage to throw parties and have sex . Naturally supposedly hilarious sexual hijinks occur . I'm no fan of the first film ( I thought it was pretty sick and I don't find sexual humiliation funny ) , but this is actually better . The humor is toned down ( although Jason Biggs ' character gets in some pretty sick situations ) and I admit I laughed out loud a few times . It looks better than the first film and the performances are slightly ( only slightly ) better . Unfortunately the film is incredibly sexist ( no shock there ) and there's an ugly homophobic sequence . Still , I'd lie if I said I didn't enjoy myself . It's also kind of admirable for a sequel to actually tone down its raunchiness instead of trying to outdo the original . And Alyson Hannigan is absolutely wonderful ( again ) in this film . She was one of the sole saving graces in the first and is again . As for the guys - - Jason Biggs still can't act and seems destined to make a career out of being humiliated ; Seann William Scott is absolutely appalling and unfunny ; Chris Klein is given the thankless good guy role but pulls it off ; Thomas Ian Nicholas hardly registers and Eddie Kaye Thomas actually is a worse actor than Biggs and very annoying . So , if you like the first one you'll probably love this .
Enjoyable	Fun parody of 30s movies showing two " movies " ( they're actually only 50 minutes each ) done by Warren Bros . ( ha ha ) The first is " Dynamite Hands " with Harry Hamlin ( so young and full of life ) playing a boxer to save money to . . . well , the plot is familar . . . VERY familar . Every single boxing movie cliche is hit head on with sledgehammer subtlety and the dialogue is way over the top . It's not half as clever as it thinks it is but it still works . It's quick and so energetic it's impossible to dislike . Also Hamlin is obviously enjoying himself . George C . Scott ( who's in both ) is in it briefly and Red Buttons ( also in both ) lends strong support . It was in black and white up the theatres in 1978 , but it's in color on cable . Why ? " Baxter's Beauties of 1933 " is a parody of those big , splashy colorful musicals . The plot is basically a combination of every cliche from musicals back then . Barry Bostwick is in it and he's just " swell " as a Dick Powell type and Rebecca York is just great as a Ruby Keeler type . The music and lyrics are just OK but this is lots of fun - - beautiful sets , great singing and dancing , impressive production numbers and full of fun . As said before , George C . Scott is in both but is ( surprisingly ) bad - - he looks bored and unsure of his lines . Buttons is great in both but Trish Van Devere is just terrible . She's very good-looking but a horrible actress . No great film but worth catching - - a must for movie buffs .
Very dated but has its moments	College student Colin Slade ( Wes Stern ) is unjustly thrown out of a college by a computer error . Self-righteous principal Maurice Cambers ( Larry Hagman ) won't lift a finger to help him - - because he installed the computers so they HAVE to be right ! To get revenge Colin joins a revolutionary group and seduces Cambers wife ( Joan Collins ) , daughter ( Nira Barab ) and black mistress ( Judy Pace ) ! And Cambers is running for political office . At first I hated this . The plot and jokes were VERY 60s ( and not very funny now ) and there were dreadful late 60s fashions , hairstyles and dialogue . And Stern is a lousy actor . . . and unattractive to boot . But slowly I began to like it and by the last half I was enjoying myself a lot ! The movie was made to cash in through the enormous success of 1968s " Three in the Attic " . I haven't seen that film - - I'd love to but it's impossible to find - - so I can't say how much of a copy this is . But this turns into a very sharp satire on politics , universities , self-righteousness and censorship . Some of it is still ( sadly ) relevant today . And it has an ending where EVERYBODY ends up happy ! As I said Stern was lousy and Barab was even worse . But Hagman is a howl ( and is really enjoying himself ) ; David Arkin is great in a small role as Hugo Crane ( his description of the revolutionary group is a definite highlight ) ; Pace is wonderful in her role and Joan Collins successfully fakes an American accent and has a hysterical speech in front of an audience at the end . So - - it took a while for me to warm up to it but I ended up being very entertained . I give it a 7 .
It wasn't THAT bad	Americanized remake of the popular British TV series " Coupling " . I saw all 4 episodes that were aired . It was well done with a very attractive cast . . . but the show was never given a chance to find its own identity . If I recall correctly the four shows aired were EXACT copies of the ones from the British TV series ! I mean - - what was the reasoning behind that ? I could see them adapting British episodes and making them more " American " ( so to speak ) . . . but what is the point of doing a word for word remake of the British episodes ? Also , by comparison , this show suffered . It did have a good-looking cast and they were all good - - but they didn't have enough time to jell together as an ensemble . Even with " Friends " it took an entire season before the cast really worked well together . So I DID like what I saw but it seems they made some really bad decisions in reusing the exact same scripts . So - - we'll never really know if this could have worked . Too bad .
Good but not great	A bunch of college kids ( Jonathan Tucker , Jena Malone , Shawn Ashmore and Laura Ramsey ) are on vacation in Mexico . They meet a friendly German man ( Joe Anderson ) who offers to take them to a Mayan temple that nobody else knows about . They go . . . but soon find themselves in terrible danger . SPOILER ! ! ! The vines covering the temple are alive - - and eat people ! ! ! END SPOILER This is about 70 % better than most of the horror films we've been getting . It has characters we know and care about ; it doesn't have any of those stupid ' jump ' scares that every horror film today seems to have ; it has next to no nudity ( only very briefly ) and it doesn't rub gore in our faces . This movie has only two really gory scenes - - and more is heard than seen . That , of course , makes it even harder to watch . I was literally cringing in my seat during these scene and it takes a LOT to get to me ! With the sole exception of Tucker ( he was WAY too calm ) the acting is very good , the script has people reacting exactly how people might react in this situation and it's very well-directed . My only complaints are that this movie is a good one hour movie stretched out to 90 minutes . Sometimes it does get a little dull . Also it's never explained exactly WHY the vines are doing that . And how about those people who won't let them leave the temple ? Why did they let them get there in the first place ? So these questions kept nagging me and somewhat lessen the film . Still this is a good strong horror film . I give it a 7 .
Dated but interesting	Dr . McCloud ( Robert Stack ) is a new doctor at a mental institution . He's trying an new way to cure patients . It's called Experiment Borderline - - patients are treated kindly , engage in group therapy and are given greater freedom to walk about . Head of the nurses Lucretia Terry ( Joan Crawford ) is dead set against this . She believes in using force to subdue and control patients . It's a battle of wills between them with the patients in the middle . Who will win ? Very dated but still worth seeing . It has some great black & white photography and some good acting . Stack is just OK as McCloud ; Crawford is just great as Terry - - one of her best performances ; Polly Bergen engagingly chews the scenery as Lorna , a patient ; Janis Paige does wonders with her role as Miriam , the slutty patient ; Ellen Corby is pretty good as an elderly patient ; Barbara Barrie is very good as Edna , a mute and Constance Ford is very good as gruff , stern Nurse Bracken . The only really bad performances were from Sharon Hugueny and Ana St . Clair ( as patients ) and Van Williams ( a doctor ) and Susan Oliver ( a nurse ) . The real bad parts of this movie are lousy direction and a horrible script . Bergen easily has the worst lines but pulls them off . Also its view of mental patients is very Hollywood - - they all look perfect , aren't really dangerous and , by the end , are magically on their way to being OK . I can live with that though - - this WAS made for a mass audience . Also the language is ( for 1963 ) pretty rough in spots . So , it's dated but worth seeing for some great acting and very nice photography . I'm giving it a 7 .
Highly improbable but not bad	George C . Scott stars as a scientist who has trained dolphins to speak and understand English . Naturally some bad guys find out and want to use the dolphins in an assassination attempt . One of the many ecological " message " films of the 1970s . The plot is , technically , pretty silly but they pull it off . It has a great director ( Mike Nichols ) and Scott and Trish Van Devere are very good - - but this just misses the mark . It's not a BAD movie just not a great one and I personally had some trouble taking it seriously . It was supposed to be a big hit and cost quite a bit to make . Unfortunately it was a HUGE bomb and disappeared quickly . That's too bad because it's actually pretty good . It's well done and the voices of the dolphins are ( at first ) frightening but you get used to them . Also it does have an ending which had me crying . I defy anyone to sit through that and not be moved . So , despite the scientific improbabilities , a pretty good movie that deserves a wider recognition .
Not entirely successful but not a bomb	Dr . Paul Flanner ( Richard Gere ) , a successful surgeon , has his wife leave him , his son ( an uncredited James Franco ) not respect him and looses a patient he's operating on . Adrienne Willis ( Diane Lane ) has two children and discovers her husband has cheated on her . They both need to get away . She watches over a beautiful oceanside inn in Rodanthe at the same time he books a room . They're all alone together . You can pretty much figure out the rest . This is what's known as a weepie or a woman's film . It's beautifully shot with a romantic setting and lots of quiet scenes . There's tragedy , romance , more tragedy and an uplifting ending ( sort of ) . The great acting by Gere and Lane helps disguise the fact that this film isn't really about much . Every single bit of the plot is predictable . I rolled my eyes a lot at some of the events . Also it's far too short - - I didn't believe the romance between Gere and Lane for a second . If comes out of nowhere and moves VERY quickly . Still the movie does work . The inn itself is absolutely gorgeous and I was in tears by the end along with most of the audience . So it's a predictable but gorgeous movie with some wonderful acting . It doesn't deserve all the criticism it's getting . I give it a 7 .
Has its moments	A small town in Pennsylvania is accidentally infected with a virus the army has developed to use as a weapon . It causes its victims to go insane . The army arrives in town to contain the virus but its already infected some people . . . and things go barreling out of control . OK Romero film - - it was his first horror film after " Night of the Living Dead " . It isn't as good as that . . . but how could it be ? This is well-directed and has some nice bloody moments . . . but it doesn't work too well . The basic problem is some of the writing and acting . Some of the dramatic scenes are pretty poorly written and some of the actors are really really BAD ! Some are just OK - - Will MacMillan ( as David ) and Richard France ( as Dr . Watts ) come off best . All in all its an OK time filler . This was a commercial bomb when released although critics liked it . It finally got its audience on home video . I give it a 7 .
Forgotten semi-sequel to " Village of the Damned "	Five super-intelligent , emotionless children are discovered around the world . They also have the power to control peoples minds ( their eyes glow when they do this ) . They're all taken to London to be studied but they escape and barricade themselves in an old , abandoned church . But what do they want ? Not as good as the original " Village . . . " but this sequel showed real promise . It's effectively filmed in moody black & white and has some very talented British actors giving good performances . Also the kids themselves are extremely spooky - - especially when their eyes are glowing . It also shows how various countries want to use the children for their own gain . It also leads up to a ( sadly ) violent climax leaving most of the questions unanswered . Basically , it's a cop out and that's too bad . If you're going to set up a situation like this at least give it an ending . . . don't just end with violence ( although that may be the point ) . Some people think this is better than the original but I disagree . Still , I was never bored and admired the direction and photography . Worth seeing , if you can handle the lousy ending .
What a surprise !	Emilio Estevez actually directed a good movie - - who woulda thought ? I sat through two previous films Estevez directed - - " Wisdom " ( with then girlfriend Demi Moore ) and " Men at Work " ( with brother Charlie Sheen ) . They are lousy films - - - badly acted , directed , stupid and offensive . Estevez is a good actor but lousy as a director . I turned this on in pure curiousity - - it has a great cast and I had nothing else to do . Damned if it didn't pull me in . It concerns Estevez coming home from Vietnam permanently scarred by what happened over there . His parents ( Kathy Bates , Martin Sheen ) and sister ( Kimberly Williams ) try to reach him but can't . Something in Vietnam has affected him deeply . . . and he's about to explode . . . A bit overlong but still very good . A lot of the material is familar but the cast is so good that they make it seem new . Estevez is good , Sheen is terrific ( and Estevezs ' real life father ) , Williams is touching and Bates is just extraordinary - - trying to hold the family together . It all leads up to a powerful ending which REALLY surprised me . Well worth catching .
Utterly predictable but there are some good laughs	Coupe Brad ( Vince Vaughn ) and Kate ( Reese Witherspoon ) have been dating for three years but have no interest in getting married or having babies . They avoid their families ( 4 of them - - both of their parents are divorced ) by saying they have some charity mission to do . However they're caught on camera one Christmas and have to promise to visit all their 4 families that one day . Naturally all their families are somewhat strange and familiar ( but funny ) complications ensure . I saw this for a few reasons - - it got good reviews from critics ; it's been an OK hit ( so far ) ; I like Vaughn and Witherspoon and it's hard to resist a movie with FOUR Academy Award winning actors in supporting roles - - Robert Duvall , Sissy Spacek , Mary Steenburgen and Jon Voight . It's not a great movie at all but it had a few good laughs and - - at 88 minutes - - it doesn't wear out its welcome . Supposedly Vaughn and Witherspoon didn't get along at all while working on this but you'd never know it from the film . They have some great chemistry and their comedic timing is right on target . The rest of the cast is as good as anyone could be and they all act well enough to make the entirely predictable story go down smoothly . It's not perfect . I could have lived without the TWO instances of projectile vomiting and Jon Favreau and Tim McGraw were too vicious and unfunny as Vaughn's brothers . Some people find seeing other people beaten up hysterically funny but I'm not one of them . Still these are small parts of the movie . All in all a good enjoyable holiday film .
Very moving	A film that deals with a diffiult subject ( mental retardation in children ) very tastefully without pulling any punches . Burt Lancaster is very good as the director of a hospital for the youngsters . And all the youngsters ( I believe played by children who really were mentally " challenged " ) are incredible . At first you're disturbed by the way they look and act , but you come to realize they have no choice in the way they behave , and they deserve love and respect like everyone else . The direction by John Cassavates is also impressive - - I never liked his movies until I saw this one . The one bad thing about the movie is Judy Garland . Now I love her , but she looks terrible ( her face is horribly bloated ) and gives a one-note performance . As everyone knows now , she was heavily addicted to drugs and alcohol at that time and , sadly , it shows . Still , a powerful , moving film . A real tear-jerking ending also . Don't miss this one - - it's very hard to find .
OK John Hughes film	One of the many PG ( or PG-13 ) teen films made in the 80s by writer / producer / director John Hughes . This one isn't his worst ( " Some Kind of Wonderful " wins that ) , but it's not his best either . It's somewhere in the middle . A rich boy ( Andrew McCarthy ) loves a poor girl ( Molly Ringwald ) . She loves him also but is constantly being pursued by hyper Duckie ( Jon Cryer ) . McCarthy asks her to the prom . She accepts . But will his crowd accept her ? What is this ? In the 1920s-1950s I could believe this being made . . . but in 1986 ? ? ! ! ? ? Teenagers didn't care who was rich or not back then ( I should know - - I had a teenage sister in high school and she found the plot ridiculous too ) . It bothered me a lot in 1986 and it's still a bit of a sore spot today . Also the plot involves an older woman ( Annie Potts ) trying to help her and-sigh-her lovable , alcoholic dad ( Harry Dean Stanton ! ) - - talk about your clichs ! There's also James Spader on hand playing an obnoxious rich kid . All in all though , this movie isn't bad . It has a great soundtrack , some truly incredible 80s fashions and some of the dialogue is on target ( Cryer's one liners are very funny ) . But the acting is all over the place - - Ringwald looks bored - - the only time she comes to life is when she has to tell off McCarthy ( a wonderful scene ) . McCarthy looks VERY uneasy and the scenes between him and Ringwald are TERRIBLE ! ! ! Some of their lines had me staring at the screen in disbelief . Cryer , however , is very funny as Duckie . He wears truly ugly outfits but makes everything he says sound funny . His only really bad scene is when he dances and lip syncs to Otis Reddings ' " Try A Little Tenderness " . He tries to hard to be funny and it gets embarrassing to watch . Spader and Stanton sleepwalk through their roles . It is fun to see Kristy Swanson in a cameo , Gina Gershon ( ! ) as a teenage ( ! ) friend of Ringwald and Andrew Dice Clay as a bouncer ! SPOILERS AHEAD ! ! ! ! I agree with previous posters - - the ending is terrible . She should end up with Duckie . The original ending had her not going after McCarthy and staying in the prom . Test audiences hated that and it was quickly changed . I'd LOVE to see the original ending . Is it still around ?
OK movie	An old , evil countess ( Ingrid Pitt , chewing the scenery ) discovers she magically turns into a beautiful young woman by bathing in the blood of virgins . She poses as her daughter to get full control of her late husband's estate and romance a young , handsome man . But the youthfulness only lasts a day or two . So she must kill again , and again , and again . Pretty good Hammer horror film . The film looks great - - beautiful settings ; rich color and some nice directorial touches from Peter Sasdy . It also moves fairly quickly ( about 90 minutes ) . But , with the sole exception of Pitt , the acting is pretty bad ( especially Lesley Anne-Down ) and Pitt has the all-time worst aging makeup I've ever seen . This detracts from the movie . Still , if you're a horror fan , it's worth seeing . Warning : I think the print circulating on cable TV is cut . . . it has a PG rating , there's very little violence and , while there is nudity , it's pretty quick .
All-star disaster epic	Silly , but fun disaster movie about a train traveling to Switzerland . On board is a man with a deadly biological disease . . . and the train is heading to a bridge that can't possibly handle the weight . . . and it has 1 , 000 innocent people on board ! The plot is ridiculous but no sillier than " The Towering Inferno " or " The Poseidon Adventure " . Also the cast is full of big names . Sophia Loren ( looking very bored ) and Richard Harris ( in it for the money ) play a twice divorced couple who ( naturally ) fall in love again when disaster hits . Ava Gardner plays a rich old woman who keeps Martin Sheen ( ! ! ! ! ! ) for . . . well , you know ! O . J . Simpson is also on board ( unfortunately ) . Burt Lancaster ( looking VERY old ) , John Phillip Law ( pretty and blank ) and Ingrid Thulin ( who ? ? ? ? ? ) watch on tensely . The dialogue is uproarious but the cast pretty much pulls it off - - especially Gardner ( who has the best lines and is enjoying every second of it ) . Sheen is hysterical - - with his long black hair and " what am I doing here " expression . . . my guess is that this isn't on his resume . Nice black underwear there too . Only complaints - - It's too long and there was no reason to get so bloody and violent at the end - - except for that ending , this is PG material ( the film has an R rating ) . Still , it's fun to watch . Best line : " Heroin Richard ? That's so common ! "
Interesting but no masterpiece	Director Pasolini films nine tales from the Decameron . Most deal with sex ( very explicitly ) but almost all show a very ribald sense of humor . Easily the director's most cheerful film - - it's best described as " earthy " . I liked it but I didn't love it . Some sequences are better than others and the film does drag in places . Also it has some really mean swipes at the Catholic Church . Most surprising is the film's original X rating here in America was lowered to an R in 1991 . I'm not complaining but I'm really surprised ( and pleased ) that the ratings board did that . It ( obviously ) got the X for the frequent nudity - - both male and female - - including one shot with a man at " full attention " . But the nudity is treated casually and in a wholesome sort of way - - not as something dirty or to be ashamed of . It's not exploitive in any way . Still , this isn't for children . So , pretty good and worth seeing at least once . A hundred times better than his dreadful " Salo " .
Don't think and you'll enjoy it	I tried to summarize the plot but it was really too silly to get into . Basically an evil , dead witch - - who played a sort of tooth fairy when alive - - attacks and kills children and their families when the children lose their last baby teeth . A young man in his 20s - - traumatized by an attack when he was a boy - - tries to help a boy and his sister who are also under attack . But the witch is VERY determined . There's more to it but that's the bare bones of the plot . It's basically the tooth fairy as an evil monster . Silly ? You bet . But it manages to work . The movie starts slowly and quietly setting up the story in an especially creepy prologue and then moves like lightning - - it moves VERY fast , throws in lots of loud noises , tons of sudden shocks and some truly scary attack scenes - - the witch herself is very scary-looking . The trick of the movie is - - don't let the audience think for one minute . If you can do this , you'll enjoy it . If you think , you see the gaps in logic and plot . The film is fairly well-done and the CGI of the witch works very well . It's also very short ( 85 minutes ) and does have its dull stretches . Also , the acting , with one exception , is pretty poor . Chaney Kley ( a Mark Wahlberg look-alike ) plays the hero - - he's kind of nice-looking and has beautiful brown eyes - - but he can't act . Also he's short ( 5'6 " - - maybe ) , not in good shape and has a thin-sounding voice - - this is not to take pot shots at the guy , but if you're playing a hero and called on to do a lot of physical stuff at least pump up a little ! Emma Caulfield does throw in a very good performance as the female lead - - she more then makes up for Kley . The only way to really enjoy this is to see it in a theatre with a great sound system - - I did and it really helped the movie . Hearing the witches screams and growls from all around really work on you . So , a good little one for horror fans - - I give it a 7 . Best line : " All this over a stupid tooth ? "
Has its moments but needed more	Ivan Alexeev ( John Cusack ) and Josh Tager ( Tim Robbins ) try to break into the L . A . music scene in the late 1980s . Quirky Samantha Gregory ( Mary Crosby ) tries to help . I caught this back in the late 1980s at a small art house . The audience loved it and it was held over for a few weeks . Back then I thought it was just great . Seeing it now , 20 years later , its charms have faded . It is very energetic and Cusack , Robbins and Crosby are just great . There's also a large cast of character actors in small roles that help . The commercial parodies and music videos are funny and inventive . BUT the film gets repetitious real quick - - the same jokes are made over and over . It's also very dated ( you have to laugh when a character says " Video is the future " ) , has plenty of bad jokes and some real mediocre songs . Still this has enough good moments to give it a 7 and the closing song / video during the closing credits is lots of fun ! Ex MTV DJ Martha Quinn appears as a - - music TV DJ ! This might work better with an audience .
Ahead of its time	By todays standards , this is a very mild black comedy . By 1947 standards , this was a sick , disgusting movie . It's now considered a classic and is a cult film . I think it's OK - - it's well-directed and acted ( especially by Chaplin and Martha Raye ) , but it's slow-moving and it wears its non-violence message on its sleeve ( Chaplin's speech at the end is a groaner - - and VERY obvious ) . Nothing wrong with peace , but the movie is constantly shoving it's message in your face and it gets annoying . Also it has many dull stretches . So , it's OK , but no masterpiece .
Surprisingly good	The movie begins on Drakulon . It's a planet of vampires who drink from rivers of blood ( never shown - - this is a cheap movie ) . Evil Vlad ( Roger Daltrey ! ) kills all the leaders of the planet and escapes to Earth . One of those killed is the father of Ella ( Talisa Soto ) who follows Vlad for revenge . She becomes Vampirella on Earth and , with the help of Adam van Helsing ( bland Richard Joseph Paul ) , tracks down Vlad and his followers . For a Roger Corman production this is pretty good . It's an adaptation of an adult comic book from the 70s and 80s . The movie pretty much follows the comic but Vampirella's costume has been modified - - the original was too skimpy for an R rated film ! The film isn't perfect - - the dialogue is lousy , the story is needlessly convuluted and there's two truly horrible performances by Soto and Paul - - but who watches this for the acting and plot ? Daltrey REALLY chews the scenery as Vlad and hunky Brian Bloom gives a very good performance as Demous . Lots of action , violence and fun - - never a dull moment . A true camp classic . And John Landis and Angus Scrimm have cameos !
For its time - - not bad	Something about a bunch of brainless teenagers caught in a museum after closing . One of them is possessed and is purposefully leading her friends to their deaths . No great shakes to be sure but , for 1986 , this was pretty impressive . I saw it in a movie theatre and found the special effects just incredible . Yeah , they look cheesy today but back then were state of the art . Also I found some of the acting good with some nice blood and gore . So , while I agree it's not a good movie I have a real soft spot for it . And , come on ! It's not THAT bad ! I give it a 7 .
Minor but fun	Four stories revolving around a shop named Temptations Limited . It's run by Peter Cushing so you know there's something evil going around . People buy ( or steal ) items from it and meet horrible fates . The first involves a customer buying an old mirror . It seems it has an evil spirit in it that orders him to kill . It's pretty bloody for a PG film . The second has a man unhappily married who meets a strange beggar and his equally strange daughter . They promise to help him . . but are they ? The third is mostly comedy when a man has an " elemental " on him and has to get it removed . The last has a man buying a door from the shop that leads to an evil room . . . and man . I caught this when I was 12 or 13 at the theatre . I liked it . No great shakes but pretty well done . Seeing it again I still feel the same way . No great shakes but OK . The stories are pretty good with cool twist endings and they have a cast of talented British actors who are all having fun with their roles ( especially Margaret Leighton ) . Also it's always good to see Cushing in anything and he makes the most of his small role . Easily one of the better horror anthology movies . No unsung classic but fun .
Pretty good Swedish SF movie destroyed by Jerry Warren	This was a 1959 Swedish / American co-production . In the Lappland of Sweden a meteor crashes . Turns out it's not a meteor - - it's a spaceship from another world . For no given reason - - a huge , hairy monster comes from the spaceship , walks around , causes destruction and kidnaps a woman who has come with a team of scientists to explore the " meteor " . Can anything stop this monster ? And what does it want ? There are lots of things wrong with this film - - it has a romantic title song ( for a SF feature ! ! ! ! ) ; it opens with hysterically lousy special effects showing the spaceship landing ; the monster doesn't show up until 50 minutes in ( the film is only 70 minutes long ) ; endless skiing footage ; lousy acting ( particularly Babara Wilson ) ; laughable lapses in logic ( note how conveniently Wilson's busted ankle is ignored ) . Also there's a pointless and fairly explicit nude shower scene which has no bearing whatsoever with the story ! Still , it has an intelligent script ; it's well-directed ; takes place in a most unusual setting ; has a very scary-looking monster and moves pretty quick . No classic but interesting . It came to American in 1962 . For some reason producer Jerry Warren destroyed it . He changed the title to " Invasion of the Animal People " ( ? ? ? ? ? ) and added John Carradine to the cast ( probably for marquee value ) . Carradine opens up the film with the most insipid speech I've ever heard ( it makes next to no sense ) and narrates portions of it . Warren added dreadful new footage ( badly shot and acted ) which added nothing to the story ; gave it a really silly new opening ( involving Wilson ) ; says it takes place in Switzerland ( ? ? ? ? ) ; rearranged footage and cut out huge chunks . What is left is a hysterically bad , incomprehensible mess ! I believe Carradine later said this was one of his worst movies ( he's not kidding ) . It's known as being a camp classic . But now BOTH versions are available on DVD . It's more than a little interesting to see how Warren totally destroyed a fairly good movie . It's a good thing the original is now available for people to view . " Invasion " gets a 1 ( I wish I could give it a zero ) but " Terror " gets a 7 . Like I said , no classic but pretty well-done . . . and how many monster movies do you know that were made in Sweden ?
Psychedelic horror	Nancy Wagner ( Sandra Dee in her last movie role ) is a librarian at the Miskatonic Univ where the only copy of the Necronomicon ( an evil book ) is kept . Sinister Wilbur Whatley ( a young Dean Stockwell in a hideous mustache and hair do ) uses her to get access to the book . He then invites her to his house in Arkham . He gets her there and drugs her to make her stay . . . he has plans for her ! Also there's someTHING in the attic banging at the locked door . Two of Nancy's friends come to get her and all hell breaks loose ! First off , this is NOT a faithful adaptation of H . P . Lovecraft's story ( I should know - - I just read it a few weeks ago ) . Some scenes are taken from it but the script is very different from the source . That said it's not a bad film . It's elaborately done ( beautiful settings , eerie sounds and rich deep color ) and is mildly engrossing . Unfortunately it's far from perfect . The script is OK but there are far too many plot holes ( for instance , Dee tells Stockwell she can't stay the weekend . . . in the very next scene she's saying she is ! ) . Also the acting is really bad by the two leads - - Dee seems uneasy and unsure of how to play her part ; Stockwell ( who is a great actor ) is , surprisingly , terrible ! He acts like he's stoned half the time ( maybe he was ) and is just horrible . There are scenes of a monster stalking about ( hey , it's an AIP film ! ) and attacking which are very psychedelic ( lots of flashing lights , negative film , different colors , loud sounds ) and quite effective . Look for Talia Coppola ( later Shire ) as one of the victims . However , there's no graphic gore or blood . Also , a real cool ending . Also , there's an odd somewhat homophobic line in this - - a friend of Dee comments on her staying with Stockwell - - " If he were straight , I wouldn't be worried . " ? ? ? ? ? ? ? Is that supposed to be funny ? It's pretty stupid and offensive today . All in all , an OK film . It's been reissued in VHS and DVD in a beautiful new print with great color and sound . Try to see it that way - - it really helps the film .
Glossy Technicolor Soap Opera	Rich spoiled playboy Rock Hudson is indirectly responsible for a great doctor's death . The doctor's widow ( Jane Wyman ) and daughter ( Barbara Rush ) never want to see him . He tries to make amends but , because of him , Wyman is hit by a car and loses her eyesight . He tries to see her but she won't see him . Then he accidentally meets her and pretends he's someone else . He falls in love with her . . . but can he tell her who he really is ? OK - - the above scenario is gag-worthy but it actually works - - for a while . The beautiful Technicolor is just great and the film looks just perfect . Also there's good acting by Wyman , Hudson and Rush . Also good is Agnes Moorehead as a nurse . BUT it falls apart during the last half hour . SPOILERS IN THE NEXT PARAGRAPHHe's a doctor and she is near death . He can't preform the operation but does anyways . She recovers fine AND regains her eyesight ! ! ! ! ! This was just hilarious ! I basically couldn't stop smirking . It was so ridiculous and over the top I find it hard to believe even audiences of 1954 took this seriously ! Also there's hysterically bad back projections ( where they kidding with those ? ) . And there's even a heavenly choir ahhhing on the music ! I was able to handle all this - - until that asinine ending . There's only so much I can take ! Sort of worth seeing - - I'm giving it a 7 for the acting and beautiful Technicolor . But that ending . . . !
Funny , entertaining , scary and NOT for children	Possible spoliers ahead . . . I loved this film when it first came out and now , 16 years later , it still holds up . The performances range from very good ( Polly Holliday , Frances Lee McCain ) to OK ( everybody else ) . The special effects are superb , Gizmo is soooooo cute , the movie is never dull and there are tons of references for film buffs ( like me ) . BUT it is NOT for children . I remember seeing it on opening night back in 1984 , and when the evil gremlins attacked and the violence got real extreme ( the mother killing three of them in a blender , microwave and knife ) , I still remember mothers dragging screaming , terrified children out of the theatre . There's also an extremely morbid Christmas tragedy that Phoebe Cates relates and people are killed - - on screen ! If they had toned down the violence and avoided killing people ( injuring would have been fine ) this would be a great film for everybody . As it is , it is a great film . . . for junior high on up . Also , when the gremlins invade the bar would someone explain where they got all those little clothes and how they knew how to play cards , drink beer , break dance , etc etc . Also there's a gremlin in the school that kills a teacher , slashes Zach Galligan . . . and then is forgotten ! There are plenty of logic lapses in the script , but it's still worth seeing . Deserves an R rating , not a PG .
More a character study than a horror film but not bad	A girl ( Emily Blunt ) needs a ride from college to get home to Delaware by Christmas . She finds a ride with a guy ( Ashton Holmes ) . But she's obnoxious and mean and he gets tired of her . They try to take a shortcut but get stranded on a deserted highway . The car is damaged , the cell phones don't work , night is falling and it's sub zero temperatures out . Also some strange people start haunting them . OK - - this is far from a perfect horror film . It's slow-going , too long , very talky and isn't really all that scary . Still it is well-made and has some mildly spooky scenes . As I've said it's more a character study than horror but it's a GOOD character study ! The script is interesting and Blunt and Holmes are excellent in their roles . Unfortunately it derails at the end and becomes very confusing and has one climax too many . Still it's worth watching for the acting and if you're in the mood for a mild horror film .
Howlingly bad melodrama saved by Hayes	VERY old and creaky talky about Madame Claudet ( Helen Hayes ) sacrificing everything for her son ( who grows up into Robert Young ) . The thing is her son doesn't know she's alive . She had to give him up because she was abandoned by his father and ( wrongfully ) thrown in jail . She secretly supports him by becoming a prostitute . It's as bad as it sounds and very old and out-dated . Plays like a ( bad ) play but Helen Hayes single-handedly saves it . She overdoes it occasionally ( but then she WAS a stage actress ) but she's basically just excellent . She won a well-deserved Oscar for this . And seeing Robert Young so . . . young ( sorry ) is fun . I just didn't buy the story for one second - - it was just too silly ( and old-fashioned ) to be taken seriously . But it moves VERY quickly and is worth seeing for Hayes alone . I'm giving it a 7 .
An actually very good horror flick	SPOILERS After the funeral of a man three of his buddies - - Harris ( Dominic Purcell ) , Kira ( Josie Maren ) and Sid ( Marcus Thomas ) - - get drunk and dance on some graves in a graveyard late at night . It turns out they unwittingly resurrected some evil ghosts who go after the people who disturbed them . This was barely released back in 2006 but it actually isn't half bad . The bad points are : the movie has those stupid jump scares ; some of the acting is pretty bad ; it has a totally pointless beginning ( which the director rightly protested ) and a frustrating ending . The good : there are likable characters ; there's some good acting ; the story sounds far-fetched but they put it across and it has some VERY scary moments . The ghosts aren't actually even seen till the end and believe me - - they are frightening ! There are three horrific standouts here : the first view of the ghost in Harris ' bed , a sequence in a graveyard halfway through and the all out assault at the end . The special effects are excellent and it truly scared me - - there aren't many films I can say that about ! Some bad acting by Purcell ( who can be good ) lessens the full effect but everybody else is pretty good ( especially Clare Kramer as Harris ' wife ) . So a good strong ghost movie . Turn off all the lights and pop this into the DVD player ! I give it a 7 .
Not good but not bad	I originally caught this back in 1996 in its one week run at a movie theatre . I was under impressed by it and my feelings haven't much changed . Documentary about the infamous Edward D . Wood Jr . covering his life and movies . There are interviews with people who worked with him or knew him . They include : Vampira , Dolores Fuller , Bela Lugosi Jr . , Loretta King , Gregory Walcott and Paul Marco . Interviews are mixed with clips from the movies or some bizarre recreations . It is interesting ( somewhat ) but was this really needed ? I've seen all of Wood's films and they're just terrible . Wood had ambitions but not a bit of talent to carry them out . I wouldn't say he was the worst director ever but he's down there . Do we really need a docu on a very mediocre film maker ? I do like the fact that they didn't try to make Wood out to be some sort of saint . More than a few of those interviewed ( especially Lugosi Jr . ) pretty much hated the man and it comes through loud and clear . Also they totally ignore his films in the adult film industry in the 1960s and 70s . Still it's of interest if you're a Wood fan . The best interviews are with Vampira ( who tears Wood apart ) and Dolores Fuller ( a long time girlfriend ) .
Sweet but skin deep	Two women , Jessica ( Jennifer Westfeldt ) and Helen ( Heather Juergensen ) , meet through a personal ad and tentatively start a lesbian relationship . The problem - - Jessica can't fully commit to it - - Helen can . It's a cute movie - - reasonably entertaining with some good performances by the two leads ( who also wrote it ) , and also by Scott Cohen ( as Jessica's boss and ex ) and Tovah Feldshuh ( as Jessica's VERY Jewish mother ) . Most of the laughs come from Feldshuh who is hysterical . Also it has multiple happy endings for everybody . But it's all so fluffy - - there's no real depth or meaning in this film . It's on the level of a very good sitcom . There's nothing wrong with that , but a movie needs to be more - - I walked out feeling kind of empty - - like I hadn't seen a real movie . Worth seeing but slight . DON'T pay $10 . 00 to see it .
No masterpiece , but funny and very interesting	Very loud , very big and very funny fictional account of a supposed Japanese invasion of Los Angeles in 1941 , after the bombing of Pearl Harbor . There are many plotlines throughout the film - - too many to summarize here . Basically , this is the most unusual Spielberg film I've ever seen ( and his only bomb ) . It's from the bigger is funnier school of humor - - Spielberg's only big comedy . There's lots of gunfire , lots of fights , lots of screaming ( in full stereo ) and tons of destruction ( an entire amusement park is destroyed , a few city blocks of Los Angeles and a big beautiful house ) . As for the acting - - it varies wildly . Tim Matheson plays a lt . who has the hots for Nancy Allen who only gets excited in moving planes - - they're both cute and funny . Dan Aykroyd is wasted . John Belushi is annoying . Robert Stack is amusing . Ned Beatty and Lorraine Gary are funny , but underused . Treat Williams is violent and very unfunny . And where else can you see Christopher Lee play a German ? The film is too long ( I saw the 2 director's cut ) and it doesn't always work . . . but when it does , it's hilarious ! A definite highlight is the jitterbug sequence - - unfortunately , it has a violent conclusion in which a very likable character is punched out three times . Terrific John Williams score too . The ending credits are quite interesting - - it shows each cast character screaming ! You may hate this film , but it's definetely a one of a kind . It's a cult classic in Europe .
Nothing new but enjoyable	Movie about two Australian girls - - Debbie ( Nell Schofield ) and Sue ( Sue Knight ) - - and what happens when they become girlfriends of two surfer guys . I caught this at an art cinema here in America in 1981 . Technically I was still a teenager ( I was 19 ) so I was interested in seeing how Australian teens acted . Script wise there's nothing new here . It shows the usual teenage adventures dealing with dating , sex , suicide etc etc . I always knew what was going to happen before it did but I was never bored . What I found interesting was , despite the accent and a few changes in clothes and hair , these teenagers aren't much different than American teens . They had many of the same difficulties and hang-ups . Also this was based on a book from a real surfer girl and her true life adventures and ( I heard ) it was a faithful adaptation of it . The acting was just OK but the actors were attractive and this was well-made and pretty interesting . So this is no unsung masterpiece but a pretty accurate portrayal of what it's like being a teenager and trying to be with the popular kids . I give it a 7 .
VERY mixed feelings	The first of the three so-called " sex comedies " made with Doris Day and Rock Hudson . Day plays interior decorator Jan Morrow . She shares a party line with womanizing Brad Allen ( Hudson ) . She hates him for always monopolizing the phone calling his various girlfriends . Allen's best friend Jonathan Forbes ( Tony Randall ) is in love with Jan . Brad sees Jan , falls in love , disguses himself as a Texan and proceeds to steal her away from his buddy . Some friend ! SPOILERS IN THE NEXT PARAGRAPH ! ! ! ! This movie has a lot of negative things about it - - the sexual innuendo is stupid and extremely unfunny ( I groaned aloud at one of the lines ) . Thelma Ritter plays an alcoholic maid named Alma - - her alcoholism is presented as cute and funny - - alcoholism is NOT funny ( although I did laugh when she drank Hudson under the table ) . There are a few homophobic lines that come from Hudson - - homophobia is never funny and hearing them come from Hudson is extremely disturbing . The film also makes the point that a woman living alone with a successful job can never be happy without a man in her life . Sheesh ! The good things - - the acting is good - - Hudson and Day play off each other beautifully . I love the split screens used throughout the picture . Everything looks colorful and beautiful - - Day is just breathtaking and her clothes are incredible - - Hudson is strong , handsome and when he smiles . . . sigh . Also this is where some of the things we now see as cliches were invented - - the voiceovers , split screen , the ( purposedly ? ) lousy back screen projection and the montage of Hudson and Day seeing the sights . So , on one hand I liked this a lot - - there's always something to look at . On the other hand the stupid sex jokes and treatment of women make me uncomfortable . I can only give it a 7 . And don't let the term " sex comedy " bother you - - this might have been extreme in 1959 but it's very tame today .
Silly but OK	SPOILERS ! ! ! Sweet innocent Ann Dixon ( Helen Foster ) is friends with the more worldly Eve Monroe ( Nell O'Day ) . Ann falls in love with Tommy ( Glen Boles ) and slowly starts to drink , smoke , have sex , play strip poker and get pregnant . This all leads to abortion and death . There's also a pretty mild bit of skinny dipping ( one or two girls are topless - - everybody else wears their underwear ! ) . This was probably sold as an " educational film " back in 1934 . All the subjects it dealt with were strictly taboo back then . . . BUT it could be released to show people how " horrible " these things could be and everybody guilty of it is punished or dies . Strangely enough the guys get away with it but the girls are punished - - double standards I guess . This is ridiculously tame today . Nothing is really shown or even talked about openly - - the word " abortion " is never used but it's pretty clear that's what happens . It's pretty slow moving too . Some of the acting is good - - Foster , O'Day and Boles are all good in their roles . So it's slow-moving and silly but an interesting view of what was an exploitation film of the 1930s .
Very 70s , but kids might like it	A lorax tries to " speak for the trees " when Onceler moves into his beautiful country and destroys it by chopping down trees and causing pollution . So-so animation and some truly nauseating songs got on my nerves , but young kids may like it . It's very pro-environment and ( when it sticks to dialogue ) is kind of fun . Also very short ( 25 min ) . So , good for the kids but a bit much for adults .
Pretty good if unknown Price movie	Vincent Price plays Simon Cordier a kind man who is a judge . He is possessed by a Horla ( never shown - - you only hear its voice ) who thrives on evil . It sets Price out to commit evil deeds even though he fights against it . Then he meets sweet Odette ( Nancy Kovack ) and things go out of control . . . . Well-made , colorful ( some BEAUTIFUL set design here ) , low-key horror film . The plot is interesting and the acting is good ( especially Price and Kovack ) . There's next to no violence in this one ( the one murder scene is badly faked ) . . . it mostly concentrates on Price fighting against the Horla . There's a few very interesting discussions between Price and the demon about good , evil and morality . It all leads up to a great climax . If you're looking for a blood and guts movie this isn't it but it is an intelligent thoughtful horror film . Recommended .
Great acting carries this one	A nuclear war has killed everybody in the world - - except for Australia . However it's just a matter of time before the radiation hits and kills them also . This movie focuses on certain people there . There's Cmdr . Dwight Towers ( Gregory Peck ) , whose wife and children are most certainly dead , being romanced by married , alcoholic Moira Davidson ( Ava Gardner ) . Then there's Lt . Cmdr . Peter Holmes ( Anthony Perkins ) and wife Mary ( Donna Andrson ) who just had a baby . She doesn't want to accept reality and he's trying to force her to . There's race car driver Julian Osborne ( Fred Astaire ! ) who is very negative and complains nonstop about it . In 1959 this was considered quite shocking . There was no happy ending and it seemed nuclear war could happen any day . Now it's terribly dated . The script is OK but we've seen these characters and situations before . They're all clichs and it's pretty obvious how things will end . It's also too long and I was bored . Still the acting is great . No one is bad in this one . Astaire and Perkins even fake credible Australian accents . There's also very effective use of " Waltzing Matilda " throughout . All in all I was bored and knew exactly how things were going to end . Still the acting in this makes it work - - somewhat . I give it a 7 .
Doesn't work	Jimmy ( Steve Guttenberg ) , a failed writer and actor , comes home on New Years Eve to find his girlfriend has left him , his cat has died and a gay burglar ( Lombardo Boyar ) is robbing his place . . . for the third time that month . He captures him , ties him up and things get strange . James Kirkwoods ' play was an off-Broadway hit in the 1970s . I never saw it but I read the script and it was wonderful . This film comes far too late - - the play was very much of its time . The gay character ( which was pretty revolutionary when the play came out ) is old hat by now and the movie feels washed out . Basically the comedy doesn't work . Boyar is VERY good in his role but Guttenberg ( who can be good ) was pretty bad . Maybe both directing and acting for the movie was too much . The two actors have no chemistry at all ( even though Boyar is trying ) . The movie isn't unwatchable . . . it's just no big deal . Also Guttenberg's apartment was WAY too big and beautifully decorated for a starving artist . They also ( badly ) changed the ending of the play . So it's worth seeing for Boyar alone . Also he's got guts - - he spends half the movie tied down with his pants cut wide open showing his back side . I give it a 7 for him alone .
Sometimes funny but way too frentic	Slapstick farce based on a Broadway comedy / musical about some crazy complications when a slave ( Zero Mostel ) tries to win his freedom in ancient Rome . The script is OK with some funny lines and sight gags , the girls are all very beautiful ( and horribly objectified - - but this was done in the 1960s ) and the comedians ( Mostel , Phil Silvers , Jack Guilford , Buster Keaton ) are at their peak . . . but I didn't really enjoy this . For one thing it's WAY too fast and frentic with director Lester spinning the camera all over the place . In most of his movies this technique works . . . it doesn't here . You have some very telented comedians here . . . they don't need camera tricks to get the joke across . Often the camera cuts away to something else in the middle of a joke . . . it gets very annoying and is enough to make you reach for the Dramamine . It got on my nerves a lot . . . more than once I wished I could reach out and force the cameraman to stay still . Also this movie relies way too much on slapstick - - there's a closing chase sequence that goes on forever and has TONS of it . Still , I'm giving it a 7 just for the cast alone ( what a pleasure it is to see Keaton not doing a beach party movie and Silvers is hysterical ) and some very funny parts . Also the opening song and the " maid " song are real treats . So , it's worth catching on a slow night .
Pretty good	Kyle Pratt's ( Jodie Foster ) husband has just died in Germany . Kyle is bringing the body to the USA with her 6 year old girl Julia ( Marlene Lawston ) . They board the plane and Kyle falls asleep . She wakes up to find Julia missing - - and nobody on board remembers seeing her and her name isn't on the manifest . Is Kyle going crazy over her husband dying . . . or is something more sinister afoot ? It's good to see Foster back in a movie ( her last before this was in 2002's " Panic Room " ) but the movie is just OK . The movie starts off very good . Foster is a wonderful actress and her panic and anger at her daughter's disappearance is totally believable . Also Sean Bean is just great as the captain of the airplane . But when it becomes clear what's going on the movie falls apart . It asks the audience to accept some highly improbable events and just completely derails at the very end . Also Peter Sarsgaard ( a great actor ) appears to be sleepwalking . Still it does work very well at the beginning and Foster's acting throughout is just great . A 7 .
Forgotten comedy thriller	Michael Caine uses flighty Shirley MacLaine to hopefully steal something from Herbert Lom - - the richest man in the world . That's about all you need to know . This is a fun movie - - nothing too serious about it . It's very colorful with some beautiful settings and outfits ( get the white dress MacLaine wears ) . The script is sharp and sometimes very funny . MacLaine is full of life and fun in her role - - quite an accomplishment since she has nothing to work with . Caine ( a great actor ) seems strangely muted in his role . Lom is having a fun time with his part . The comedy mixes very well with the action ( MacLaine comes off best ) and there are some really neat twists and turns at the end ( although I saw the last one coming ) . This isn't an acting film - - just a film to sit back with , turn off your brain and enjoy ! Strangely this is pretty unknown - - I didn't even now it existed till it turned up on TV unannounced ! Well worth catching .
Great sets and atmosphere	Story about a monster going after the Hammond family who live in Hammond Hall - - a huge castle in the middle of nowhere . It seems that one of the Hammonds , centuries ago , sold his soul to the Devil for eternal life . Every few years he has to kill one of the Hammonds ( always a man ) as a sacrifice to the Devil and to keep him living . Helga Hammond ( Heather Angel ) thinks that's ridiculous and it's all a silly legend - - but her brother Oliver ( John Howard ) has been attacked and the monster may not stop at him . . . This was made quickly to cash in on " The Wolf Man " which had been a huge hit for Universal the year before . It has all the markings of a B movie - - a pretty silly ( and illogical ) script , an unknown director and a cast of actors on their way up ( or down ) . It also has some extremely annoying " comic " relief in the form of Cornelia Christopher ( Heather Thatcher ) a helper of Robert Curtis ( James Ellison ) who is assigned by Scotland Yard to solve the case . Still this is worth catching at least once . The sets are quite impressive ( I'm assuming they were made for another film ) and there's tons of atmosphere ( lots of fog on the moors outside ) . The howls we hear during the night are pretty spooky too . Also there's a creepy little saying - - " When stars are bright on a frosty night , Beware thy being on the rocky lane " . The last reel appearance of the monster is a disappointment unfortunately . Also the acting isn't that great with the sole exception of Angel . Thatcher especially gets annoying with her stupid jokes - - I spent most of the movie hoping the monster would get her ! Still worth seeing for sets and atmosphere alone . A 7 .
As bad as Robocop - - but in a different way	Robocop ( Peter Weller ) is back fighting drug lord Cain ( Tom Noonan ) , his gang and an evil OCP executive ( Daniel O'Herlihy ) and his helper ( Belinda Bauer ) who want to replace Robcop with different machines . This starts off OK with Robocop foiling a robbery . Then it goes downhill . You see him stalking his wife he had when he was human . Then OCP convince him he's not human , he rejects his wife . . . and the storyline never comes up again ( ? ? ? ? ) Why even bother with it ? ? ? ? The movie is not as bloody as the first but it has a mean streak running through it that is unpleasant : SPOILERS ! ! ! ! ! ! Robocop is chained down and taken apart piece by piece ; a man is cut open and a child is forced to watch ; we see children swearing , taking drugs , killing people and being killed . These scenes aren't fun or exciting . . . just real sick . SPOILER END ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! Also the story gets REAL stupid after the hour mark and , like the first , plot loopholes pop up left and right . The last battle is far too long - - I don't care how good the effects are . There are good things - - the great stop motion animation and special effects ; the dark humor is still present and strong ; the tests of cyborgs to take over Robocop are quite funny ( O'Herlihy's reactions are priceless ) and the story was never boring . The acting varies - - Weller is as good as possible in the getup ; Nancy Allen is hardly in this ( she seems like an after thought ) ; O'Herily is fun ; Noonan is OK and Bauer is TERRIBLE in her role . Yes she is beautiful but not an actress . So - - on par with " Robocop " - - good or bad is your call .
Better than the original	The original 1960 " 13 Ghosts " was a very boring , stupid horror film . This one , while no classic , is actually quite good . A grieving widower Arthur ( Tony Shalhoub ) , his hot daughter ( Shannon Elizabeth ) , annoying son ( Alec Roberts ) and feisty black maid / cook / babysitter / whatever ( Rah Digga ) get trapped in an all glass house with a sort of psychic ( Matthew Lilliard ) and a ghost liberator ( Embeth Davidtz ) . It was set up by the evil Cyrus ( F . Murray Abraham ) and he has 12 murderous ghosts in cages down in the basement . But they all get out , one by one , and go after the family . This is pretty dull stuff until they get locked in the house , the ghosts escape . . . then the movie REALLY gets going . The ghosts are very brutal-looking and their attacks are bloody and violent . In a nice tip of the hat to the original , people in the movie can only see the ghosts when they have special glasses on . The special effects are excellent and it has more than a few scary scenes . The plot does go out the window at the end , but I was still interested . The acting - - Shalhoub is OK as the father . Davidtz is in it for the money ( and her character is badly written ) . Lilliard goes way over the top . . . as always ( take a few Valium bud ) . . . seriously , can't this guy do anything but overact ? Elizabeth is full of life and is viciously attacked in one scene but she's not in the movie enough . Roberts is just annoying as the kid . And F . Murray . . . he can play this villain role in his sleep . . . and he does . And Digga is funny but her character is clich city . No masterpiece but not the disaster I was expecting . Worth seeing in a theatre with a good sound system .
Worthless as a biography but entertaining	Highly fictional movie about the love affair between Clark Gable ( James Brolin ) and Carole Lombard ( Jill Clayburgh ) . It chronicles how they first meet and hate each other but eventually fall in love . The problem is Gable's first wife won't give him a divorce and their studios are threatening to drop them . There are so many factual errors here it's pointless to try and discuss them all . The biggest one for me was the portrayal of Louis B . Mayer ( badly played by Allen Garfield ) as a kindly man . He was loud and obnoxious and treated the actors like dirt . Here he comes across as a nice gentle father figure which is wildly inaccurate . Still if you just accept this as a fictional tale it's not too bad . It's pretty obvious they spent a lot of money on this - - there's some truly beautiful sets and clothes . Also the script isn't too bad . It mostly consists of Brolin and Clayburgh screaming and arguing with each other or hopping into bed . . . but it still works . Brolin is VERY convincing as Gable . He looks like him and sounds like him . Also , from what I've heard , he pretty much gave an accurate portrayal of Gable as he really was . Clayburgh looks nothing like Lombard but her acting is excellent and she does show Lombard as she actually was - - strong , funny and independent . Also Red Buttons is excellent as a studio publicist . Beautiful music score too . There are a few problems . The movie is way too long - - it's 131 minutes and should have been shorter . Also there's a truly tacky sequence involving a " ck soc " that should have been eliminated . But , as a fictional tale , this is pretty good . R rated for swearing and very frank sexual talk .
Only worth seeing for Hayward	A successful singer Angelica Evans ( Susan Hayward ) gives up her career and marries unsuccessful singer Ken Conway ( Lee Bowman ) . She happily sacrifices for him and his partner ( Eddie Albert ) . Eventually he DOES hit it big , she has a baby . . . but he never has time for her - - his rising career comes first . She slowly drifts into alcoholism . This was probably hard-hitting in 1947 ( a female alcoholic ) but it's not even remotely surprising today . It tiredly follows all the rules of a drama like this leading to a jaw-dropping happy ending that was TOTALLY unbelievable ( but the Production Code demanded that ) . Also Bowman is pretty stiff as the husband and this looks pretty cheap ( it WAS independently financed ) . Still Hayward is so good all the shortcomings can be forgiven . She dives into the role full force and gives everything she has to it . This film ( understandably ) made her a star and earned her an Academy Award nomination . She's just incredible - - it's worth sitting through just for her acting . Also Albert is very good in his supporting role . So it is dated and really not that good - - but worth seeing for Haywood's strong , impressive performance .
A one of a kind	Musical that takes place during the Gold Rush days at a place called No Name City . Ben Rumson ( Lee Marvin ) a hard-drinking , ill-tempered man is partners with a man named Pardner ( Clint Eastwood ) . Through some circumstances to convoluted to get into , Ben gets a wife named Elizabeth ( Jean Seberg ) . However she starts falling for Pardner . What will they do ? For 1969 that was pretty adult and strange subject matter for a musical . This movie was plagued by problems when it was being filmed . Marvin was impossible to get along with , the director and producer were constantly fighting and it was filmed in the dead heat of summer where temperatures ran over 100 % . It went way over budget , was released and bombed almost immediately . It's no undiscovered masterpiece of cinema but it's not as bad as its reputation would have you think . There are many problems with this film - - Marvin and Eastwood couldn't sing so ( naturally ) they sang . Marvin was quite obviously tone deaf and Eastwood was OK ( he's introduced singing in fact ) but had a very thin voice which didn't do justice to the songs . Seberg was ( thankfully ) overdubbed . The songs themselves aren't bad but not exactly memorable . There's a show stopper called " There's a Coach Coming In " which is fun . Acting varies - - Marvin chews the scenery and Eastwood downplays his scenes which contrast Marvin beautifully . Seberg was beautiful but never was a great actress as this movie shows . For some reason the Nitty Gritty Dirt Band plays a few songs and appears briefly on screen . Also Paddy Chayeksky adapted the screenplay ! It's overlong ( almost three hours ) and very strange but fun and interesting . I give it a 7 . " Not tonight parson , these folks have suffered enough . "
OK , some of the ants look fake , but . . .	the movie works . It's about a colony of giant ants ( caused by nuclear radiation ) on the rampage . The story moves VERY quickly , has decent acting and characterizations and some of the special effects are very good . But when they look bad , they look BAD ! ! ! But hey . . . it was done in the 1950s ! This is easily the best " big bug " movie of the 50s . Well worth catching .
A good film - - but no masterpiece	A Woody Allen film shot in London ! An retired Irish tennis star Chris ( Jonathan Rhys Meyers ) quits the circuit and takes a job teaching rich people how to play . He becomes friends with VERY rich Tom Hewett ( Matthew Goode ) and starts romancing his sister Chloe ( Emily Mortimer ) . Then he meets Tom's girlfriend Nola ( Scarlett Johansson ) and falls in lust for her . . . This isn't a comedy . It's a very grim tale of adultery . This has been praised as a comeback for Woody Allen - - his last few films have been laugh less comedies . It's also been described as a masterpiece . It is good but not THAT good . To be totally honest I don't understand why this is being praised so much . The story is downbeat and moves VERY slowly ( this film could easily lose 20 minutes ) . The affair between Chris and Nola comes out of nowhere - - I never believed it for one second . Nola comes off as shrill and having no idea what she wants out of life . Her character is very unlikable - - you wonder what Chris sees in her . The film really falls apart during the ending . Nola acts seriously deranged and Chris goes WAY too far . I also saw the resolution coming from a mile away . Also Allen has no feeling at all on how to shoot London . In his New York films you got a real sense of the city - - not here in London . Also ALL the characters ( with the exception of Nola ) are nice - - all the time . They're TOO nice . I didn't believe them for one second . The acting really carries this film . Meyers is drop dead handsome and very good in his role . Goode and Mortimer are also good . I didn't like Johansson but that's mostly because of her character . So I don't really like this film but I don't hate it . I was fairly entertained and it was OK . I give it a 7 and that's mostly because of the acting .
Colorful fluff	Basically a travelogue of Rome with a light story of three women meeting , losing , then getting the men of their dreams . The photography is beautiful , the acting is OK , nice music score . Basically a no brainer movie . The prime reason to see it , for me , was Rosanno Brazzi and Louis Jourdan . They're so young and VERY handsome in this film ( when Brazzi smiled my knees went weak ! ) that they're fun to watch . Try to see it letter-boxed - - the pan and scan version shown most often on TV is terrible .
OK Allen	Comedy set in 1940 about an insurance investigator ( Woody Allen ) locking horns with an efficiency expert ( Helen Hunt ) while a string of suspicious jewel robberies are going on . Only average Allen comedy . . . but that's still 70 % better than the typical Hollywood film . It's fairly well-acted . . . Allen is , frankly , way too old for this ( he's 65 and he's getting women in their 20s and 30s ? ? ? PLEASE ! ) but he gives a good performance ; Hunt is simply wonderful . . . she looks great in the 40s outfits and her verbal sparring with Allen was hilarious ; Charlize Theron looks fantastic but is shamefully wasted and ( in a huge surprise ) Elizabeth Berkeley actually gives a halfway decent performance ! The script is OK if a tad unbelievable . And the movie looks fantastic . . . the costumes and the sets really evoke the 1940s . So , it's OK , but no great shakes .
Good if somewhat overly melodramatic	An all black silent film made exclusively for black audiences in the 1920s ( back then theatres were segregated ) . Poor but beautiful Louise Howard ( Lucia Lynn Moses ) is beaten by her stepfather ( William E Pettus ) but dreams of a better life . She meets good honest Alvin Hillyard ( Harry Henderson ) and he falls in love with her . But her stepfather and evil Eddie Blake ( Norman Johnson ) aren't going to let her go without a fight . Interesting from a historical standpoint and not too bad as a drama either . It does get overly melodramatic with a lot of eye-rolling speeches and gets more than a little ridiculous during it's last half hour but I was never bored . The acting is actually pretty good and it moves quickly . Also the cards telling us what's going on have some interesting designs . When Blake is introduced there's a wolf shown on the title card ! So , a pretty good movie . Also interesting to see how blacks were shown and treated back then . A 7 .
Dated but good	It seems the President will be stopping at the little town of Suddenly CA on his way to Los Angeles . Crazy killer Johnnie ( Frank Sinatra ) comes into town and holds a family hostage to use their house as a place to kill the President from . This is dated in a lot of ways - - the violence is extremely toned down , there's next to no blood ( even when one man is shot at least 30 times ! ) and the killers are actually way too nice . Still , it is short ( only about 75 minutes ) , moves quickly and has some good acting . Top billed Frank Sinatra is great . This is his first film ( and I think only one ) playing a totally amoral criminal . Every time he's on screen you can't stop watching him . Nancy Gates as one of the hostages is also good . The rest of the cast ranges from OK to disastrous - - especially Sterlinh Hayden who is stone-faced throughout . The film looks cheap too and the print I saw was in terrible shape . Still this is worth catching just for Sinatra's acting . He holds this together . Remade ( disasterously ) as " The Desperate Hours " in 1990 . Now THAT'S a bad film ! ! ! ! " Ellen will you please stop being a woman ! "
Pretty good	One of the better comic book movies . The story is vague ( something about Lex Luthor causing California to sink into the ocean ) , but the movie holds your interest . The acting is mostly good - - Reeve is perfect as Superman , Margot Kidder is OK as Lois Lane , Gene Hackman is fun as Luthor , but Valerie Perrine and Ned Beatty are just annoying . The script is a problem - - some times it's funny , other times it's horrible . It was also obviously written " down " for the kids in the audience . Also there are lapses in logic and the special effects are pretty laughable . Still , I was never bored and the acting by Reeve and the music score by John Williams carry you through the bad sections . Worth watching - - perfect for the entire family . Try to see it letter-boxed though - - it doesn't work on full-screen TV .
Good of its type	Psychic Alex Gardner ( Dennis Quaid ) is recruited for a government-funded institute . In it psychics are able to get into peoples ' dreams and interact with them . However one subject dies while in this state and Alex realizes something is wrong . And the President ( Eddie Albert ) is going to visit the institute for some nightmares he is having . . . I enjoyed watching this but realized , after it was over , that it didn't make a whole lot of sense and there were plot holes left and right . Still , it moves quickly and the dream sequences themselves were lots of fun . This was also the second PG-13 rating ever released . It was cut to get that ( a sex scene between Quaid and Kate Capshaw was almost completely dropped ) but there were some complaints about the amount of violence ( none of which was cut ) that was allowed in . By today's standards though it's not that bad . Quaid is good - - he's young , handsome and not taking any of this seriously . Max von Sydow is very good as the head doctor of the research . Kate Capshaw is pretty terrible as his assistant . Christopher Plummer seems to be proving he can say his lines without moving a muscle in his face . Albert is lots of fun as the President and David Patrick Kelly almost runs away with the movie as Tommy Ray Glatin . So a quick , fun little movie . Just don't think about it too much .
" Where were you in ' 62 ? " ( Original ad )	Nostalgic look at one night / morning of a small California town and some of its teenagers . Story-wise this is nothing new - - all the stereotypes are in place - - the loving / bickering couple ( Ron Howard and Cindy Williams ) ; the rebel ( Paul Le Mal ) stuck with a 13 year old ( Mackenzie Phuillips ) ; the nerd ( Charles Martin Smith ) having a disastrous date with a blonde ( Candy Clark ) ; the hood ( Bo Hopkins ) showing the good boy ( Richard Dreyfuss ) a night out and Harrison Ford and Suzanne Somers in small parts . What makes this movie better than average is the great direction by George Lucas - - he fills the Cinemascope screen masterfully ; the non-stop soundtrack of 50s / 60s hits ; a great script and the cast of then-unknowns . It's incredible to see some of these actors so young ( especially Ford and Dreyfuss ) and full of life . Without this cast , this movie would probably have long-since been forgotten . So , no great shakes , but very sweet and nostalgic with some good acting . Worth catching . Try to see it letter-boxed or on a big screen .
Great black comedy	Michael Caine , a mild-mannered successful businessman , is passed over for a big promotion that goes to a younger man ( Peter Riegert ) . While waiting for the subway one night , a bum bothers him for money . Upset over his job he accidentally pushes the guy onto the tracks in front of an oncoming train killing him completely . Nobody sees him do it and he feels a great sense of power and freedom over getting away with it . Now he decides to go after everybody else who wronged him . . . This little gem came out in 1990 . I remember it got great reviews and I saw it with a sold-out audience that applauded at the end . Since then it's just disappeared . Why ? Probably because it's an intelligent , scary , very black and very funny movie . My guess is that this movie was too dark for most viewers to handle . That's a shame - - it's a real good movie . The direction is great - - crooked camera angles are used to convey Caine's state of mind and a great sequence that cross-cuts between a double murder and him with Elizabeth McGovern ( an office worker he supposedly falls in love with ) . The movie is short ( about 90 minutes ) . . . just as long as it should be . Caine is superb in his role . You see him slowly turn from a quiet , unassuming man into a ruthless , cunning killer - - a really great acting job . McGovern has the unenviable role of " the girl " but pulls it off and her makes her character sympathetic and believable . All the roles are well done by a cast of top character actors . A very good movie . Here's hoping it someday gets the recognition it deserves .
It could have been worse	A bunch of 20-somethings are on their way to a concert . They're driving through a forest and decide to stop and camp out for the night . They wake up in the morning to find their car fan belt wrecked . The nearest town is miles away but two of them get a ride by a VERY strange man . They find the town - - but it's strangely deserted . . . and what about that House of Wax building they see ? The wax figures in there seem strangely real . . . There's a lot more to the plot but that's the basic structure . There are a lot of plot holes it you look at this closely . The real plot makes little sense and in the movie the House of Wax is made totally of real wax ( that could never happen in real life ) . Also people keep doing dumb things like wandering into rooms for no good reason ( and it just happens to be the room the killer needs them to be in ) and going up the stairs when they should be bolting for the door . Still , compared to some recent horror movies , this isn't too bad . For one thing not all the characters are annoying . Even the dreaded " comic " relief ( played by Jon Abrahams ) isn't bad . But he does go around filming everything with a hand-held video camera . Can we PLEASE stop having that in every horror film ? It's stupid and has no bearing in the plot at all . And not all the sympathetic characters live - - one murder really surprised me . And there is in interracial couple introduced with no fuss . It takes it's time getting to the blood and gore but when it comes it's VERY gruesome and nasty ( this is not for the squeamish ) . The special effects are also excellent if a bit too realistic . As for the acting . . . it's not totally terrible . Elisha Cuthbert is very good and Brian van Holt is damn scary as the villain . The others actors are OK except for Paris Hilton . She is TERRIBLE ! ! ! Easily one of the worst actors EVER ! And Chad Michael Murray shows off his buff upper body - - very impressive . It also plays homage to the two originals before it - - one character is named Vincent ( Vincent Price was in the 1950s " House of Wax " ) and the final showdown is briefly filmed through some Art Deco windows which immediately reminded me of the 1930s " Mystery of the Wax Museum " . Also there's an impressive ending when the house literally melts ! So , an OK pretty gruesome horror film . Just don't examine the plot TOO closely .
Not good but I have happy memories about it	The first ( and virtually forgotten ) remake of " King Kong " . This one has an oil company called Petrox going to Skull Island to get oil . The expedition is run by evil Fred Wilson ( Charles Grodin ) . Nice guy Jack Prescott ( Jeff Bridges looking like a hippie ) is a stowaway who becomes their photographer . They find beautiful Dwan ( Jessica Lange in her movie debut ) stranded in the middle of the ocean . They get to the island , Dwan is offered as a sacrifice to Kong - - but he falls in love with her . He's captured and bought to New York where he breaks loose and climbs the Word Trade Center with Dwan in his clutches . OK - - this is not a good movie . However I saw it at the age of 14 in a movie theatre and was blown away by it . I found it big , exciting , funny and sad . Also people seem to forget that this DID have defenders . There were many positive reviews - - even the legendary critic Pauline Kael gave it a good review in " The New Yorker " ! Still this has been regarded as a total bomb and derided from all sides . But I prefer this over that overblown Peter Jackson remake that ran an unnecessary three hours . First of all the special effects are great . Kong's face is incredibly expressive . You can SEE what he's feeling . Also I do like the fact that Lange doesn't scream nonstop like Fay Wray did in the original . The scenes between her and Kong include incredible special effects - - and some of the most laughable lines in screen history ! Lange TALKS to the ape - - " You gdamn chauvinist pig ape ! " " I'm a Libra . What sign are you ? " I mean COME ON ! ! ! ! There are plenty of things wrong with this though . The dialogue is dreadful - - full of stupid jokes that are meant to be ironic ( I guess ) . Get a load of the ( very obviously ) fake giant snake Kong fights on Skull Island ! When they hit New York continuity goes flying out the window . Kong ( somehow ) finds Dwan in a small underground bar . No way that could happen . Also he's trampling down some oddly quiet streets in Manhattan - - yet minutes later they're full of people . And the ending was just needlessly bloody . And HOW did Dwan get from the top of the World Trade Center to the street in a matter of minutes ? Also seeing the World Trade Center ( which no longer exists ) might remind some people of the horrific tragedy . As for the acting - - Lange does what she can . Bridges is good if way too earnest . Grodin is just terrible . So - - it is NOT a good movie but childhood memories die hard . I give it a 7 .
Great musical with some SERIOUS problems	In the 1850s a man ( Howard Keel ) who lives with his six brothers out in the middle of nowhere takes a bride ( Jane Powell ) . He expects her to be a maid , housecleaner , cook , etc . She does but makes all seven of the guys dress nicely , eat correctly and have good manners . Soon the six brothers fall in love with some town girls . So Howard tells them go off and kidnap them ( ! ! ) They do and the girls fall in love with them ( ! ! ! ! ! ) OK - - this film has good things - - - some absolutely beautiful , if fake , scenery ; some pretty good songs ; an incredible barnraising sequence ( the dancing is unbelievable ) and it's shot in bright color and widescreen . BUT . . . the film has an annoying boys will be boys attitude and some really upsetting violence ( for a musical ) - - during the barnraising sequence especially . Also there's horrible back projection ( especially when Keel takes Powell to his house ) and a just astonishing hatred of women . We're supposed to find it amusing that the seven guys KIDNAP the women ( after beating their boyfriends senseless ) and the women fall in love ! Yeah yeah I know it was made in the 1950s but that doesn't excuse it . I had a LOT of problems with that . Still I'm giving it a 7 for the dancing alone .
Somewhat interesting but also pretty sick	In 1942 New Orleans gangster J . D . Walker ( David McKnight ) is shot to death by Elija Bliss ( Lou Gossett ) . It is believed that he killed his wife ( he didn't ) . Cut to 1976 . Mild mannered young law student Ike ( Glynn Turman ) is possessed by the spirit of J . D . He immediately becomes cruel and vicious and treating his beautiful girl friend Christella ( Joan Pringle ) like dirt . Then he realizes his ex rival Elija is still alive as a preacher and J . D . sets out to get his revenge . I've wanted to see this since it came out in 1976 . I was 14 then and a newspaper ad showed a drawing of a gravestone and a pretty young woman lying dead in front of it with a look of horror on her face ( needless to say nothing like that appears in the film ) . But the film only played one week and quickly disappeared - - but I've never forgotten that drawing . I'm glad I finally got the chance to see it . It's not a great film but it's an interesting psychological horror film more than a blood and guts one . There's only one bloody attack scene and a shot of a dead animal being cut open ( which was repeated at least 8 times ) . This concentrates more on Ike being possessed and trying to fight back . It's a hard role but Turman pulls it off . The only part where he goes too far is at the end when J . D . takes complete control and Turman REALLY overdoes it . It's also kind of fun seeing Gossett ( REALLY chewing the scenery ) as a preacher . His speeches at church are energetic ( to say the least ) and a highlight . The only thing that bothers me here is the disgusting misogynistic attitude . There's a truly sick scene where Turman viciously tries to rape Pringle . The only other female roles are TWO cheating wives who eagerly jump into bed with other men and Bliss's daughter who seduces Ike ( J . D . ) almost immediately . Also Ike has a friend who talks about women like they should be beaten up and controlled . This attitude permeates the film and makes it a chore sometimes to watch . Still this is a somewhat interesting reincarnation movie . I give it a 7 .
Overlong but has its moments	This movie takes place in 1880 . Professor Oliver Lindenbrook ( James Mason ) discovers a way down to the center of the Earth . He takes with him his assistant Alec McKuen ( Pat Boone ! ! ) , Swedish Hans ( Peter Roson ) and beautiful Carla Goteborg ( Arlene Dah ) . On their trail is the evil David Thayer and his assistant . I was expecting the worst from this . I mean really - - PAT BOONE in a dramatic role ? ? ? ? Within the first 10 minutes they actually have him singing a song ! Also fourth billed Diane Baker is hardly in the movie . But , as soon as they start their journey ( about an hour in ) , things pick up . The underworld sequences look pretty cool ( especially the ocean they discover ) and there are some decent special effects . There are also some lousy ones ( wait till you see the " giant " lizards ! ) The acting is , for the most part , pretty good . Mason is excellent as the professor , Dahl is truly beautiful and not bad . Boone ( surprisingly ) was good too . Also him and Ronson spend a large part of the movie with their shirts off and in shorts . Ronson is big and buff - - Boone is hardly muscular but he's so young and handsome that he's easy on the eyes . I'm pretty sure that this isn't faithful to the book ( I never read it ) but they get some of the scientific facts correct . At least it isn't as bad as the dreadful 2008 adaptation . If you see this make sure it's in wide screen . This was shot in CinemaScope and looks pretty impressive that way . The full frame version usually shown on TV is pretty bad . Overlong but worth catching . Kids will love it .
Pointless but actually pretty good	A remake of Alfred Hitchock's classic . You know the plot - - A woman ( Anne Heche ) steals a large amount of money so she and her boyfriend ( Viggo Mortensen ) can start a life together . During the drive to his town , it gets late and she decides to spend the night at a motel . It's called Bates Motel and she meets the owner Norman Bates ( Vince Vaughn ) . . . To be totally honest I never liked the original . It was well-directed and pretty well-acted with a great music score and great direction - - but I always found it kind of slow and dull . Still - - this remake was not needed . Why a talented director like Gus van Sant chose to do this is beyond me . But FOR WHAT IT IS . . . it's actually pretty good . It's NOT a frame by frame remake of the original like some people claim . Things are changed . Van Sant shot the murder scenes differently - - a wise choice . Imitating Hitchcock's ones wouldn't have worked . Characters and situations are updated ( purportedly Julianne Moore's character is supposed to be a lesbian - - but I never caught that ) and van Sant directs it ( mostly ) his way . A few times he does direct it the way Hitchcock would but not all the time . Also the acting is almost uniformly great . Heche is very good in her role and Vaughn is ( surprisingly ) just terrific as Bates - - he plays it differently than Anthony Perkins did and actually adds a new dimension to the character . He plays Norman as a little boy trapped in a man's body . . . but you also see the anger and violence lurking right underneath the surface . Strong support is given by Julianne Moore and William H . Macy ( VERY good ) in supporting roles . The only disappointment is Viggo Mortensen . I've never thought he was a good actor and this movie does nothing to change my mind . The southern accent he adopts is particularly silly . I'm not really sure why but this movie seems to move faster than the original . I still think there was no point to remaking the original but I do like this . It was a HUGE critical and commercial bomb so I don't think we'll be seeing anymore Hitchcock remakes . I give it a 7 .
Forgotten Altman	Dino Corelli ( Desi Arnaz Jr . ) is marrying Margaret Brenner ( Amy Stryker ) . Naturally everything goes wrong . There's the married woman ( Carol Burnett ) who's being chased around by another man ; a lesbian wedding planner ( Geraldine Chaplin ) ; a gay captain ( Craig Richard Nelson ) ; a senile priest ; a topless portrait of the bride as a wedding gift ; the old head of the family ( Lillian Gish ) who is bedridden etc etc . This isn't even close to being one of Altman's best works like " Nashville " and " Short Cuts " . There are far too many characters , it meanders all over the place and it's too long . Still it's not his worst ( " H . E . A . L . T . H . " is MUCH more horrible ) . This comes across as him trying to please the audience . The story lines are pretty conventional and the PG rating prevents him from throwing in tons of female nudity ( which he seems to love showing in all his films ) . It's not bad but it doesn't look or feel like an Altman film . I was seriously surprised to see he directed it - - I thought it was just some by-the-numbers director who doesn't even try anything different . Direction aside the plots are pretty predictable and Altman doesn't do comedy that well . The bits with Burnett only work because of Burnett's considerable comedic talents . The acting varies from terrible ( Arnaz Jr . ) to OK ( Stryker ) to very good ( Burnett and Chaplin ) . Not the total fiasco that people have said it is but definitely a lesser Altman . A 7 .
Not really a gay film . . . but good	Dot ( Rita Tushingham ) and Reggie ( Colin Campbell ) marry too young and realize it too late . Reggie starts to be good friends with Pete ( Dudley Sutton ) who just happens to be gay . And Dot wants Reggie back . . . Technically this isn't really a gay film . Pete is gay but it's only suggested here and there and not made clear until the very end . And , despite the title , this doesn't deal with the heavy leather gay set . It's about Reggie trying to deal with his life - - figuring out what he wants . Is it Dot . . . or Pete ? SPOILER ! ! ! ! ! The ending pretty much makes it clear that it's neither . He walks away from both but I never got the feeling it was because Pete was gay - - I think it was because Reggie just wasn't ready for a relationship with anyone END SPOILER ! ! ! ! ! The film is ahead of its time for having a sympathetic gay character and it IS an interesting character study ( of Reggie ) shot in stark black and white . Good acting too . Good luck trying to see this . . . I caught it totally by accident one night on a local PBS station .
Gruesome but fun	A series of gruesome murders in England have Scotland Yard baffled . Crime journalist Edmond Bancroft ( Michael Gough ) mocks the police for not finding the killer . Since it's Michael Gough we all know he's the killer . I saw this film constantly on TV when I was in high school and have very fond memories of it . Seeing it again on DVD it's lacking . The script is REAL stupid , the dialogue terrible and most of the acting is dreadful - - Graham Curnow as Bancroft's assistant is especially bad ( no surprise that he never made another movie ) . But it's still worth seeing . The murders are very bloody and gruesome - - by 1959 standards . The opening one is especially sick . But they're so over the top ( and completely impossible ) that they become fun to watch . Also Gough chews the scenery in ever scene he has - - especially towards the end . So it's worth seeing for Gough and the murders . Also this originally opened with a 13 minute prologue about hypnotism which plays a part in the film . It's real silly but hysterically funny . It's available on VCI's DVD ( which has an incredibly good print of the movie ) .
I haven't the slightest idea of what this is about but it works !	This takes place in 1808 in an insane asylum . The Marquis de Sade ( Patrick Mage ) puts on a play of an assassination for an audience . He uses the other inmates as actors . Things slowly get out of hand leading to a truly horrifying ending . I first caught this way back in 1980 at a center for adult education . It was a video of the movie shown for free . The picture was murky and the sound was terrible . Still I sat through it . I just caught it again ( over 20 years later ) on cable . This time I could see and hear it clearly . I'm not going to pretend that I understand what this is about , aside from the basic premise about a bunch of inmates putting on a play , and I do know it was based on a stage play . Still , I watched all 2 hours . The acting is great across the board but Magee , Ian Richardson and Glenda Jackson ( in her major film debut ) are exceptional . The movie is disturbing - - I realize these are all actors playing roles but they're so good that you believe everything you're seeing . The direction also is masterful - - it opens up the play cinematically . It has an R rating but that's mostly for subject matter and a brief nude scene with Richardson . This isn't for everybody - - some people will be bored silly by it - - but for those who like challenging movies this fits the bill . The ending is very disturbing . I give it a 7 .
Odd Superman cartoon	Lois Lane and Clark Kent are sent to cover a circus ( for some reason ) . They separate to cover more ground . While Lois is watching a show in the Big Top a HUGE ( and very fierce-looking ) gorilla ( or ape ) is accidentally let loose . He proceeds to wreak havoc and , in the mayhem , other animals escape from their cages . Lois saves a little girl from the huge gorilla ( or ape ) but then it goes after her ? Can Superman save her and the circus ? Very strange Superman cartoon . For once he isn't battling mad scientists or creatures - - just animals . Also it seems kind of strange that he has trouble beating a large gorilla ( even though it IS huge ) . And he doesn't even show up until 6 minutes in ( this is only 8 minutes long ) . Still , it's pretty good .
OK but lacking	First off , the play was better . Some of the humor that worked so well on stage fell flat on a movie screen . Second , Weber is miscast . He's handsome , muscular but he can't act . However , I give him credit for playing an openly gay man so easily . Third , the direction is really off . I don't recognize the director's name , but comedy is not his forte . His direction really destroyed some of the jokes . Other than that , this is an OK movie . Michael T . Weiss is beautiful ( and hunky ) and one hell of an actor . Patrick Stewart played a gay older man to perfection - - I couldn't believe it when I found out he was straight . Also the scenes with Olympia Dukakis , Sigourney Weaver and Nathan Lane are great ! Also a great romantic ending with a few nice , long kisses . So , worth seeing but no great movie . If only they had a better leading man and a better director . . .
Strong , unpleasant - - SPOILERS	Graphic and VERY disturbing about a person born with both sexes . The female side is more developed but she / he chooses to live as a man . She falls in love with another woman , people discover her secret and all hell breaks loose . Based on a true story , this movie is very well-acted ( especially Swank ) and pulls no punches . Unfortunately , that also makes it very disturbing to watch . There's a rape sequence that's almost impossible to sit through , and some people walked out of the theatre I saw it in towards the end when it was clear she was going to be killed . I almost joined them ! Still , I recommend it and find it great to see a movie that doesn't hold back . Just brace yourself for some truly horrific violence .
Interesting but off-putting	The life and ( hard ) times of producer Robert Evans . It chronicles his start in show business , his rise , his downfall and comeback . He provides the narration for pictures and videos taken throughout his career . Also , they try something different with the stills here . . . the backgrounds ( or foregrounds ) are real and moving while the characters stay still . Some people might like it . . . I found it incredibly annoying . . . it kept " pushing " me out of the picture . Also the film doesn't add up to much . There's precious little insight to the movies he produced ( except for " Rosemary's Baby " ) and even less insight to his character . I left the theatre still not knowing much about him . Still , I enjoyed it . Some of the pics are incredible and there are some very funny observations ( he said he never understood what " Chinatown " was about ! ) . So it's worth seeing for bits like that . Otherwise it's nothing much .
Good , but not great	A media publicist Stu Shepard ( Colin Farrell ) is in a phone booth making a call . He hangs up . The phone rings . He picks it up . A smooth , scary voice ( Keifer Sutherland ) on the other end informs him he has a gun trained on him and he will be killed if he hangs up . This is a great premise - - for a 60 minute movie . Unfortunately this runs on for 80 minutes . It drags ocassionally and has a really bad ending . But it's well-directed with great use of split screens , Farrell is fantastic ( as always ) , Sutherland's voice is just perfect and it does have some very intense , frightening moments - - as well as some funny ones too . No masterpiece but worth catching for Farrell and Sutherland .
Crude but fun	Likable , stupid , crude and very funny movie about Tom Hanks having a bachelor party before he marries beautiful Tawny Kitaen . Naturally , things go barreling out of control . It's incredibly tasteless ( although somewhat tame compared to today's movies ) , silly and full of female ( and male ! ) nudity . . . but damned if I wasn't laughing ! Most of the humor comes from Tom Hanks who's ( I assuming ) ad-libbing his lines left and right . Very 80s in terms of clothes and hair . Brainless but fun . A perfect example of an R-rated 1980s sex comedy that would get an NC-17 rating today . Also interesting to see Hanks pre-stardom . Turn off your brain and enjoy !
Kids will love it	SPOILERS Young Peter Fry ( Dean Stockwell ) is left alone when his parents go off to fight in WWII . He's left with lovable Gramps ( Pat O'Brien ) . His parents are killed in the war and he becomes a war orphan . He reacts with anger - - and then wakes up one morning to find her hair turned green ! He soon discovers it was turned green so people will notice him and listen to him as he delivers a message - - war is bad for children . END SPOILERSThe Technicolor cinematography is beautiful and I applaud the message ( especially in these times ) but I personally found the movie simplistic and heavy-handed . I also thought Stockwell's character was obnoxious and there were two songs in the film that made me want to cut off my ears BUT kids will probably love this . It's made for them anyways - - this is not an adult film . The acting is so-so . Stockwell is just OK ( although I give him credit for taking the role ) and O'Brien seems uncomfortable in his role . The only ones who pulls off any acting are Robery Ryan and Barbara Hale ( looking stunning in color ) as a teacher . She also has a great scene where she subtly points out to her class that there's nothing wrong with green hair . Also Stockwell's hair color doesn't look that strange in this day and age . I give this a 7 for the color and the message .
Overly violent but enjoyable trash	Foxy Brown ( Pam Grier ) goes after some vicious drug dealers after they kill her boyfriend . Not as good as " Coffy " for one reason - - it's way too violent and Grier's character is treated horrendously . She's beaten up repeatedly , raped , shot up with drugs , tied down , whipped in the throat and dragged around and tortured - - it just goes too far . However , she gets her revenge very brutally too . It's all fairly enjoyable trash . There's bad dialogue , loads of blood and violence , a lesbian bar fight and some truly terrible acting by Kathryn Loder as the head villain . Also she wears the worst 70s outfits I've ever seen ! Still , worth seeing - - it moves quickly , Grier is fantastic ( as always ) . . . but it's still trash .
VERY 60s but not uninteresting	Robert Culp and Natalie Wood play a VERY liberated couple who basically love each other . . . when they cheat on the other they discuss it and talk out their feelings and end up still madly in love . They share their views with another couple played by Dyan Cannon and Elliott Gould . They try to convert them to their way of thinking . . . but will it work or tear them all apart ? For starters this film would NOT be made today . With HIV and AIDS out there the casual sex shown here is a stupid idea . And can anyone seriously say they would honestly tell their partners that they had cheated on them and DISCUSS it ? ? ? ? That aside , I still sort of like the movie . The script was well-written with some sharp observations on sex and love and I found the discussions between Culp and Wood fascinating . Also Culp and Wood give out great performances ( I especially liked Wood's little smiles ) . Cannon is good too but , surprisingly , looks HORRIBLE . Gould is just OK . But the script carries this one . If you can accept the ideas in this it works . However it all ends in a laughably horrible ending that ( almost ) destroys everything that went before . Ending aside , I think this is a pretty interesting and a ( I think ) accurate picture of the late 1960s . Worth a look . I give it a 7 .
Well done but slow and WAY too sentimental	Claudette Colbert plays a widowed mother trying to run her husbands business after his death . She takes in a black woman ( Louise Beavers ) and her fair-skinned daughter to help . She loves Beavers ' pancakes and gets her to start a successful business with her . The movie skips ahead years later when Beavers ' daughter ( Fredi Washington ) is trying to pass herself off as white . . . and things go out of control . This is important as one of the first movies to deal honestly with racism and the self-hatred of fair-skinned black people . It is well done and Colbert and Beavers are excellent . . . BUT this is very dated . Colbert convinces Beavers to sell over her pancake recipe and has her doing all the cooking for the shop ! Later , when Beavers is getting rich , she refuses to get her own house and insists on staying with Colbert - - living in the basement no less ! And Beavers is ridiculously nice , sweet and kind ALWAYS ( credit Beavers to pulling it off ) . Also it hits you over the head with sentimentality . Nothing wrong with sentimental movies but really - - this one over does it ! Some scenes with Washington were so overdone I thought they were kidding . So this is historically important but just too dated and slow to really be enjoyable . The Lana Turner remake is much better .
Low-key	Story about two young men in England - - Philip ( Angus Macfayden ) and Eliot ( Corey Parker ) - - falling in love . Philip tells his parents - - his mother thinks it's a disaster - - his father ( Brian Cox ) remains strangely quiet . It turns out HE'S gay too and his sons coming out is forcing him into a decision . Low-key drama . I caught it on PBS ( slightly edited ) and then saw it complete on VHS in the early 1990s . I liked it but can't say I was too impressed . For starters the low-key aspect of the story was TOO low-key . Everything seemed muted . Macfayden and Parker were ( surprisingly ) terrible in their roles . I never believed these guys even liked each other , let alone love each other . So a crucial turn halfway through didn't carry the emotional weight it should have . The happy ending all around seemed too pat for me also . Still it was brave to make a movie like this back in 1991 AND get it distributed . It was well-directed and well-written . Also Cox was excellent in his role . So , it IS interesting in terms of gay cinema - - it portrays gay men in a realistic manner ( especially having hunky , masculine Macfayden play one ) but it just doesn't come across strongly enough . Worth a viewing but don't go out of your way .
Overrated but not too bad	In England emotionless hit man Jack Carter ( Michael Caine ) travels to Newcastle to see about his brothers death . The police said it was accidental - - he's convinced it was murder . Slowly things get more violent and dark . I don't think this is a masterpiece of cinema like some think it is but it's not a total bomb either . For its time this was revolutionary . It was bleak and cold and there's not one character in this film that you can root for . Also the violence was pretty extreme with some really shocking treatment of women . Seen today it's not so fresh . We've had plenty of dark films with no likable characters and extreme violence . Also , by today's standards , the violence was pretty restrained . I also found the first hour completely boring - - it picks up a lot in its second half . Still , this is well-made - - it's beautifully directed and Caine is just great in his role . Also all the settings are drab and grim which just add to the feeling of the story . This wore me down eventually - - I was thoroughly depressed by the end . Still , it's worth catching if you're into movies like this . I give it a 7 .
Loud , silly , PG-rated violence . . .	basically a typical summer blockbuster ! I saw it at a sneak preview last night and I mostly liked it . The action is virtually non-stop , the special effects ( except for one monster at the end ) are incredible and the film never stops moving . But the plot makes no sense ( something about a Scorpion King and the Mummy fighting ) , characterizations are nonexistent and there's some truly awful dialogue . Also in a movie that takes place in the 1930s , terms like " Are we there yet ? " " Whatever . . . " and " Get a room " did not exist ! That may be nitpicking , but it bothered me . Brendan Fraser , Rachel Weisz and John Hannah all reprise their roles from the original . They're all very good here . . . too bad they have nothing to play with . But , I was never bored . It's a movie where you turn off your mind , sit back and enjoy the ride . In other words , a very good summer movie !
An indie classic	This is the film that gave independent filmmakers hope . Made on no budget , it got a release and was a modest success at the box office . I saw it in 1984 and wasn't too impressed . The plot is familar and the movie has dull sequences . Also , characters act like total idiots , it gets VERY gruesome at the end and ( with the sole exception of Walsh ) the acting is pretty bad ( especially Getz - - very handsome with a nice bod , but he can't act ) . Seeing it again in 2000 , my feelings haven't changed . I do like the movie somewhat and it did start the indie revolution but the plot holes are very obvious ( what happened the the husband's dog ? ) and it's kind of dull . It's well-directed ( there are incredible shots ) but pretty pictures don't make a movie . Worth seeing , but don't expect much .
Good , not great Woody Allen	Hey , Woody Allen's doing comedy again ! After his Ingmar Bergman phase and his woman-hating movies he's finally back at doing what he does best . The lines are pretty good - - there are a few real howlers . Tracey Ullman is uproarious as Allen's wife , May is adorable as a very dumb woman and Allen is good - - he's just getting a little old for this . The plot has problems - - it's not consistently funny , three main characters disappear completely after the first half-hour and there are some needlessly cruel jabs made at Ullman's character . Also the story has no bearing in reality whatsoever . Still , it's funny and well-made . Worth seeing , but try to catch it at half-price - - it's really not worth $8 . 00 .
Silly but fun	One of the big all star disaster flicks on the early 1970s . This competed with " The Towering Inferno " which opened the same year . There are multiple story lines going on in this : Architect Charlton Heston is unhappily married to Ava Gardner and has Genevieve Bujold as a mistress ; Lorne Greene plays Gardner's FATHER ( stop laughing ! ) ; George Kennedy plays a mean cop ; unstable Marjoe Gortner lusts after Victoria Principal ; Richard Roundtress plays an Evil Knievel type ; Walter Matthau is a drunk ( no shock there ) ; Dick Sargent pops up long enough to get killed and Lloyd Nolan plays a doctor . The dialogue is terrible and the situations are pure soap opera - - but who watches this for the actors or story lines ? The earthquake hits about an hour in and it's fantastic . Some of the special effects are laughable ( gotta love those cardboard houses ) but others are pretty effective . The sequence goes on for almost 10 minutes and has some pretty bloody scenes ( in an uncut print ) for a PG film . You see buildings being demolished left and right , people being crushed or flung screaming out of buildings . No music either - - just the rumbling of the quake . Very impressive . The rest of the film deals with how all the main characters deal with the disaster . This is not a good movie of course but I'd be lying if I said I hated it . I got the sense that the special effects people working on this were having lots of fun destroying Los Angeles and it comes through . The acting is , for the most part , OK . Bujold easily out acts everybody else and Gortner is so bad it's almost embarrassing . And what did happen to Roundtree ? He sort of disappears at the end . It's suggested he got drowned but we don't see anything . I never saw this in Sensurround - - our local theatre realized that the process could easily have destroyed the place ( it was an old building ) . Also Sensurround DID win a special Academy Award . But this is fun in a silly sort of way even without it . A very guilty pleasure . I give it a 7 .
Good revenge movie	In Detroit four adopted kids ( played by Mark Wahlberg , Garrett Hedlund , Andre Benjamin and Tyrese Gibson ) get together for their moms funeral . She was accidentally shot to death in what was just a robbery at a convenience story . But they begin to find out that her killing may have been more than just an accident and set out to find who killed her . . . and why . The script is nothing new but this is still a pretty good movie . The story gets a little overly convoluted but the numerous twists and turns keep you watching . Also making the brothers both black and white is a good idea - - it adds more tension ( racial and otherwise ) . The four actors also work well together and play off each other in a natural manner . There are bursts of loud and exciting action with extreme violence well directed by John Singleton . There are some problems however - - the script has some TERRIBLE lines and has some unfunny comedy shoehorned in . Also Wahlberg is ( surprisingly ) terrible and he should never attempt comedy again - - the man does not know how to be funny . The view of females here is also problematic - - they're either screaming witches ( Gibson's horribly stereotyped Latina girlfriend ) or sex objects . Still , this is a good revenge film with a satisfying ending . Worth catching .
Williams is excellent . . . movie is so-so	A photo-processing man Seymour " Sy " Parrish ( Robin Williams ) , becomes obsessed with a seemingly perfect family - - the Yorkins . He's developed their photos for years and thinks he knows all about them . When he notices something is wrong however , he goes out of his way to correct it . This is an OK movie with a great performance . The story is interesting , but we know next to nothing about the Yorkins - - they're given very little depth . So when things go crazy at the end , you feel nothing . Also Connie Nielsen and Michael Vartan come across with no personality - - it's not their fault - - the script is against them . Also the movie gets very unpleasant at the end . But it , more or less , works because of Willaims - - he's just great as Sy . . . charming and creepy at the same time . . . he's just fantastic . Also the young son of the Yorkins played by Dylan Smith is very good . . . he acts just like a 9 year old should . So it's somewhat worth seeing but no great shakes - - except for Williams .
Worth seeing for the acting - - nothing more	Warren Schmidt ( Jack Nicholson ) has recently retired . He's lived a quiet , meaningless life . His wife dies and his only child Jeannie ( Hope Davis ) is getting married to a very strange man ( Dermot Mulroney ) that Warren can't stand . He travels from Nebraska to Colorado to stop the wedding - - but can he - - or should he ? Slow , morbid and extremely unfunny . . . but worth seeing for the acting . Nicholson is just superb as Schmidt . He completely covers his usual Nicholson mannerisms and gives a quiet , restrained performance . Kathy Bates is absolutely hysterical as Mulroney's very odd mother . . . she's even better than Nicholson ! Aside from these two and some beautiful scenery , there's no reason to see this movie . The script is horrible - - very slow with some really sick humor throughout and peopled with unpleasant characters . All the characters here are unlikable and tiredly strange and " cute " . I seriously considered walking out a few times . Also when he travels from NE to CO the movie turns into a pointless travelogue - - for 30 LONG minutes . I didn't pay $10 . 00 to see pretty scenery . See this for Nicholson and Bates . Otherwise this is long and dull .
Really mixed feelings on this one	Samuel L . Jackson is flying a witness to a brutal killing from Hawaii to Los Angeles to testify . The person guilty for it doesn't want him to live so he packs the plane full of deadly snakes to kill him . . . and hundreds of innocent passengers . The plot is stupid from the word ' go ' - - like HOW did he get all those snakes on board in cases without security noticing ? All the clichs are in place too with all the stock characters - - there's the horny young couple ; the obnoxious white old guy ; the innocent ditzy rich girl ( with a little dog named Ashley Kate no less ! ) ; the two kids who have never been on a plane ; the honeymooning couple etc etc . All that's missing is Helen Reddy as a signing nun ! These characters are introduced in all seriousness too - - - not in a remotely funny way . Then , after the snakes attack , ever single disaster in an " Airport " movie you've ever seen is thrown in . Again - - in all seriousness . Maybe that's supposed to be the joke but I wasn't laughing . The audience I had was dead silent too . The only parts that worked were the VERY vicious and gory snake attacks - - - they're graphic and bloody and pretty disturbing . Some very sympathetic characters are killed also . The acting - - well how good could it be ? Everybody keeps a straight face and says their lines - - that's about it . I've heard that this works if you have an audience rearing to go and yell back things at the screen . . . like " The Rocky Horror Picture Show " . BUT ( like " Rocky " ) it doesn't work that well as a straight movie without the audience . It plays like an R rated " Airport " movie with gore thrown in . I didn't hate it - - but I wasn't thrilled . I give it a 7 for Jackson ( he's NEVER bad ) and the attacks .
A little heavy-handed but I liked it	It's Christmas Eve and a man with a wife and two children can't find a job . His wife is heavily depressed as is he . He turns to drink and finally leaves his wife because he's a failure . . . . It gets better after that but it really pours on the pathos at first . It's not as depressing as it sounds and the second half is very light and cheerful and it all ends on a happy note . Minor but very enjoyable .
For Nicolas Roeg this is accessible	David Bowie plays an alien who comes to Earth to get water for his dying family . There he gets a kind lawyer Oliver Farnsworth ( Buck Henry ) to help him as well as scientist Nathan Bryce ( Rip Torn ) . He also falls for lovely Mary-Lou ( Candy Clark ) . He wants to get back to his planet . . . but will his friends really help him ? It all leads to a depressing ending . A lot of posters have complained that this movie makes no sense . Maybe they're talking about the cut version ( it runs only 115 minutes ) . That's how it was released in the U . S . in 1976 ( the distributor thought it was too long ) . Four years later the complete 140 minute version played . That's the one I saw . I understood the movie perfectly - - but I already knew that director Nicolas Roeg loved to confuse audiences . . . or something . I still haven't figured out what his " Bad Timing " was about . Still , for him , this is accessible . The story is constantly being interrupted by flashbacks ( and forwards ) and some pointless imagery that , as far as I can tell , has nothing to do with the story . . . but that's how all his films are . Also it has plenty of gratuitous female nudity . Seriously did we need to see Torn with THREE different women ? Also the message at the end is totally predictable nowadays . Still I'm giving this a 7 because , when it sticks to the story , it is incredible . It really draws you in . Also the cinematography here is truly beautiful . Acting is great all across the board . Bowie ( in his first film ) was just great . Totally believable in a very difficult role . Henry is also great and Clark is just beyond belief . She has a hard role with difficult dialogue and pulls it off beautifully . Torn ( a great actor ) seems confused at first ( although that COULD be because of Roeg's scatter shoot editing ) but , as the movie progresses , he gets better . So , it is far too long and Roeg should have stuck to the story but the acting and storyline keep you watching .
Very good	True life story . George and Joy Adamson ( Bill Travers and Virginia McKenna ) live in the wilderness in Kenya . In self defense , George kills a lion and his mate only to find they were protecting their three cubs . He and his wife decide to raise the cubs . They give two of them away to zoos , but can't part with Elsa , a lioness . But then they realize they can't keep her and don't want to put her in a zoo . Can they help her live in the wild ? I read the book " Born Free " when I was in grammar school in the 70s and loved it . I also vaguely remember seeing the movie on TV ( and liking it ) and the very short-lived ( 13 episodes ) series in the early 70s . Also the song was a big hit in the mid 60s and again in the early 70s . But I had forgotten all about it until it popped up on TCM . I decided to tune in and loved it ! The movie was shot beautifully on location in Kenya ( where it took place ) . Wide screen viewing is essential for this one . Also , Travers and McKenna were a real-life couple when they did this film ( in fact they remained married until his death in 1994 ) and there devotion to each other comes through loud and clear . Also the lions ( male and female ) are SO cute when they're cubs and even beautiful as they get older . Elsa herself was portrayed by a number of different lionesses but you can't tell the difference . And Travers and McKenna worked with all the animals for 2 weeks before filming so they all interact together perfectly . This is perfect family viewing - - adults will adore it as much as the kids . I'm only giving it a 7 for a few reasons - - there isn't much of a story and the film DOES drag a little . Also the cute little shots of the cubs get a little bit much . Yeah they are adorable , but it got to the point that I thought the filmmakers were purposely shoving them in our faces to get us to go " awwwwwwww " ! A little bit too cute for my tastes . Still it's a great film and the music in this one is fantastic ( and Oscar-winning ) . Also I defy anyone not to cry during the final sequence - - it even got to me and I'm the last person to cry at movies like this . A very good family film . See it !
Different	I found this movie under the Comedy section of Blockbusters ( God knows why . . . it should be in Horror ) about 10 years ago . It looked interesting so I rented it . It's certainly different . It's about a bunch of elderly people turning into killers to prevent their building from being torn down . The acting is pretty good and the killings are pretty scary ( but within a PG rating ) . . . but this is treated as a comedy . I found nothing funny about the situation at all . And when they start killing each other off over nothing the movie went too far . Lousy ending too . Still , it's worth catching if you want to see something different and the acting is quite good from the entire cast .
Disturbing	I came across this totally by accident on late night TV back in 1988-1989 . It was on right after the " Friday the 13th " TV series . I watched and had two feelings . It WAS good but it was also one of the most repulsive things I've seen on TV . The violence and action were extreme - - nothing was held back . I know this was fiction but it was so in your face it got disturbing . Some good acting made it even harder to stomach . When they got to the plot about stealing human babies to do - - something ( I forgot what ) - - I stopped watching . It's years later , but I have never shaken the image of a screaming nude baby in an aliens claws and the mother sitting a home and crying next to the empty cradle . Yeah - - it's fiction but there ARE limits and this one went way overboard . I'm giving it a 7 nonetheless - - it was a strong , interesting TV series . I'm not going to give it a bad vote just for a few minutes that bothered me .
A little too mild but pretty good	In 1955 a French student named Philippe ( Marco Hofschneider ) spends a year at a college in Virginia as an exchange student . There he meets a beautiful black woman ( Robin Givens ) and falls in love . . . but that was forbidden back then . But he can't stop his feelings for her . . . Laid-back adaptation of a true story . It's good but distressingly TOO mild . This story has been told before and this is a good version but everything is so toned down it's hard to react to it . Also it mixes in football , blues music , a nervous breakdown and alcoholism in bits and pieces making it a jumble - - the movie seriously lacks focus . Still this is not unwatchable . It's beautifully filmed and has a feel for the period in clothes and cars ( LOVE Cal's one ) . The acting really pulls this one through . Hofschneider is just great - - young , handsome and full of life . His reactions when someone tries to get him into a blues club are hilarious . Rick Johnson is also good playing his best friend Cal . Givens is pretty terrible - - a one note performance but she IS beautiful . Also the film is tasteful . There is a sex scene between Hofschneider and Givens but no nudity is shown ! Hofschneider however was completely nude when they filmed it - - he complained it was too cold shooting it and thought it was unnecessary but he did it . All in all the film DOES work . I actually cried a little at the end . This came and went VERY quickly in 1994 . It was supposed to boost Givens ' career but didn't do a thing . It's worth seeing but don't go out of your way . I give it a 7 .
One of the best big bug films of the 50s	A scientist develops a liquid that makes animals grow to enormous sizes . Of course a tarantula escapes and keeps growing , and growing , and GROWING . . . The science in the film is , ummmm , " dubious " and the comic relief is pretty wretched ( but brief ) yet it's still one of the best " big bug " films of its era . The movie moves fairly quickly , the special effects are very good , the close-ups of the tarantula are not pleasant and the film is pretty exciting . John Agar looks handsome and rock solid as the hero , but J . Carroll Naish ( as the scientist ) is wooden and seems very embarrassed about being in this ( great make-up though ) . Also the cameo of Clint Eastwood at the end is amusing . No great shakes but worth seeing for the special effects .
Pretty funny	A very stupid male model , Zoolander ( Ben Stiller ) tries to find meaning in his life while fighting a rival male model ( Owen Wilson ) and unwittingly being used by an evil fashion designer ( Will Ferrell ) . The jokes are funny - - sometimes very funny . The movie really zips along and there are tons of in jokes and countless cameos by celebrities ( my favorites were Winona Ryder and Billy Zane ) . Also Stiller and Wilson are hilarious - - but seeing them as top male models is a stretch ( then again , that might be part of the joke ) . Also Milla Jovovich is VERY weird - - and funny . But Ferrell is annoying and not funny at all ; Christine Taylor ( Stillers real life wife ) is beautiful but bland ; Jerry Stiller and Jon Voight act like they're drugged and there just isn't enough material for a full length movie . Still , there are enough funny moments to make this worth a look .
Well-done with great acting	The only problem with this film is it's length . . . it's 2 hours - - way too long . But the basic true story and the acting ( especially by Washington ) keep it interesting . Worth seeing - - just don't accept it as gospel truth , and be prepared for the length .
Won't make you forget " The Exorcist " but still very good	Based on a true story . Father Moore ( Tom Wilkinson ) is accused of letting Emily Rose ( Jennifer Carpenter ) die during an exorcism . Doctors said she was epileptic but she and Moore thought she was possessed . Lawyer Erin Bruner ( Laura Linney ) is hired to defend him . She doesn't really believe demons possessed Emily . . . but then strange things start to happen to her . Is it coincidence or not ? And will she convince the jury to find Moore innocent ? This movie is far from perfect . It's a little too long and Campbell Scott is surprisingly bad in his role . . . but this movie works . It's serious and well-made and it keeps things on a somewhat believable level . The things that Rose does COULD be caused by psychotic behaviour . . . but maybe not . The audience is provided with both sides of the argument . This movie really doesn't provide any answers but it brings up some fascinating questions about faith , religion and mental illness . Except for Scott the acting is great across the board but Linney and Wilkinson carry this movie . The two of them are believable from the very beginning . Also it's well-directed and there are only a few of those stupid " jump " scares with the sound blaring out for no good reason other than to make the audience jump . For a PG-13 horror film this is pretty adult and well-done . I give it a 7 .
Agatha Christie meets Robert Altman	It's 1932 England and murder occurs at a remote country estate with a huge amount of guests . Who did it ? The murder doesn't occur until over an hour into the film and , before that , it's pure Altman . Characters talking constantly , LOTS of overlapping dialogue . . . usually I love his films , but I had a hard time getting into this one . For one thing , all the actors are British ( with the sole exceptions of Bob Balaban and Ryan Phillippe - - sporting a really stupid Scottish accent ) so it's sometimes hard to make it what they're saying . The first hour contained a lot of dialogue that was simply unintelligible . After the first hour , I got a handle on the accents and was able to follow it . The murder isn't the main focus - - it's mostly about class consciousness ( servants and the rich people ) - - nothing new is said but it's all still very interesting . The acting helps immensely . They have a huge gathering of very good British actors . Emily Watson , in particular , is superb as a very feisty maid . Maggie Smith is , as always , great - - but hasn't she played the mean old rich woman once too often ? Clive Owen is - - interesting . He's certainly good-looking but seems somewhat stiff in his role ( although that's how it should be played ) . The worst acting is easily from Phillippe - - get some acting lessons bud ! Also , blessedly , there's no gratuitous female nudity in this film - - Altman seems to usually have a thing for having his actresses strip for no good reason - - he held back this time . Why this film has an R rating I can't say . No nudity , no sex , the murder is bloodless and there's no swearing . So why the R ? All in all , not top-notch Altman but still pretty good .
A little overdone but good	PLOT SPOILERS ! ! ! ! Dr . Boch ( George C . Scott ) is the chief of medicine at a major NYC hospital . He's left his wife , his children have disowned him , he's impotent , drinks a lot and contemplates suicide . Also there's a killer roaming the hospital . Then he meets VERY strange Barbara ( Diana Rigg ) and falls in love . She wants him to run away with her - - but can he completely give up on his old life and start a new one ? Very strange movie with an Oscar winning script by Paddy Chayefsky . It presents a suicidal main character and shows us a hospital full of overworked nurses and doctors that is run incompetently . It manages ( somehow ) to actually make this seem pretty funny . It's not laugh out loud humor - - it's VERY black humor . Also the acting is right on target - - Scott is just great ( and Oscar nominated ) here . You see him trying to keep his sanity in a totally crazy situation . Riggs character is more than a little odd but her matter of fact manner works and she's also incredibly beautiful . The script is strong and brutal - - but never too much . I think it fumbles the ball at the end with a situation that goes way too over the top - - but it's still worth seeing . If this had been done totally seriously it probably would be impossible to take . Also look for Katherine Helmond in a small bit and Stockard Channing and Christopher Guest in uncredited bits . I personally had trouble taking this seriously . From what I've heard hospitals WERE this bad back in the 1970s but not anymore . See it for the acting and script . I give it a 7 .
A laugh a minute !	Film starts right off with a nude ( male and female ) devil worshiping sequence and rapidly gets worse ( or better depending on your view ) . A bunch of devil-worshiping hippies ( with a leader named Horace ! ) come into a small town . They beat up a local girl and her grandfather and give granddad a dose of LSD . Pete decides to avenge his sister and grandfather by infecting rabies into a bunch of meat pies and then giving them to the hippies to eat ( ! ! ! ! ) . The hippies do , get rabies and one hippie woman sleeps with a bunch of construction workers and infects THEM ! Soon a small bunch of uninfected people are fighting for their lives . Historically this IS an important film - - it was the first film to get an X rating for violence alone ( there is nudity but it's within an R rating ) . It was cut to ribbons to get an R . Now we have the uncut version available . At best it's a mixed blessing . For starters the acting is terrible across the board - - the hippies especially act like a bunch of retarded school children . And the script has some lines that had me gaping in disbelief . Here are a few examples - - After giving her boyfriend a big kiss a woman says , " Roger I'm very upset " ; " There's no one in the town because of the damn dam ! " ; " Rape is a little out of an engineers domain " ; a man is shot down and someone says , " I have to call the Red Cross - - we're in a state of emergency " . Then there's the gore effects which are , to be nice , primitive . There is a LOT of blood and violence here but it's all so obviously fake it's hard to take seriously . Still I was never bored and I was constantly amused by the acting , script and pretty poor production values . Also you do have to give credit to these people - - they had no budget and were just out to make a gory horror film . They DID succeed . Also the cast ( male and female ) are very attractive physically . So - - not a forgotten horror classic but I'm glad it's available in it's uncut form . Worth seeing for horror fans . By the way - - there's no drinking of blood .
Fun , silly movie	OK , it has its boring spots and not all the comedy works , but this movie about cheerleading competition is usually very enjoyable . The acting in uniformly good ( especially Dunst ) and the movie doesn't take itself seriously once ( really , how could it ? ) . As for all those comments about how this isn't a work of art and makes fat girls feel worthless - - come on ! It's just a silly teenage comedy ! This has NO pretensions to be a work of art and anyone who takes it as a serious message movie should have their head examined . Also the guys are cute in the movie and it's pretty gay positive . My only complaint - - couldn't the guys have taken their shirts off just once ? God knows there are tons of scenes with the girls scampering around with next to nothing on ( all within PG-13 limits though ) .
Surprisingly this is a Hammer film !	In 1910 Hong Kong Christopher Lee plays Chung King , an evil leader of tongs who will kill anyone who stands in their way of their slave and opium trade . A sea captain ( Geoffrey Toone ) battles them when his daughter is murdered . Violence follows and then bodies begin piling up . Unusual Hammer film - - not really a horror movie - - more like a violent action film . Lee is having a whale of a time playing King and Toone is OK in his role . Everyone else is pretty terrible - - especially pretty Yvonne Monlaur and all the Asian actors . The low budget does show and the script is sort of scattershot . I'm giving it a 7 because it's no longer than it needs to be ( 79 minutes ) , Lee is very good , there's some beautiful color photography and some pretty strong bloody violence for 1961 - - but then this IS a Hammer film . Worth seeing on a slow day .
Interesting . . . but killing animals is NOT fun	Shot in faded color . . . so faded it looks b & w . Only certain things are in color - - like wine . . . and blood . Story has Edgar Allen Poe ( Jeffrey Combs ! ) as an alcoholic . He can't think up a horror tale to write and he has no money . His wife ( Elyse Levesque ) is dying from consumption and their black cat is driving him crazy . Then things get bad . . . I won't give any more away but it ( basically ) turns into a version of Poe's " The Black Cat " with Poe as the protagonist . The film gets VERY bloody at the end and some needlessly graphic scenes of a cat being killed or mutilated . I happen to love cats and these scenes really were horrifying . . . almost enough to make me switch off . Still it was well done with good acting and some realistic gore . Neat twist at the end too . It horrified me . . . which is what it's supposed to do . But the animal cruelty bothered me . A 7 .
One of the better 80s slasher flicks	I saw this when it came out in 1981 and loved it . It still holds up 20 years later . Melissa Sue Anderson and her friends are stalked by a killer at Crawford Academy . Who and why ? In many ways this is a standard by the numbers slasher film , but it has fairly good acting ( with 2 exceptions ) , a very good script with a few neat twists and turns and some very inventive ( and bloody ) murders . Also there's a VERY graphic brain surgery sequence . As I said the acting was OK except for Anderson ( miscast and really bad ) and Glenn Ford ( he looks very embarassed to be in this ) . Still , it's an enjoyable horror film with a great birthday party at the end . My only real complaint - - why are Anderson's friends all so obnoxious ? You want them to die ! Be aware - - there are two versions of this film . Both are R-rated , but one is slightly gorier than the other - - unfortunately , they're showing the tamer one on cable .
Silly but hard to dislike	Movie about Michael Jordan and the Looney Tunes characters ( Bugs Bunny , Daffy Duck , Roadrunner etc etc ) . An evil animated monster runs Moron Mountain - - a planet with an amusement park . They need a new ride so he sends five helpers to Earth to kidnap the Looney Tunes characters . Then they can be used as a new act at the amusement park . Bugs and the others agree - - IF they play them in a basketball game and win . Bugs and the others convince Michael Jordan to help them - - but the aliens have evil plans up their sleeve . Michael Jordan meets the Looney Tunes . Sounds like a sure recipe for disaster . I was positive this film was going to be a bomb when it was released ( with HEAVY publicity ) in 1996 . Yes - - it's silly but if you love Looney Tunes ( like I do ) you'll probably love this . The characters are treated ( more or less ) respectfully and during the climatic basketball game the stands are full of every Warner Bros . cartoon character ever made . One small mouse character who talks nonstop I remembered from childhood and I literally broke up laughing when he appeared ! The animation is just great , the merging of live action with cartoon figures works and the script is fun . There are groaners and stupid lines but , all in all , it was pretty amusing . The debits : Michael Jordan just can't act . I'm sure he was a wonderful basketball player but his acting was as wooden as a basketball court . Also various other sports figures pop up and prove they're worse actors than Jordan ! Bill Murray ( who can be good ) is just lousy in a supporting role . And Wayne Knight is just SO annoying . Also I could have lived without seeing the Warner Bros . logo popping up everywhere . At one point it's on Daffy Duck's butt . . . and he kisses it ! And there's a brief take-off on " Pulp Fiction " which isn't as funny now as it was in 1996 . So , these things lessen the movie but don't destroy it . Worth catching if you're a Warner Bros . animation fan . Kids will love it . I give it a 7 .
Another WWII Superman cartoon	For reasons never explained Lois Lane is flying with some man over a jungle with top secret American war secrets . Unknown to them the Nazis have taken over the native tribe in the jungle ( for some reason the Nazis dress like the Ku Klux Klan ! ) . They shot down the plane - - the man dies but Lois lives - - she hides the plans and is captured . The Nazis threaten to torture her but she won't tell them a thing . So they decide to have the natives burn her at a stake ( ! ! ! ) . Will Superman find her in time to save her . Vague story and plot loopholes galore mar this cartoon . But it is VERY colorful with the expected great animation . Also there are some real surreal scenes when Lois is being burned . It's worth seeing just for that . I give this a 7 .
Good cast , good idea , badly done	I work in a library and expected to like this movie when it came out 5 years ago . Well I liked Parker Posey a lot ( she's a wonderful actress ) and Omar Townsend was really cute as her boyfriend ( he couldn't act but when you look like him who cares ? ) but the movie was bad . It wasn't funny or cute or much of anything . Posey kept the movie afloat with her energy . But she learned the Dewey Decimal system OVERNIGHT and then shelves tons of books to the beat of music ? ? ! ! ! ! ? ? ? Come on ! Also I did have a problem with the way she looked when she became a full-fledged librarian at the end - - hair in a bun , glasses , no sense of humor - - can we let that stereotype go please ? Worth seeing for Posey and Townsend but that's about it . The TV series was much better .
It's OK	Film version of the play . Based on fact it tells the story of a man ( Johnny Depp ) who is jailed ( for no good reason ) for 15 years . It was done by slimy Judge Turpin ( Alan Rickman ) because he wanted his wife and child . 15 years later he returns , adopts the name Sweeney Todd and sets out for vengeance . He's helped by Nellie Lovett ( Helena Bonham Carter ) who uses the meat from his victims to put into her meat pies which become VERY popular . I saw the play back in 1980 with Angela Landsbury and George Hearn . I remember loving it and the acting was superb . This version just doesn't match up - - it can't ! Tim Burton correctly shoots it in seriously drained color and he gets a superb performance by Depp and young Ed Sanders ( as Toby ) . Everybody can sing too . Also the murders are shown with blood gushing out - - once onto the camera lens ! Still it's impossible to take them seriously . Still this has its drawbacks . Carter is terrible - - she can sing but her acting is pretty dreadful . Rickman has done the evil act once too often - - and it shows . Also it's depressing ! It wears you down running on for two full hours . Some songs were cut out too - - I really miss " The Ballad of Sweeney Todd " . So - - it's not a disaster but it could have been so much better with a different leading lady and not cutting ANY of the songs . Depp really puts this film across though - - for him alone I give this a 7 .
GREAT cast - - - so-so movie	John Bookman ( Fred Williamson ) returns to his home town which is now over run by gangs . His father is attacked and John wants to clean up the city . He enlists two old friends to help - - Laurie ( Pam Grier ) and Jake ( Jim Brown ) . But the gang leader is a borderline psycho and won't let go of the city . Bookman realizes they're going to have to fight to win . This was just made to get some of the best stars from the 1970s blaxploitation films together to kick a like they did back then ! Aside from Williamson , Grier and Brown we also get Ron O'Neal and Richard Roundtree popping up in small roles . And it's always good to see Paul Winfield , Isabel Sanford and Robert Forster ( before his big comeback in 1997's " Jackie Brown " - - with Grier ) . The basic plot is OK but there are some serious mistakes made . As the movie goes on the plot gets increasingly stupid ( Williamson's " plan " to pit the gangs against each other causes killings and huge property destruction ) and there are plenty of loopholes . There's some great action sequences but ( even for this type of movie ) it's far too violent . Seeing old people and children attacked or killed is just going too far . Still it's great to see these actors in action again . Grier easily gives the best performance - - but I was surprised at how really good Williamson and Brown were . This gets a 7 just for the cast . Worth catching . . . just don't think about it too much .
Depressing but good	Jane Hurley ( Debbie Reynolds ) , a poor girl , is marrying Ralph ( Rod Taylor ) . They don't want a big , elaborate wedding but her mother Agnes Hurley ( Bette Davis ) is determined to give it to her - - even if it drives her husband Tom ( Ernest Borgnine ) to bankruptcy . Purportedly this was made for TV but I have my doubts . Consider the talent - - it's based on a play by Paddy Chayefsky and adapted by Gore Vidal , and it has Borgnine , Davis and Barry Fitzgerald who were all movie actors . Also Reynolds and Taylor were rising stars in movies not TV . For whatever reason it was released theatrically . It's well-directed and has a very beautiful score which is used sparingly ( as it should be ) . But this is strong stuff . Seeing a likable if poor family being torn apart by a wedding is very upsetting . If they had used lesser actors this might have been easier to take but when you have Davis and Borgnine giving their all it's difficult to watch . Borgnine is just great - - you feel the man's anger and shame . Davis is fantastic too - - she gestures a little bit too much but it's still a powerful performance . And she fakes a very convincing Brooklyn accent . Reynolds isn't that good ( except for one scene in the kitchen when she explodes ) but she was just starting out . And Barry Fitzgerald had played the lovable Irish uncle once too often when he did this movie . But there's a great screenplay ( of course ) and it's shot appropriately in atmospheric black & white . My only big complaint is the ending . It ends on a happy note . On one hand , I liked it - - on the other hand , I didn't believe it for a minute . It was great to get a break from all the bleakness , but it rang so false that I couldn't swallow it . That aside though , this is well worth seeing . I'm giving it a 7 .
Disney's first PG film	This was Disney's big Christmas release in 1979 - - a big budget , the first PG rating and big stars . It was a huge bomb which is too bad - - it's pretty good . A spaceship's crew ( Anthony Perkins , Robert Forster , Joseph Bottoms , Yvette Mimieux ) find a mad doctor ( Maximilian Schell ) in outer space ready to enter a black hole . He sets out to take them with him . . . or else . Great special effects are the main attraction here . The debits are kiddie-like dialogue , bad acting , huge lapses in logic and two cutsey robots voiced by Roddy McDowell and Slim Pickens . Still , I liked the movie . It moves fairly quickly and there was always some impressive effects to look at - - it's obvious that Disney spent a lot of money on this . This is fine for kids - - the PG rating is just for someone saying " damn " and three non-bloody , quick deaths . Adults should like it too .
A good little movie	A motherless boy being brought up by a cruel brother and uncaring father , finds an escape through dancing . It's all very predictable and the ending is lousy , but the acting is good , some of the dancing is astonishing and the movie is never dull . But somehow , it never really connected with me . I liked it , but it just wasn't as good as I had heard it was . Basically , a very good little movie . But not worth $9 . 00 . Also , the R rating is wrong . Yes , there's a lot of swearing , but it shows a little boy who , against all odds , prevails . That's a great message for kids . It should have gotten a PG-13 .
Good but not great	A husband and wife are accidentally left behind on a scuba diving trip . Unfortunately , they're in the middle of the ocean and a current is pulling them farther out . No one knows they're missing , night is coming , and then the sharks show up . . . . This film has won HUGE praise from film festival critics . . . but it's just OK . Yeah , it's well-done , yes it's scary - - but only a little . For one thing it's 40 minutes until they get in the water . . . and we learn nothing about them . You just see them vacationing and enjoying it all . No insight into their feeling or lives at all . So when they're attacked later on , you really don't know them so it doesn't bother you that much . And the scenes in the water are scary at first but slowly become boring . They only perk up when the sharks pop up . The two actors are very good but there's only so much they can do with this script . And the ending DID surprise me ( and other people in the theatre ) . So it's worth seeing but it's NOT the masterpiece people are making it out to be . I give it a 7 .
Turn off your mind and you'll enjoy it	A bunch of fictional characters ( Mina Harker , Captain Nemo , Allan Quatermain , the Invisible Man , Dr . Jekyll and Mr . Hyde , Dorian Gray , Tom Sawyer ) are called together in 1899 to combat a madman who threatens to take over the world . The plot is silly and full of huge holes ( Mina Harker was NOT a vampire ; Tom Sawyer working for the U . S . government ? ; Mr . Hyde looks like a cousin to the Hulk ; Dorian Gray is an immortal ? ) but the movie itself looks great , there are plenty of incredible special effects ( and , surprisingly , some bad ones ) and it moves so quickly that you really don't have time to stop and think about it . Just ignore logic , plot and characterizations , lean back and let the movie sweep over you . There's a fight or action scene every 5 or 10 minutes or so - - you won't be bored . All the acting is pretty good - - Connery is excellent ( as always ) as Quatermain and Peta Wilson makes a very sexy vampire . The only bad acting comes surprisingly from two good actors - - Stuart Townsend is very dull as Dorian Grey and Shane West is way out of his league as Tom Sawyer . The scenes between him and Connery are almost embarassing to watch - - Connery is acting rings around him . So - - is it a good movie ? No , but it is an enjoyable one . Just sit back and don't think about - - during or after the movie ! Good viewing for a hot summer afternoon .
Pretty good	Burke ( Ben Foster ) is dumped by Allison ( Melissa Sagemiller ) . She then starts dating obnoxious English boy Striker ( Shane West ) . Burke tries out for a school play - - a rock version of " A Midsummer Night's Dream " - - just to be near Allison . He's totally unaware that his best friend's little sister ( Kirsten Dunst ) is attracted to him . Guess how it turns out ? Aside from two flashes of nudity and an astounding amount of swearing for a PG-13 movie , this is a cute and harmless teen movie . It's definetely better than writer / director Tommy O'Haver's last film ( " Billy's Hollywood Screen Kiss " ) . I'll list the bad and good things about this movie : The bad : Foster is way too nerdy to be likable ; West's imitation of an English accent is hysterically bad ; Martin Short is really REALLY irritating as the school drama coach and some jokes are real groaners . The good : Dunst is very good and stops the show when she sings " Dream of Me " ; the songs and dances aren't half bad and full of color and energy ; Sagemiller is beautiful and very appealing ; West ( accent aside ) is really handsome and hunky and dir . O'Haver has a real flair for directing dance & music numbers - - he should really do a musical next . So - - an OK teen film .
Not really a giallo but pretty good	American reporter Gregory Moore ( played by French Jean Sorel ) is in Prague with fellow reporters Jessica ( Ingrid Thulin ) and Jack ( Mario Ardof ) . He prepares to leave and go to England with Czech girlfriend Myra ( Barbara Bach ) . However she suddenly disappears without a trace . Moore starts to investigate but the police try to block him , his friends tell him to forget her and a mysterious man is following him . . . This is advertised as an Italian giallo but I don't think it really is . At the end it becomes one but about 85 % of the movie is just a thriller - - a good thriller but not a giallo . The title means next to nothing ( as the director says in a short interview on the DVD ) . It was supposed to be called " Short Night of the Butterfly " ( which does work ) but it had to be changed at the last minute . " Glass Dolls " was just picked out of thin air . The film is hurt by poor dubbing - - some of the dialogue is virtually incomprehensible . I had to keep turning the volume up and down to hear ! That aside this is a good movie . The plot is complex and it's beautifully directed . The DVD of this has a gorgeous transfer . The acting is good by everybody - - especially Sorel and Thulin . There's also a beautiful score by Ennio Morricone that perfectly fits the film . All in all a good strong thriller worth catching .
Not as good as the first	The first " Better Tomorrow " was superb . . . quick , engrossing and VERY violent . This sequel is good , but not up to the first . The story is by-the-numbers ( gangster tries to go good , but people won't let him ) , women are treated as nothing and there's HUGE gaps in reality ( check one of the closing scenes when a man calls his wife in the hospital ) . Also , the acting ( with the exception of Chow-Yun Fat ) is laughable . Still , I was never bored . The action is explosive , the movie barely stops and the body count is easily in the triple digits . Worth watching , but no great shakes .
Bad dubbing hurts but I liked it	I saw ( unfortunately ) the dubbed version on Encore . Student Paula Henning ( Franka Potente who was also in the cult favorite " Run Lola Run " ) stars as a serious medical student who gets into a prestigious school in Germany . But she soon discovers that some students go missing and the bodies they work on in the anatomy lab are incredibly fresh . . . I was stuck seeing the dubbed version on Encore . It hurt a lot ( the words not matching the lips got annoying real quick ) but I still liked what I saw . The acting was good , it was beautifully photographed , it wasn't TOO gruesome and I was never bored . Even more refreshing was a likable heroine who fights back when the bad guys go after her . The ( mild ) nudity was , in a refreshing twist , male ! A previous poster mentions Benno Furmann ( who is excellent ) showed his butt but I don't remember seeing it . Regardless this is a well done , scary and excellent thriller . From all I've read the original German language version is the best ( I don't doubt that for one second ) but the dubbed version is watchable . I give this a 7 .
Well done but tame	A bunch of white gang members stab to death a blind Puerto Rican boy . Assistant D . A . Burt Lancaster is trying to get the death penalty for the three boys who attacked him . . . but are they all guilty ? I suppose this was hard-hitting in 1961 but it's very tame by today's standards . Teenagers killing teenagers is ( sadly ) no longer that shocking . The violence and language are also tame too . Still , it is well-done and Lancaster ( who hated making this film ) and Shelley Winters are good . Director John Frankenheimer's moody direction helps . He shoots things at curious angles , always keeping you off balance . The b & w cinematography helps too . So , familiar but good .
Good drama	A New England family deals with grief . Ben Floss ( Dustin Hoffman ) and wife JoJos ( Susan Sarandon ) only child - - a daughter - - was accidentally shot to death before she was to marry Joe Nast ( Jake Gyllenhaal ) . Nast stays with the parents to help them through their mourning but he's harboring a deep secret himself . He also falls in love with a local girl ( Renee Zellwegeer look alike Ellen Pompeo ) . Nothing new here script wise but it is well-written and always interesting . There are a lot of nice little touches - - Gyllennaal keeps passing by a photo store with wedding pics in the window and every TV seems to be playing " The Newlywed Game " or the " Dating Game " . The acting is just superb - - Hoffman and Sarandon are ( as always ) excellent and Gyllenhaal is just great as the wounded boyfriend . He conveys all his emotions and feelings through his big brown eyes and body language . The film was beautifully shot in ( I believe ) Northampton MA . Only complaint - - this takes place in 1972 but nobody says or mentions it - - it took me half the movie to figure it out !
Has its moments . . .	but it's easy to see why this bombed . For one thing it wasn't a live action version of the comic book or the animated series from the 70s . It just took the names and characters and changed everything . So fans of the original comic were annoyed and newcomers didn't know what to make of this . Still , it's not that bad . The Pussycats are a small band from Riverdale who want to make it big . An evil record exec ( Alan Cumming REALLY camping it up ) propels them to superstardom overnight ( literally ) and uses their music to send subliminal marketing messages to teenagers . Nothing new plot wise but it's still somewhat funny . There's constant product placement in every frame of the movie - - it's there as a joke but it still IS product placement . The script is OK - - no great shakes but there are some really good lines . There's some good acting too by Cumming , Rosasrio Dawson ( as Val in the band ) and Tara Reid ( as Melody ) . Unfortunately , everybody else is pretty bad especially Rachel Leigh Cook ( as Josie ) and ( surprisingly ) Parker Posey as another evil executive . That really weighs the movie down . Also the songs are , to be nice , forgettable . So , it's a pretty good film with some great moments . Too bad there weren't more of them .
Pretty good	Comedy about a group of Americans on a 18 day ( I think ) tour of Europe . Unlike some previous posters , I've never been to Europe , so watching this film was not like reliving old memories . On its own , this was a very pleasant movie . The script is not bad and the jokes are pretty funny . There are some real groaners too , but the good ones far outweigh them . And the cast is full of talented character actors giving their all . The movie basically concentrates on a romance between the tour guide Charlie Cartwright ( Ian McShane ) and tourist Samantha Perkins ( Suzanne Pleshette ) . Usually romance subplots in comedies are the kiss of death , but this one works . McShane is very handsome and Pleshette incredibly beautiful ; the dialogue is well-written ; they both give good performances and they have great chemistry with each other . It also is a good excuse to show all the romantic places in Europe ( this was shot on location ) . And the romance has a surprising , realistic ending . Another point of interest is an 18 year old girl Shelly ( Hilary Thompson ) meeting a guy her age Bo ( Luke Halpin ) . Their fashions are VERY 60s and the dialoge is SO old-fashioned . . . but it's all interesting . Also a visit to Canaby Street in London ( which was the place to be in the late 60s ) is visually fascinating . Also Murray Hamilton's one liners throughout the movie are frequently hilarious . They visit London , Holland , Germany , Switzerland , Italy , Venice and end in Rome . I saw a widescreen print on TV in strong color and the movie just looked beautiful . Sometime it was like seeing a travelogue but an INTERESTING travelogue . It's not a great movie but a pleasant one . You could do worse ! Recommended .
Sick but not really scary	Sequel to " House of 1000 Corpses " . This starts with the house being raided by the police . Some of the family members are killed and Mother Firefly ( Karen Black in the original - - Leslie Easterbrook here ) is jailed - - but Otis ( Bill Moseley ) and Baby ( Sheri Moon ) escape . They hit the road with Captain Spaulding ( Sid Haig ) to torture and kill more people . A sheriff ( William Forsythe ) is hot on their trail and will do anything to stop them . I thought " House of . . . " was a fantastic horror film . It scared me silly and had me cringing in my seat . This one didn't scare me really . . . but it made me sick . The merry band of psychos torture a bunch of innocent people . That's OK - - that was to be expected . But there is a fine line between horror and exploitation and director Rob Zombie unfortunately keeps crossing it . There is a truly revolting sequence in which Priscilla Barnes is sexually humiliated and brutalized . It was very sick . . . but not scary . I got the uncomfortable feeling that Zombie was enjoying rubbing our face in this . I can sit through a lot but this went too far . I almost walked out ! Also when it wasn't sick it was actually kind of dull . There was no real plot and the attempts at comedy were unbelievably unfunny ( the Marx Brothers fan was particularly stupid ) . It only worked at the end . The last section of the film was very violent and bloody but SCARY too ! That worked beautifully . It almost saved the film . . . almost . Also the film contains non stop swearing - - the " f " word was used all the time . It didn't bother me but it might bother others . The acting , unfortunately , was very good making this hard to shake off . Moseley and Moon were downright terrifying - - they played the roles in a matter of fact way making it seem that they found their acts perfectly normal . Haig was great too - - not scary but fun . Easterbrook was also very good as the mother - - a very good replacement for Karen Black . Barnes also deserves a lot of credit for doing the torture sequence - - she's much too realistic . And it was great to see P . J . Soles ( remember her from " Halloween " ? ) in a small role . I'm giving this a 7 because it is unapologetically violent ( I'm SICK of these PG-13 horror films ) , has good acting and a scary ending . . . but it's a big letdown from " House . . . " . Let's hope Zombie does better the next time around .
NOT a horror movie despite the title	A young man ( Russell Wade ) signs on as part of the crew on a ship overseen by Captian Stone ( Richard Dix ) . He slowly begins to realize that Stone has some strange ideas of authority . . . and will do anything to stop someone from disagreeing with him . . . Not a horror film at all but a mood piece and a character study of a man ( Stone ) trying to come to grips with his inner demons - - and being afraid of going mad . There are many spooky sequences here - - the dealing with a giant hook that's gotten loose ( no music , only wind effects ) ; a sequence involving a chain being loaded and the final confrontation . It's also well-written and directed . However the acting is pretty bad . Dix is wooden and Wade is even worse . The only good acting comes from Edmund Glover ( as Sparks ) and Edith Barrett in a small bit . Still , that aside , this is a pretty good movie . Recommended .
Good , solid thriller	Charles Bronson plays a liberal , mild-mannered architect . His wife ( Hope Lange ) is murdered and his daughter is gang-raped into a near-comatose state by a gang of thugs ( one played by then unknown Jeff Goldblum ! ) . He slowly becomes a vigilante - - going out late at night and shooting and killing any muggers and thieves that attack him . Somewhat unrealistically he's attacked every single night he goes out - - was NY THAT bad in 1974 ? He becomes a media hero and police detective Vincent Gardenia is assigned to stop him . Interesting movie - - on one hand you're all for Bronson and , on the other , you're disgusted with what he's doing . Both sides of the issue are presented but not dealt with in much depth - - this IS a Charles Bronson movie after all ! Film is dated ( NY has gotten much safer since this came out ) but is still powerful . Bronson gives a bad performance which somewhat diminishes the films impact , but everybody else is great - - especially Lange and Gardenia . And look for Olympia Dukakis and Christopher Guest ( very young and handsome ) in small roles . Only complaint - - the murder / rape - - it's way too graphic and disturbing . It's hard to watch today - - I can only imagine the impact in 1974 . Avoid the sequels - - they're all violent killings and nothing else . All the moral issues brought up in this movie are gone .
Fun Western spoof	I turned on this to TCM last night and just casually started to watch it . Now I HATE westerns and thought I might enjoy a spoof . After just a few minutes I found myself laughing and then just got totally caught up in this . It deals with a stranger named Jason McCullough ( James Garner ) wandering into a small Western town which is just going wild with no law and order . He applies to be the sheriff and is appointed quickly by the mayor ( Harry Morgan ) . He quickly restores law and order to the town , hires a deputy ( Jack Elam ) , romances the mayor's daughter ( Joan Hackett ) and jails killer Joe Danby ( Bruce Dern ) . However Joe's family don't take too kindly to their brother being jailed and are going to get him out . Very funny ! Every Western clich is made fun of - - but in a very gentle manner . They don't set out to tear apart Westerns - - just poke fun at them . I saw the G rating this had and thought I was going to get stuck with a Walt Disney like horror like " The Apple Dumpling Gang " ( I STILL have nightmares about that one ) . Everybody in this IS nice and all talk gently and kindly - - but the lines are so funny and non-stop that it didn't bother me . Almost all the cast plays this straight which works wonderfully . Garner is just great in the lead . So young and handsome . . . and who ever knew he had such great comic timing ? Elam is just uproarious as his deputy . His double takes at Garner are genuinely funny . Heck even Dern pulls off a few good lines ! The only disappointment was Hackett . She plays her role far too broadly and gets tiresome . Still she does have a great bit with her reaction when Garner says he's going to leave town . Fun , family friendly western spoof . It's easy to see why this was such a big hit . Recommended .
Easy to see why this won the Oscar as Best Documentary of 1953	Adaptation of Rachel Carson's book about the sea . I've never read the book so I don't know how faithful it is but some of this is fascinating . It starts out pretty badly with ponderous narration describing how the Earth ( and sea ) came into being . After that it lightens up pretty quickly and shows us various creatures of the sea including some incredible microscopic views of sea life . There's an interesting ( and non-bloody ) fight between a shark and an octopus . It also shows various occupations men have dealing with the sea like a shark walker and crab herder . The part showing different ways to capture fish ( so they can be killed and eaten ) might be troubling to some viewers but it's more of a sign of the time it was made than anything else . Narration aside this should be seen for visuals alone . Also the ending seems to predict global warming before it was discovered ! I give it an 8 .
Silly soap opera - - but I LOVED it	40ish Cary Scott ( Jane Wyman ) a wealthy widow falls in love with 20ish Ron Kirby ( Rock Hudson ) who is a gardener . They intend to get married but Cary's rich friends are horrified ( saying he just wants her for the money ) and her college-aged children are totally against it . Will they marry or will all this tear them apart ? OK - - it's glossy , lush , has gorgeous color cinematography , beautiful settings and costumes and wonderfully directed by Douglas Sirk - - but it's NOT a good movie . All the beautiful production values couldn't cover up that this is a very dumb and silly movie . For starters , Hudson and Wyman are pretty lousy . Wyman has the same expression in EVERY shot ( she looks mildly constipated ) and Hudson just stands around looking stunning . Also there's a truly astounding lack of sexual chemistry between the two - - I didn't believe they were in love for a second . The reactions of the friends and family to the wedding was , to say the least , overdone . I couldn't help but smirk at some of the dramatics I saw . Then they threw in a couple of jaw-dropping twists at the end which had me gasping - - in disbelief ! When the deer appeared at the window at the end I completely lost it - - I almost fell out of my chair laughing ! Audiences took this seriously ? ? ? ? ? There are some good things about the movie - - the color and a VERY strong supporting cast headed by Agnes Moorehead . I am giving this film an 8 - - but that's mostly for the camp value . I can honestly say I was never bored - - but I never believed it for a second . Very good for laughs .
VERY graphic and grim but a GREAT horror film	In France two college girls ( Marie and Alexia ) go to the Alexia's parents house - - a secluded place in the middle of nowhere . They hope to rest and study there . Late that night a killer breaks in and violence and gore kick in . . . Strong and graphic French horror film . The first half hour sets up the characters and the situation . . . after that the killing starts and the film never stops . There aren't that many killings in the film ( only 5 and one isn't shown ) but they are BLOODY ! ! Not just a little blood here and there . . . this film throws BUCKETS at the viewer . It's more than a little disturbing and this film has no humor in it . It has a grim , dark tone from the very beginning and never lets up . Even the music here is somber ! It also throws in a twist ending that I never saw coming . This is NOT for people who hate horror films ( obviously ) . I saw the unrated French version ( the US theatrical cut has one minute edited out ) . Avoid the dubbed version - - it sounds terrible . The French version has subtitles and there really isn't a lot of dialogue in the film after the opening half hour . DEFINITE SPOILER AHEAD ! ! ! ! ! ! The ending has been called homophobic . As a gay man I find that just ridiculous . If this situation happened to straight people it wouldn't be called heterophobic . Yes - - the killer is crazy and a lesbian BUT that is needed at the ending . There isn't one homophobic remark made either . Some gay men and women just think every single gay character should be a positive figure which is just stupid . . . we need to see gay people as being good and evil - - just like everybody else . We're not all saints . END OF SPOILER ! ! ! ! ! ! So a must-see for horror fans , but be warned . . . this is strong stuff . Some of the violence bothered even me and that takes a lot !
A British " Big Chill " . I mean that in a good way !	Film starts off on New Years Eve 1982 with a collegiate musical troupe giving their final bad performance . It cuts to 1992 where one of them named Peter ( Stephen Fry ) invites the whole group to his remote English castle for a New Years Eve party . We have the Andersons - - Roger ( Hugh Laurie ) and Mary ( Imelda Staunton ) . They've lost a child and she lives in fear that they'll lose the other . Then there's Maggie ( Emma Thompson ) who's madly in love with Peter . There's Sarah ( Alphonsia Emmanuel ) a sexually active woman who brings along her man of the moment ( Tony Slattery ) . And there's Andrew ( Kenneth Branagh ) who's unhappily married to TV star Carol ( Rita Rudner ) . This was called a rip off of " The Big Chill " . It is , but it's well-made with a great cast , a wonderful script and is totally involving . This is one of the few movies that mixes drama and laughs and both work beautifully . It was also shot ( I believe ) on location in England and the setting itself is just incredible . All the acting is good across the board . Rudner is a delight ( and has the best lines ) . Emmanuel sometimes overdoes her role but not enough to damage the film . Dramatic , witty , warm - - basically a great comedy drama well worth catching . " Did you ever see " Upstairs Downstairs " ? "
NOT for everybody	Documentary has virtually every comedian in America being interviewed on the dirtiest joke EVER told and their take on it . The joke : A guy walks into a talent agent's office and says " I've got a great act for you . " The agent asks , " OK - - what is it ? " The man goes on to tell about a family going on stage and performing the most disgusting , obscene , sexual , humiliating , degrading and violent acts on each other . Then the agent says , " Sounds interesting . What's the act called ? " The man responds , " The aristocrats . " OK - - it doesn't read funny but seeing some of the performers tell their versions of it is just jaw-droppingly obscene - - and hysterically funny . None of these performers hold back and the results will either have you running from the theater , sitting there in shock or laughing yourself sick ( like me ) . I don't shock easily but some of this had me turning red from embarrassment while I was laughing . George Carlin is the first one to tell the whole joke and it's incredible . I was gasping in shock and also laughing HARD . Bob Saget easily tells the filthiest version of it ( while laughing himself ) ; Gilbert Gottfried is shown telling it to an audience - - and he was just hysterical ; Penn & Teller are funny in their little bit ; Martin Mulls ' take on it is amusing ( and by far the cleanest ) ; another guy tells it while doing some incredible card tricks ; Mario Cantone does it while imitating Liza Minnelli ; a MIME does it ( and very well ) and a ventriloquist and his obscene dummy tell it . Heck , even the cast of " South Park " does it ! It isn't just the joke - - it has the comedians talking about the limits of comedy and how far you can go with this - - and why . Some of the insights are very interesting - - especially one man who says , " If it's funny - - it's not obscene . " The movie is unrated but no one under 18 is allowed to see it because of the language - - for once I agree with that . I saw it with all adults . Some of the us were laughing a LOT but most of the audience sat there in silence ( I guess they were shocked ) . But no one walked out and there was applause at the end . But if you're offended my foul language or VIVID descriptions of every sexual act imaginable stay far away . Otherwise I think you'll like this . I'm only giving this an 8 because it does drag a little and the ending with Tim Conway was ( surprisingly ) not that funny .
Strange but very good Hitchcock movie	Barry Kane ( Robert Cummings ) is wrongfully accused on sabotaging a hanger making aircrafts for the war . He goes on the run , meets Patricia Martin ( Priscilla Lane ) along the way , and she joins him to find and bring the real criminals to justice . There are a lot of things wrong with this film . Robert Cummings was a good actor but he's totally miscast in this role ; Priscilla Lane is pretty but was never a good actress ; the story doesn't make a whole lot of sense ( and rambles on longer than needed ) ; it wears its patriotism a bit much ( but this WAS made while WWII was in full swing ) and there's no ending . It shouldn't work but it does . It's full of bizarre lines and characters that certainly hold your interest . For example : Lane says to Cummings ( while they're falling in love ) , " I wish I could have met you a hundred years ago " ( ? ? ? ? ! ! ! ! ) ; Lane PAYS a villain for getting her lunch and Cummings and Lane join a circus troupe briefly while on the run . Also Hitchcock's direction was ( as always ) just great - - he throws in some truly amazing shots and sequences - - especially the Statue of Liberty climax . This is not one of Hitchcock's classic movie but is still very good and worth catching .
Quiet	Very quiet but interesting short . It's about two gay men ( Tim played by Marshall McClean and Christian played by Matt Pittenger ) who were once lovers . Christian slowly became hooked on crystal meth . Tim couldn't handle it and Christian left . . . but Christian keeps hounding Tim for money and Tim doesn't know how to handle it . Quiet short but well-acted by the two men and well directed . It turns out the two actors are friends in real life and that helps the emotions between the two . It's part of a bigger screenplay which I never read . If this is an indication of the rest of the play I'd love to see it done for the big screen . Quiet and moving .
Impressive	Story about the Civil War . Young Henry Fleming ( Audie Murphy ) is terrified of fighting in battle . When his regiment is under fire he panics and runs . He finds them later and claims he was wounded in battle . Everybody believes him but he knows he's a liar and it starts to eat away at him . I never read the book so I don't know how faithful this is , but I did like it - - and I hate most war movies . It was shot in stark b & w and wonderfully directed by John Huston who managed to make the movie both intimate and sweeping in scope . The battle scenes aren't bloody but are chilling . . . especially the sequence where Murphy and his fellow soldiers see ( and hear ) the Rebel army approaching . Murphy was actually not bad in th lead ( even though he said he was no actor ) and there was strong support by Bill Maulden as his best friend . This was a critical and financial disaster in 1951 . The original cut ran OVER 2 hours ! ! ! ! All that's left is 70 minutes . The cut footage is completely gone so we'll never really know what Huston intended - - but what's left is now considered a great film . I give it an 8 .
Better than the first but not a great movie	Picks up right where the first one left off . The plot is way too convoluted to get into - - there's enough plot for three movies here , and that's the main problem . More than once the movie has to come to a screeching halt for exposition and it really bogs things down . Also there were too many characters - - that was a problem with the first film . This time they compound it by adding MORE characters ! Also Cyclops and Professor X were horribly underused . There were also a few nagging questions left unanswered - - PLEASE SKIP THE NEXT PARAGRAPH TO AVOID SPOILERS ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! Where does Collosus take the mutant children when the school is under attack ? And why is Wolverine's past STILL a mystery at the end ? Still , the movie did a lot of good things . They did get rid of two of the stupider villains ( Sabretooth and Toad ) . They added Nightcrawler ( Alan Cumming ) who gets a lot of screen time and beefed up the roles of Iceman , Pyro and Rogue . Also , Collosus has a few scenes . As with the first movie , Wolverine is center stage again ( this is a good thing ) and Halle Berry seems much more comfortable as Storm the second time around . The younger cast members seem very comfortable with their roles ( especially Paquin ) and Ian McKellan is great again as Magneto . Also Mystique has much more screen time and the sequences with her were just great . Also the acting is good , the special effects terrific and it was very touching at the end . So , aside from a few dead spots , this is a very good super hero movie .
One of the best " chick flicks "	Movie about three young waitresses who work at Mystic Pizza in Mystic CT . Good girl Kat ( Annabeth Gish ) is going to college and falls in love with a married man ( William Moses ) . Her sister , bad girl Daisy ( Julia Roberts ) , falls in love with rich kid Charles ( Adam Storke ) . And Jojo ( Lili Taylor ) is deeply in love with Bill ( Vincent D'Onorfrio ) but is afraid to marry him . . . which he wants . Pretty predictable but still lots of fun . This was released with no fanfare in 1988 ( Roberts was still unknown and there were no ' name ' actors in the cast ) and went on to become a surprise hit . That shouldn't be a shock - - this is the type of movie that isn't really challenging or deep . You know the characters , you know the situations and you know it's going to have a happy ending . Still , there's nothing wrong with a film like that if it's entertaining and well-done - - and this one is . The script is lively and it was beautifully shot on location in CT ( in Mystic and other towns ) . Gish is just great ( and top-billed ) in the movie . She was also 17 ( the age of her character too ) so it adds to the realism . Taylor is good but has little to do . Her character is very one note and ALWAYS yapping about commitment . Roberts is good but her character is TERRIBLE ! Foul-mouthed , obnoxious and grating - - her verbal abuse of her sister Kat is more than vicious . I really hated her ! Nevertheless , this movie jump started her career . D'Onorfrio ( a wonderful character actor ) is given nothing to do but look handsome and hunky - - which he does . Storke is VERY good-looking and gives a great performance as a rich kid - - what ever happened to him ? And Moses is just OK as a married man . Add Conchata Ferrell as the pizza store owner and Matt Damon in a one line role in his film debut . A real nice , pleasing little movie . Perfectly catches the small town feeling too . Worth seeing . But don't let Roberts ' face on the box fool you - - it's NOT her movie .
Well-made but dated	Beautiful acting , good diretion help VERY dated story of a poor man ( Montgomery Clift ) falling in love with a rich woman ( Liz Taylor ) after getting another poor woman ( Shelley Winters ) pregnant . All the examinations of class and rich vs . poor are obvious and very 1940s . The acting helps a lot - - Clift is pretty good in the title role , but sometimes he seems too mannered in his portrayal . . . he should have shown more depth in his performance . Winters is excellent in her role , but she is annoying ( she's supposed to be ) and overly pathetic at times . Taylor is drop-dead gorgeous and very good in her role . She's a bit too goody-goody , but you never once disbelieve that she loves Clift . Worth seeing .
Very good	Newspaperman Hildy Johnson ( Pat O'Brien ) is quitting the business and getting married to Peggy ( Mary Brian ) . But his unscrupulous boss Walter Burns ( Adolphe Menjou ) doesn't want him to quit . Also an innocent man is about to be hanged and Burns will do anything to make sure Johnson works on that story . Fast and funny - - the first cinematic version of this story . It shows its age at times and some of it is wildly overacted but O'Brien and Menjou are both just great in their roles . Also director Lewis Milestone uses some very unusual camera tricks to keep the story moving and there's lots of action and running around which is unusual for an early talkie . This was remade in 1940 with a sex change making Johnson a woman . That was " His Girl Friday " with Rosalind Russell and Cary Grant . That one is better than this but this is better than the 1974 version ( that had Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau ) and 1988 remake called " Switching Channels " ( with Kathleen Turner and Burt Reynolds ) . They're all good to varying degrees but this one came first . Worth seeing .
Not racist	In the Old South Uncle Remus ( James Baskett ) a black slave tells stories to white Johnny ( Bobby Driscoll ) . They're shown in animated form . . . beautifully done by Disney . OK - - this film is NOT racist and Disney is being stupid by not releasing it . The last time I saw it was in its last ( I believe ) theatrical reissue back in the 1980s . I don't remember anybody complaining about it being racist back then . Yes , the slaves are shown as being SO happy and love working for the white people . . . but " Gone With the Wind " had the same view and I don't see MGM keeping it from being shown or anyone complaining about it . There's nothing wrong with being politically correct but Disney really overdoes it . Hell - - they changed ONE LINE from a song in " Aladdin " because one group complained about it ! Idiots . Back to the movie . The print I saw was in bright beautiful color with a crystal clear picture and sound . The animated segments were just great - - there was one fantastic moment when Baskett started singing " Dippidy Doo Dah " and the background burst into animation . The chances of anyone seeing this are slim but , if you can , take a look . Recommended .
On a dark and rainy night . . .	This takes place in New England in 1906 . A mute servant girl ( Dorothy McGuire ) takes care of a sick and old but aggressive woman ( Ethel Barrymore ) in a big , dark and creepy mansion . There's also a killer around who goes after women with imperfections . . . and he may be in the house . Also there's a huge storm going on , night is falling and the house is isolated . . . Let's see . . . a mute servant , a psychotic killer , a dark and rainy night and a creepy old mansion . This movie pulls out all stops and is actually a very good suspenseful horror film . The closeups of the killers eye watching potential victims ( and the VERY creepy music that plays ) really spooked me more than a little . The killer himself is fairly easy to figure out but the good acting and eerie atmosphere keep you watching . With the sole exception of Kent Smith all the acting is good . . . but McGuire and Barrymore are incredible . McGuire has to use facial expressions all through the movie to convey her thoughts and she carries it off . Barrymore ( Oscar-nominated ) is just a tower of strength . . . even if she is supposed to be old and frail . A top thriller . . . among Hollywood's best . And ( at 84 minutes ) it doesn't overstay its welcome . An 8 .
Dated but worth catching	A newspaper decides to reopen a 20 year old murder case to boost circulation . It ends up causing tragedy all around . The film is dated ( of course ) but the main story is still timely and ( sadly ) still relevant . The film is far from perfect - - the dialogue is overstated and sometimes downright horrible ; there's some laughably obvious symbolism ( see how many times Edward G . Robinson washes his hands ) and there's some truly terrible acting by some of the supporting players ( Frances Starr and Ona Munson are by far the worst ) , but the quick efficient direction of Mervyn LeRoy and two powerhouse performances by Edward G . Robinson and Boris Karloff ( ! ! ! ) lift this up . For those two alone this movie is worth seeing . And it's a relief seeing Karloff not in a horror film . Nominated for Best Picture of its year .
Glossy but entertaining	Musical drama / soap opera about three sisters ( Doris Day , Dorothy Malone , Elizabeth Fraser ) and the men they fall in love woth - - film concentrates on Day and her romances with Gig Young and Frank Sinatra . Film takes place in a picture perfect world - - everybody lives in big beautiful houses ; everything is squeaky clean and full of color ; everybody looks perfect - - typical 1950s Hollywood . The story is interesting and ( with one exception ) the acting is good although Malone and Ethel Barrymore look miserable and are totally wasted . However , Gig Young is exceptional as the man in love with Day - - he kick starts the movie whenever he's on screen . Day grins ( and grins and grins and grins and grins . . . ) . Day and Sinatra sing all the songs ( separately ) and when they sing the movie becomes magical - - they were both at their peaks here . There's only two problems with the picture - - 1 ) the ending is totally unrealistic and comes out of nowhere and 2 ) Sinatra . He was a great singer but no actor . His character comes off as childish , obnoxious and depressing - - I couldn't believe Day falling for him . He doesn't destry the picture , just lessens it . All in all , it's colorful and entertaining with a superb performance by Young . Worth seeing .
Two great ones ; two so-so	Well-done compilation of four short films about growing up gay . The first one " Must Be the Music " is fun . It's about a group of gay teenage boys going to a disco . The refreshing thing about it is that the characters are gay . . . and could care less . Also it's very sweet and has a happy ending . Lots of fun . " Nunzio's Second Cousin " is not so good . It's a very dark film about a very disturbed cop inviting a teenager home after he tried to rob him and his lover . Eileen Brennan overacts as the cop's mother . Dark , depressing . Still , it is interesting . " Atali , Iowa " was dull dull dull . I'm not going to describe it . . . just avoid it . The closing one " Trevor " is just superb . It actually won an Academy Award as best live short subject . It's about a very young kid coming to grips with the fact that he's gay . It's funny , moving and has a very uplifting ending . A real winner . So , the first and last are the best segments . The second is good but dark . And the third should be avoided . Pretty good batting average I'd say .
Excellent as propaganda - - good as a movie	This takes place in a small village near London just before the outbreak of WWII . Living there are Mrs . Miniver ( Greer Garson ) , husband Clem ( Walter Pidgeon ) , 2 small children and their grown son Vin ( Richard Ney ) who visits from the university he attends . The Minivers live in a huge house and are basically pretty rich . Then Britain enters the war and the Minivers have to cope with bombings , air raids and German soldiers . Historically this is a very important movie . It showed American audiences what was happening in Britain ( although sanitizing it ) and this movie was instrumental in getting America to help Britain through the war . SPOILERS ! ! ! However , in some ways , this is pretty overdone . I find it hard to believe that any British family take things as calmly as the Minivers do and a bunch of multiple deaths at the end REALLY pushes it but top production values , a good script and great acting pull this through . It's a little bit too long but it doesn't really matter . Two standout sequences are when Garson meets a German pilot and when the family has to hide in a bomb shelter when the Germans attack . Garson is a little bit too young to be a mother ( she was only 33 when she did this ) but she's great . Her performance deservedly won her a Best Actress Oscar . I never liked Pidgeon before but I have to admit he's very good here and was nominated for an Oscar . Then there's Teresa Wright ( who also won an Oscar ) very beautiful and appealing and Dame May Witty playing her aunt . Henry Travers also won an Oscar for this which is puzzling . He's good but his part is very small . This also got Best Director and Best Picture of the year . It's overdone and self-conscious and a lot of people find this sappy but I think it's a good movie about the way Britain was during WWII . I give this an 8 .
One of Karloff's best - - if not THE best	Boris Karloff has a field day playing two twin brothers - - one is evil ( Gregor ) the other kind ( Anton ) . They are born with a prophecy on them - - that one will kill the other in a black room . The room is boarded up to prevent the curse . Gregor becomes an evil ruler of a country and Anton moves away . Years later Anton returns - - his brother wants to make amends . . . or does he ? It's hard to believe that Columbia Pictures did this . It looks and plays like a Universal horror flick . There's the eerie castle , the curse , the twin brothers and plenty of mood and atmosphere . Also the villagers look like they stepped right out of the set of " Frankenstein " ! These are all good things however . The movie moves quickly , has good acting all around ( beautiful Marian Marsh is a highlight ) and Karloff . He plays each role expertly and seems to be having a fun time . This couldn't have been easy - - this was made before trick photography could be used to make the same actor appear twice so he probably had to do many scenes twice playing different roles ! He pulls it off though . I'm assuming this didn't do well when it came out ( Columbia never attempted something like this again ) but it's now considered a true classic and one of Karloff's best films . Highly recommended .
Loud , big , silly and LOTS of fun !	This review is based on the unrated version - - I've never seen the PG-13 one . The FBI Cyber Security Division and other government computers are breached by a madman ( Timothy Olyphant ) who plans to rule the world ( or something like that ) . John McClane ( Bruce Willis ) ends up stuck with a young computer hacker ( Justin Long ) to try and battle him . OK - - I LOVED the first two " Die Hard " films . They were loud , stupid and loads of fun ( if a bit sadistic ) . The third one ( " Die Hard With a Vengeance " ) wasn't too good . This one was ( obviously ) shot for an R rating ( the first three were all R ) . The studio cut it down to a PG-13 . I HATE when they do that and refuse to see it . So that's why I waited till this came on DVD to view it . This is a fast-moving , easy to understand action movie . It's full of swearing and it's VERY violent - - sometimes a bit too much . Willis ' battle with Mai ( Maggie Q ) is pretty extreme . Still , you have to expect that from a " Die Hard " film . The action sequences are truly incredible ( even on a TV screen ) and there's plenty of casual violence and blood and gore . The script is dumbed down so anyone can understand it - - but who watches this movie for the plot ? I had a fun time but towards the end the action goes WAY over the top and gets totally unbelievable . STILL I enjoyed it . The acting is just about what you expect . Willis is good in his role ( as always ) and Long is good also despite having to be the " comic " relief at times . Olyphant is OK ( I guess ) as the villain . . . but I could never take him seriously . Basically everybody just hits their marks and say their lines with total conviction - - that's all this calls for . Kevin Smith is very funny in his bit as Warlock . So - - loud and stupid but fun . See the unrated version .
Very good mystery / thriller	Young handsome Tim Whalen ( Rob Lowe ) falls in love with filthy rich Olivia Lawrence ( Meg Tilly ) . But does he love her or just her money ? There's also his jilted ex lover ( Kim Cattrall ) , her lecherous stepfather ( John Glover ) , HIS mistress ( Dana Delany ) and police officer Mike McGill ( Doug Savant ) . I saw this originally back in 1988 and loved it . Seeing it again all these years later I STILL love it . As you can see this has an incredible cast of people before they hit it big . They're all great too - - especially Savant . Also it gives the audience what it wants pretty quick - - both Lowe and Cattrall have nude scenes within the first 10 minutes ! The story has many twists and turns and always keeps the viewer guessing . It was beautifully filmed and directed in the Hamptons and has a lush music score . SPOILERS ! ! ! There are also two scenes between Lowe and Savant that have STRONG homoerotic vibes . In one Savant is in a pair of VERY tight white underwear . I swear at one point I thought they were gonna kiss ! It adds an interesting subtext to the film . END SPOILER ! ! ! ! With the exception of Tilly all the acting is good . Even Lowe pulls off a difficult role . Beautifully done , intricate mystery . Well worth seeing .
Spectacular but way too long	Ben-Hur ( Charlton Heston ) a Jew , and Massala ( Stephen Boyd ) a Roman , once boyhood friends clash as adults in Biblical times . Big , lumbering epic - - way too long ( 3 hours ) . It does have two spectacular action sequences - - the sea battle and the chariot race . The sea battle has some very obvious , sometimes laughable special effects - - for instance , it's VERY obvious that they're using toy boats in the long shots ! Still . it is exciting and well-done . The chariot race is just great . A must see in wide-screen ONLY - - it's long , violent and fascinating . It still stands up after over 40 years . The rest of the film is rather slow . The dialogue is ponderous . The pace is way too slow and none of the performances are that good ( how Heston won an Academy Award for this is beyond me ) . But it looks great in wide screen and color and has a rousing music score . I'm giving it an 8 , but I really can't recommend it . Give me the 1925 Ramon Novarro one - - that was much better .
Very good but exhausting	Who would have thought it ? Director Chris Columbus has actually made a very good film ! This film follows Harry Potter in his second year at Hogwarts with a much darker tone than the first film . However , the film should be dark - - the books are . This film is much better than the first . The first had to spend a lot of time introducing Harry , his friends and Hogwarts . This film assumes you know all about it and kicks right in . It moves quickly and has better ( and more ) special effects . Little time is spent on characters and motivations - - whether that's good or bad depends on what you like . The acting has improved . Daniel Radcliffes ( Harry Potter ) voice has noticably deepened and his acting has improved ( a little ) . Emma Watson ( Hermione ) has blossomed into a very pretty young girl and gives a very good performance . Rupert Grint ( Ron ) is just OK - - he's got to stop being so bug-eyed over everything . Also Maggie Smith , Alan Rickman and the ( sadly ) late Richard Harris offer strong support . The only bad piece of casting was Kenneth Branaugh as a new teacher . He's supposed to be funny yet sinister - - he's neither - - just boring and silly . The film is NOT for small children . As I said before , it's dark and has some very scary moments ( all of them involving giant , hungry spiders and vicious , huge snakes ) . Also there's some fairly bloody violence ( for a PG-13 ) . The main problem is the films length - - 2 hours , 41 minutes . It's long and there's a lot of action and story covered . I was exhausted by the end of the movie ( in a good way ) . So , it's a great roller coaster ride for older children and adults .
Very good film noir	As a young girl Martha Ivers accidentally kills her evil grandmother . She and a boy friend of hers cover it up and accuse an innocent man of it . Years later they're all grown up and played by Barbara Stanwyck and Kirk Douglas ( his film debut ) . They're married and miserable but have their lie keeping them together . Then a man ( Van Heflin ) Martha loved very much as a girl accidentally crashes his car in the town . He has no interest in Martha but is in love with someone else ( Lizabeth Scott ) . . . but Martha won't let him go . Well-done film noir . The dialogue is great ( especially the exchanges between Heflin and Scott ) , it looks beautiful and the acting is mostly well-done . Heflin is just OK - - but it fits his role ; Stanwyck is very good but not given much to do ( she doesn't appear until 30 minutes in ! ) and Douglas is TERRIBLE . . . but this WAS his first film . Scott is , surprisingly , the best . A very good , credible performance . I couldn't take my eyes off her when she was on screen . She easily outacted everybody else . I can only give this an 8 though for 2 reasons : Kirks ' lousy acting and the movie goes on way too long - - at least 20 minutes could have been cut . Still , worth catching . Some consider this Stanwycks ' best film ( I disagree ) .
Strange but enjoyable	Sherlock Holmes ( Robert Stephens ) and Dr . Watson ( Colin Blakely ) get involved in a very weird case involving a mysterious French woman ( Geneuieve Page ) , Sherlock's brother Mycroft ( Christopher Lee ) , midgets , Scotland , the Queen and the Loch Ness Monster ! Believe it or not they all come together . I originally saw this on TV back in the late 70s but it was so heavily edited ( for instance , the entire first half hour was gone ! Probably because it dealt with gay characters which was still a taboo on TV back then ) that I couldn't follow it and gave up . Now it's back on uncut and I'm glad I'm finally able to see it . A very strange movie but lots of fun . Some people think this is a spoof . It really isn't but there are some very funny moments - - my favorite is at the beginning when Holmes blasts Watson for how he writes about his cases - - " Watson , I've never said ' elementary my dear Watson ' in my life ! " " Poetic license Holmes " . There's also quite a few funny one liners mostly delivered with great relish by Stephens and it does deal with the sexual relations of Holmes and Watson ( it was hinted that they were gay lovers ) . But it does involve a very serious case and the jokes stop towards the end . Stephens is actually very good as Holmes - - he won't make you forget Basil Rathbone but he's not bad . Colin Blakely isn't as big a buffoon as Nigel Bruce was but he tends to overact a little . Page is just terrible as the mystery woman - - but then again , English is her second language . Lee , surprisingly , is kind of stiff as Mycroft . He's a very good actor - - I'm surprised to see him so bad . The movie is very lavish ( probably because Billy Wilder was involved ) . . . a lot of money and attention was given to sets and costumes , and they actually went on location to shoot the end in Scotland . The cinematography is just beautiful and the movie was never dull . It doesn't always mix the comedy with the drama successfully but it works more often than it misses . Worth catching . . . a must see for Holmes fans .
Overlong but interesting	Documentary ( narrated by Sharon Gless ) about the life and times of author / philosopher Ayn Rand . Movies goes into exhaustive detail about her coming here from Russia , her " objectivism " philosophy , her books , her whole entire life . The film is too long ( 2 hours ) and gets repititous at times ( we hear about every single aspect of objectivism - - it's not necessary and really weighs the movie down ) . Nonetheless , it is interesting and ( I think ) worth seeing for people who like or are interested in Rand . If you don't like her stay away .
Deserves a cult following	This takes place in the late 1990s . A comet passes through Earth's orbit . It reduces most people to dust or turns them into flesh-eating zombies . The only ones not affected are two Valley Girl sisters ( Catherine Mary Stewart , Kelli Meroney ) who meet Hector ( Robert Beltram ) . They band together to find other survivors . And then there's the evil think tank of scientists ( Mary Woronow among them ) . . . This is dated of course ( the dialogue and the clothes give it away ) but it's LOTS of fun ! It's a smart satire with great dialogue ( there are some hysterically funny lines ) , unusual characters , good direction , a solid soundtrack and a good cast of actors giving their all . Stewart and Meroney especially are a delight throwing off one liners with ease - - their shopping spree to the tune of " Girls Just Wanna Have Fun " is a highlight . Beltran and Woronov are as good as possible - - but they just play the straight men basically . This was marketed as a teen sci-fi film ( which it isn't ) and predictably bombed . It found its audience on cable but disappeared . That is strange - - this has all the earmarkings of a cult classic but never made it . With its DVD release coming soon maybe that will change . Silly but fast , fun and colorful .
Good murder mystery	Hercule Poirot ( Peter Ustinov ) is vacationing at a resort on a beautiful island . A very rich and evil woman ( Diana Rigg ) is murdered . The owner of the resort ( Maggie Smith ) hires Poirot to find the killer . This was made because " Death on the Nile " was such a big hit . For some reason this bombed quickly at the box office . I can't see why - - it's no classic but it's actually well-done on beautiful locations with a good cast . Ustinov is just perfect as Poirot and the rest of the big name cast ( among them . . . Roddy McDowell , Sylvia Miles , James Mason ) do well . Nicholas Clay especially stands out . . . and wears a VERY tight bathing suit through most of the movie . The script is well-written with some hysterically catty dialogue between Rigg and Smith . There's also some great Cole Porter songs on the soundtrack and the costumes are just breath-taking ( especially on Rigg ) . Not as good as " Death . . . " but fun and enjoyable . Worth catching .
Depressing as they get	Arthur Hamilton ( John Randolph ) is a middle-aged man . He has a nothing job and feels he has no purpose or direction in life . He can't even make love to his wife anymore . He is offered a new life by the Company - - a secret organization . They will " kill " off Arthur and give him a new face , a new body and a new identity . He comes back as Tony Wilson ( Rock Hudson ) . However , can he be happy in his new life ? Exceptional black and white cinematography by James Wong Howe ; great direction by John Frankenheimer ( all the extreme closeups and off kilter camera angles keep you uneasy ) ; a perfect score by Jerry Goldsmith ( the organ fits perfectly ) . . . but this is almost unwatchable . It's VERY depressing , very downbeat and ( at times ) way too slow ( the beginning ) . It's easy to see why this was a box office bomb - - it's way too depressing for the average viewer . The things I mentioned above help make the film bearable as does the acting . Randolph is superb as Hamilton - - you feel his pain and misery . Hudson , surprisingly , is pretty good . Sometimes he's not that good but there are certain sequences when he's exceptional - - particularly at a wine party , a cocktail party ( where he actually got drunk to play it realistically ) and he explodes during the harrowing ending . The ending is one of the most horrific sequences I've ever seen . I felt like bolting from the theatre . A one-of-kind horror thriller . I can't say I enjoyed this , but I'll never forget it . It has a big deserved cult following .
A 20 minute little gem	Joseph Schildkraut and Roman Bohnen ( both sadly forgotten today ) give two brilliant performances in an updated version of Edgar Allen Poe's tale . A young man ( Schildkraut ) is constantly tortured mentally and physically by an old man ( Roman Bohnen ) . Finally he kills him . . . but keeps hearing the old man's heart beating . Well-directed , acted and very good use of sound . Well worth catching . TCM is showing a beautiful print of this in between movies - - that's probably the only way to see it . Good luck !
Very good moving documentary	In 1987 , seven years after John Lennon's tragic murder , a book came out . I've forgotten the title and the author , but it portrayed Lennon VERY negatively . It showed him as a cruel , egotistical monster who abused drugs and alcohol up to his death . The book was written by somebody who had never talked to anybody who knew Lennon . Yoko Ono was shocked and pushed to have this documentary made to set the record straight . It's full of home movies , news footage , videos all narrated by John Lennon himself ( he recorded over 200 hours talking about his life and work ) . It's not a whitewash of him - - it does point out he was a mean drunk and he is shown swearing and telling off Phil Spector in a recording studio when a song was not working out . It also chronicles his remark about the Beatles being " bigger than Jesus Christ " and totally ignores how horribly he treated his first wife Cynthia . But , aside from that footage , there is also interviews with Johns wives , his children and , basically , everyone who knew him ( curiously , none of the Beatles were interviewed ) . He comes across as a very talented , peace-loving man - - he has his dark moments but everybody does . His confrontations with Al Capp and Gloria Emerson are just fascinating . I remember seeing this in a theatre in 1988 and most of the audience walked out crying . 15 years later the ending still packs a punch . It shows people crying at the peace rallies held after Lennon's death and ends with the " Imagine " video him and Yoko did . Also " In My Life " plays over the closing credits . A fascinating , very moving documentary of a great man . Recommended .
Fun trash	In 1930s New Orleand Texan Laurence Harvey ( ! ! ) finds one time lover Capucine ( ! ! ! ) working in a bordello . He wants to take her away , but the bordello's lesbian madam , Barbara Stanwyck wants Capucine for herself . Then there's Jane Fonda as a real wild girl . . . Film starts off with a great title sequence that perfectly sets the tone of the film - - loud , brassy and dirty . This was probably considered pretty controversial it its time ( in fact it's never made totally clear than Stanwyck is a lesbian , but there are hints all over the place ) , but it's a camp classic now . It's sleazy but lots on fun with tons of campy dialogue to spare . Apparantely this film had a very whimsical casting director - - Harvey ( an English actor ) and Capucine ( a French actress ) play Texans and Anne Baxter ( in a black fright wig ) is a Mexican ! The acting varies - - Harvey is just OK with a credible Texas accent ; Fonda is really great projecting raw sexuality ; Capucine is beautiful but wooden ; Stanwyck chews the scenery in a very amusing way and Baxter turns in a very moving and great performance . Lots of fun with the right crowd - - I saw it years ago with a gay and lesbian crowd and we laughed all the way through it !
Finally ! A good 2001 movie !	This has been a horrible year for movies so far - - no doubt about it . From horrendous comedies to lousy horror films to boring art fims it's been a sad year . Finally , though , a really good film has come along . " Shrek " is a computer animated comedy for all ages . It's one of those rare films that adults and children can enjoy . Shrek ( voiced by Mike Myers with a Scottish accent ) , is a large green-skinned ogre who goes to save a princess ( Cameron Diaz ) from a fiery dragon . Why ? Because evil Lord Farquaad ( John Lithgow ) is destroying his property but will spare it if he saves the princess . An abrasive donkey ( Eddie Murphy ) comes along to help . Murphy gets a little too loud and abrasive and the movie does have its dull stretches , but mostly the jokes are flying fast and furious , the animation is flawless and occasionally beautiful , and the whole thing has a happy ending . There's also a few hilarious pot shots at Disney . Go , see it and enjoy ! Well worth 10 bucks .
Disturbing	Kind , widowed Texas dad ( Bill Paxton ) is bringing up his two sons Adam ( Jeremy Sumpter ) and Fenton ( Matthew O'Leary ) - - it's made clear that he loves them both very much . Then , one night , a " vision from God " tells him to kill some demons disguised as people . He follows the orders and drags his two young sons along with him . Fenton starts getting very scared about his dad's sanity . Creepy , scary and absorbing movie is part horror movie , part psychological thriller , part coming of age movie , part religious . . . and it all works beautifully . The direction by Paxton is assured ( hard to believe this is his first directed movie ) and his acting is just flawless - - he's always good but he's great here . Young Matthew O'Leary is another standout - - you really feel his confusion . Also Powers Boothe ( obviously enjoying himself ) is good and Matthew McConaughey plays his usual laid back self and flashes those beautiful blue eyes ( and there is a shirtless scene - - thanks Bill ! ) The story is complex and twists and turns in directions I didn't see coming . The killings are all off screen - - this is NOT a blood and guts movie . Basically it's a very good thriller . Be warned - - there is a very hard to watch sequence with child abuse .
Gentle sweet comedy - - about bigamy !	Reporter Rob Salinger ( Dudley Moore ) is married to ambitious Micki ( Ann Reinking ) . He wants a baby - - she doesn't . He meets sweet Maude ( Amy Irving ) and starts having an affair with her . Then he ends up getting them both pregnant ! OK bigamy isn't funny - - but this is just a movie that's not to be taken seriously . It's ( for Blake Edwards ) very sweet-natured and gentle . It does have his usual slapstick humor but also has some nice funny verbal jokes and is very romantic . Moore is great - - he tones down his usual manic persona and gives a very affecting performance . Richard Mulligan also is great as his boss and pal Leo . Amy Irving is just incredibly beautiful and sweet . There's also a hysterical visit to a doctors office and the end when Moore goes full blast in a hospital . There's also a bit with nude male models with guns that's an eyeopener . This is far from perfect however . It takes its own sweet time getting started and doesn't even have an ending - - it just sort of stops . Also Reinking is pretty bad in her role . She manages to overact AND underact at the same time - - but she's known more for her dancing then acting . All in all a sweet , funny and romantic comedy . I give it an 8 .
Long but entertaining	Story takes place in 1660 England . Strang willed 16 year old Amber St . Clair ( Linda Darnell ) falls in love with bland Bruce Carlton ( Cornel Wilde ) . She follows him to England but he doesn't love her . So Amber decides to become rich and powerful no matter what . The book this was based on was a HUGE bestseller in the 1940s . It was ( for its time ) a racy book that makes it clear that Amber sleeps her way to the top . Also the book was historically accurate and ( even at 800 + pages ) a fascinating read . 20th Century Fox took the book , jettisoned all the racy stuff ( more or less ) and spent great care and no expense in bringing this to the screen . It's in beautiful color with gorgeous costumes and sets . Sure , there are plot holes and bad acting but this is never dull and speeds along . Even at 140 minutes it didn't seem too long . Darnell is beautiful and pretty good in the lead . George Sanders matches her playing Charles II . He's clearly enjoying himself . Richard Greene is good also popping up as a friend of Ambers . However Wilde is pretty bad as Carlton - - you keep wondering what Amber sees in him . The silly wig he wears doesn't do him any favors . It's kind of funny to realize this was considered pretty dirty back in 1947 . It wouldn't raise an eyebrow today and , as it is , the movie never makes it clear that Amber is sleeping around . So it's colorful , elaborate and well worth catching . The book was better but this is easier than reading it ! An 8 .
Very good	A young boy ( around 20 ) is lonely at an isolated plantation . He dreams of being with other men while seemingly all the other plantation hands are having sex left and right ! Erotic , beautifully filmed and shot male porno film . The guys are gorgeous , the sex erotic and there's a long fireside sequence that is just superb . Well worth catching .
Fun	Busby Berkley directed this silly but very fun musical . The plots have Alice Brady , a very rich widow , losing a great deal of money while financing a huge musical put on by con man Adolphe Menjou ( chewing the scenery ) ; Dick Powell romancing Gloria Stuart and Glenda Farrell blackmailing Hugh Herbert . For once the dialogue isn't as bad as it is in most 1930s musicals with some truly funny comic relief . Also Berkley throws in two just unbelievable production numbers . One of them is set to " The Lullaby of Broadway " - - the tap dancing in this one is incredible and it tells a story with a surprisingly depressing ending . Aside from the Berkley numbers however this is no great shakes but very pleasant and lots of fun . Look for the hilarious scene where Powell and Stuart are on a lake supposedly at 9 : 00 at night but a wide shot shows the sun shining and a clear sky ! And in the very next shot they're in a moonlit grotto ! Didn't anyone ever catch this ?
Dated but strong prison film	Film about the ( fictional ) Westgate Penitentiary . It's overrun by a weak warden who lets sadistic Capt . Mumsy ( Hume Cronyn ! ) beat and torture the prisoners . A bunch of them led by strong Joe Collins ( Burt Lancaster ) plan a breakout - - but is there an informer among them ? In terms of violence and language this is dated - - the violence is never shown or heard , there are no rape scenes and none of the prisoners ever swear . Still this is pretty strong stuff especially for 1947 . The acting is good , the pace swift and Cronyn has got to be one of the most evil , cruel prison guards ever put on film . Also this film was the breakthrough film for Lancaster - - it made him a star . The clichs are all in place here including the obligatory flashbacks showing why the guys are in prison ( and also to get some beautiful women on screen ) but they're done so well that you won't care . SPOILERS ! ! ! ! The two best sequences are when the alcoholic prison doctor ( beautifully played by character actor Art Smith ) tells off Mumsy and when Mumsy gets just what he deserves at the end ( you'll cheer ) . Dated but tough and good prison drama . I give it an 8 .
Long but great	OK , it's too long ( almost 3 hours ) and we did not need all those full performances of numbers from " The Mikado " . That aside , this is an entertaining and extremely well-acted movie about Gilbert & Sullivan - - their personal lives , their working partnership and how " The Mikado " was developed . We also get to see how they train the actors in how to talk , sing and ( in an uproarious sequence ) walk Japanese . How factual this is , I have no idea . But the movie was so well-done and entertaining , who cares . Well worth watching , but you do have to sit through one too many opera numbers .
Very fun	Computer-animated cartoon about Jimmy who , inadvertently , has all the parents in his neighborhood kidnapped by aliens . It's up to Jimmy and his classmates to follow the aliens through outer space to save their parents . Silly but lots of fun . There's some incredible computer animation , hysterically funny lines ( for kids and adults ) and a VERY quick pace that make up for a few dull moments and a really silly script . A perfect family movie . Adults - - turn off your brain and enjoy !
Violent and brutal	A gang of skinheads in Melbourne Australia hate Asians and attack them every chance they get . They realize their neighborhood is being " taken over " by Asians and go on a rampage . The gang leader is Hondo ( Russell Crowe ) who picks up Gaby ( Jacqueline McKenzie ) . However she soon tires of his violent attitude and falls for his best friend Davey ( Daniel Pollock ) . It all comes to a tragic end . This film is far from perfect . The movie jumps around and the story is somewhat vague . Still it's well-directed with some very brutal violent fights and one fairly explicit sex scene . The movie doesn't take sides either . It does concentrate on the skinheads and Gaby , Davey and some of the women are shown as sympathetic characters but the rest are shown as sick , violent sociopaths . This originally got an NC-17 from the MPAA . From what I read , this was given that only because the MPAA thought if they gave it an R rating they would be accused of promoting racism ( which is just silly ) . It now has an R and ( from what I can see ) there's no cuts from the NC-17 version . Pollock ( who sadly committed suicide before this was released ) and McKenzie are very good in their roles and the others are too . Only Crowe is just OK . A very violent brutal film . Not for everyone , but it is a strong angry statement about racism and how it can destroy and kill . I give it an 8 .
VERY strange AIP film	A gangsters former mistress ( Angel Tompkins ) is on the run from him after robbing him . She falls in with a midget acting group ( called Little Cigars ) who are also robbers . She teams up with them and starts falling for the head of the group ( Billy Curtis ) . As you can see this is an odd film - - - even for American International Pictures ( AIP ) . In many ways this is an fun but ordinary caper film - - the dialogue and plot would not be out of place in any generic film . It's just this is done with midgets . You think that might play with that more but they don't . There is some pretty explicit sex talk for a PG film and it's pretty obvious that Tompkins is sleeping with Curtis . And get a load of the very obvious sexual animation during the opening credits ! The acting is just OK but Tompkins is pretty good . All in all a strange film . It is fun and it moves very quickly but why have midgets in it and not use that aspect at all ? Still it was enjoyable . I give it an 8 .
Wonderfully directed , superbly acted by Davis and Bainter	Bette Davis is at her best in this 1800s Southern melodrama in which her attempts to snag a married ex-love ( Henry Fonda ) end in tragedy . Storywise this is nothing new , and there are way too many scenes were people talk endlessly about Southern manners . Also seeing all the black slaves so happy and singing is a bit hard to take . But the direction by William Wyler is excellent . He directs in a way that makes you part of the action ( especially in the ball sequence and a duel at the end ) . Best of all is Davis . Her performance is superb - - when she's on screen you can't take your eyes off her . She won a well-deserved Best Actress Oscar for this . Also Fay Bainter is excellent as her long-suffering aunt - - she won Best Supporting Actress . All the acting is good except for Henry Fonda - - he's so stiff and dull - - what does Davis want with him ? One last complaint - - it's not in color . I know there are two reasons for this : 1 ) the expense and 2 ) they did tests and Davis looked horrible in color ( think about it - - how many color movies did she make ? ) . Still , the non-stop compliments about the red dress at the beginning are annoying - - the dress looks black ! Still , this is worth seeing for Davis , Bainter and the direction .
Silly but fun	Spoof on the blaxplotation films of the 1970s . Starts right off in " Any Ghetto U . S . A . " where a young black man has died of O . G . ( overabundance of gold chains ) . His brother Jack ( Keenan Ivory Wayans ) comes home from the army to find the people who " hooked his brother on gold " . With a couple of older black men ( all from the 1970s films ) they decide to clean up the town . Now it sounds pretty stupid - - but it actually works . There are some real bad jokes but the good ones outnumber those vastly . The whole cast plays it straight with plenty of small roles or cameos from veteran 1970s actors . You don't have to know the old films to enjoy this but it does help a few times . It's really good to see Antonio Fargas back in a film making fun of his 1970s image . John Vernoon ( Dean Wormer from " Animal House " ) is also lots of fun as Mr . Big . And Ja'net DuBois is hysterical as Jack's overprotective mother . And - - since this is directed by Keenan Ivory Wayans - - most of his family shows up in small roles . Sure it's silly and stupid but also very funny . Turn off your brain and enjoy ! By far the best thing the Wayans have ever done .
A GREAT bad film !	A laugh a minute classic ! It's OK for the first 45 minutes with no songs , but then they get to Shangra-La ( or whatever ) , the songs chime in and the movie falls to pieces . The songs , without exception , are HORRIBLso bad they're good ! " The World Is A Circle " has got to be one of the worst songs I've ever heard ! And poor Liv Ullman is forced to sing it while leading a bunch of obnoxious little kids up a mountain ( or something like that ) . How did they get Peter Finch , John Gielgud ( playing an Asian ! ) and Ullman to do this ? Were they really that hard up for cash ? They're all great actors , NOT singers ( or dancers ) . George Kennedy , Michael York and Sally Kellerman all try to give decent performances , but are stuck with bad dialogue . Olivia Hussey looks like she wishes she were somewhere else and Bobby Van is REAL annoying ( I just wanted to strap him down and shove a bottle of Valium down his throat ) . The songs keep popping up out of nowhere and they just get worse and worse . Well worth seeing - - a guaranteed laugh a minute !
Powerful , well-made but a little overstated	A bigoted soldier kills a man for being Jewish and tries to pin it on a fellow soldier . Not as good as the novel it was based on ( " The Brick Foxhole " ) in which it was a gay man who was killed . . . but Hollywood wouldn't touch that in 1947 . That said , it's still a very good film . The anti-Semitism is handled very well , but it's hammered into the audience that bigotry is bad . . . well duh ! But this was 1947 . The picture is well-acted by the entire cast ( especially Robert Young and Robert Ryan ) and the tone is very dark . . . as it should be . Very atmospheric too . A deserved big hit in its day . . . well worth seeing .
Brilliant but very disturbing	A chronicle of four people ( Jared Leto , Marlon Wayans , Jennifer Connolly and Ellen Burstyn ) and their drug addictions and what it does to their lives . Starts off OK but becomes darker and more disturbing as it goes along . It ends with a montage showing what happens to all four of them - - this sequence contains some of the most harrowing imagery I've ever seen in a film . Honestly , I don't think I'll ever see it again - - it's that graphic ! Still , see the film . Leto is OK ; Wayans is ( surprisingly ) pretty good ; Connolly is excellent - - I've never liked her until now ; and Burstyn is simply superb - - a sure Oscar winner if I ever saw one . Well , worth seeing but very disturbing . Unfortunately , this film has an NC-17 rating . That's too bad - - it should have an R rating so high school kids could see it . This would turn them off drugs for good !
Surprisingly good	Wall Street lawyer Gavin Banek ( Ben Affleck ) has an important court case . He got a dying old man to sign over his company to his for ( he believes ) the good of the people . Doyle Gipson ( Samuel L . Jackson ) has an important court date also . He's a recovering alcoholic and his divorced wife is moving ( with his 2 children ) from NY to Oregon . He just bought a house in Queens to get his wife to stay but has to show that to a judge . Both of them are speeding to their respective courts and Banek callously cuts off Gipson causing an accident . He tries to brush off Gipson with a blank check but Gipson wants to do the right thing . Banek , in a hurry , leaves the guy accidentally dropping an important file . Gipson is late for the court date and loses custody of his kids . He has Banek's file which Banek needs desperately . Will Gipson give it back ? Sounds like just a play by the numbers Hollywood thriller but it isn't . It turns into a morality play about ethics and what is right and wrong . What's surprising is that it's an INTELLIGENT , well-written movie . It's filmed with jittery camerawork , muted color and mostly in darkness or shade . It gives the film a very bleak , negative look perfectly fitting the screenplay . Also Affleck is just superb in his role . I did have a little trouble believing that he was so shocked by some wrong-doing but he pulls it off . In fact , in a recent interview , Affleck says this was his best acting . He's right . Jackson is just good as Affleck . He has the more challenging role - - his character slowly implodes as his life falls apart . Jackson pulls it off brilliantly . Also good in supporting roles are Amanda Peet as Banek's wife ( she has a just great restaurant sequence with him ) and Sydney Pollack excels as the head of the company . The film does have a formula Hollywood ending ( that's why I'm only giving it an 8 ) but , until the point , it's just great . Also director Roger Mitchell has many nice directorial touches when he intercuts between Affleck and Jackson . An intelligent script , great direction and two powerhouse performances . What more can you ask for ? Highly recommended .
Shattering and depressing . . . as it should be	Jim ( Richard Lewis ) attends an AA meeting very worried about something . His sponsor encourages him to talk . He does . . . and immediately leaves . The rest of the movie involves him trying not to drink and it keeps going back to the meeting where we , one by one , hear each member say why they're there . I caught this at a small art cinema way back in 1997 and I never forgot it . It perfectly captures what an AA meeting is like and the stories related are harrowing . Quite a few well known actors play members : Sam Rockwell ( still unknown at the time ) , Amanda Plummer , Parkey Posey , Dianne Wiest , Calista Flockheart and Faye Dunaway . Their considerable acting talents make the stories seem realistic and hard to shake off . There's no happy endings here . Grim and disturbing but realistic . Sometime the staginess shows through ( you can tell this was based on a play ) which is why I can only give it an 8 . Still , it's well worth watching .
Unjustly forgotten fantasy	Very strange fantasy in which a young boy Luke ( Jasen Fisher ) and his friend Bruno ( Charles Potter ) get in trouble with some witches ( led by Anjelicia Huston ) . Luke's Norwegian aunt ( Mai Zetterling ) , a former witch , helps him battle the others . When this came out in 1990 critics loved it , but audiences stayed away . Real witches attacked the film because it portrayed witches as evil , ugly and wanting to kill all children . They overreacted - - it's just a FANTASY , not reality . Also it was way too strong ( and strange ) to attract a family audience . . . too scary for kids and adults assumed it was a kids movie . But it is a good fantasy for high schoolers and adults . Nicholas Roegs ' direction is off-putting ( he directs it like it's high art ) , but the special effects are truly incredible ( especially the mice ) and there are wonderful performances by Zetterling and Huston ( going WAY over the top in her acting ) . It's a very strange movie - - definitely a one of a kind . It's worth a look .
Good Superman cartoon	In WWII , America has developed a brand-new HUGE bomber plane . Lois Lane and Clark Kent go to cover the story when the plane is going on its first mission . Lois stows away on the plane before it takes off . There are also some Japanese saboteurs on board who have every intention of flying the bomber to Tokyo . Will Lois be able to warn Superman ? What do you think ? Fast-moving , colorful cartoon . The animation is a little jerky but much better than anything we see today . The color and sound have been beautifully restored . Just two problems - - the lousy music score and the racism ( especially in the title ) . That aside this is pretty good . An 8 .
For gay porno this is groundbreaking	An update of classic novel of the same name . This is set in modern day New York and is an all gay version . For gay porno this is a one of a kind . There's an actual plot and , for porno , the acting isn't half bad . Also what's interesting is that don't use all young hairless guys as most pornos do . These guys range from 20s-30s , some are pretty hairy and they're not all drop dead gorgeous . They do all have buff bodies and the hardcore scenes go on and on and on . That's not a bad thing but this runs 2 hours with ( maybe ) 45 minutes of plot . I actually lost track of what was going on after the sex scenes ended ! Still this is a very good attempt to go a hardcore gay porno with a plot based on a classic novel . The settings are beautiful , there are plenty of cameos and the sex is VERY hot and erotic . This is ( obviously ) not for everyone but gay guys will love it - - it sold out at a gay bookstore I know of . This is already considered a mini-masterpiece of gay porno . Recommended .
Good " chick flick "	Winona Ryder spends a summer with her aunts while writing her thesis and deciding whether to marry her fiance Dermot Mulroney . She learns about life and love through her aunts and friends while they sew a huge quilt together . Good , well-done but there's too much material for one movie . There are 5 flashbacks along with the main story and they're given very short shrift . The real pleasure is seeing a bunch of pros ( Ellen Burnstyn , Anne Bancroft , Winona Ryder , etc ) act with a talented then-unknown cast ( Jonathan Schaech , Claire Danes , Mulroney , etc etc ) . . . everyone's good and on target . Nothing new script-wise but I was never bored . Also good to see the late Esther Rolle and Jared Leto in small bits . Worth catching , but very talky at times .
Not as bad as you might think . . .	When this came out in 2003 it was doomed . Nobody could take the idea of Ashton Kutcher ( known just for comedy ) in a serious sci-fi movie . Predictably it bombed at the box office . That's too bad because this is actually a very intriguing ( if disturbing ) film . Evan ( played as a 13 year old by John Patrick Amedon ) does not have a happy childhood . His dad is in a mental institution ; his mom has to work constantly to pay the bills and is never around ; one of his best friends ( Tommy ) is a borderline psycho and Tommy's dad is a pedophile . Evan keeps having blackouts and keeps a journal from age 7 on to maybe help him . When he reaches college age ( played by Kutcher ) his life is a mess . . . but he finds he can go back in time ( by reading his journals ) . He goes back and tries to change everything . . . but things get worse and worse . Soon he's spinning through alternate realities and losing his mind . . . The story itself is intriguing and it's pulled off beautifully . I'm not a science fiction fan but this movie pulled me right in . The direction really puts this across - - all the different realities are shot in different film stocks so you can tell where you are and the film never stops moving . And it did make me think - - would I change anything if I could back in time ? The acting is ( almost ) uniformly great . Amy Smart plays Kayleigh - - Evan's girlfriend ( sometimes ) . She has to play different variations on her character . Not an easy task but she pulls it off . Also William Lee Scott ( playing Tommy ) has to do the same and also does well . As for Kutcher - - he isn't terrible but he's really not up for the role . He was OK but he needs to be more than that to put this across completely . He doesn't destroy the movie - - he just lessens the impact . And Amedon deserves credit for playing Evan at 13 - - very well done . This movie is disturbing . There are quite explicit dialogue about child abuse and Tommy's behavior as a child ( brought on by his sick dad ) is downright horrifying . This is NOT a movie for kids . It does have a happy ending - - sort of . I'm giving this an 8 - - I might have given it a 10 with a better actor in the lead . Recommended - - just with reservations about Kutcher .
Very well-done	Entertaining drama about a killer for hire named the Jackal ( Edward Fox ) hired to kill Charles DeGaulle in 1962 . It follows step by step his preparations for the assassination and the authorities trying to track him down . Story has a huge cast of mostly unknown character actors which makes it seem more believable ( i . e . in the 1997 remake Bruce Willis played the Jackal and you were always aware you were watching Willis ) . Also Fox is all too believable as a killer . The plot also takes place all over Europe jumping around from country to country . Despite the large cast and multiple story lines I was never confused and thoroughly engrossed . Expert direction by Zimmerman helps also . I have one small complaint - - it goes on a bit too long . I was a little bored by the final half-hour . Still , this is a well-done thriller worth catching . I give it an 8 .
Very interesting	I heard this was terrible and was expecting to see some sort of camp classic when FLIX showed it . I was pleasantly surprised to find myself enjoying it . This is the true story of the first sex change operation of a man to a woman ( John Hansen as both ) . This was shot and treated like some 1950s Hollywood melodrama . There's bright beautiful color , lush music score , beautiful settings and lines that sound like they were lifted verbatim from old movies . It's totally at odds with the subject matter but , surprisingly , it works . The picture is very tasteful about the subject and treats Jorgensen with sympathy . SPOILER ! ! ! ! ! It does get so bad it's good at the end when a male reporter falls for Christine . Then it leads to some howlingly bad dialogue and actually ends with the couple making love ( not shown ) in front of a roaring fireplace ! The only reason this has an R rating is because of some ( minor ) male and female nudity and the scene of a guy and a transsexual kissing - - way too strong for a 1970 PG . Also Hansen is very good in both roles . He looks damn good as a woman ! Worth seeing .
Very good documentary	William Greaves hosts this fascinating documentary about the underground black film made from the 1920s to the 1950s . Black people saw they were being portrayed negatively in Hollywood films so they went out to make their own films that showed them as they really were . These were made only to be shown in all-black cinemas ( cinemas were segregated back then ) . Most of these films are gone forever but this shows clips from a number that are still around . The movies spoke out against racism and the terrible conditions that black ghettos were in but - - other than that - - they were like any other Hollywood film . This film showed me some things I never knew like : How some Hollywood studios used white actors in black face to play black people because they didn't think black people could act ! Bing Crosby is shown in one ! Black actors had to go to Europe to get roles . Paul Robeson went to England to make movies - - - and he STILL found himself cast as a slave ! Horribly negative stereotypes where shown in cartoons . Lena Horne , Ethel Waters , Nat King Cole , Cab Calloway all got their start in black independent films . Even Sammy Davis Jr . shown here at the age of 8 in his first film . Very good and short ( about 1 hour ) docu on a subject most people are unaware of . Worth catching .
Almost one of Woo's best	Nothing new plot-wise ( male loyalty , police undercover , gun smugglers ) but the acting was good , the dialogue credible and some of the most amazing and very violent stunts I've ever seen in an action film . They make the film worth watching . But , it's too cruel for me to say I enjoy it . . . SPOILERS AHEAD ! ! Towards the end a large bunch of babies are put in danger - - one or two are almost gunned down ! Also , a bunch of crippled people are shot to death by the bad guy . Why ? We already knew he was a psychopath . . . we didn't need this ! It's an upsetting scene - - needless and sick . Those two elements make it somewhat unpleasant to watch . Take those scenes out and you got a great , kick ass action film !
Very funny	Updating of " The Front Page " to 1988 . Star reporter Christy ( Kathleen Turner ) on the Satellite Network News is burnt out . She takes a vacation and meets big , hunky , rich Blaine ( Christopher Reeve ) and falls in love ( only in movies . . . ) . She plans to leave work to marry Blaine , but her ex-husband and boss Sully ( Burt Reynolds ) is unwilling to let her go and tries to sabotage their plans any way he can . Not as good as 1940s " His Girl Friday " but not as bad as the 1970s " The Front Page " - - it really does work . It's quick , loud and never stops moving ( especially at the end ) . It also helps that the entire cast is in full throttle - - Turner , Reeve and Reynolds are relaxed , eager and full of energy - - they really put across the movie . Turner and Reynolds especially are surprising - - who knew they could do comedy ? And Reeve kids his goody two-shoes image and his Superman character ( he's afraid of heights in this one ) . Also Ned Beatty has quite a few funny moments as a slimy politician . The updating from the newspaper world to cable TV occasionally doesn't work and there are some really contrived situations here and there but not enough to destroy the movie . Also quite dated - - get a look at those HUGE cordless phones ! Still I enjoyed this film a lot . A bomb ( sadly ) in its day - - this deserves rediscovery .
Violent , stupid but fun	Arnold Schwarzenegger plays Douglas Quaid . He lives on Earth in the future with a loving wife ( Sharon Stone ) and a good life . But he keeps having dreams about Mars and another woman . Then he finds out they might be more than just dreams . . . There's a lot more going on in the plot but I won't spoil it . This came out in the summer of 1990 . It was a huge hit but was attacked by many critics who complained about the extreme violence in the film . Seen today it still IS very violent ( I'm surprised it got by with a R rating ) but . . . it's just a movie . Also , if you don't take the film too seriously ( and you shouldn't ) it actually gets kind of amusing . There's plenty of blood and dead bodies ( and body parts ) flying around but it's really hard to take it realistically . The plot is very complicated - - too much . The twists and turns keep you guessing but there are a LOT of plot holes in this . Two huge examples - - How did Melina know they were going to take Quaid down the service elevator when she saves him and who ( or what ) IS Quatro ? We see him / it but it's never explained why he's viewed as a God . And the constant product placement is Venusville was very obvious ( and annoying ) . Still , I DO recommend this movie . The movie moves very quickly ( it's directed by the great Paul Verhoeven ) , the violence keeps things interesting and the acting is not bad . Schwarzenegger ( surprisingly ) is pretty good in the main role . Stone really sucks in her role but this movie was her breakthrough . Michael Ironside is lousy too - - but then he always is . However Rachel Ticotin is great as the heroine and Ronny Cox has lots of fun as Cohaagen , the slimy villain ( although supposedly he was appalled at the amount of violence in the film ) . The special effects are great ( no crappy CGI was available back then ) and there's a GREAT cat fight between Stone and Ticotin . So it's fast , extremely violent and lots of fun . Just don't think about the plot too much . Recommended .
Overlooked	Fun , entertaining movie about WWII German spy ( Julie Andrews ! ) falling in love with American pilot ( Rock Hudson ) , while trying to get secrets from him . For some reason this was attacked by critics and shunned by the public in 1970 - - I can't see why . It's beautifully shot , has wonderful costumes and interiors , and exciting aerial dogfights . Also it has Andrews doing a strip-tease ( strictly PG material ) and singing a beautiful song - - " Whistling in the Dark " . The movie does have problems . Andrews and Hudson did not get along during the shooting of this - - and it shows . Their love scenes lack spark and they have zero sexual chemistry . Still , they turn in OK performances . The film is a little long ( even in the 105 min director's cut I saw ) and gets way too dark and serious at the end . Still , worth catching . Try seeing the directors cut . . . the other one runs half an hour longer !
Fun !	Big singing star Conrad Birdie ( obviously a parody of Elvis Presley ) is being drafted . He's to give one last kiss to a fan ( Ann-Margret ) throwing her life , and her family's , into turmoil . Energetic , colorful musical . The script is sharp and the performances on target . There are many great songs ( title tune , " The Telephone Hour " , " Honestly Sincere " , " Put On A Happy Face " , " Kids " ) which take full advantage of the wide screen ( letter-boxed is a must ) . The dancing and singing is all great . Ann-Margret is young , beautiful and bursting with life ; Paul Lynde is hilarious as her father ; Maureen Stapleton is loud and overbearing ( but she's supposed to be ) ; Dick Van Dyke is OK ; Janet Leigh is great , but it was a mistake to put her in a black wig ; Bobby Rydell is just annoying . A bit dated ( the Ed Sullivan references will be lost on young kids ) but still fun . Well worth seeing . " Daddy , it's my hair ! " " Not until you're 21 ! "
Dogpatch in VistaVision !	Adaptation of a hit musical based on a comic strip . It's about a tiny town called Dogpatch and its various strange inhabitants . Chief among them are strong , tall , incredibly handsome Li'l Abner ( Peter Palmer ) and incredibly beautiful Daisy Mae ( Leslie Parrish ) . There are various plots flying around but basically Daisy Mae is in love with Li'l Abner and wants to marry him . . . but he keeps stopping short of it and doesn't know why . There's also various other characters that have names like Earthquake McGoon and Marryin ' Sam . This is one of the few movies shot in a widescreen process called VistaVision . That was a great idea because there are some huge musical numbers that completely fill the wide screen . The dances are colorful and ( to put it mildly ) energetic . The songs are all pretty good with some very clever lyrics . In fact all the characters introduce themselves by singing to the audience ! Some people may enjoy the fact that all the young women here are in great shape and wear VERY revealing costumes . We also have a sequence with some muscular handsome men are shown only wearing shorts . Cheesecake AND beefcake ! However there are drawbacks here . Palmer and Parrish are both incredibly beautiful people and can sing and dance . . . but not act . Palmer's acting was incredibly wooden - - Parrish wasn't much better . Everybody else overacts to a large degree . The plots are pretty stupid and full of corny humor . A little corny humor goes a LONG way and , at two hours , it gets annoying . Still this is worth seeing for the colorful sets and costumes , the songs and the incredible dance numbers . Also Jerry Lewis does a ( thankfully ) brief cameo . Also look for Valerie Harper and Beth Howland as two of the women who have husbands at the end .
Grimy , gritty but funny	A day in the life of convenience store clerk Dante ( Brian O'Halloran ) and his friend Randal ( Jeff Anderson ) who runs the video store attached . Also Jay ( Jason Mewes ) and Silent Bob ( director / writer Kevin Smith ) pop up from time to time . No budget black & white first feature from Smith was a huge independent hit when released in 1994 . It opened with some controversy - - it was given an NC-17 rating for dialogue alone - - which is kind of silly . There IS a lot of swearing and tons of sexually frank talk but I've heard worse in big budget studio movies like " Casino " or " Scarface " . The rating was appealed and lowered ( with no cuts ) to an R . I like the film - - to a point . It is funny ( if very crude ) and the script itself is just great - - full of very interesting lines about sex , love , life and movies ( Randal's talk about " Revenge of the Jedi " is hilarious ) . After a while though it wore me down . The black + white photography is grimy , Smith is not exactly a great director and the character of Dante was such a wimp I got annoyed at him . He's treated like dirt nonstop and takes it . Also his buddy Randal was just cruel and unbelievably anti-social . Also the original ending ( which actually works good ) was cut . It had Dante being shot dead by a robber . It was left out cause it was too depressing - - but it DOES make sense it context of the movie . So - - I did ( sort of ) like this and recommend it . However if you're offended by strong language and sex talk skip this one .
Sure it's a soap opera - - but a good one !	Story about a widowed father ( Claude Rains ) bringing up his four daughters . Emma ( Gale Page ) is loved by big hunky Ernest ( Dick Foran ) . Thea ( Lola Lane ) is romanced by an old but wealthy man . Kay ( Rosemary Lane ) wants to become a singer . Ann ( Priscilla Lane ) is a romantic . Drop dead handsome Felix Deitz ( Jeffrey Lynn ) , a business associate of their father , comes to stay with them . All the sisters fall in love with him . Then tough cynical Mickey ( John Garfield ) enters the picture . . . Very entertaining movie was a big hit and nominated for five Academy Awards . It's beautifully directed by Michael Curitz , has a pretty good ( if predictable ) script and a VERY attractive cast ( especially Lynn ) . Also this was John Garfield's first film and made him a star . This was so popular there were three or four sequels ( which I never saw ) . This is an engrossing , entertaining , big budget soap opera - - well worth seeing .
Talky but fascinating , depressing	Joe Lampton ( Laurence Harvey ) is a young English man who wants to get ahead in life - - quickly . He falls in love with a married , older ( by 10 years ) French woman named Alice ( Simeone Signoret ) , but realizes he can only get ahead by marring the boss ' daughter Susan ( Heather Sears ) . What can he do ? This was considered very strong stuff in its day . There is swearing , frank sex talk , pre-marital sex and adultery . The film is a bit slow , but is almost always interesting . The direction is assured and some of the shots are fascinating ( Freddie Francis was the director of photography - - no shock here - - he was always great ) . The acting is simply great , especially Signoret ( who is heartbreaking ) and Harvey . Harvey is handsome , sexual , evil , romantic . . . all rolled into one . He's just incredible . Worth seeing , but be warned . . . it is depressing .
Terrible but in a VERY fun way	The story of Frank Fane ( Stephen Boyd ) and his best friend Hymie Kelly ( Tony Bennett - - yes THAT Tony Bennett ! ) . He treats women like dirt and claws his way to the top and becomes a big Hollywood actor . However he's such an evil character you know he's going to be punished ! Just dreadful . The script has every single clich you've ever heard of and there's just one hysterically bad line after another ( the actors deserve credit for keeping straight faces ) . So it's not good but it's so bad I was never bored . It's so ridiculously bad you just watch it grinning wondering what they're gonna hit you with next . To add to the fun they use actual Hollywood people in small roles ( Edith Head and Hedda Hopper appear as themselves ) . In a way it's too bad this was such a bomb . If this had been a big hit ( and any good ) it might have made Boyd a big star . He is great in this ! He's over the top nonstop but in an enjoyable bad way . He keeps the movie roaring along and he's always on . He's surrounded by some great actors who give their all . Jill St . John , Milton Berle ( in a dramatic role ! ) , Eleanor Parker , Joseph Cotten ( chewing the scenery ) , Ernest Borgnine , Peter Lawford and Edie Adams all appear in bit parts and they're fantastic . Unfortunately there's some terrible acting by Elke Sommer and Bennett ( no surprise there - - he's a great singer NOT an actor ) . Those two have main roles next to Boyd and they weaken the movie . Still this is a funny , nonstop trashy Hollywood movie . It also shows that Boyd WAS actually a good actor . A must see for movie fans like me . An 8 all the way .
Pretty good documentary	Documentary on silent film star Lon Chaney . It shows his start in the movies back in the 1910s It seems he was born and raised by two deaf mutes . . . this goes a long way to explaining how he was able to convey so many emotions with his face and gestures . It chronicles his marriages ( one produced his only child - - Lon Chaney Jr . ) and start in show business . The docu is OK . It does stress that Chaney only did a few horror movies - - although that is what he's known for today . It shows rare clips from his many lost films ( over 100 ! ) and from virtually all of his surviving ones . It's a great opportunity to see what a great actor Chaney was - - but this is lacking . There's VERY little info about his personal life - - some people say he was happy go lucky but all accounts I've heard of said he was a very cruel , violent man . There is some interview footage from Chaney Jr . s son talking about his grandfather but that's about it . The movie consists mostly of footage from Chaney's films or talking heads - - people like Ray Bradbury , Forrest Ackerman , Lon Chaney Jr . ( in an old interview before his death ) , various cameraman and such who worked with him . It's a good chronicle of Chaney's movies but VERY little about his personal life . I give it an 8 .
Interesting	Documentary about Roman Polanski and his flight from America after having sex with a girl of about 16 . It talks about his dealing with the brutal murder of his wife Sharon Tate and implies that that event might have made him act like he did . It goes step by step over all the legals battles and such that forced Polanski it flee to Europe . There's also interviews with the victim ( who said Polanksi should be allowed to come back to America and NOT be charged ) and all the lawyers from both sides of the case . It slowly becomes clear that Polanski did not receive a fair trial and he was being used . This is a little dull in spots - - going over every single legal battle gets tedious . Still , it's well made and mostly interesting . I give it an 8 .
Overdone but good	Police detective Al Pacino is after mastermind thief Robert De Niro . Also De Niro's partner Val Kilmer is having trouble with his wife ( Ashley Judd ) ; De Niro falls for nice Amy Brennerman and Pacino is having issues with HIS wife ( Diane Venora ) . Also Tom Sizemore , Wes Studi and Dennis Haysbert appear in supporting roles . Big , sprawling cops and robbers drama . There are multiple story lines and all the characters are fully realized individuals . The acting is great across the board ( except for Kilmer ) . There was a lot made of this film because of the 8 minute sequence in which De Niro and Pacino face off verbally against each other . They're both great and the sequence is crucial to their characters - - but it isn't particularly well-written . Still this might be the only time we'll ever see the two together on screen ( They both starred in " The Godfather Part II " but shared no scenes ) . The movie is well-directed with constant close-ups ( for some reason ) and shot in washed out color with some truly incredible gun fights ( the last one is just jaw dropping ) . An ALMOST great movie . There are problems . There are too many story lines and the film becomes quite convoluted towards the end . For example - - a subplot between Pacino and his stepdaughter comes up , disappears and pops in out of NOWHERE at the end . Also the film is much too long at 3 hours . This worked great in a theatre in wide screen and ear-shattering stereo ( the gun shots went right through you ) . It doesn't work as well on TV . Also avoid the edited for TV version which cuts out about FORTY minutes rendering the film incomprehensible . Worth watching . . . but it should have been tightened a little .
One of Woody Allen's best comedy / dramas	A married couple , Sally ( Judy Davis ) and Jack ( Sydney Pollack ) , tell their best friends - - another married couple named Gabe ( Woody Allen ) and Judy ( Mia Farrow ) - - that they are separating . This news throws Gabe and Judy into a tailspin . It makes them reexamine their own marriage and find it lacking . Meanwhile Sally starts seeing a handsome , romantic man ( Liam Neeson ) and Jack is living with a girl at least 30 years his junior . This film follows what happens to them over the course of a year . A fascinating film . I'm not married ( or even straight ) but I don't think that matters - - this is about love , sex and relationships and has dialogue and situations that anyone can relate to . Allen's script is right on target - - the insights are just incredible , and we slowly begin to see exactly how all of the four main characters really are . During the film they are all interviewed by a never seen person - - these interviews really help the story and reveals how everybody feels about the others . It pulls everything together . The acting is almost all great . Allen and Farrow were living together when this was filmed - - when it was released they were in a bitter custody battle . This movie actually provides insight to WHY they broke up - - their argument scenes are just a bit too realistic . Davis and Pollack are just superb in their roles . They let you feel their characters pain and confusion - - just great acting . Neeseon isn't asked to do much but he is very affecting in his scenes . However Juliette Lewis is terrible as a college student . Her voice is nasal and whiny and her acting is pretty lousy - - but it doesn't ruin the film . I saw this back in 1992 in a theatre and loved it . Twelve years later I STILL love it . A great film . I'm only giving this an 8 though . There are two big faults with this film : the hand-held jittery camera work being the main one . My guess is Allen filmed it this way to make the film more immediate and give it a documentary feel . It works but it IS distracting . Also it gets a little repetitious towards the end . Still this is well worth seeing . Recommended .
Good Altman film	A radio show " The Prairie Home Companion " is about to be cancelled after being on the air for decades . It has it's pompous announcer G . K . ( Garson Keillor ) ; Dusty ( Woody Harrelson ) and Lefty ( John C . Reilly ) two " Cowboys who play guitars and sing ; Guy Noir ( Kevin Kline ) who seems to be there to prevent the show from being shut down ; Lola Johnson ( Lindsay Lohan ) a depressed teenager whose mom ( Meryl Streep ) does a singing act with her sister ( Lily Tomlin ) . And who is that beautiful woman ( Virginia Madsen ) in the white trench coat wandering around . About as strange as other Altman films but very laid back . I had trouble getting into it ( I almost dozed off during the opening 30 minutes ) but when you realize it's a character study and somewhat slow-moving you get into it . Nothing really happens but the acting AND singing is great and there are dozens of great moments : Dusty and Lefty's hilarious song about bad jokes ( pretty strong for a PG-13 movie ) ; Lola singing " Frankie and Johnnie " by ad libbing all the words ; Streep and Tomlin are great together in EVERY scene they're in and Madesen is excellent ( and truly beautiful ) in a crucial role . Not for everyone and difficult to get into but worth the effort . I give it an 8 .
Nothing new but well done	Diana ( Glenn Close ) is a drama teacher who daughter Isabel ( Elizabeth Banks is getting married . She's going to marry Jonathan ( James Marsden ) but she's not sure if it's what she should do . Her ex Mark ( Matt Davis ) offers her a job that might be a way out . Actor Alec ( Jesse Bradford ) auditions for Diana and she becomes attracted to him . And photographer Benjamin Moore is having a show . . . and all hell will break loose . Got all that ? Multi-character drama seriously offers nothing new plot-wise but it's well-written and acted by a great cast . Close leads the way and is superb followed closely by Banks . Even Marsden , Bradford and Davis are good - - and I've never really liked any of them . Well-directed with good use of Rufus Wainwright music . There's also a very passionate gay kiss . But seriously . . . I've seen this all before . These plots have been done in other movies . Still it's worth catching for the acting alone . Recommended .
Very good	Creepy eerie little horror film from England . It's about six women friends who decide to explore an unknown cavern that leads underground . While there that get trapped and find there is a race of cannibals down there too . That's about it for plot but this is still very good . We get to know and understand who the women are before they descend . Refreshingly they aren't all stereotypes - - they are flawed by interesting human beings . Their dialogue is sometimes hard to understand ( this was done in England and the accents are thick ) but you can still figure things out . All the acting is excellent too . The descent down the cave is beautifully done - - constantly being filmed from odd angles to keep the viewer off balance . Also we don't see anything more than the women see underground . They're surrounded by darkness and we're always expecting something to leap out . The film works beautifully in a dark theatre - - it's like you're in the cave with them . The cannibals themselves don't pop up until an hour in - - but it's worth the wait . The first views of them are downright terrifying ( I yelled aloud at one ) but then it doesn't work . For me they stopped being scary when we get good looks at them - - they look like what they are which is guys in costume . Still the gore starts and it is STRONG . Blood flies and bodies are torn asunder . Most of the fights are shot in fast motion which , oddly , works . It all leads up to a silly ending . I know the American version has a different conclusion than the European version - - we'll have to wait for the DVD to find out what it is probably . Still a good strong horror film . But DO NOT see it if you can't stand blood and gore - - this is very strong stuff .
Fast-paced and racy	Poor factory girl ( Joan Crawford ) goes to New York to find fame and fortune . She quickly becomes a " kept " woman for a rich lawyer ( Clark Gable - - without his moustache ) . But she can't keep her past away forever and things start to go terribly wrong . Strong ( for 1931 ) , short ( 71 minutes ) pre-Code drama . The script is sharp and believable , the direction good and there are some incredibly lavish settings . Also Crawford and Gable are just great in their roles and both of them look incredibly beautiful . There was a brief part at the end that I didn't buy , but that didn't destroy the picture at all . Well worth seeing for anybody , but a definite must for Crawford and Gable fans .
Excellent early crime drama	Two childhood friends - - Jerry Connolly ( Pat O'Brien ) and Rocky Sullivan ( James Cagney ) grow up on different sides of the law . Connolly becomes a priest running a church in the bad section of town and trying to steer a bunch of kids ( the Dead End Kids ) away from trouble . Sullivan becomes a gangster and the kids idolize him and start to turn bad . The story is familiar by now but this was the first of its kind and , as usually is the case , is the best of its kind . Quick-moving , beautifully acted and well-directed by Michael Curtiz . Ann Sheridan and Humphrey Bogart are surprisingly bad in small roles - - but they're given little to do . O'Brien is good , if a little TOO nice , as the priest . The Dead End Kids convincingly play juvenile delinquents . But this is Cagney's picture all the way . He's just great and you can't take your eyes off him when he's on screen . The script is tight and well-written also . It all leads to a great gunfight and a powerful finale . Basically one of the best gangster pictures of all time . Don't miss this one ! I only give it an 8 because the story IS overly predictable and the lousy acting from Sheridan and Bogart hurts .
Dizzying	Very fast , very loud movie about a young woman trying to save her boyfriend from getting killed over a botched drug deal . We see the story three times , each with a different middle and ending . It's interesting but it gets a little dull at times . Still the good acting by the entire cast , pounding soundtrack and hyperactive direction and cinematography hold your interest . A big art house success in the US .
Sure it's silly but it's an 80s teen musical	Teenager Ren ( Kevin Bacon ) moves to a small mid Western town with his mom after his parents divorce . It seems the Reverend Moore ( John Lithgow ) , of the town's only church , has totally banned rock and roll music from the entire town . He has a daughter named Ariel ( Lori Singer ) who is basically a hell-raiser - - yet loves her father . Rem decides to stop the ban and bring the town back to life . OK - - we're not dealing with reality here at ALL ! A town banning rock music entirely is ridiculous and the town only has ONE church ? And the game of chicken using tractors was just silly . And don't get me started on how Bacon , Singer , Chris Penn and Sarah Jessica Parker look WAY too old to be high school students - - Singer was THIRTY when she did this ! And how the heck did all the kids from the town learn how to dance so quickly ? But , as a no brain musical , this does work . The opening sequence alone is great ( it shows various feet dancing to the title tune ) . Also the acting helps a lot . Bacon is just great - - he doesn't take the movie too seriously and gives out a very good performance . He also has a big dance number ( to a song called " Never " ) which is him and THREE different stuntman doing the more unrealistic moves . Singer is too old for her role but she tries . Penn is pretty good as Bacon's best friend - - his learning how to dance sequence is a highlight . Parker did this before she was known and she's not bad . Lithgow and Wiest are just great as the Reverend and his wife - - Wiest has a great scene where she calmly tells him off and Lithgow ( wisely ) does not play the Reverend as a one-note character . You see him trying to understand his daughter and slowly realizing that music isn't bad . So - - this is no " Singin in the Rain " but for a 1980s teen musical it's lots of fun . Great songs too . Just turn off your brain and enjoy !
Very exciting but unbelievable and sadistic	Two foreigners ( one Russian , the other Czech ) go to America and decide to get rich by videotaping themselves murdering people , sell it to a sleazy TV tabloid host ( wonderfully played by Kelsey Garmmer ) , get off by pleading insanity and then sell their story to the highest bidder . Obviously , the plot is ridiculous . Also it decries violence but shoves scenes of extreme blood and violence in our face - - one sadistic sequences shows a topless hooker being beaten and stabbed the death . Also we get more than a few shots of her nude , bloody body afterwords . Yet , if you ignore the loopholes ( and there are many ) in the plot and brace yourself for the violence , the film works . It's virtually nonstop action , violence , noise going at you full blast . The acting - - well , who cares ? This movie is not an acting movie . DeNiro walks through his role as a celebrity cop and Edward Burns looks very handsome but utterly miserable all through the film . Also the two psychos tend to overdo it too much . And the constant switching between video and film stock gets tiresome real quick . But if it's a loud , noisy , stupid , fun ( in a way ) action film you're looking for . . . this is it !
Took me a while to get into it . . . but I did	Glossy soap opera about 8 Vassar graduates of 1933 . It follows their lives after college and deals with alcoholism , mental breakdowns , frigidity , beatings , adultery , child rearing , lesbianism and death . I tried reading the book this was based on but I couldn't understand it . They kept throwing in 1930s slang and politics and lost me . This movie keeps out the slang , tones down the politics ( but it is there ) and came up with a good movie . Yes , it is a soap opera but well made with some great actresses and it deals with it's subjects seriously . Some of the story lines involve : Polly ( Shirley Knight ) falling in love with a married doctor ( Hal Holbrook ) ; Kay ( Joanna Pettet ) dealing with an alcoholic husband ( Larry Hagman ) ; Dottie ( Joan Heckett ) falling in love with a womanizer ( Richard Mulligan ) and Priss ( Elizabeth Hartman ) dealing with raising a child . It's fascinating to see these actors so young and full of life . All the acting is good but Hartman and Knight stand out . Also Candace Bergman shows up at the beginning and the end as a lesbian - - quite daring for 1966 . The surprise is that she's dealt with in a very sensitive manner and not made evil . This movie is long ( 150 minutes ) and its cast is very big ( it took me at least an hour to figure out who was who ) but I ended up enjoying this and recommend it . I give it an 8 .
Hard to believe DePalma did this comedy !	Very strange and satirical look at a Vietnam vet ( Robert DeNiro ) and how he tries to get a job after being discharged . First he's a peeping tom - - photographing neighbors without their knowledge . He also gets involved with one - - Julie Bishop ( Jennifer Salt ) . Then he joins a black theatrical group who basically rob all the white liberals who attend their plays ! THEN he becomes an urban guerrilla willing to blow up buildings . As you can see this is not for all tastes . The humor is sharp , absurd , no holds barred and VERY funny . This movie takes aims at many targets ( blacks , whites , race relations , politics , liberals ) and goes after them full force . This may be a little strong for some people ( the movie almost got an X rating for nudity ) but I loved it . There's a particularly funny episode with blacks questioning white people on the street if they know what it's like to be black . DeNiro is a wonder - - - he's SO young and already talented . He plays every sequence perfectly . His bits with Allen Garfield are hysterical - - the banter between them goes nonstop . DePalma already shows his directorial talents using split screen ( in the opening credits ) and having almost all of DeNiro's adventures shown through a video camera . Salt is sort of annoying - - but she's supposed to be . A VERY 1970s comedy . Lots of the opinions and situations here just don't happen anymore but still worth seeing . Who ever knew that Brian DePalma could do a comedy ? ( " Bonfire of the Vanities " doesn't count - - that was unintentionally funny ) . I give this an 8 .
A mess but lots of fun	The Spirit ( Gabriel Macht ) protects an unnamed city against the Octopus ( Samuel L . Jackson ) who seems to be indestructible . There's also Sand Sarif ( Eva Mendes ) and the Octopus ' helper Silken Floss ( Scarlett Johansson ) . OK this is a mess but an entertaining one . It has a few bad sections - - why do they try to turn the Spirit into a buffoon ? At one point he's hanging from his cape from a building . To get away he has to take off his belt - - which immediately makes his pants fall down and we see people laughing at him ( which is kinda strange cause he has good legs ) . The original Spirit stories had comedy but never at the expense of him . At one point the Octopus and Floss are wearing Nazi uniforms ! It's strange but not exactly funny . There's TONS of gun play and what is with all the cats we keep seeing ? And why does that Arabian woman save him ? Lots of questions but , all that aside , I had fun . The good things - - the acting is good - - Johansson acts like she's on another planet - - but she IS fun ; Jackson chews the scenery but in an amusing way ; Mendes pops up in a series of very revealing outfits and is good ; best of all is Macht as the Spirit . He has a deep voice , a muscular body and the film shows him shirtless at least three times . Heck - - he's introduced wearing nothing but shorts ! This movie is not your typical super hero movies . It tries to be funny - - and succeeds ! Some of the lines are laugh out loud funny and the cast deliver them full force . Also Macht breaks down the fourth wall completely at one point ( he talks to the audience directly ) but it STILL works ! This is no masterpiece and it's not even remotely a faithful rendition of the Spirit comic . . . but I'd be lying if I didn't say that I had a fun time watching it ! It's also shot in the style of " Sin City " - - faded color with some objects in strong color ( mostly the Spirit's red tie ) . I give this an 8 .
Colorful and quick	This review is of the full 91 minute version . There's another one out that's about 77 minutes . I haven't read " Tomy Sawyer " since I was a kid ( I'm in my 40s now ) but this movie bought back a lot of good memories ! Tom Sawyer ( Tommy Kelly ) is being bought up by his Aunt Polly ( May Robson ) along with cousin Mary and the vicious Sid ( David Holt ) . Tom is constantly getting into trouble with his buddy Huckleberry Finn ( Jackie Moran ) . In the course of the movie Tom falls for cute Becky Thatcher ( Ann Gillis ) , runs away from home , witnesses a murder and it ends with him and Becky being chased by the killer . OK - - this is far from perfect . Kelly was an unknown - - and it shows . He's not good at all . Also the film is episodic . . . but so was the novel . There's also a young black kid here who comes across as an idiot and is treated pretty badly . I realize that's a sign of its time but it's uncomfortable to watch now . Still this is worth catching . The color is beautiful and the film moves very quickly . Kelly aside all the acting is good ( Robson does wonders with her stereotypical role ) and I was never bored . The very last bit with Sid and Aunt Polly was just perfect ! It also bought back the book to me - - I was remembering entire sequences I haven't read since I was a kid . This is also perfect viewing for the entire family . Well-made and worth catching . Try catching the full version .
The best " Robin Hood " ever !	Forget Kevin Costner's dumb 90s version of " Robin Hood " - - this is the best . It follows the original tales faithfully and looks absolutely gorgeous . I ( unfortunately ) saw a faded print so the Technicolor didn't come across as good as it should . Still , it looked great . The acting is uniformally good - - Flynn ( very dashing and handsome - - his laugh needs work though ) , deHavilland ( jawdroppingly beautiful ) and Rathbone and Rains are great villains . The movie is never dull and always exciting . The climatic sword fight between Rathbone and Flynn is beyond belief ! A must see ! They don't make them like this anymore !
Sure it's dated but still very good	Happily married Erica ( Jill Clayburgh ) is shocked when her husband of 17 years ( Michael Murphy ) tells her he's leaving her for another woman . They get divorced and Erica must learn to cope with being alone and bringing up a teenage girl . In some respects this is seriously dated . The dialogue , fashions , the New York art world and music all scream 1970s . Also she visits a singles bar ( anybody remember them ? ) at one point . But the emotions and changes she goes through seem right on target ( I'm a guy so I can't really relate ) . She gets through it talking to her girlfriends and seeing a therapist . She also meets hunky artist Saul ( Alan Bates ) and starts falling in love . The movie is a little overlong and I do have a problem with it . Supposedly this is a story of an ordinary woman BUT she lives in a beautiful big New York apartment and can afford a therapist . That's hardly an ordinary woman . That aside I loved this . Everything is understated and played quietly but it still works beautifully . The script is wonderful - - especially the talks between Erica and her friends . I got the feeling this was exactly how women talk to each other . The insights are incredible . The acting is on target . Murphy isn't too good but he's hardly in the movie - - everybody else however is great . Calyburgh especially is believable every step of the way - - she was justly nominated for Best Actress for this movie . This was a BIG hit in 1978 but seems practically unknown today . Well worth catching just for Clayburgh alone . Also there was a black woman / white guy couple in this movie . That wouldn't bother anyone today but for 1978 that must have been quite surprising .
Fun !	An affectionate ( and dead on ) parody of Roger Corman horror films and those Hammer horror films . Elvira and her maid are traveling to Paris for a show . Unfortunately in Romania they get waylaid in a creepy castle with mysterious characters and going ons . Basically the plot is a combo of Corman's " House of Usher " and " The Pit and the Pendulum " with huge dollops from Hammer films thrown in . Every single cliche in those films is trotted out and hilariously torn apart . Still it's not vicious . . . just fun . Also the film has a PG-13 rating so the humor is pretty tasteful . Some of the one-liners from Elvira are hysterical and there's even a song and dance number which stops the show . Also the " stable stud " with his purposeful awful dubbing is a scream ! Cassandra Peterson is just perfect as Elvira . Richard O'Brien goes all the way over the top doing a mean Boris Karloff impersonation . Actually , all the cast plays it over the top but it totally fits the material . Also there's beautiful , atmospheric settings and a Hammeresque score to top it all off . Only the ending is a bit of a let down . Still , this is well worth catching . A must see ! ! ! ! !
Good	Self-centered yuppie Charlie Babbitt ( Tom Cruise ) goes to his rich father's funeral . He hasn't seen or spoken to him in many years . He finds out he isn't getting a cent from his dad - - it's all going into a trust to his other son - - Raymond Babbitt ( Dustin Hoffman ) . Raymond is also an autistic savant and in an institution . Charlie " kidnaps " him to get his share of the money . But it turns into a journey of self-discovery . The story is pretty simple - - it's been done hundreds of times before . I knew exactly where this was going and how it was going to end . . . BUT that doesn't mean it's a bad movie . It's well-directed by Barry Levinson with a well-written ( if predictable ) script . Also Tom Cruise was actually very good - - I usually hate the guy but I admit he did good in his role . But Hoffman is the whole movie . From what I heard he played the role exactly as it should be done ( he spent months with autistic patients and families of them ) . He stutters and sprouts facts off non-stop . Hoffman is clearly enjoying himself . Valeria Golino is around as Cruise's girlfriend . She's given little to do unfortunately . Also this movie does not need to go on past two hours . Still this is a GOOD little film . I can understand the Academy Awards for director and star ( Hoffman ) . . . but it did not deserve best screenplay or picture . Still a lot of people love this . It's good but not great . I give it an 8 .
Very funny if a bit too long	Comedy about two guys ( Ralph Macchio and Mitchell Whitfield ) traveling cross country from NY to CA . While in Alabama they are ( unjustly ) accused of murder and need a lawyer - - fast . Macchios ' cousin Vinny ( Joe Pesci ) arrives from NY with his girlfriend ( Marisa Tomei ) to defend them . The problem is that he has only six weeks of law school training and the judge ( Fred Gwynne ) hates him . . . Huge comedy hit which made Pesci even more popular than he already was ( he had just won the Oscar for " Goodfellas " ) and gave Tomei a Best Supporting Actress Oscar . The setup is familiar , it's way too long , not all the jokes work and some of the characters are unlikable ( Whitfield got annoying quick and Gwynne was TOO mean ) but , all in all , this is a fun movie . The parts that do work are hysterical - - the verbal matches between Pesci and Gwynne , Austin Pendleton's opening speech in court ( you can see Pesci , Macchio and Whitfield breaking up in the background ) and just about anything Tomei says . Acting - - Macchio and Whitfield sort of fade into the background - - they aren't given much to do . Pesci is is just great as Vinny - - loud , obnoxious , swearing nonstop and very funny . Tomei matches him word for word . A lot of people seem to think that Tomei doesn't deserve the Oscar she won - - but comedy is much harder to do than drama and she takes a stock character is makes her realistic , sympathetic and very funny . Her testimony in court at the end probably won her the award . Gwynne is terrific ( if a bit too stern ) as the judge . This was a last film and it's great to see he went out on a high note . So , I recommend it . The only debits are its over length and the nonstop profanity may offend people . I give it an 8 . Best line - - " Oh yeah - - you blend " .
Not bad	In 1765 an evil warlock ( Vincent Price ) is burnt alive for his deeds . Before he dies he curses the village of Arkham and its inhabitants . 110 years later his descendent , a very kind man named Charles Dexter Ward ( Price again ) , comes to Arkham with his beautiful wife ( Debra Paget ) to claim his inheritance - - the warlock's castle . In short time , Price is possessed and begins to take revenge . Good entry in the Price / Corman / Poe series but it's NOT based on a Poe tale - - it's from the " Case of Charles Dexter Ward " by H . P . Lovecraft . The movie is quick ( 85 minutes ) , well acted by Price and Lon Chaney ( as a sinister housekeeper ) , atmospheric and has it's scary moments . There are gaps in the plot ( two characters completely disappear at the end with no explanation ) but it's still enjoyable with a surprising ending . Worth catching .
I'm giving it an 8 for Hopkins and the color	Becky Sharp ( Miriam Hopkins ) is a lower class girl who , through her upper class friend Amelia Sedley ( Francis Dee ) , does her best to become an upper class woman herself . . . and do anything to get there . Dull story with thudding dialogue ( nobody ever talked like that ) but I watched the whole thing . This movie has just two things going for it : Miriam Hopkins fantastic performance is one . She is playing a very unlikable character but she's so beautiful ( in some shots she takes your breath away ) and full of life that you can't help but root for her . The second thing is the groundbreaking use of color photography . I believe this is the first full-length feature to be filmed entirely in color . Director Rouben Mamoulian uses color creatively to express mood or show what a person is feeling or doing . I saw the restored print which has rich , beautiful colors . Even when the story was boring ( which is often ) with that lousy dialogue the colors and use of light and shadow kept me watching . With this film and the 1932 version of " Dr . Jekyll and Mr . Hyde " , Mamoulian created new rules in how to direct sequences and use settings , light and shadow . Sadly , he's forgotten today . So , this is worth seeing only for Hopkins and the color . Don't watch it for the story or you'll be sadly disappointed .
Oscar-winning cartoon	The first pairing of Tweety Bird and Sylvester was also an Oscar winner . Quick , violent and absolutely hilarious . And every time I hear Tweety say " I tawt I taw a puddy tat " I break up . Well worth catching . Also the print I saw had bright , vivid color . TCM usually shows this around Oscar time - - look for it !
Very well-done original vampire movie	A man comes home for his birthday party after work . However it seems he has been " infected " by vampire's and intends to " pass it " on to his family . A gang of black youths get involved and it all ends up with humans vs . vampires . Interesting take on vampire's that shows it as a disease and one that works FAST . When people get a taste of tainted blood they immediately become vampires . These vampires have huge fangs , piercing eyes ( neat makeup job ) , move FAST and tell plenty of bad jokes ( we got " Nightmare on Elm Street " to thank for that ) . The movie is by no means great . It was direct to video and it shows . The film is very grainy with bad sound too . Also they throw in a lesbian couple for no reason other than to show gratuitous female nudity . ( I'd LOVE to see a gay male couple in one of these films ) . The film does have a mix or black and white characters - - but they're all stereotypes . The family is heavily dysfunctional and all the black guys and woman are in gangs , swear constantly and always travel with guns . Still this film works . It IS scary and has tons of blood and gore ( I can't see how this got by with an R rating ) . There's also a very eerie atmosphere with plenty of shock cuts to keep you off balance . The acting is OK - - nobody is really good but nobody is really bad either . Basically they all do well in their roles . Interesting ending too . This is no masterpiece of horror but I found it interesting and well-done ( on its budget ) . I give it an 8 .
Clich city , but I LOVED it !	Let's see - - you've got a bunch of young hopefuls in a tough ballet school in NYyou have the tough , but lovable , black girl ; the token gay man ; the sweet virginal heroine ; the arrogant Russian guy ; the sweet lovable guy who's perfect for the sweet heroine , but she doesn't know it ; the b who's starving herself to death ; the guy who loves her and wants to help her ; the tyrannical ( but lovable ) ballet teachers - - yep , they're all here ! The script is utterly predictable , you know how it's going to end 10 minutes into the movie , but I loved it ! The acting is surprisingly good , it's beautifully filmed , the whole cast is attractive and the dancing is simply superb . I wasn't bored once during the entire 2 hours . Well worth seeing .
Another great Crawford film	Crawford plays a woman who slowly begins to go mad when Van Heflin breaks up with her . She marries rich Raymond Massey to " punish " him only to find Massey's daughter ( Geraldine Brooks ) falling for Heflin . . . and pushing Joan to the brink . Exceptional movie . . . one of Joan's best . This was one of the few Hollywood films of the 1940s to treat mental illness ( somewhat ) seriously . The director uses sound effects , music and weird camera effects when Crawford's grip on reality starts to loosen . But she slips in and out of madness so quickly that she ( and the audience ) never knows what's real or not . Crawford is just superb - - one of her best performances . Brooks is just great in her film debut . Heflin though , I never liked . He's unattractive and generally cruel - - I wondered what Crawford sees in him . And Massey is stone-faced through the proceedings . Still , well worth catching . Love that lake house ! The TV print of this is in pretty poor condition . This film needs serious restoration .
One of the best Hammer films ever	A likable , attractive couple on their honeymoon become stranded in the middle of nowhere when their car brakes down . They do find an inn . . . and are mysteriously invited to a nearby castle where Dr . Ravna lives with his children . Seems Ravna and his children are the heads of a cult of vampires . . . and want the couple to join them . Strange , moody but intelligent horror film dealing with a vampire cult . Despite the subject matter there isn't much blood - - just a very bloody opening and an all out attack at the end - - that's all I'll say - - I don't want to spoil it for anyone : ) It's beautifully filmed in rich color - - the recent DVD release is exceptional . The acting is all good and there's a eerie masked ball sequence that is a highlight . My only complaint is the storyline starts to falter at the end and some things don't make sense . Abrupt ending too . Still this is easily the most beautiful vampire film ever made - - it should be seen just for the sets , costumes and color . Avoid ( at all costs ) the edited TV print which is retitled " Kiss of Evil " . It's just dreadful .
Atmospheric	Sherlock Holmes ( Peter Cushing ) and Dr . Watson ( Andre Morell ) are called to Baskerville Hall to protect Sir Henery Baskerville ( Christopher Lee ) from a supernatural hound that has supposedly killed off the rest of his family . 1959 Hammer film adaptation of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's novel . It's the first Sherlock Holmes film in color and , while not as good as the Rathbone version , it's still worth catching . Since it's a Hammer film it plays a lot more like a horror film than a mystery . It has the typical high gloss look of the early Hammer films and a fairly good script with tons of atmosphere - - the scenes of the moors at night and hearing the howls of the hound off in the distance are chilling . Some of the acting in minor roles is bad ( especially the bishop who provides very unfunny comic relief ) , but the leads are great . Cushing is perfect as Holmes - - as good as Basil Rathbone was in the Universal pictures . Morell is also good as Watson - - he doesn't play him as a bumbling fool as Nigel Bruce unwisely did . Lee is also impressive as Baskerville - - so young and full of life . It's also a relief to see him play a good guy . There are major changes in the story and the climax isn't as impressive as it could have been ( the hound looks silly ) but this is still well worth seeing . This was a major bomb in 1959 which stopped Hammer from making any more - - a real shame because Cushing was letter perfect as Holmes .
Fun for film buffs . . .	but probably nobody else . A young , beautiful woman ( Candice Rialson ) comes to Hollywood to become a star . She starts working with Miracle Pictures ( " If it's a good picture , it's a miracle " ) as a stunt girl . Miracle makes nothing but ultra cheap t & a movies . There's the star director ( Parl Bartel ) who supposedly thinks he's making art and an arrogant diva ( Mary Woronov ) who wants all the film to herself . Then woman are being killed on the set . Who's doing it . . . and why ? Film was actually shot in 10 days with directors Joe Dante and Allan Arkush using tons of footage from previous Roger Corman movies . The movie never takes itself too seriously and does have some VERY funny lines . But the plot is way too feeble even at 83 minutes ( there's LOTS of padding ) ; the acting is pretty bad ( except for Bartel , Woronov and Dick Miller - - all having a GREAT time ) ; there is an unnecessary ( and stupid ) wet T-shirt sequence ; there's a very sick rape scene played for laughs ( and repeated twice ) ; a very brutal knife slashing and plot holes galore ( why DOES that guy at the end have all that stuff about victims in his little shed ? ) . What kept me watching is the tons of funny little injokes for movie fans . They're way too numerous to mention but they are there . Also it was just released in a 25th anniversary edition and looks just great . Most casual viewers will probably find this dull , stupid and sick - - they're right , but it is fun for film fans . Don't miss the jokes during the closing credits and one right after them .
Unpleasant and disturbing . . . as it should be	Prequel to the 2003 " Texas Chainsaw . . . " giving us the origin of Leatherface and his twisted family . That's all done within the first 20 minutes . . . then it's just a virtual redo on the original with four likable 20-somethings being captured and tortured by Leatherface and his family . Considering it's basically a remake of the 2003 film , it works remarkably well . It takes place in 1969 and has two brothers ( Taylor Handley and Matthew Bomer ) going to enlist ( after being drafted ) . Along are their two girlfriends ( Jordana Brewster and Diora Baird ) . But they're stopped by crazy Sheriff Hoyt ( R . Lee Ermey ) who is Leatherface's uncle . . . and the " fun " begins . Very grim and graphic with no humor and shot in muted color . . . just as the 2003 one . The gore is strong and disgusting ( this got trimmed to get an R rating ) and I can't say I liked it . . . but it did it's job . It scared me . I was cringing in my seat a few times and jumped more than once . Another plus is ALL the acting is good . Brewster , Handley , Baird and Bomer are all good-looking and likable - - when the violence starts you really are horrified at seeing such great characters being tortured . Ermey is on hand giving another terrifying performance as Hoyt . His character is so twisted , violent and sick that when he got a taste of his own medicine my quiet audience broke out in applause . Also there's good old Leatherface and his chainsaw chasing everybody . In some ways I applaud a grim , graphic R rated horror film that pulls no punches - - I HATE the watered down PG-13 crap we usually get . But unlike some ( like " Scream " ) this is pretty unrelenting and wears you down . But it scared me and that's exactly what it's supposed to do . An 8 .
Not a good film but I had fun watching it .	A lower-class woman ( Lana Turner ) marries a rich man ( John Forsythe ) much to his mother's ( Constance Bennett ) disapproval . Years pass - - she has a son and starts an affair with a sleazy guy ( Ricardo Montalban ) . When she tries to call if off he accidentally dies . Her mother-in-law finds out and convinces her to fake her death and flee - - or she'll ruin the life of her husband and child . She does but is destroyed by self-guilt and becomes an alcoholic . She ends up killing another man . . . and is defended by her grown son ( Kier Dullea ) . . . who doesn't know she's his mother ! OK - - we're not dealing with reality here . This is basically a melodramatic howler with jaw-dropping lines but damned if it didn't ( ocassionally ) work . It's lushly made with beautiful settings and gorgeous outfits and clothes . It also has a pounding music score that tells us exactly how to feel . And Bennett ( in her last film ) got a face lift before this movie started filming - - she looks younger than Lana ! The acting is not bad . Bennett makes the most of her role as a cold , calculating woman and it's nice to see Kier Dullea so young . But this is Lana's show all the way - - she's just great and even allows herself to look terrible towards the end . The climatic courtroom sequence could have been campy but Turner's performance holds it all together . Also Burgess Meredith is good in a supporting role . This is a very silly but fun soap opera elevated by the acting and beautiful production values . Considered to be Lana's last real good movie . I give it an 8 .
Toned down from the play but still powerful	" Big Daddy " ( Burl Ives ) the powerful head of a Southern family is dying . His two sons - - alcoholic Brick ( Paul Newman ) and annoying Cooper ( Jack Carson ) - - are there with their wives to celebrate his birthday . Cooper and his wife want everything . Brick doesn't seem to care but his wife Maggie ( Elizabeth Taylor ) tries to make him care - - and can't understand why he won't make love to her . I saw the play back in 1990 with Kathleen Turner and Charles Durning ( who won a Tony ) . It was great but very long ( at least 3 hours ) and the once shocking subject matter was very tame . This movie cut the play quite a bit but they had to - - the Hays Code was still in effect . The language was toned down and all mention of Brick's homosexuality and Big Daddy having cancer was cut out . Still they get it across . Brick's relationship with Skipper is hinted at STRONGLY without actually saying it was physical and what Big Daddy is dying of is never made clear but they say it's terminal . Most viewers will get it . That aside this is still strong and pretty powerful . The acting really pulls this one through . Newman , Taylor and Judith Anderson ( as " Big Mama " ) are great but Ives played this on stage ( and won a Tony ) so he has his part down pat and really gives it his all . He dominates every scene he's in . Script wise this is tame . The situations are predictable and the resolutions are far too pat for me . But the acting is so good I really didn't notice while watching it . Also this is the only film Taylor and Newman ever did together . That's a shame because they had incredible chemistry and were easily two of the best ( and best-looking ) actors of the 1950s . Well worth seeing - - cuts aside . I give this an 8 .
Odd , effective thriller	Richard Gere plays a happily married Washington Post reporter . One dark night , he's in a car crash with his wife ( Debra Messing ) when something big and black passes in front of their speeding car . He's fine , she's hospitalized and later dies . Two years later Gere ( somehow ) drives to a remote town in West Virginia where people are seeing a big , black thing resembling a giant moth roaming around . And then people start receiving strange , spooky phone calls . And Gere starts seeing his dead wife . . . A creepy , eerie horror film . At times it's a little slow , and ends with many questions left unanswered . Still if works beautifully due to eerie sound effects ( the phone calls and a really scary conversation Gere has with . . . well , I don't want to give it away ) ; dark direction by Mark Pellington ( basically the same thing he did with " Arlington Road " ) and an excellent performance by Gere . Messing is in the film briefly , but she makes an impact . Laura Linney , surprisingly , is only so-so as a cop helping Gere . Basically a really good scare film . No blood , violence , gore or sex but it doesn't joke around and really starts to work on you . Not for children ( despite the PG-13 rating ) .
Great documentary	Documentary of Madonna's 1990 " Blonde Ambition " tour . Madonna had total control over this film so most of it was manipulated by her and she probably left off some of the really damaging material . Still , there are more than a few unguarded moments in the film with Madonna and her crew talking , fighting , complaining that can't be staged . Also there are a few hilarious moments with her then-boyfriend Warren Beatty . The documentary , backstage stuff is in grainy black and white ( with lousy sound ) and the concert scenes are in bright color , great sound and ( sadly ) MTV style editing . Still , it's fun , entertaining , very dirty ( but this IS Madonna ) and a hilarious game of truth or dare played with her and the crew . Low points : Director Alex Keshishain strangely has fairly extensive interview footage with the only straight male dancer in the group - - Oliver Crumes . Crumes comes across an as obnoxious , homophobic and sexist jerk . He's actually surprised that all the other male dancers are gay ! What planet did he grow up on ? Also his dancing ( what you see of it ) is pretty lousy . And the portrayal of the gay dancers is not exactly positive . The film is too long ( it could lose 20 minutes ) and not all the songs are good . Still , worth seeing . One BIG complaint - - the video version has two extra added numbers - - " Hanky Panky " and a Dick Tracy number - - they're not on the DVD . Why not ?
Sick , stupid , FUN	Udo Kier plays Baron Frankenstein who makes beautiful male and female monsters . He wants them to mate but the male monster has the head of a man who wanted to become a priest . . . so he can't " perform " ! I'm not kidding - - that's the plot ! I saw this when it was released in theatres in 3-D back in the early 80s . It was the R rated version ( they said ) . Turns out it was the X rated version ! Quite interesting . The story is stupid , the dubbing atrocious but the movie is so over the top ( in acting and plot ) it's plenty of fun ! In 3-D ( which was excellent ) you have every disgusting thing you can think of thrust in your face . Rats , a severed head , intestines , a human heart at the end of a spear , etc . etc . It's not disgusting , just silly . And the movie was so stupid you just kept watching in amazement to see how bad it was going to get . My favorite line is when the Countess is woken up from a deep sleep and screams " How dare you wake me up ! You know I have insomnia . " ( ! ! ! ) A laugh a minute in this one . Too bad all the 3-D prints seem to be gone - - it was LOTS of fun that way .
Hard to believe this was X rated originally	SPOILERS THROUGHOUT The movie takes place in 1933 to 34 Germany . It's about a rich , wealthy family ( the Essenbecks ) who are basically destroyed by the Nazis coming into power . It basically focuses on Martin ( Helmut Berger ) who turns into a cold-blooded killer . Along the way there's murder , incest , cross dressing , pedophilia , suicide , rape , a gay orgy and a mass murder ! To be truthful none of it is really explicit - - for instance the gay orgy scene only shows some casual male nudity and has NO sexual content at all ! I'm surprised this got an X rating even back in 1969 . BTW it's since been lowered to an R with no cuts . The film is beautiful to watch - - director Luchino Visconti made films that were gorgeous to watch and dealt with adult subject matter . ( " The Conformist " is another one like this ) Each shot is like a beautiful painting . It's totally at odds with the subject matter which I think is the point . In the 2004 DVD release the colors are rich and the print is in perfect condition . The acting is great all around but the best performances come from Dirk Bogarde , Charlotte Rampling , Ingrid Thulin and especially Helmut Berger . The film isn't perfect . It's way too long at 157 minutes and you sort of become numb at all the back stabbing and evil happening . Martin's rape of his mom should be shocking but it comes near the end after two hours of evil and it sort of doesn't shock you . Also Thulin's appearance at the wedding at the end was a bit too much . Still this is a beautiful and fascinating film . If you see this on DVD I suggest you turn on the English subtitling . All the actors speak English but the heavy accents make some of their dialogue impossible to figure out .
Disturbing but fascinating	Based on real events , 2 girls meet in 1950s New Zealand , fall in love , murder someone . Despite what it sounds like , this movie is NOT homophobic - - that don't kill somebody because they're lesbians . Just certain circumstances bring it about , and society won't allow them to be open about their love . Peter Jackson does another great directing job ( this man can do anything ! ) , superb performances by everybody ( although Winslet doesn't need to YELL all the time ) , very tense and suspenseful plot ( you know how it's going to end , but you're still nervous as hell watching it ) , beautiful special effects which are seamlessly worked into reality . Fascinating , disturbing , unbelievable . DON'T MISS THIS ONE ! ! ! However , try to see it letterboxed . . . the film very effectively uses wide screen which doesn't work at all in a box screen - - most of the times people are talking to other people who you can't see , so you have NO idea what's going on !
The type of film Hollywood wouldn't touch today	13 year old Rynn ( Jodie Foster ) lives in a huge old house with her father on the outskirts of the " village " ( I don't think the place is ever named ) . She has to deal with mean old Mrs . Hallet ( Alexis Smith ) who got them the house and her child molesting son Frank ( Martin Sheen ) . Rynn also meets Mario ( Scott Jacoby ) a teenager around her age and falls in love . But why is it that nobody ever sees her father ? And what exactly IS in that fruit cellar ? SPOILERS ! ! ! The plausibility here is tough to swallow - - I find it very hard to believe that a 13 year old girl could keep up an entire house , pay off all the bills , get alcohol ( HOW did she ? ? ) and NOBODY figures out what's going on ! Still this movie works - - if you can buy the premise . It's a slow ( but never dull ) psychological thriller . There's only a little blood and no sudden shocks like they have in horror films today . It's well-directed in a truly beautiful location . It has a good score too and has a very somber , quiet tone that does work on you . The acting is mostly good . Smith and Sheen are both obnoxiously slimy as the villains . Jacoby tries too hard to be cute and funny and quickly becomes annoying . As for Foster - - I'm really torn . On one hand she says her lines with utter conviction - - you believe every word . On the other hand she's totally emotionless - - nothing ever shows on her face . That is explained ( kind of ) but just a little emotion would have helped . This movie has a PG rating but has some quick , casual female nudity by Foster ( or her double ) . Today it might get an R rating considering it's made quite clear that she's having sex with Jacoby and Sheen's character wouldn't be quite as evil . Still - - this wouldn't be done today . It's too quiet and challenges the audience to actually think . So , implausible plot aside , this is a creepy little thriller . I give it an 8 .
MTV meets Shakespeare	Updating of " Romeo and Juliet " for the 1990s . I'm going to skip a synopsis of the plot - - everyone knows it . This is basically " Romeo and Juliet " in modern day dress full of arresting visuals , gunplay , loud 1990s music , wild dance numbers with all the cast members using Shakespeare's original dialogue ! The effect is odd ( to say the least ) . It ALMOST works . The visuals are all incredible ( director Buz Luhrmann always knows how to make a film look fantastic ) and the movie almost never stops for a breath . That's the problem - - at first it's fun , but after 2 hours you're exhausted . Also the actors seem lost . When they're talking Shakespeare they seem to have no idea what they're saying . Most of them just recite the lines with a blank look on their faces . The older actors ( Paul Sorvino especially ) are much better at it . The casting and acting in this is all over the place . Leonardo DiCaprio ( as Romeo ) is a good actor , but he's just all wrong for this role . He looks lost and way out of his depth . However , Claire Danes is wonderful as Juliet . Very sweet , likable and seems to have a clear understanding of the dialogue . Also her reactions in her dancing scene with Paris are hilarious . John Leguizamo is way over the top as Tybalt - - too much . He quickly becomes annoying . Brian Dennehy and Paul Sorvino are very good as Montague and Capulet but are underused . Even Paul Rudd is very good ( and incredibly handsome ) as Paris . He seems to be having a whale of a time in his role . Also , there is an incredible party sequence and Romeo's cousin comes in a wig , dress and lipstick and no one bats an eyelash . There's a great musical number on a huge staircase also . Loud , eye-popping , funny and even quite moving . As it stands , I'm giving it an 8 . With a better cast I might give it a 10 . Best line : " Check on me tomorrow and you'll find me a grave man . "
An epic about a Mexican family	Movie follows Jose and Maria who emigrate to California in the 1920s , fall in love and get married . It follows their lives and their childrens up to 1995 . An epic - - the first American movie to show a multigenerational portrait of a Mexican family . It's not perfect - - some parts are romanticized ( I find it hard to believe that the house of a pretty poor family looks that good ) and some of the situations are really melodramatic . Still , the script is good and believable and ( with one exception ) all the acting is good - - especially the very talented Esai Morales . His was a very cliched role ( the hot headed Latino brother ) but he gave it depth and feeling and acted the hell out of it . When his character goes away the movie lost something . Unfortunately he's replaced by Jimmy Smits who gives a real terrible performance - - he's so emotionless all the time ! His prescence really drags down the last section of the film , but all the other actors keep it going . This definetely looks like the inspiration for the ( unfortunately ) cancelled Showtime series " Resurrection Blvd " . It's just a little better than the series and some of the same actors appear in both ( Morales played a hot-headed latino in the series too ) . Engrossing and one of a kind . Also it's kind of fun to see Jennifer Lopez in a small role before she hit it big . A definete must-see . . . it doesn't matter if you're Latino or not .
Violent , adult and fascinating	Extremely bloody and violent animated film about neo-Tokyo 30 years or so after World War III . The story is way too complicated to get into - - suffice to say it starts quickly and never lets up . Actually , that's a big problem . It does move quickly and is hard to follow ( at times ) , and there barely a let-up . At two hours + that tends to wear you down . Also the English-dubbed language is very funny - - all comic book clichs coming fast and furious . Still this is one of the best animes . The animation is mostly superb . Some of the characters moved rather awkwardly and they all look the same ( a real problem with Japanese anime ) . Still all the other animation is just great . There are some stunning motorcycle ride / chases / fights and the views of neo-Tokyo " moving " while the motorcycles are roaring really astounded me ! Better than anything Disney ever did ! I do have problems with this movie though . As I said , it's too convoluted , and the women are shown pretty badly . There are only two female characters - - one is a victim ( who , for no real reason at all , is almost raped ) and the other is the love interest who will do anything for her man . Sheesh ! Still , this is a truly fascinating film . If you have a strong stomach ( the violence is VERY explicit ) and can follow a plot going full-speed constantly , you'll like this . A must for animation buffs .
Overlooked and hilarious	This was a huge bomb when it came out in 1999 - - it was badly advertised and disappeared quickly . That's a shame because it's a very fun movie . If ever a film should be rediscovered , it's this one . Two very dumb teenage girls ( beautifully played by Kirsten Dunst and Michelle Williams ) in the early 70s , get separated from their tour of the White House , and accidentally meet Nixon . They start walking his dog Checkers and , inadvertently , discover all about Watergate without even knowing it ! It sounds silly ( and it is ) but damned if it doesn't work ! Dunst and Williams are totally believable ( and very lovable ) as the teenagers . Dan Hedaya does a perfect interpretation of Nixon . As for everybody else , I couldn't tell you . I'm no whiz on Watergate and who Nixon's staff was in the 70s . But the script is sharp , everyone has wonderful comic timing and the best bits were done by Will Ferrell and Bruce McCulloch who make Woodward and Bernstein out to be total idiots . Also an excellent selection of 70s songs which always complement the action . The final gag played on Nixon is uproarious ! Well worth watching .
OK - - I'm giving it an 8 BUT . . .	I can't really say I enjoy this movie . It's not terrible but I find a lot of it very slow and dull and it doesn't scare me at all . Still , it IS a horror classic . This is where Christopher Lee first played Dracula and Peter Cushing became van Helsing . It's very handsomely produced with bright vivid colors . The settings are just beautiful and there's a loud , pounding score driving the film . Cushing and Lee are just perfect in their roles . Lee is tall , handsome and sexually attractive . . . but is downright scary when he's hungry . The scene where we first see him with blood on his face and the red glaring eyes STILL makes me jump . Cushing is just great as the good doctor - - he made that role his . Everybody else isn't really that good . Michael Gough , a very good actor , is surprisingly terrible ! This film was critized a lot when it came out for the amount of violence . In Britain there were actual cases of people fainting in the theatres ! By today's standards this is pretty tame stuff - - PG rating all the way . The only scene that is still cut from most TV prints is the staking of Lucy ( it's not that bad ) . So , I acknowledge that this is a classic and that Lee and Cushing were born to play these roles . I just find the movie sort of slow .
It's no " Howling " but it's not bad	A bunch of British soldiers are stuck in a remote farmhouse during a night of a full moon . They're attacked on all sides by werewolves . A huge hit in Britain , this got virtually zero theatrical release in the U . S . That's a shame - - while no great movie it's a good , solid , gory horror film . The obviously low budget works against its total success ( the barely shown werewolves look pretty silly ) . Also the thick British accents make entire exchanges of dialogue unintelligable - - and some main plot points are being discussed ! And there are annoying lapses in logic - - would a family of werewolves really own a dog as a pet ? And all the characters are familiar stereotypes . But the movie has huge doses of gruesome , violent action , tons of gore and a thankful lack of humor - - when people are killed here it's not joked about - - it's shocking and sad . And it's so great to see a horror film not skimping on the blood and guts . The acting is pretty good too . So , it's a definite must-see for horror fans - - good luck with the accents !
To the point	A virus starts affecting men worldwide - - they're struck with religious fever and brutally attack and kill any woman close by . Story focuses on a family trying to cope with it - - Father Alan ( Jason Priestley ) and his father in law ( Elliott Gould ) are scientists trying to combat the problem and Alan's wife ( Kerry Noonan ) and daughter ( Brenna O'Brien ) may be in danger . . . Some people might immediately call this is misogynistic - - it DOES show graphic and VERY bloody killings of many female . But this is never shown in a comedic or OK way - - it's presented as sickening and as horrifying as it is . The ultimate solution to this all actually makes sense ( for a horror film ) . The acting is great - - Priestley and Noonan especially are impressive . This is nowhere near as good as director Dante's season 1 offering " The Homecoming " but it still is a good strong little movie .
Overlong but good romantic comedy-drama	The lives and lovees of 6 New Yorkers by writer / director Edward Burns . Heather Graham plays an unhappily married woman whose husband , Stanley Tucci , is cheating on her with Brittaney Murphy who is 20 years his junior . Meanwhile , David Krumholtz is attracted to Murphy but she can ; t dump Tucci . Also Graham is attracted to Edward Burns but won't cheat on her husband . Burns is attracted to her and Rosario Dawson who is Krumholtz's ex-wife . Got all that ? Trust me . . . it plays out very well . It's all talk about sex , love , sex , relationships , sex , marriage , sex . . . too much about sex , but it's all interesting and the characters are well-drawn and believable . The acting helps . Graham is just great ; Tucci is so-so but OK ; Murphy is interesting - - she can be really good and really bad , but more good than bad ; Burns is VERY handsome and appealing ( if a bit whiny ) ; Dawson is wonderful and Krumholtz is interesting . They all work well together ( and separately ) and really put the script across . Even when a really melodramatic whopper is thrown in towards the end , it works . Only two complaints - - it's too long ( Tucci and Murphy complain about the same thing FIVE TIMES ! ! ! ) and it's all shot with a hand-held camera which is way too jittery and annoying - - I realize Burns used it to keep down costs but still . . . Absorbing and realistic . . . well worth catching .
Beautiful title	A rare comedy from director Ingmar Bergman . It takes place at the turn of the century . Fredrik Egerman is an old , cynical man who is married to beautiful , young ( 20 ) Anne . She can't have sex with him - - she's too afraid . He knows and agrees to be patient . He also has a son from a previous marriage ( Henrik ) who is attracted to Anne . He's also attracted to the maid Petra . Then there's Desiree , a former mistress of Fredrik who is now sleeping with Malcolm ( who's also married ) and still attracted to Fredrik . Got all that ? They all end up spending a summer weekend at a beautiful house in the woods . Things come to a head . I've always wanted to see this - - the title alone is beautiful . I did see it in a revival theatre in the 1980s - - I hated it . The print was lousy and edited ! During a fairly explicit ( for 1955 ) talk about sex the subtitles disappeared ! Just saw it again - - unedited and in pretty good shape . While I don't think this is a masterpiece ( I'm not a Bergman fan ) I did like this . It is funny - - but pretty subtle . The relationships are all complicated but you do have them straight by the end . What's really good about this film is how Bergman treats ( and shows ) his female characters . Except for Anne ( but she changes ) they're strong , stand up for themselves and find men and their ways amusing - - some of Desirre's looks were very funny . Also , in the form of Petra , they want sex and have no problem letting men know . For 1955 audiences this must have been shocking - - Petra ( almost ) bares her breast and the sexual talk between women is very frank . The acting is good by everybody . . . but the film is lacking in romance . I never believed any of these characters loved each other . Also it's slow-moving but it all ends happily . So I did like it - - I give it an 8 . Later musicalized by Stephen Sondheim as " A Little Night Music " and disastrously remade ( sort of ) in Woody Allen's " A Midsummers Night Sex Comedy " . Avoid that one at all costs .
Intriguing	English writer Sarah Morton ( Charlotte Rampling ) needs a break from London and wants to write her new novel in seclusion . Her publisher sends her to his Italian house - - miles away from anyone . She loves it but then the publisher's daughter Julie ( Ludivine Sagnier ) shows up . Things get tense . . . and REALLY strange . To say anymore would be unthinkable . You'll have to see the movie to find out . This is the kind of movie that switches gears halfway through - - but pulls it off . It starts as a character study of Morton but when Julie shows up things take a decidedly unexpected twist . I was always fascinated by the movie - - you pay strict attention to catch all the twists and turns . In fact it doesn't totally make sense till the very end ! Beautifully directed ( and cowritten ) by Francois Ozon - - a real director to look out for . Just a terrific film BUT not for everyone . It may be too quiet for some and there is a lot of nudity in this ( mostly female ) . Also Rampling does a full frontal nude scene - - I have to say for someone in her age range ( she's in her 50s ) she looks great ! Recommended .
Lots of fun	I was expecting to hate this film . After all it's a kids film ( I'm 37 ) . I was surprised at how much I enjoyed it ! It's one of those few films that works for both adults and children . It's in color ( which was rare in the early 1940s ) , has a simple story and never becomes too sentimental or childish . It's particularly fun seeing Elizabeth Taylor and Roddy McDowall as children ; Elsa Lancaster as roddy's mother ( ! ! ! ) ; and Nigel Bruce NOT playing Doctor Watson for once and actually proving he could be gruff and aggressive in a performance . Best of all though , is Lassie . I don't know how they did it , but the dog ( actually a male dog named Pal ) gives in an astonishing performance . Just the expressions on her ( his ) face tells you what she ( he ) is thinking ! Also has a great ending that is very moving ( in a good way ) . Very well woth seeing . Only complaint - - the color in this film is so washed out ! Why doesn't someone restore it ?
Good - - but it's been done	A narcoleptic transsexual ( Monica Cervera ) wants the 20 centermeters between her legs removed so she can become a true women . Then she meets hot , handsome , hunky Raul ( Pablo Puyol ) who likes what she has between her legs - - a lot . She loves him . . . but enough to keep what she has ? Also the film shows her fantasies and dreams which break out into elaborate ( to say the least ) musical numbers . The basic idea ( depressing story intercut with elaborate musical numbers ) has been done before ( " Pennies From Heaven " , " Dancer in the Dark " , " Moulin Rogue " ) - - this is only different in the subject matter . I mostly liked it - - the musical numbers are just great - - full of energy and some incredible dancing ( the " True Love " number stops the show ) . But the film is slowly paced and depressing . The acting of Cervera and Puyol ( who has guts taking this role on ) saves it . Also this has some fairly explicit nudity ( male ) and sex - - be forewarned . Worth catching . I give it an 8 .
An almost classic	TV newswoman Karen White ( Dee Wallace ) is traumatized by a meeting with a psycho killer in a porno shop . A pompous doctor , George Waggner ( Patrick Macnee ! ) , invites her to " The Colony " - - a woodland clinic of his to help her get over the shock . Karen and her husband Bill ( Christopher Stone ) go . . . unaware that there are wolves roaming around . . . This is a full throttle horror-comedy with an emphasis on the comedy . It's almost as good as " American Werewolf in London " . It's fun , has sharp dialogue and constant wolf references ( a copy of the book " Howl " is seen on a desk ; people watch " The Big Bad Wolf " and " The Wolf Man " on TV ) . Also The Colony itself is just gorgeous and beautifully atmospheric . In the day it's clear and bright - - at night the fog rolls in and it becomes really creepy . Also it playfully injects horror clichs in the movie ( I got a big kick out of the sequence in which Karen and a friend get lost in the woods , their flashlight goes out and there's howling in the distance . . . ) . It's ALMOST a classic . The problems are many , but the main one is that the film isn't scary - - when you see the werewolves they look pretty pathetic . This is supposed to be ( partially ) a HORROR film - - it doesn't help when the main monsters look silly . The transformation scenes look lousy too - - but this was over 20 years ago . The story is sort of vague ( why does Dr . Waggner invite her to the colony in the first place ? It puts her in danger ! ) and there are plenty of dead spots . It seems too long and it's only 90 minutes ! Also Wallace and Stone are not good actors - - Wallace's reaction to finding a dead , bloody body is very poor and Stone sleepwalks through his role ( although he does very well at a campfire sequence - - you'll know it when you see it ) . So , it has great atmosphere , some very good laughs , John Carradine and some very good cameos ( Dick Miller , Roger Corman and Forrest J . Ackerman holding a copy of his magazine " Famous Monsters of Filmland " ) but it's VERY light and insubstantial - - you want to see a real movie after this . Nevertheless , it's worth seeing but not the classic it could have been .
Not as good as the first . . .	but still well worth seeing . It's another concert film and Margaret Cho is raring to go . This time around the material is much more explicit with stronger language ( it veers into NC-17 land more than once ) , but it is frequently hilarious . Still , there are many dead spots and some of the jokes bomb badly . Still , I did laugh long and loud more than once . Worth catching . . . but stay away if explicit material bothers you .
A very different concert film	John Waters did a one man show a year or two ago around the country . This film shows the whole show . Basically it's just Waters talking about good ( and bad ) taste , all his movies , his battles with the ratings board ( over " Low Down Dirty Shame " ) , the actors he worked with , various sexual acts and his life in general . This movie is frequently hilarious and never boring . . . but not for everybody . The language is VERY raw and Waters doesn't shy away from anything ( the comments about fisting got to me a little ) . This isn't for people who are easily offended but for those who love Waters and his films this is lots of fun . An 8 - - only because it IS a stage show and gets somewhat stagy a few times .
Predictable but very well done	Crippled Susan Strasberg goes to France to visit her father ( who she hasn't seen in 9 years ) and her new stepmother ( Ann Todd ) . When she gets there she's told her father is away on business . Suddenly , she starts seeing her father's dead body all over the house - - but no one else does . Is she going mad or is her stepmother trying to drive her crazy and swindle her out of her inheritance ? Handsome chauffeur Ronald Lewis tries to help her find out . The plot is old and some of the twists have become predictable since 1961 , but this is still a very good suspense film . It's well-acted , there are some very scary moments ( I jumped three times ) and it's imaginatively directed in eerie black and white by Seth Holt . A scene done in a pool is downright horrifying . An early Hammer horror film that's been unfairly neglected . Also , there's an interesting scene with Lewis in a very skimpy bathing suit - - surprising for its time and especially for Hammer - - they usually pushed female sexuality , not male .
Beautiful and tearjerking	It's about two families living side by side in a duplex . One family is poor but happy - - a mother , a father and 4 ( or 5 ) kids . The other is a greedy , old , cruel man who is constantly going after the poor family . His wife tries to calm him to no avail . But it all ends happily on Christmas Eve . The old , cruel man has a complete change of heart , and damned if I didn't start crying when the little girl gave the old man a present . Sounds cloying but it isn't . It's well-acted , directed , written and believable . Short and to the point and a real tear-jerker . Recommended .
One of the better horror films	Robert Thorn ( Gregory Peck ) is the American ambassador to England . His wife Katharine ( Lee Remick ) gives birth to a baby who is born dead . Without letting her know Thorn switches her baby with another whose mother died while giving birth . Things are fine until Damien ( Harvey Stephens ) turns five . Then people start dying and Peck realizes that little Damien may be the Antichrist . HUGE hit in 1976 . I saw it when I was 14 at a theatre . I remember liking it but being disappointed . It had an R rating so I expected a much bloodier picture than what I saw . Seeing it again my feelings have changed a little . It still is a very good film and it really doesn't need blood and gore to tell it's story . . . but I now find it slow and uninvolving . Everyone knows the ending by now and for a film that runs almost two hours that's not good . Still it is worth seeing . The direction by Richard Donner is great ( he really knows how to use a widescreen ) ; Remick and Peck are excellent ( although I do wonder how they got them to agree to do a horror film ) ; the deserved Oscar-winning score by Jerry Goldsmith helps the film immensely ; the script is good and Billie Whitlaw is downright terrifying as Mrs . Baylock - - the scene where she goes after Remick in the hospital has always scared me silly . The deaths are inventive ( to put it mildly ) but very bloodless . Even when Jennings ( David Warner ) gets his head cut off there's next to no blood . Also that's the best part of the picture - - the effect is convincing , the music is pounding and Peck's reaction is realistic . So this is a little slow but the writing , acting , direction and music more than make up for that . I give it an 8 .
Forgotten thriller	Claude Rains plays Victor Grandison - - a mild-mannered man who tells spooky tales over the radio and , in his spare time , kills anyone who stands in his way of an inheritance . Good thriller opens with a really scary murder and keeps right on going . The script is sharp and tight with many twists and turns . All the acting is good - - especially by Rains and Audrey Totter as a bitchy niece . The cast also includes two of the handsomest men in Hollywood in 1947 - - Hurd Hatfield ( who made films into the 90s ) and Michael North ( who completely disappeared after this film ) . Director Michael Curtiz uses shadow and light very effectively and reflection of people ( especially Rains ) . Great climatic chase too . Well worth seeing . It seems that this movie has been forgotten which is a real shame - - it's one of the best film noirs from Hollywood .
Good musical , but no " Oklahoma "	I really wanted to love this musical . It was beautifully filmed on location in Maine , all the songs are great and the dancing is amazing . The problem ? Gordon Macrae . I like him , he's very handsome and has a great voice - - not a bad actor either . It's just that his character was so unpleasant in this movie that it got annoying to watch . Shirley Jones ' character was a problem too - - way too sweet . I wondered more than once why she loved the guy and didn't just divorce him . So basically , I didn't like or respect the two main characters . Still , the songs were fantastic ( especially " You'll Never Walk Alone " ) and the choreography during " June is Bursting Out All Over " was staggering . So , worth seeing for the songs and dancing - - ignore the story and characterizations . Also , see it letter-boxed , it doesn't work otherwise !
Just like a Hollywood war movie - - with more nudity and violence	This was inspired by true events . In Holland in 1944 a Jewish girl ( Carice von Houten ) tries to help the Dutch Resistance after seeing her whole family shot to death by the Nazis . She pretends to be attracted to the head of the Gestapo ( Sebastian Koch ) and eventually gets him into bed AND falls in love ! Does she betray the man she loves or her country ? Paul Verhoeven made this VERY expensive movie in Holland . It seems he learned a lot from making all those films in Hollywood - - this plays JUST like a Hollywood war movie from the 1950s . It's glossy and it looks great - - but loaded with violence , nudity and profanity . It moves quickly and even though it's 145 minutes it's never dull . The acting is pretty good - - von Houten has a very tough role but pulls it off . The same for Koch . You despise him but see his humanity underneath . Verhoeven regulars Thom Hoffman and Jeron Krabbe ( who were both also in " The 4th Man " ) pop up giving strong performances in supporting roles . This movie is a little bit too long and it gets very confusing at the end with the double and triple crosses piling up - - but I still loved it . Worth catching but avoid it if you're offended by extreme content .
Nothing more than " High Noon " in outer space - - but I enjoyed it .	DEFINITE SPOILERS In the future there's a mining colony on Io - - the third moon of Jupiter . Men sign up for a year of duty . For some reason men are suddenly going crazy and killing themselves - - or others . The new marshal O'Neil ( Sean Connery ) wants to find out why but is blocked at every turn . It turns out the head of the colony ( Peter Boyle ) is giving men amphetamines to make them work harder - - but it also drives them crazy eventually . This movie is well-made and never really dull . The sets are impressive , there's plenty of action and some good special effects . Also the decor of the bar in the colony is - - interesting . It shows holograms ( I think ) of a man and a woman and two woman having sex ! The acting is good by Connery , Francis Sternhagen and James B . Sikking . It does turn into " High Noon " at the end complete with the bad guys coming in on the next shuttle , O'Neil being on his own ( also he's called marshal all through the movie ) , and even has a clock ticking down the hours , minutes and seconds before they arrive . Seriously ! Still it works . However there are some problems . The script ultimately makes no sense . The workers know they're being drugged and killing themselves - - but seem to have no problem with that at all . Also when the killers are tracking down Connery one of them ( in a greenhouse ) shoots a hole in a wall which singlehandedly destroys the greenhouse and himself along with it ! Are trained killers really that stupid ? And didn't the corporation who assigned O'Neil to that colony consider that O'Neil might have a problem with the drug abuse ? These contradictions don't destroy the movie - - it just lessens the impact . It's worth seeing - - just don't think about it too hard . I give it an 8 .
Interesting	OK documentary on the making of " West Side Story " . It has some of the original actors ( like Richard Beymer , Rita Moreno and Russ Tamblyn ) and director and executives talking about the film . It is good to see some of the outtakes of certain scenes and hear Natalie Woods original recordings of the songs ( she was dubbed because , basically , she couldn't sing ) but I found this a little dull . I have little interest in art direction and such so this dragged . For whatever reason George Chakiris wouldn't participate and they got just one or two guys from the gangs to participate . So you're listening to a lot of information from the same people . Also seemingly everyone ( except Tamblyn ) has forgotten that Wood HATED Richard Beymer and didn't want him . Even Beymer doesn't mention it ( although he has talked about it before in other shows ) . So we're given a very cleaned up version of what went on . Still it is worth seeing if you want a complete version of every aspect of the movie . I'm giving it an 8 ( mostly because I love the movie ) but I can't say I'm thrilled by it .
A definite one of a kind	This takes place in California in 1847 . Capt . John Boyd ( Guy Pearce ) is stationed at a remote Army fort out there . Including him there are only 8 more people . A stranger ( Robert Carlyle ) stumbles into their fort with a tale of cannibalism . . . but there's more to him than meets the eye . Wild blend of grisly horror , adventure , western , comedy and satire ! The film keeps switching gears on you but it somehow always works . It's tricky to do that and most movies fail but this succeeds . The movie takes unexpected detours that you never see coming . There are many twists and turns in the story that are very clever . The acting is great across the line . No one is bad but Pearce , Carlyle and Jeffrey Jones are especially memorable . The movie moves quickly , it's beautifully directed in some gorgeous locations and there's a great music score throughout . This was released as a comedy ( ! ! ! ) in 1999 and predictably failed at the box office . This is not an easy movie to " sell " but marketing it as a comedy was a stupid idea . This is a very interesting and unique movie . Be warned - - some of the violence is extreme and VERY bloody . I can make it through a lot but some of the sequences here had me squirming ! Highly recommended but only for strong stomaches and open minds .
Way overpraised but still very good	Two hippies on motorcycles - - Wyatt ( Peter Fonda ) and Billy ( Dennis Hopper ) are traveling from Los Angeles to New Orleans to attend the Mardi Gras . The movie just chronicles who they meet and the adventures they have along the way . Among the more notable ones are George Hanson ( Jack Nicholson in the role that made him a star ) as an alcoholic lawyer and Karen Black ( ! ) and Toni Basil as hookers . This film was a HUGE box office hit when it came out . It was the first film that young kids in America saw that really depicted them as they were - - and felt . It also almost destroyed Hollywood too when all the studios tried to copy it and came out with some of the worst most self-indulgent films ever made . Basically the older men running the studios couldn't make heads or tails out of this and just threw anything dealing with young people on the screen . This has been overpraised over the years . It is a VERY good film ( I'm giving it 8 stars ) with some incredible wide-screen photography and a great rock soundtrack . . . but it has a very depressing ending and doesn't really say anything . There are a lot of interesting insights in the conversations among Wyatt , Billy and George but these insights are pretty dated now . However , back in 1968 , they may have been considered " deep " . It is worth catching though from a historical standpoint and as the first film ( and the best ) to deal with the kids in the late 1960s and what they were going through . Very well directed by Hopper ( who hasn't made another film as good as this since ) .
Not enjoyable but fascinating	This takes place in 1934 Chicago . Sheet music salesman Arthur Parker ( Steve Martin ) hates his job and is married to a frigid unloving wife ( Jessica Harper ) . He then meets naive unmarried Eileen ( Bernadette Peters ) . Sex , rape , abortion , prostitution and murder follow . This is all pretty grim but , without warning , all the characters start lip syncing to cheerful songs from that era and musical numbers start . These numbers are very impressive and would make Busby Berkeley turn green with envy . This was ( for 1981 ) a very odd idea for a big budget Hollywood movie . A bleak , depressing storyline full of unlikable characters is undercut by the cheerful music and dancing . This was released around Christmas as a holiday movie ( a VERY bad idea ) and was savaged by the critics and ignored by audiences . If this had been released at any other time of the year it might have been successful . Also this was years ahead of its time . I saw it twice when it came out . I was thoroughly depressed after each screening but fascinated too . There was nothing else like this at the time . The set design was VERY impressive . Some shots are recreations of famous paintings of that time-I recognized " Nighthawks " right away ! The songs were great and they used the original recordings . They didn't transfer the songs to stereo either - - they wanted them to sound like they did back then . The dances are just downright astounding . They're among some of the best I've ever seen . Christopher Walken stops the show by lip syncing ( and tap dancing ) to " Let's Misbehave " . Casting Martin and Peters in this was a mistake . At this point neither were known for doing drama - - Martin was a comedian and Peters just sang . Martin does OK in his role but Peters is pretty bad in hers . It doesn't destroy the movie it just lessens the impact . Harper is very good ( although she's not in the movie much ) . So it's a depressing but a one of a kind movie . I give it an 8 .
Unpleasant but gripping	Sheba Hart ( Cate Blanchett ) is a new art teacher at a high school in London . A history teacher ( Judi Dench ) takes a strange interest in her . She then discovers that Hart is having sex with a 15 year old boy ( played by 16 year old Andrew Simpson ) . She confronts Hart with her knowledge and Hart pleads with her not to tell . She agrees . . . if Hart promises to be her friend . Then things get creepy . . . Unpleasant story full of some very unlikable characters but I couldn't stop watching . The script is excellent and the direction is good too . Great music score too . But what puts this over are the performances - - everyone is just excellent . Blanchett and Dench are just incredible - - both play very needy unlikable characters but I actually found myself sympathizing with them ! Simpson does not play his role like an innocent victim - - he's clearly the aggressor and he came off as quite creepy . The sex ( it's not love ) affair between the two is quite harrowing - - nothing is really shown though . Bill Nighby playing Banchett's husband also has an incredible scene where he explodes when he finds out about the affair . It all leads to a disturbing climax . I'm only giving it an 8 because these people are pretty ill and unnerving to watch . Also Simpson's thick Irish accent made some of his dialogue incomprehensible . So it is good - - but disturbing .
Powerful but not perfect	Sweet William ( Chris Leavins ) returns to his family's house after being gone for 10 years . He came at the request of his sister ( Kerry Fox ) who is getting married . He left home because he was gay and couldn't deal with his family's HEAVY dysfunction . While back home he starts to flashback to his childhood . . . and begins to realize some unpleasant things about himself and his family . This is basically yet another movie about a dysfunctional family . . . but this is a very good one . It's well-done ( on next to no budget ) and has some beautiful ( if obvious ) symbolism using flowers and nature . The story also took some unexpected turns I didn't see coming . Also the gay themes are handled very well and explicitly - - that may bother some people . The acting is superb all the way through - - Leavins and Fox are just incredible . And it DOES have a happy ending which I didn't really believe for one second - - but it still works . My only complaints - - there's virtual non-stop swearing through the movie , and can we have just ONE movie about a dysfunctional family that DOESN'T have incest ? Also look for a young Sarah Polley in a small role . I give it an 8 .
One of a kind documentary	I caught this at the Provincetown International Film Festival . It's about a pair of identical twins ( Mark and Alex ) who grow up to realize they're gay . One of them remains a man but the other wants to get a sex change - - maybe . This film deals with how they grew up and how one wants to get a sex change . The subject matter is certainly different and this movie is pretty well-done . . . but I do have a problem with it . All the people interviewed ( including the brothers ) have blank looks on their faces and speak in a monotone about everything . It lessens the impact of some truly horrifying events the men went through and always keeps the viewer at arms length . Still this is a fascinating documentary and the discussions about gender changing are very interesting . Worth catching .
Truly jaw-dropping	A movie made quickly ( it shows ) to cash in on the wildly popular TV series . Batman ( Adam West ) and Robin ( Burt Ward ) take on almost all their enemies - - the Penguin ( Burgess Meredith ) , the Joker ( Cesar Romero ) , the Riddler ( Frank Gorshin ) and Catwoman ( Lee Meriwether ) - - who have stolen a device that turns people into dust . OK - - I admit it - - I LIKE the 1960s TV series . Yeah it was silly and West was a terrible choice to play Batman ( he had no muscles at all ) but it was fun - - in an odd sort of way . I saw it in reruns as a kid and loved it . It was full of action and over the top performances ( by the villains ) . When I grew up I still loved it - - but as camp . And this movie , as camp , is hysterical . They throw in everything - - the Batcopter , Batcycle , Batmobile - - and the movie never stops moving . The script is full of howlers ( " Some days you just can't get rid of a bomb ! " " Excuse me while I slip into something more comfortable . " ) and truly ridiculous situation . My favorite is when an obviously plastic shark starts " chewing " on Batman's leg ! And Catwoman romances Bruce Wayne using the unbelievably original name of - - Miss Kitka ( sigh ) . No this is not a good movie but a very entertaining one . Also the comedy isn't malicious - - they're poking fun at Batman and Robin but don't turn them into buffoons . If you take your comic books seriously stay away . Otherwise sit back , relax and enjoy ! A definite 8 .
The original	Two boyhood friends ( one played by a very young Mickey Rooney ) grow up on opposite sides of the law . Clark Gable becomes a criminal - - William Powell becomes governor . Myrna Loy loves both . This plot is now screamingly familar but , back in 1934 , this was original . In fact it won the Best Original Story Oscar for its year . This could have been a real howler but a great cast , tight script and wonderful direction really put it over . Well worth catching - - especially for a powerful climatic scene between Powell and Gable . A classic of its type .
Very good . . . but lacking	In the 1800s singer Christine Daae ( Emmy Rossum ) is being taught to sing by a voice she hears in her dressing room - - she thinks it's the Angel of Music but it's actually the Phantom of the Opera ( Gerard Butler ) , a disfigured genius who lives under the Opera House . He loves Christine but she loves Raoul ( Patrick Wilson ) and the Phantom goes mad with anger . . . I've seen the stage musical at least 7 times and loved it . I was expecting the worst from this ( all the reviews have been negative ) . I was surprised . . . it actually is pretty good . They follow the stage version pretty faithfully except they add dialogue and have the chandelier falling at a different place in the movie ( but it still DOES fit ) . The movie looks just beautiful - - lavish interiors , beautiful costumes , the marvelous score by Andrew Lloyd Webber and some really great dances . Also the opening number , showing the opera coming to life , is just GREAT ! But this film does have some serious problems . For one thing . . . Butler . He's a great actor , very tall and handsome . . . but that's actually a problem - - he's TOO good-looking to play the Phantom . Also his singing is off . Previously he only sang for a rock'n'roll band - - it shows . He seems unsure of how to sing this and it comes off sometimes sounding strange . Also the makeup on his face at the end is just silly - - he wouldn't scare a 2 year old . He looks just mildly scarred - - not disfigured . And his Scottish accent kept slipping through . Still his acting was great . Rossum , on the other hand , CAN sing extremely well . She's very beautiful and what a voice ! Her acting is pretty impressive too . Patrick Wilson is dreadful as Raoul . For one thing he looks silly with the long hair - - his hair should be cut short . He can sing but he was pretty wooden with his acting . Miranda Richardson was wonderful as Madeame Giry and Minnie Driver was hysterical as the overbearing Carlotta . All in all it was very good but it just lacked that certain feeling to make it great . It just misses the mark of being a great musical . Still it IS worth seeing for the sets and score alone . I give it a 8 .
Great early Hitchcock	A British couple named Lawrence and Jill ( Leslie Banks and Edna Best ) find out about an assassination attempt that will take place . However their young daughter Betty ( Nova Pilbeam ) is kidnapped to prevent them from telling the police . Lawrence tries to find Betty before the assassination takes place . Early Hitchcock which he purportedly dismissed later . He said this was made by an amateur and the 1950s remake was made by a professional . Hitchcock is welcome to his own opinion but I think this and the remake are both equally good . This one moves much quicker ( this is 75 minutes - - the remake runs 2 hours ) and has a great script with plenty of droll British humor . It's beautifully directed and it's fun to see Hitchcock experimenting with camera angles and shots which he would perfect later in life . The acting is OK . Banks and Best are just so-so as the parents . They act far too calm for people who have just had their only child kidnapped . Pilbeam seems far too old for her role . The other actors are just OK . The one really good performance comes from Peter Lorre in his first English language film . It's hard to believe that he learned much of his role phonetically - - he seems well aware of what he's saying and doing at all times . This all ends with the justly famous Albert Hall sequence and leads to an exciting climax - - watch when Best grabs a gun ! A very good , quick Hitchcock film . I give it an 8 .
Exhausting but fascinating thriller	A man ( Guy Pearce ) searches for the man who raped and killed his wife . One problem - - he has no long-term memory and forgets things a few minutes after he hears them . Another thing - - the whole story is shown backwards so you have to pay strict attention to what's going on . It's difficult ( most movies don't want you to think ) and exhausting but absolutely fascinating . The acting is simply superb , direction assured and the story full of unexpected twists and turns . Also there were revelations at the end ( or beginning ) that totally caught me by surprise . It's not a perfect film - - I still can't figure out what Moss ' character was doing in this - - but how many films can you name that challenge you and don't treat you like an idiot . This will probably be a bomb ( it's way too difficult for an average audience ) , but if you like something different and intelligent this is definetely a film to see !
Easily one of the best Garland / Rooney musicals	The plot is virtually the same as in all the other Garland / Rooney movies : Rooney is a ladies man ( stop laughing ! ) and , to tame him , is sent to a dude ranch out west . There he meets mail carrier and ( it seems ) cook Judy Garland . She hates him , he loves her and after all the predictable complications occur they fall in love leading to the big , elaborate number . The plot is predictable but the movie is still a lot fun . The script is sharp and quite funny ; Garland and Rooney always played off good against each other ; a very young Nancy Walker has a bit role and is hilarious whenever she's on screen and it moves fairly quick . Also seeing Rooney and Garland so young and full of life is always great and the songs are good . There are no real bad ones but " Embracble You " and " I Got Rhythm " are standouts . And the final number is just incredible ( although I question the cowboys shooting off round after round of ammunition ) . A great little musical . Worth seeing .
One of Crawford's better pictures	Lonely middle aged typist Milicent Wetherby ( Joan Crawford ) is out one night and is picked up and charmed by young handsome Burt Hanson ( Cliff Robertson ) . After a whirlwind romance they get married . However she starts to notice something is wrong with him and soon finds out that he's a crazy , and possibly dangerous , man . Sure this is a soap opera but a very good one . The script is well written and it's beautifully directed by Robert Aldrich . The age difference between Crawford and Robertson is pretty obvious ( he was almost 30 years younger than her ) but you get used to it . It helps that both Crawford and Robertson are both excellent in their roles . Crawford was always a pro - - she gave her all to any movie she was in and this is no exception . She has one great scene where she tells off Vera Miles and Lorne Greene . Robertson himself goes convincingly from a nice cheerful guy to a raving madman . SPOILER ! ! ! ! The psychological aspect of this is pretty dated - - according to this a few months stay in an institution and receiving electric shock therapy make you OK ! SPOILER END ! ! ! ! I didn't quite buy the ending either . Still this is exceptionally well done movie with good acting and directing . There's also that lovely title tune . I give this an 8 .
Classic chiller	Perfect little 8 year old Rhoda ( Patricia McCormack ) is a murderer . When this was released in 1956 , it was for adults only . A movie about a murderous child was very shocking back then . Sadly , though , it isn't anymore . Still , this movie is very scary and still packs a wallop . Patricia McCormack is brilliant as Rhoda - - you see the sweetness swing right into evil and back . . . she should have won the Oscar for this . Nancy Kelly gives a heart-rendering performance as her mother . You can feel her pain and confusion over what to do with Rhoda . Evelyn Varden is fine as the talkative landlord , although she overdoes her adoration of Rhoda a bit . Eileen Heckart is annoying and overacting as an alcoholic . The movie never shows any of the murders . . . you just hear about them later and in one truly terrifying sequence , you hear a man screaming in pain as he's burnt to death . Very effective . The film is pretty obviously adapted from a stage play ( LOTS of talking ) and is a little overlong . Also the psychology is a bit far-fetched . . . " inherited evil " ? Come on ! Also , they changed the ending ( for the censor ) and added a silly little epilogue that single-handedly wrecks the tone of the movie . Still , worth watching . Just turn off as soon as " The End " appears on screen . NOT for children ! ! ! ! ! !
Odd doesn't begin to describe this one	Earl ( John Belushi ) and Enid ( Kathryn Walker ) are a middle-aged couple who have a boring existence in a big house in the middle of nowhere . Then Vic ( Dan Aykroyd ) and Ramona ( Cathy Moriarty ) move in next door . . . and life becomes a nightmare for Vic . This is one strange one . Hard to believe a major studio green lighted this at all . However Belushi and Aykroyd were at the height of their popularity when this came out so they probably were able to do anything they wanted . This is a pitch black comedy AND very surreal at the same time . I wouldn't call it funny ( I think I laughed once ) but you can't stop watching . Logic goes out the window in this movie when Vic and Ramona show up so you're never sure what's going to happen next . It does have a point ( sort of ) but this isn't for a mass audience . It helps that all the actors are just great . Aykroyd and Belushi purportedly switched roles before the film started shooting . . . and it worked beautifully . They were both cast against type and pulled it off . Moriarty is incredibly sexy and one hell of an actress . Walker throws off comic lines left and right and somehow fits right in with Ramona and Vic . Bill Conti's score is incredible . It's a strange one all right but it fits the movie like a glove . This was ( for some stupid reason ) released around Christmas time . People expected to see a typical silly comedy and that's not what they got . Director John Avildsen hated this too - - he complained Belushi and Aykroyd were constantly rewriting the script . Most critics savaged the film ( very few understood it ) and it was a bomb . Sadly it was Belushi's last movie too . This is a very strange comedy but I really love it . Definitely worth catching if you're looking for something offbeat . An 8 .
Fast-paced , well-done fun	The wolf man Lawrence Talbot ( Lon Chaney Jr . ) is revived ( in a very spooky , atmospheric sequence ) and searches for Dr . Frankenstein to cure him . The doctor is dead , but his creation is still alive . Silly , but it moves quickly and is lots of fun . The film has plenty of plot , beautiful costumes and sets and good special effects . Lon Chaney Jr . is good ( as usual ) as the tormented Talbot , and is ably supported by Maria Ouspenskaya ( as a gypsy - - as always ) , Patrick Knowles ( handsome and a little mad ) and Lionel Atwill ( the mayor ) . The big mistake was casting Bela Lugosi as the monster . He turned down the role back in 1932 - - it must have been very embarrassing to him to take it 10 years later . Also , he's too small for the role ( Chaney is actually taller ! ) and he seems really uncomfortable ( understandably ) . It all ends up with a short climatic fight between the two . Worth catching - - one of the last really good Universal horror flicks .
Well-meaning , well-made but no impact	All star adaptation of Randy Shilts book on the AIDS epidemic from 1977-1985 . It follows Matthew Modine as a doctor trying to find a cure for it in the face of homophobia and government bureaucracy . It's very well-done , has a great cast ( except for Alan Alda who's really bad ) and does a very good job of adapting a difficult book . . . but it lacks any real power . It's dated ( of course ) and AIDS is no longer the death sentence it was when this movie was made . The movie should be more angry than it is and it concentrates on the doctors , not the victims which distanced me . It also has its dull stretches and is also at least 20 minutes too long . Sincere performances by the entire cast help . Still , it's a groundbreaking movie ( for TV ) . It just should have been better .
One of the best 1980s slasher flicks	I usually get looks from people when I mention I love this movie - - it's great to find out I'm not alone ! The film has a plot , OK acting and tremendous gore . In response to what other people are asking - - the original cut was VERY gory but heavily cut to get an R rating . Hopefully , those scenes cut still exist and we'll see them someday - - but it's been almost 20 years so . . . I was lucky enough to see it in a theatre and the last sequence in the mine shafts at the end REALLY worked in a big dark theatre . They work on TV , but not as well . Also the laugh at the end made me jump - - heck , I even like the song during the closing credits ! Well worth seeing if you're into horror flicks - - if only they had changed the title . . .
Creepy and unsettling	Another one of those great forgotten movies of the 1970s . I caught this on late night TV about 20 years ago and have never forgotten it . It was about a young man named Billy ( Nicholas Clay ) helping out Maura Prince ( Patricia Neal ) and her elderly mother ( Pamela Brown ) in their crumbling old house in England . Neal starts to fall for him ( despite their age difference ) . . . but she's not aware of what he does when he goes out alone every night . . . Spooky little horror film . When I first saw it it was edited for TV so there were some unexplained pieces ( like a bit about something that happened to him as a child which explains what he does as an adult ) and , I assumed the violence was gone . I was finally able to see the entire uncut film and loved it ! It wasn't a blood and guts horror movie - - it's an excellent psychological horror . In fact the two violent acts in it aren't even shown ! It concentrates on Billy and Maura and their feelings and thoughts . Clay and Neal are such great actors that just their expressions tell you what they're feeling . The growing romance between them was touching and believable . Also there's an excellent score and the ending was a stunner ! This film has an R rating for some dialogue and a lengthy nude sequence with Clay . Well worth catching just for Clay and Neal . Sadly this film is not available on video or DVD in America . Someone in England was kind enough to tape it off TCM London and send it to me . So , if you get a chance , see it . It might disturb you but you'll never forget it . Avoid the cut version .
A true one of a kind !	When a movie starts out with a rather catchy title song ( entitled " Beware of the 4-D Witch ) and then promises to " potray ( ing ) for the first time the Astral World in Transetheric Vision " you KNOW you're in for something different . Mostly the whole film is narrated by Cindy ( played by an actress only called " Margo " ) who practices witchcraft . She contacts an ancestor - - a real Salem witch named Abigail . Abigail escorts Cindy through a series of sexual adventures ( pretty mild ) which Cindy loves . But then things get too extreme and Cindy rejects Abigail . To retaliate Abigail goes after Cindy's brother Mark ( who takes over the narration here ) and turns him into a sex vampire ! Basically it has the actor wearing the fakest fangs I've EVER seen ! If it sounds strange you should see it ! The camera is constantly throwing colors and visions at you ( mostly dime store fright masks with glowing eyes ) and the narration is absolutely hysterical . The " acting " wavers between bad and atrocious . There's also plenty of female nudity but the picture is R rated ( which is mysteriously shown to us at least twice ) . Along with bright colors and visions there is also a soundtrack consisting of classical music ( " Night on Bald Mountain " pops up quite a bit ) mixed with rock music . I can't say I liked this . . . but I couldn't stop watching ! It's so over the top and ridiculous you sort of watch in fascination and try to think of what these people thought they were doing . It gets an 8 because it is a true one of a kind . This is one of those rare movie that's so bad it's good !
Cruel and complex	Dillon plays a teacher at a school accused of raping a student ( Denise Richards ) - - but did he ? That's only the beginning of a very cruel , extremely complex and VERY entertaining thriller . There are tons of twists and turns and the movie doesn't take itself seriously for one second . There's also a fairly explicit sex scene between Dillon , Richards and Neve Campbell . There's also a few shots of Dillon shirtless and full frontal nudity from Kevin Bacon ! Lots of fun and never dull . Well worth seeing .
A very good early Hitchcock film	A story loosely based on Jack the Ripper . In London a killer called the Avenger goes around killing blond-haired girls . Around this time Mr . and Mrs . Bunting take in a lodger ( Ivor Novello ) . He's quiet but very odd . He takes a liking to their blond-haired daughter Daisy ( June Tripp ) . But then the Buntings begin to suspect that he may be the Avenger and want Daisy as his next victim . . . Hitchcock's first thriller and a very good one . Very few title cards are used - - he uses images to carry the film . Sometimes it works but , more than once , I was confused . It was one of his first films though so this can be forgiven . It also moves a bit too slow . But it's still worth seeing . You can see the beginnings of his later work peeking through and there are some sequences so well directed that they're stunning ( the one where Novello and Tripp kiss is just SO beautiful ) . Also the acting is actually quite good by everybody - - especially Novello . He was a box office draw in the 1920s and it's easy to see why . The man is not only a good actor he was undeniably beautiful . It's easy to see why he was once called one of the most beautiful men alive . Novello was gay - - I wonder if Hitch knew that . There are two lines in this film where people talk about his character - - " Good thing he doesn't like girls " and " Even if he is a bit queer " . These lines are quite interesting now - - I wonder if they were put in on purpose or just happened to be written without anyone knowing . Interesting to think about . . .
Predictable now but it still works	Charles Boyer is slowly driving wife Ingrid Bergman mad in Victorian England . There is a reason but I won't give it away . The story line has been done to death since 1944 , so this isn't as fresh or exciting as it once was . Still it is an excellent film . The film is incredibly elaborate - - wonderful costumes , huge intricately designed sets and furnishings . Also the film is wonderfully directed by George Cukor with excellent use of light , shadow and darkness to give us insights to the characters and their emotions . It also contains some truly frightening scenes with Bergman doubting her sanity and the strange noises from the attic . . . The acting is just incredible . Charles Boyer is perfect as the husband - - he acts so cultured and suave but you always see hints of madness and murder peeking out - - very scary . Ingrid Bergman deservedly won as Oscar for this role and she's just great . You see her change from a happy , carefree girl into a frightened , cowering woman from the psychological browbeating from Boyer . She's totally believable every step of the way . Also in this movie is Elsa Lancaster in her film debut . She was only 17 at the time but you wouldn't know it ! She plays a sullen servant and was just great . . . and nominated for Best Supporting Actress . Even the usually wooden Joseph Cotten puts in a fine performance ! Basically this is a rarity - - a film where ALL the casting is on target ! Superb psychological drama - - don't miss this one ! There is a 1940 British version ( which is better than this ) that MGM purportedly tried to destroy so it wouldn't overshadow their version !
I hate Westerns but I loved this one	Ex killer William Munny ( Clint Eastwood ) is called out of retirement by the Schofield Kid ( Jaimz Woolvett ) . It seems a bunch of prostitutes are offering $1000 to any men who kill two men who beat up and slashed the face of one of their own . Munny brings along friend Ned Logan ( Morgan Freeman ) . The problem is they have to go through vicious Little Bill ( Gene Hackman ) the sheriff of the town this all happened in . Plot wise this is nothing new - - but Eastwood set out to make an anti-Western and he succeeded . The killings here are not quick or painless and cowboys are not portrayed as heroes while shooting people to death left and right . The killings here are vicious , bloody and horrifying to watch . It also shows the killers feeling remorse for what they're done . They're not proud of what they've done and are questioning if they had any right to kill anyone . It's also made clear here that Munny is only taking the job for money for him and his kids to live on . The other cowboys ( except for Munny and Logan ) are portrayed as liars , vicious and cowards . Also women are portrayed in a ( sort of ) positive way . They are all prostitutes but they watch out for each other and aren't cowards like the cowboys . Also they set up the money for the killings despite what the sheriff says . The acting is just great across the board . Freeman , Woolvett and especially Eastwood are great and Hackman is incredibly evil and vicious . He won an Academy Award for his role . I hate Westerns so I avoided this when it came out . I also heard that audiences were cheering on the killings which was not the point ( I heard Eastwood himself wasn't happy over that ) . I am glad I finally caught it . . . but this got an Academy Award for Best Picture ? While it is good the middle section is very slow and the film is far too long . Also it's very vicious and shows no mercy to either the " heroes " or villains . I realize that was the point but it left me feeling kind of depressed and angry . Also the ending struck me as being way too unbelievable . Still , Eastwood deserves credit for successfully deconstructing the Western . If you like Westerns you might want to avoid this one .
You'll laugh , you'll cry . . .	OK , I love the film , but I don't deny that it's very manipulative ( especially in a hospital scene at the end wing Winger and her kids ) . It's totally engrossing , has believable characters and situations and all the acting is great ( especially Shirley MacLaine - - she really won her Oscar for this movie ) . But it gets very sad and depressing towards the end . Still , you're not upset after it's over - - the very end is actually uplifting . Well worth seeing .
Great undiscovered action film	Two firefighters ( played by Bill Paxton and William Sadler ) find a map that leads to stolen gold . It's located in a huge abandoned factory . Unfortunately it also happens to be where a band of black drug dealers have their headquarters . Soon it's blacks vs . whites to the death . A dynamite thriller on full throttle - - full of non-stop swearing , plenty of gun fights and gruesome killings . The plot doesn't really make a lot of sense but once this movie kicks into gear you won't care . The action is virtually non-stop and there's a loud pounding music score that propels the movie along . There's also some intentionally funny humor in here so it's always clear that this is not to be taken seriously . The acting is mostly just OK - - but who watches this for the acting ? Paxton is the only one who gives a really good performance . The only debit here is that the movie constantly keeps switching from color to b & w ( the POV of a gang member filming all this ) . It's jarring and unnecessary . This was a bomb at the box office and didn't hit it big on video either . That's really too bad because it's one of director Walter Hills best film . Tough , violent and exciting . An 8 all the way .
Hated it the first time , loved it the second time	Married couple Rosemary and Guy Woodhouse ( Mia Farrow , John Cassavetes ) move into the beautiful Bramford apartment building ( the Dakota was used ) . They meet nice but pushy neighbors ( Ruth Gordon and Sidney Blackmer ) . Then Rosemary gets pregnant . . . and her life becomes a nightmare . She thinks the neighbors are witches and want her baby . Is that true or is it her imagination ? Now classic horror film . I first caught this at a revival theatre when I was in college . I thought it was too long and dull with terrible acting . I should mention I had just read the book this was based on . Seeing it again ( over 20 years later ) my opinion has totally changed . I still think it's too long and Farrow's acting wavers ( sometimes she just great , other times she's too mannered ) but this time I was fascinated and the ending actually scared me silly ! The setting is beautiful - - the Dakota is a huge building in NY with very exclusive tenants . . . but it looks downright terrifying here ( I have to credit director Roman Polanski for that ) . Inside the apartments are huge but spooky . When Rosemary and Guy hear chanting through the walls on their first night or so there it's actually pretty chilling . The scene where Rosemary gets pregnant is pretty hard to watch too . Acting , as I mentioned , wavers . Farrow is really off sometimes and Cassavetes looks miserable ( I believe he later said he did it for the money ) but Gordon ( in her Oscar-winning role ) and Blackmer are just great . Also Maurice Evans , Charles Grodin , Elisha Cook and Ralph Bellamey are strong in supporting roles . And listen for the voice of Tony Curtis in one sequence . There's also some funny black humor here - - at one point Rosemary is in a doctors office . She picks up a " Time " magazine and the cover says , " Is God Dead " ? Scary , well-made horror film . Decidedly NOT for pregnant women . I give it an 8 . " What have you done to him you maniacs ? "
Quite possibly the best Shakespeare ever filmed	Story about the Montagues and Capulets - - two families who have been rivals for generations . Young Romeo Monatgue ( Leonard Whiting ) falls in love with beautiful young Juliet Capulet ( Olivia Hussey ) . They want to wed but their two families are mortal enemies . Opens and ends with narration by Laurence Olivier . The play has been cut and purists were probably livid when pop singer Donovan comes on and sings a song , but this is still probably the most faithful version of R & J ever done . Whiting was 17 and Hussey was 15 when this was filmed - - they are ( so far ) the closest in age to the actual ages for R & J in the play . This was beautifully filmed in Rome - - very colorful and elaborate with Oscar-winning costumes . The fights in the film between Tybalt and Mercurcio and then Romeo are just great - - full of action . Also there's the now famous music score . But , for me , this just misses the mark on being a great movie . Whiting and Hussey are just simply too young and inexperienced to pull this off completely . When they're speaking , sometimes , they seem to be reciting lines with these blank looks on their faces . It's not entirely their fault - - Shakespeare's plays are difficult to memorize . But , eventually , they do get better as the film goes along and I'm not ashamed to admit that I was crying during the crypt sequence at the end . Also , in the PG version , you do get two flashes of nudity after R & J consummate their marriage . The actors deserve credit for doing nude scenes at such a young age . The rest of the cast is just great - - especially a VERY young Michael York as Tybalt . So - - I DO like it but it's hard going at first ( Shakespeare's dialogue takes a while to get used to ) and it's way too long . Still I recommend it . Hussey mentioned in an interview recently that people STILL remember her from this movie ! I give it an 8 .
Very good	An affectionate homage to the old TV series . Three old episodes were updated and a new one was written . It's also narrated by Burgess Meredith who starred in quite a few of the original TV series episodes . It starts off with a quick little prologue with Albert Brooks and Dan Aykroyd . It's quick , funny and provides a nice little jolt . The first segment was newly written for the movie . It involves a bitter and racist man ( Vic Morrow ) getting a taste of his own medicine . This episode is clouded by the three deaths it caused - - Morrow was decapitated by a helicopter blade and two Vitenamese children were crushed . John Landis ( who directed this ) was found not guilty in the deaths . As it stands this isn't very good . It's simplistic and heavy-handed - - like a bad Zone episode . The second one is directed by Steven Spielberg . It involves an old man ( Scatman Crothers ) gently bringing to life the old people at a retirement home . I'll be the first to admit that this is way too syrupy - - but I have a fondness for it . The acting is good , it has a great music score and , I admit , it leaves me a little misty-eyed . The third is directed by Joe Dante . It's a remake about a little boy who can make all of his wishes come true . It's well-directed with some truly incredible special effects and a good performance by Kathleen Quinlan . But it's seriously damaged by a silly happy ending ( the original didn't have that ) . Billy Mumy ( the star of the original ) has a bit part and Dante regular Dick Miller shows up as Walter Paisley . The fourth is the best . It's directed by George Miller and is a remake of the William Shatner episode where he spots a gremlin tearing apart the plane he's flying on . The gremlin in the original looked pretty ridiculous - - like a teddy bear . Here John Lithgow plays the passenger and the gremlin is more than a little scary-looking . This segment moves and has a few great jolts . Also Carol Serling ( Rod Serling's wife I believe ) has a bit part . All in all an enjoyable film . I liked it when I saw it in a theatre in 1983 and it still holds up today . I give it an 8 .
Very good	War drama that takes place in Louisiana in 1971 . It follows a bunch of recruits through basic training and then Tigerland - - an accurate portrayal of Vietnam on American soil , before they're shipped over . It focuses on two men - - Booz ( Colin Farrell ) and Paxton ( Matthew Davis ) . . . how they meet , become friends and deal with a corwardly squadron leader ( Clifton Collins Jr . ) and a borderline psycho ( Shea Wingham ) . A surprisingly non-commercial film directed by Joel Schumacher . He uses a hand-held camera throughout most of the movie and uses digital video for the combat scenes . It works very well - - the film looks gritty ( as it should ) and uncomfortably realistic . Farrell successfully covers up his Irish brogue and adopts a pretty convincing Southern accent . His performance is just superb - - he's an extremely talented young man . Davis , unfortunately , is not that good . He's tall , muscular , very handsome - - and very bland . The rest of the cast however is just great . This film was thrown away by its studio . It had no stars in it , a familar story and was considered " just another war film " . It only played a week in Boston ! It's well worth catching on video or DVD . Also , Farrell and Davis have a lengthy nude scene .
James Bond reinvented - - darkly	James Bond ( Daniel Craig ) is after world terrorists in this one . Judi Dench is back as M telling him off left and right . The plot is kind of vague but it ends up with Bond and a sexy sidekick ( Eva Green ) paired off against a thoroughly evil man ( Mads Mikkelsen ) . OK - - James Bond has been reinvented in this film with Craig in the role . Is Craig good as Bond ? Kind of . He's not handsome at all ( at 38 he looks 45 ) but he has a great body , holds his own in fight scenes and is a VERY good actor . Also this Bond is more serious than the others . He's not making bad jokes ( like Roger Moore did ) or acting like a sexist pig ( Sean Connery ) . He's dead serious and will kill when he has to - - the previous Bond films seemed to shy away from Bond killing anybody . This Bond also gets hurt ( you see his face crisscrossed with scratches after one fight ) and he bleeds - - quite a lot too . This film is VERY violent - - it pushes the PG-13 rating to its limit . I personally think it went too far - - the torture scene where he is tied nude to a chair was not needed . Not everything has changed though - - he has a beautiful woman by his side who eventually falls for him . . . and is of NO use in a fight ( once or twice I wanted to yell at Green to do something ) . But Green IS good and looks stunning . The film is a little too long ( but most Bond films are ) and doesn't make much sense . Still , all in all , it was an entertaining movie . I'm only giving it an 8 because I think the violence went overboard . Still this is an interesting redo of Bond . Worth catching .
Nothing new plot-wise but compelling	Even though this is based on a true story , it goes through the same hoops other movies of this kind have gone through . One person finds big corporation being evil . . . battles against seemingly unsurmontable odds to beat them . Every cliche is hit head on . Still it's well worth seeing . All the acting is great ( especially Finney and Roberts ) , the script is razor sharp , the film moves briskly and the direction is very good and assured . Basically a familar story , but told very well . Well worth seeing . Also , Roberts fake breasts are something else !
Very good but not great	Romantic comedy / horror film ( taking place in England ) about Shaun and his friends trying to stay alive when the dead come alive and eat the flesh of the living . Yep - - it had to happen eventually - - a comedy about flesh-eating zombies . Surprisingly it really does work . This is one of the few movies that successfully mixes horror , comedy and drama . The only other ones I can think of are " The Howling " , " American Werewolf in London " and " Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein " . Not all the jokes work but about 95 % of them do . And the dramatic moments actually are well-worked into the plot . And this movie has PLENTY of blood and gore ( for an R rated film ) . If this had been done seriously the ratings board probably would have demanded cuts . Not I DID like it ( and was laughing out loud more than once ) but it has some minor problems : most of the characters are extremely unlikable ( especially Shaun's best friend ) ; the film has its share of dead spots and some scenes are way too tragic for a film like this . Still , that aside , this is a very funny , gory movie . A must for horror fans . Try to see it with an audience - - it really comes alive that way .
Silly but enjoyable	On a remote island Tarangi ( Jon Hall ) marries Marama ( Dorothy Lamour ) . But , while away in Tahiti on a job , he strikes a white man who insults him . He is instantly jailed - - it's forbidden for a native man to strike a white man . Nasty Gov Eugene De Laage ( Raymond Massey ) won't help him . He keeps trying to escape and that keeps extending his prison sentence . Will he ever get out and be reunited with Marama ? This film deals fairly realistically with racism ( it's against it of course ) but this is hardly a message movie . It's a big , silly but enjoyable piece of escapism . It looks great , there's a beautiful score and plenty of attractive shirtless men and women in sarongs . The script is merely serviceable but it does work - - I admit to getting misty-eyed once or twice ! John Ford directed this very well . Jon Hall is very handsome , nicely toned . . . and very bland as the lead . Lamour isn't much better . But their good looks ( and bodies ) make them pleasant to look at . Massey is just OK ; John Carradine is fun as an evil warden ; Thomas Mitchell is good ( and Oscar-nominated ) as a doctor and even Mary Astor has a few good moments . But the climatic hurricane sequence at the end really sells this . It has still impressive special effects and goes on for a good 15 minutes ! No music here - - just the sound of the wind howling and the waters crashing ( this won a well-deserved Oscar for Sound Effects ) . It's worth sitting through the movie for this one part . So not a great movie but a big , fun popcorn movie . If only the leads had been better actors . . . I give it an 8 .
No curse , no cat people	This is a semi-sequel to the horror hit " Cat People " . A lonely little girl Amy ( Ann Carter ) lives in a fantasy world - - she believes in magic and make-believe . Her parents ( Kent Smith and Jane Randolph from the first film ) don't understand her and she has no friends . Then the ghost of Kent's first wife shows up to become her friend . Famed director Robert Wise's debut sounds strange but it really works . The title is terrible - - this is no horror film but a charming little fantasy about a little girls coming of age . There are a few scary elements ( a retelling of the story of the Headless Horseman ) but nothing that would frighten anyone . This film has definite problems however - - Kents first wife was cursed , killed a man and died horribly - - there's absolutely no reason for her to suddenly appear as a kindly ghost . Heck , Ann isn't even her child ! The acting is pretty bad ( especially by Smith ) , the movie seems forced and the child psychology is extremely dated ( notice how Smith is LYING to Amy at the end to make her feel better ? ) . Still this is sensitively handled , has some truly beautiful , haunting cinematography and is a definite classic OF ITS KIND . Worth catching . . . but could someone PLEASE change that title ? I give it an 8 .
Forgotten thriller	Molly ( Millie Perkins ) was sexually abused by her father when she was young . She grows up to be an alcoholic waitress who lives on welfare with her sister and nephews . She keeps telling the nephews fantasies about her father being a sea captain . She also has fantasies about meeting hunky men , tying them up and castrating them - - or are they just fantasies ? This is a strange one . Very bizarre and surreal . Also very disturbing to watch . The castrations are shown ( just the guys screaming and blood splattering - - but that's enough ) and the scenes of childhood sexual abuse are explicit - - WAY too explicit . It's shown and it's more than a little sick . It's incredibly disturbing and I think way too strong for even an exploitation film . This film almost got an X rating for the imagery alone . The DVD version is uncut - - so we see it all . The acting is excellent - - Perkins especially in a hard role . The widescreen imagery is beautiful in complete contrast to the story and it has an excellent screenplay . But the film just goes too far for me . There's a good reason why this film is still forgotten - - it's way too strong for the average movie goer . I'm giving it an 8 because it IS an excellent psychological thriller but it just goes too far . Proceed at your own risk .
Just great comedy / fantasy	Big budget comedy / fantasy from John Carpenter . The plot is kind of hard to summarize - - Kurt Russell ( doing a very funny imitation of John Wayne ) gets involved with Chinese ghosts , sorcery , white slavery , warring gangs . . . you name it . The plot moves VERY quickly . . . it does make sense , but you have to pay full attention to every single line of dialogue and fill in some of the blanks yourself . The screenwriter , W . D . Richter , also did the screenplay for " Buckaroo Banzai " - - if you can follow that film , you'll follow this . The acting , with the exception of Russell , isn't that good , but who really cares ? There's virtual non-stop action ( love the sequence where two men are flying through the air while having a sword fight ) , great special effects and some hysterical one-liners from Russell . Basically , this is a real fun action movie . Universal didn't know how to sell this film so it was a critical and financial bomb but it's acquired a following on video . Try seeing the letter-boxed DVD . Well worth seeing . One warning - - Despite the PG-13 rating there's a lot of casual violence and quite a bit of swearing . This perhaps is not a film for little kids .
Really stupid bit I LOVED it !	OK the premise is dumb , the babysitter dies within the first 15 minutes and the kids basically have to live alone all summer . Applegate easily gets an executive position ( just like real life , right ? ) and , naturally , is incredible at her job . And her brothers and sisters learn values from her example . . . yadda , yadda , yadda . Sounds horrible , but it's well-acted ( especially Applegate and Cassidy ) , it moves quickly , it is very funny and I enjoyed every minute of it ! Not a great movie by any means , but if you can turn off your brain for 2 hours , you'll really enjoy it !
Carradine's finest hour	John Carradine plays Blubeard - - he paints women and then strangles them to death . He doesn't want to do it but is compelled to ( we find out why at the end ) . Then he falls in love with beautiful Lucille ( Jean Parker ) and tries to fight his desire . . . John Carradine said this was his best performance - - he's right ! He's dead on target in the title role . He shows that Bluebeard is not evil and driven by impulses beyond his control . He uses body language and facial expressions perfectly . Also director Edgar G . Ulmer directs this beautifully with strange camera angles and lots of shadows making this very atmospheric . Also there are some beautifully done background paintings . But this was done over at PRa poverty row studio . Unfortunately it shows . The furnishings and costumes look pretty tacky and it just FEELS low budget . Also the biggest problem is constant background music . It's ALWAYS playing and very annoying . Half the time the music doesn't even match the mood of what's being acted ! These prevent the film from becoming a true classic . As it stands I'm giving it an 8 for Carradine and Ulmer . It should be seen just for them . Also this is one of the few films that prove what a good actor Carradine actually was .
Very good	Well-done tale of totally amoral Hollywood producer Jonathan Shields ( Kirk Douglas ) . It's all told in flashback of how he made . . . and destroyed . . . three people - - actress Georgia Lorrison ( Lana Turner ) , business associate Fred Amiel ( Barry Sullivan ) and writer James Lee Bartlow ( Dick Powell ) . Purportedly this was an accurate portrayal of what Hollywood was like at the time - - I have my doubts . It's well-directed with beautiful black and white cinematography but I don't think this was all factual ( however I did get a kick out of the obvious caricature of von Stronheim ) . Acting varies - - Powell is terrible - - I realize he didn't have much to work with but he doesn't even try . Sullivan was OK . Turner was just superb - - one of her best performances . Douglas is good but lacks the charisma to put the part over . Somehow Gloria Grahame got a Best Supporting Actress Oscar for this - - she's barely in it . Also this goes on a bit too long . So it's worth catching but just misses the mark of being a really great film . I give it an 8 .
Good but a classic ?	Like some other people have mentioned , why is this a classic . It's well directed , has two very good performances ( Gabin and von Stroheim ) , but it was kind of boring , seeming much longer than it was , and the anti war message was obvious and done with sledge hammer subtlety . Maybe back in the late 1930s this was considered powerful , but it hasn't aged well with time . Also we've had other anti war films that are much better . In fact " All Quiet on the Western Front " came out in 1931 , was also about World War 1 and is twenty times better than this ! Worth seeing , but don't go out of your way .
Strange horror movie	Doctors are being killed in various gruesome ways in 1925 London . They only have one thing in common - - they all worked on an operation to save Victoria Phibes - - but she died . Her husband Anton ( Vincent Price ) supposedly died in a car crash . It seems he survived , blames all the doctors for his wives death and sets out to kill them using the curses visited on the pharaohs before Exodus in the Bible ! Phibes has a helper named Vulnevia ( Virginia North ) and , occasionally , dances with her in front of a robot band while old music plays . As you can see this is one odd horror film . Still it's ALMOST great . The deaths are imaginative , bloody and pretty funny ( this wouldn't get a PG rating today ) . The sets are beautiful - - especially Phibes ' Art Deco place and the all green hospital . The film also has plenty of comedy which is ( for once ) actually funny . But the musical interludes don't work for me . They stop the film dead and add nothing to the plot . It seems they were just added to pad out the running time . Still , we get to see beautiful Virginia North in some eye-popping costumes and hear some great old music - - but that's not what I look for in horror films . The acting is good too - - Price can't move a muscle in his face but still manages to overact ( amusingly ) with his voice ; Peter Jeffrey is LOTS of fun as Inspector Trout ; Joseph Cotton gives a very good performance as one of the doctors and North doesn't have a word of dialogue but looks stunning and plays her part completely straight-faced . Also Caroline Munro pops up ( in pictures ) as Victoria Phibes . Some people have complained that this is a bit too gruesome for kids . Well . . . I saw it at a drive-in when I was 9 and it didn't bother me ! The only part that scared me was when Price took off his mask and revealed his face . I distinctly remember hiding behind the car seat when that came on ! I can only give this an 8 though because the movie , logically , doesn't make a bit of sense ! Most of the murders could never happen and I still can't figure out how Phibes faked his death , got rescued , bought the house and make the ( very ) elaborate sets . And who the heck is Vulnavia ? Still it is enjoyable and has a great ending which uses " Over the Rainbow " to great effect . Even some of my friends who hate horror films like this one ! Worth catching . Just ignore logic . And stay tuned after the closing credits for a neat little surprise !
Good drama	Key Largo is a remote island off the coast of Florida . It's connected to the mainland by a concrete causeway . Frank McCloud ( Humphrey Bogart ) goes there to visit the father of a dead army buddy . He meets him ( Lionel Barrymore ) and his buddies widow ( Lauren Bacall ) . He also discovers criminal Johnny Rocco ( Edward G . Robinson ) is holed up there with his gang and alcoholic girlfriend ( Claire Trevor ) . A hurricane hits and they're all stranded on the island together . . . and Johnny and his gang have guns and nasty tempers . . . Bogart and Bacall's last movie together and a good one too . This was based on a play and it sometimes shows . Characters tend to give long speeches explaining who they are and their motivations . Still it's well-written and acted and beautifully directed by John Huston . When the hurricane hits the special effects are actually pretty good with cool sound effects too . The acting is ( with one exception ) good . Bogart seemed incapable of giving a bad performance and he's just great here . Robinson doesn't show up until nearly 30 minutes in - - but you always know he's there . He's OK but I think he played the gangster role once too often . Barrymore is given little to do but he is good . Trevor is superb in her small role - - she understandably won a Best Supporting Actress award for this . Surprisingly Bacall is terrible ! She's stone faced throughout and gives a bad performance . Maybe she didn't click with the director ( Huston was not known for his tact and tended to be a screamer ) . Still it's a good solid drama - - worth catching . I give it an 8 .
Stupid but fun	A hacker named Stanley ( Hugh Jackman ) is hired by the mysterious Gabriel ( John Travolta ) to break into a computerized bank file that contains billions of dollars and steal it . There's more to it , but plot is not the primary concern of this film . What is front and center is action - - car chases , crashes , explosions , gun fights , etc etc . The plot's " logic " disappears half way through , but the action never lets up . It's loud , fast , furious and lots of fun . Surprisingly , the acting is also good considering the actors had nothing to work with . Travolta is OK . . . not great , just OK . He's done better . Jackman is wonderful as Stanley - - handsome , buff and full of charisma - - very talented . Halle Berry is also very good in a supporting role - - yes , she bares her breast and yes , it's worth it . Stupid film , but never boring . A good , violent action film . Recommended .
Disturbing	I saw this about 10 years ago at a Gay & Lesbian Film Festival and have never forgotten it . It's an extremely depressing and disturbing look at a British boys prison . It's a bunch of stories concentrating on various characters and situations . SPOILERS Easily the most disturbing sequence comes at the end with a young boy being gang-raped by three older boys . It's brutal and harrowing and the boys crying has never left me . An adult running the prison sees it , watches and SMILES ! ! ! ! ! This leads to suicide and a VERY bloody ending . Graphic and disturbing . Not for everybody . Also good luck with the STRONG British accents .
One of Russ Meyer's best	Drama takes place in Missouri during the Depression ( though that adds little to the story ) . Drifter Claif McKinney ( John Furlong ) comes by a small town looking for working . He finds it at the Wade farm run by Luke Ward and his niece Hannah ( Antoinette Christiani ) and her alcoholic abusive husband Sidney ( Hal Hopper ) . Calif starts to fall for Hannah - - Sidney sees that and doesn't like it . He gets the town and the local preacher ( Frank Bolger ) to rally against Calif . Also there are the two beautiful , huge-chested sisters ( Lorna Maitland and Rena Horten ) who are in the local cat house . . . It all leads to two near rapes , violence , murder and tragedy . But it does ( in a way ) have a happy ending . Sleazy ( in a good way ) and enjoyable Russ Meyer drama . He ignores the campy dialogue he had in his previous features and gives us a straight forward drama . The script is good and it's well-directed with some beautiful black and white cinematography . The acting was ( surprisingly ) pretty good - - especially when you consider all the women were hired for their bodies not acting ability . Furlong and Christiani give good performances but Hopper screams all his lines and Bolger is hopeless . There is nudity on a few occasions but it's pretty tasteful . No great shakes but right up there with " Beyond the Valley of the Dolls " as one of the best Russ Meyers film .
Neat little thriller	Eerie little film about a cemetery caretaker ( Richard Boone ) who finds he can cause the deaths of people by changing their white pins in a cemetery map into black pins . . . or can he ? Sounds silly and the film definetely has it's dull stretches ( even at 75 minutes ) , but it works . The whole cast plays it straight , which helps , and there's also a very spooky music score . Also some views of the map were pretty spooky . I felt the ending cheated a little , but it worked . Good compact thriller - - not a horror film . Recommended .
Camp classic	Three drag queens take a road trip from Sydney to mid-Australia to perform on stage . Also , one of them has a secret that's revealed at the end . Nothing new plot-wise , but it has a fantastic soundtrack ( Gloria Gaynor , the Village People , Charlene , etc . ) , unbelievable costumes ( a deserved Academy-Award winner ) and three great performances . Hugo Weaving is good , Terence Stamp is excellent as a transsexual - - this couldn't have been an easy role , but he pulls it off . Guy Pearce is absolutely gorgeous as the youngest of the bunch . Also , there are more than a few scenes of him shirtless or parading around in his little Calvin Kleins - - definitely worth seeing ( I know he's straight , but I can dream can't I ? ) . Also the bitchy banter is funny ( if occasionally too caustic ) and they don't ignore homophobia and , at the end , present a little boy who is totally comfortable with his dad being a drag queen and his mother bisexual ( it's suggested ) . Also , back in 1994 this helped me get over a very painful breakup . If you're gay , you've got to see it . One of the best gay films of all time .
Well-done , entertaining thriller	Possible spoilers , but you probably already know the ending . Katharine Ross , hubby and kids move from NYC to Stepford - - a picture perfect town where all the women seem to be absorbed in housework . She slowly begins to realize that something is very wrong . . . A huge hit in its day , this film is dated but still holds up . Some people might see the film as anti-female but , really , the men come off very badly . And they are the villains . The acting is good - - Ross ( whatever happened to her ? ) is excellent as is Paula Prentiss as her VERY energetic best friend Bobbi . Also interesting to see Tina Louise ( very good ) , Dee Wallace and Mary Stauart Masterson ( as a little girl - - no dialogue ) in the mid 70s . The film isn't really scary ( mostly because everybody knows the ending ) and a little bit long , but it's still well worth catching . Also , personally , this film had a defining moments for me . I'm gay , and I saw the movie when I was 13 at a theatre . I didn't know I was gay . . . I just knew there was something different about me . When they show Ross ' robot double with the HUGE breasts clearly visible my immediate reaction was " Ewwwwwwwww ! " So , this movie helped me come out !
Depressing , disturbing	An English police officer , Sgt . Johnson ( Sean Connery ) is cracking under pressure on his job . He beats a rape suspect ( Ian Bannen ) to death . But why ? Was it the pressures of the job . . . or something else ? Combination murder mystery and character study . This film was a major bomb in 1973 and quickly disappeared from view . It's still virtually unknown - - I had no idea it even existed till it popped up on cable ! That's really a shame . It IS a very dark , depressing film but it's always absorbing and easily contains one of Connery's best performances . He's letter perfect as a tired , disgusted police officer who doesn't know how to deal with his job and the stress . There's an especially harrowing sequence between him and his wife ( Vivien Merchant ) when he tries to explain to her what's happening to him - - and she can't deal with it . Incidentally , Merchant's acting is superb also but it makes the scene very uncomfortable to watch . Also , Merchant was suffering from alcoholism at the time and she ( understandably ) looks horrible - - but it fits the role . Also Trevor Howard turns in a good performance as a lieutenant who has to question Johnson . Don't let his top billing fool you - - he doesn't show up until over an hour in and is only around for about 20 minutes . The picture isn't perfect - - SPOILERS AHEAD ! ! ! ! For one thing , the opening credits are in slow motion with a VERY annoying sound playing all through it . Also it gives away the ending . And director Sideney Lumet is ( almost constantly ) flashing a bright light in our faces - - it's annoying and not needed . The identity of the rapist is never made clear ( it's suggested - - that's all ) and Bannen ( as the suspect ) gives a VERY strange performance . I didn't know what to make of his character . Still , it is a great , if disturbing , motion picture . . . faults aside . Worth catching . . . but brace yourself . It's pretty strong stuff .
Sadly forgotten	Big , splashy , fun musical about a whorehouse ( the Chicken Ranch ) in Texas run by Miss Mona ( Dolly Parton ) . She's in love with the sheriff ( Burt Reynolds ) and the town has no problem with the house . Then a sleazy TV showman ( Dom DeLuise ) exposes the ranch and all hell breaks lose . This was a huge bomb in 1982 for some reason . It's full of energy and enthusiasm , has great songs and some fantastic all out production numbers . Reynolds is just OK but Parton is an absolute joy - - she gives one of her best performances and even sings " I Will Always Love You " ( I prefer Whitney's version ) . Also there is equal amounts of male and female nudity and has a healthy attitude about sex ( this was made before AIDS was well-known about ) . And Charles Durning stops the show with his " sidestepping " number . . . he was nominated for Best Supporting Actor for this . This should never have bombed - - maybe the title scared people away . Only complaint is the ending . It's way too serious and realistic - - I wish they had opted for a fairy tale like ending . Also Lois nettleton's subplot is seriously underdeveloped - - I assume it was shot but cut out for the running time . See it and enjoy !
One of the best Superman cartoons	Someone disguised as Superman is committing robberies all over Metropolis . He's doing it under orders from The Boss ( that's all he's ever called - - and he sounds like Orson Welles ! ) . Immediately the police start searching for Superman . One night Lois Lane and Clark Kent are covering the opera . The fake Superman decides to rob the patrons there that night . Lois scares him off - - - but Clark decides to meet him face to face and get to the bottom of this . This has to be one of the quickest-moving Superman cartoons I've ever seen . It moves like lightning and ( for once ) Lois is NOT captured or put in danger . I do love how she casually jumps into the police car ( in her beautiful new dress ) to join them as they go after the villain . It's never explained how they KNOW where The Boss is though . Who cares ? This is fun , fast and beautifully animated . A definite 9 .
ALMOST a classic	The lives and loves of a bunch of poor New Yorkers in the late 1990s . They're gay , straight and bisexual and some are hooked on drugs or infected with AIDS . Bringing back the original cast was a great idea . They may look like in they're in their 30s but it doesn't adversely affect the movie at all . With one exception the cast is right on target . They're full of energy and give everything they got to their roles . Some of the musical numbers leap out at you . Idina Menzel ( as Maureen ) is a particular standout . The one exception was Jesse L . Martin . He overdoes EVERYTHING . He's playing it like he was doing it on stage - - playing to the back role . He should have toned it down for the movie . The story is dated ( AIDS was an automatic death sentence when this takes place ) but it still works . The score is great . There are no real bad songs - - just some OK and others that are great . It's over 2 hours long but I was never bored . My only complaint with the story is there is a way too unbelievable good ending . But that's a minor quibble . However there is one BIG problem with this : director Chris Columbus . Whoever thought he could direct this ? He ALMOST pulls it off . The opening number is certainly an eye-opener and the dramatic stuff works . But he has no idea how to shot musical numbers - - they're a real mess . The camera is wavering all over the place . Two particular numbers - - " La Vie Boehme " and Maureen's performance piece - - are just horribly done . I'm not a director but even I could have done a better job than this ! His direction of the musical numbers lessens what could have been a great musical . I'm giving it a 9 and recommending it - - but be warned !
Not a typical Abbott & Costello movie and one of their best	Most unusual A & C film starts off in the Revoluntionary War where Horatio ( Bud Abbott ) and Melody ( Marjorie Reynolds ) are shot and killed and mistakenly believed to be traitors . Because of that their spirits are forced to remain Earthbound . Only a letter from George Washington can prove their innocence - - but it's hidden away . Cut to 1946 where a bunch of people renovate and move into the house - - and Horatio and Melody discover the letter might still be there . . . but where ? They decide to haunt the house and find it . Strange comedy . Abbott & Costello shave precious little screen time together - - but they're still great . Abbott's screaming is a little much at times but he plays well with beautiful Reynolds . Lou Costello is given probably the best role he ever had as an intelligent psychiatrist who can't believe the haunting . He clearly is enjoying playing it straight and he's just fantastic ! Also Gale Sondergaard is on hand as a sinister housekeeper - - of course . The rest of the cast is just there but Binnie Barnes does have some fun lines as Millie . I saw this countless times as a child in the 1970s - - a local TV station used to show A & C films every Saturday night at 7 : 00 for years . I loved this back then and it still holds up . It's quick , funny and the special effects actually aren't bad ( if obvious and amusing ) . This wasn't a hit at the time of its release but is now considered one of their best features . A must-see . One great line : Binnie Barnes meets Sondergaard for the first time and says , " Didn't I see you in Rebecca ? "
Worth seeing for the color and music	Biography of song writer Jerome Kern played by Robert Walker . I'm not sure how factual this is but my guess is not very . It just seems an excuse for MGM to trot out all their musical and dancing stars out in bright , billiant Technicolor to belt out Kern's tunes . As for the non-musical numbers the " drama " is trite and everybody is so nice and squeaky clean you want to scream - - and Walker seems VERY uncomfortable in the title role . Still it looks just great and there are many musical highlights : the mini-production of " Showboat " ; Lena Horne singing " Can't Help Loving Dat Man " ; young , beautiful and bosomy Angela Landsbury belting out a dance hall song ; the title tune ; Judy Garland sings two numbers and Van Johnson singing and dancing ( ! ! ! ) . The other numbers are good but just lack that spark to make them memorable . So . . . see it for the music .
One of the best early film that Hitchcock did	Young pretty Iris Henderson ( Margaret Lockwood ) comes to realize that an elderly woman she boarded the train with ( played by Dame May Witty ) seems to have disappeared . She questions everybody on board but they all claim she came on alone . She gets young handsome Gilbert ( Michael Redgrave ) to believe her but what's wrong with everybody else ? Very early Hitch film and one of his best . It's well-written ( based on a stage play ) and well-directed ( of course ) It also moves very quickly - - it's full of interesting characters and situations . All the acting is good too even though Redgrave seems a little too subdued . Basically a good quick mystery . Well worth catching .
Powerful	Documentary about the arrest of Arnold Friedman in 1987 . He received a package with images of young boys in sexual situations which he ordered . He then is accused , along with young son Jesse , of sexually molesting young boys in a computer class he taught at his house . But did he ? The documentary talks to prosecutors , family members , the police and the alleged victims , and it becomes very clear that the Friedmans did absolutely nothing . It's just a case of sexual hysteria that goes barreling out of control . Along with the interviews is home footage shot by family members during this time . You see the underside of a seemingly perfect suburban family and watch it slowly fall apart . Harrowing , moving , absolutely fascinating . One of the best documentaries ever made . A most definite must-see . . . but it is strong stuff .
Grim , depressing and very good	Ted Grey ( Milo Ventimiglia ) joins the pathology department at a major New York hospital . He quickly discovers that some of the pathologists have a deadly game - - they kill people in devious ways and see if the other pathologists can figure out how . Jake ( Micahel Weston ) draws Ted deeper into the " game " and things slowly get out of control . To say this movie is disturbing is putting it lightly . The sick game the other pathologists play is disgusting - - but it seems somewhat plausible . Seriously - - who KNOWS what happens to your body after you're dead ? Also the sequences of them cutting open dead bodies takes a strong stomach to get through . Aside from Ted the movie doesn't have one likable character ( I especially hated Griffin ) and they're mostly played by unknowns . The only name in the cast ( Alyssa Milano ) has a very small role . On the plus side this is VERY well acted ( Ventimiglia , Weston and Lauren Lee Smith are exceptional ) , well directed and I was never bored . There's also quite a bit of female nudity and Ventimiglia bares his butt but NONE of it is remotely exciting in this context . And , thankfully , this is the first horror movie in a long time that doesn't have any of those stupid " jump " scares . Grim , depressing and just great - - one of the first good horror films in a long time . I only give it a 9 because if you look at it closely it doesn't hold together . Still - - well worth catching . Let's hope this entire cast makes it big .
Near perfect movie	WARNING - - There are going to be many plot spoilers in this review . This takes place in 1917 Monterey , California . Adam Trask ( Raymond Massey ) is bringing up two sons alone - - Cal ( James Dean ) and Aaron ( Richard Davalos ) . He tells them their mother ( Jo Van Fleet ) is dead but actually she left him and is now a madam in a neighboring town . Adam doesn't like Cal but loves Aaron and his girlfriend Abra ( Julie Harris ) . Cal tries to get his father's love in any way he can but things escalate and get worse and end tragically . In some ways this is just great . Some of the direction by Elia Kazan is annoying ( he continuously frames sequences at tilted angles which throws you out of the movie ) but all in all it works . The acting is superb . Massey is good and Van Fleet is very good - - she won a Best Supporting Actress award for this . She's good but not THAT good ! Burl Ives is also excellent in a supporting role . However the three young leads carry this movie . Davalos is just great in his role - - especially at the end when he meets mother . Harris ( top billed ) is just wonderful . She perfectly captures her characters innocence . Dean is just simply superb . When he's on screen you can't stop watching him . He captures his characters hatred and yearning to get his fathers love . The scene where he breaks down at his fathers party at the end is just heart-breaking . My problems with this is the story jumps around . At one point Cal seems to have a girlfriend - - but we're never introduced to her or find out who she is . Also Cal seems to be punished at the end . For what ? Trying to win the love of an uncaring father ? For showing his brother the truth about their mother ? I never bought the end for one second . That prevents me from giving this a 10 - - but it does deserve a 9 . Worth seeing .
Creepy , different vampire tale	The film is set in Georgia of the 1920s . Sweet innocent 13 year old Lila Lee ( Cheryl Smith ) goes to visit her sick father . Unknown to her it's a trap all set up by Lemora ( Lesley Gilb ) a woman vampire with distinct lesbian tendencies . Will Lila Lee fall into her clutches or escape ? I caught this originally on late night TV many years ago . The print was faded , in terrible condition and ( slightly ) edited - - but I knew I was seeing something different . I didn't see the whole thing - - I was exhausted ( it started at 1 am ) and I couldn't stay awake . . . but it never left me . Now it's finally available in a truly stunning transfer by Synapse . The picture and sound are crystal clear and the colors very vivid . The film is very creepy - - there are a LOT of sexual innuendos thrown at Lila at the beginning ( but it IS needed for the story ) . The lesbian touches are there but not explicit - - this movie is very PG ( no blood , gore , nudity or swearing ) . Still they come through and actually help the movie . The low budget this film was made on shows often but it works in the films favor . There's atmospheric lighting , eerie sounds , creepy settings and a nonstop feeling of dread . Also Gilb is VERY imposing as Lemora . Despite the rating this is an adult movie - - as others have said - - a fairy tale for adults . There are plenty of things wrong with this however . The script wanders all over the place ( but then fairy tales do too ) , the ending drags a bit and the acting is terrible all around ( Smith is bland and Gilb's acting is SO bad I was giggling at times ) . Still , despite all that it works . A one of a kind vampire movie . Not for everybody . I give it a 9 .
Still powerful	A Nazi officer ( Tim Holt ) falls in love with a freedom-fighting American girl ( Bonita Granville ) in WWII Germany . Very dated ( of course ) but still worth seeing . The film pulls no punches is showing how horrible life in Germany was during the war . I especially like them showing German citizens as being against Hitler and unhappy also . It is naive ( concentration camps are mentioned once and very casually ) but , at the time this was made , that's all we knew about Germany . A big hit in its day - - it's easy to see why . Holt and Granville are good in the leads - - especially Holt who has a powerful speech at the end . Also the film moves quickly and is never dull . A very good look at Germany during WWII . Well worth catching .
It was very good . . . . not great	After 5 years away Superman ( Brandon Routh ) returns to Earth . He starts up his Clark Kent identity again and tries to get back to normal . . . and get Lois Lane ( Kate Bosworth ) back again . But she has moved on . She's living with her boyfriend ( James Marsden ) and they have a 5 year old son . Also Lex Luthor ( Kevin Spacey ) is back to his old tricks . . . This starts off GREAT with John Williams ' original Superman theme thundering out of the speakers and the opening credits having all the names " come out " at the audience - - although much quicker than they did in the original 1979 " Superman " . Those credits and music really hyped me up for the movie . Then it sort of . . . stops . I LIKED this film . . . the special effects are just incredible all the way through ( some of the effects just had me slack-jawed ) , the movie moves quickly ( despite the over 2 hour length I was never bored ) and most of the acting was good . But there are a few things wrong with this film . Spoilers AHEAD ! ! ! It's WAY too violent for a comic book hero film - - Superman is savagely beaten and stabbed with a piece of kryptonite and a young boy sees his mother beaten and almost killed . Also certain story elements are sort of vague - - where was Superman for 5 years ? They say searching for Krypton - - but it blew up . And it took 5 YEARS ? Where is Clark living ? At the end of the movie he's still homeless . Is Lois married to her boyfriend or are they just living together ? It's never really spelled out . END SPOILERSThe acting helps . Routh is just great ( also looks a LOT like the late Christopher Reeve ) . He doesn't play Clark as nerdy as past actors have and he's strong , very handsome . muscular and commanding as Superman . Bosworth as Lois Lane is very good also . Her brown wig looks convincing and she's strong and intelligent . Spacey is ( for me ) too evil as Luthor . He doesn't have the playfulness Gene Hackman brought to the role . James Marsden ( who I never liked ) was actually good as Lois ' boyfriend . Parker Posey ( as Luthor's partner ) and Eva Marie Sant ( as Ma Kent ) are shamefully wasted - - Posey is surprisingly bad and Saint only has two scenes - - one with no dialogue ! Frank Langella ( as Perry White ) and Sam Huntington ( as Jimmy Olsen ) are just there - - neither is given much to work with . So - - I DID like it and I hope there's a sequel . Still I have those minor reservations for it I listed . I give it a 9 .
Great unknown movie	Regina Lampert's ( Audrey Hepburn ) husband is mysteriously killed after he sold all their belongings . She has no idea what is going on until she finds out her husband had a large amount of money she knew nothing about - - and three evil men ( Ned Glass , James Coburn and George Kennedy ) want it and are convinced she has it . Suave Peter Joshua ( Cary Grant ) is on hand to help her . . . isn't he ? Just great combo murder mystery , romance and comedy beautifully shot in Paris . The script is wonderful - - always moving and full of twists and turns . Hepburn and Grant are in top form effortlessly throwing off highly charged sexual innuendos at each other . However I DID find it hard to believe that Hepburn fell in love with Grant . He's a great actor and very handsome but come on ! He could be her father ! It has some extreme ( for its time ) violence but it's VERY tame by todays standards . It carefully walks the line between mystery , humor and romance and never looses its footing . There's also a very funny funeral sequence at the beginning . This is a Hitchcock like film - - hard to believe he didn't make this . The acting is very good by Hepburn and Grant and Coburn is fun . But Kennedy and Glass are just so-so and Walter Matthau is horrible . Still the focus is mostly on Hepburn and Grant so these are minor complaints . This was a hit upon release . Unfortunately the TV version is heavily edited ( for example - - the movie runs 114 minutes and played in 2 hour time slots on TV ! ) . That might be why the movie is still pretty unknown even today . Stiil , well worth catching . Recommended .
Still scary	Melanie Daniels ( Tippi Hedren ) visits Bodega Bay to give some birds to Mitch Brenner ( Rod Taylor ) a man who flirted with her once . While there her and Mitch begin to fall in love . But also strange things are happening - - birds seem to be attacking people for no reason . The attacks escalate and soon Mitch , Melanie and their friends are fighting against birds who attack and kill for no reason . . . Some of the dialogue is awkward and it goes on way too long but this is one of Hitchcock's most frightening films . It's beautifully shot and everything looks perfect . The only real debits are the length and Hedren's lousy acting ( she was beautiful - - but no actress ) . Taylor gives out a good performance and Jessica Tandy and Suzanne Pleshette are excellent in strong supporting roles . Still , I have trouble watching this movie . I love horror films and pride myself on being able to sit through anything but I get horrified watching this film . Children are attacked twice - - I seriously draw the line at films that have children being hurt . The sequences at the birthday party and ( especially ) the school ( with the infamous jungle gym bit ) are just harrowing . Seeing screaming children running in terror as birds peck at them them is not fun . But then it isn't supposed to be . Also Hedren being attacked is even worse . The poor actress had a bunch of birds tied to her by nylon rope - - when the birds tried to fly away they couldn't and , naturally , attacked Hedren . They shot that for THREE DAYS until Hedren had a complete nervous breakdown . Knowing this makes the scene even harder to watch . And the discovery of Pleshette's body is hard too . Some people have complained that no reason was given for the birds attacking but seriously - - what reason COULD they give ? A strong , frightening film but one of Hitch's best horror films . Decidedly not for children .
Grim and depressing	Tyrone Power plays con man Stanton Carlisle . He works at a carnival but uses people to get out of there and strike out on his own . He hits the big time but his greed becomes too much for him . Power was mostly known for playing the hero in costume dramas in the 1940s and 1950s . He hated them and campaigned to do this movie . He got the role but this was a notorious flop - - it was way too grim for its time . That's a shame because Power was excellent in his role . He clearly relishes playing an evil man and plays it for all its worth . Actually , the whole cast is excellent offering him strong support . This is a very grim , dark drama . I'm surprised it was even made or passed by the Production Code . It's shot like a horror film in moody black and white and has a dark sinister tone throughout . The only thing is they lightened up the novel it was from and throw in a stupid happy Hollywood ending that I didn't buy for a second - - that's why I'm only giving it a 9 . Still this is a powerful strong drama which shows what a good actor Power was . Well worth catching .
The BEST 1940s musical ever !	Bright , cheerful and lots of fun ! June Allyson loves Peter Lawford but he's being pursued by a beautiful , agressive golddigger . Who'll win him ? Who do you think ? Thoroughly predictable plot but the acting is good ( even though Lawford is totally miscast as a football player ) , the songs are pleasant , the production numbers are VERY colorful ( and numerous ) , the color is beautiful and it just basically makes you feel good ! How many movies can you say that about ? A very good , colorful , charming movie . A must see !
Almost a 10	In 1920s Chicago , Roxie Hart ( Renee Zellweger ) shoots and kills her lover ( Dominic West ) . She lands in prison but , with the help of shady lawyer Billy Flynn ( Richard Gere ) , she begins to enjoy her notoriety and thrive on the publicity . Another inmate , Velma Kelly ( Catherine Zeta-Jones ) begins to get very jealous of all this . . . Adaptation of the hit Broadway musical is actually better than the stage version . The story is more coherent and the cast gives their all to the material . Also , the songs flow right into the story - - in some musicals the story stops short to make room for the songs - - here they just blend together perfectly . Also some of the song and dance numbers just had my audience applauding them - - they're that well done ! The acting is universally good - - Zeta-Jones ( totally covering her Scottish accent ) is just great as Kelly ; Zellweger is good as Roxie ( but she pouted a little too much for my taste ) and Gere is obviously having a great old time as Flynn ( and he sings and dances pretty well ! ) . And Queen Latifah , Taye Diggs and Dominic West are great in supporting roles . I almost gave this a 10 . . . but the ending left me a bit cold . That aside , this is a rarity - - a good solid Hollywood adaptation of a stage musical . Worth catching .
Amusing	Short about a gay couple - - Michael ( Justin Martindale ) and John ( Sam Mathewes ) - - who want a baby . A pregnant woman ( Katharine Phillips Moses ) " interviews " them to see if they would be good parents for her unborn child . Things don't go smoothly . Funny little comedy . The two men WOULD be good parents ( you can tell ) but they constantly stumble over their words and , out of nervousness , say the wrong things . They also take a few mild jabs at each other . It's well-acted - - Martindale and Mathewes play off each other very well and the dialogue is on target and funny . A nice funny short about gay parents and surrogate mothers . A 9 .
Just stunning	The Greek legend of Orpheus and Eurydice updated to Rio de Janeiro of 1959 during carnival . It's shot in bright color and is subtitled . Orpheus ( Breno Mello ) is being pushed into marriage by beautiful but dangerous Mira ( Lourdes de Oliveira ) . Then he meets sweet innocent Eurydice ( Marpessa Dawn ) and falls in love . But Death is stalking Eurydice and Mira will kill to get Orpheus . . . I only know the bare facts of the Greek legend and I think you DO need some knowledge of it to totally enjoy the film . . . but maybe not . The film is bursting with energy . . . there is virtual nonstop music and some of the most incredible dancing I've ever seen in a film . What's most pleasing about this film is seeing a community of black Porteguese men and women who are always there for each other and always happy and dancing . It may not be realistic but it fits the movie perfectly . Mello and Dawn are both attractive with great bodies and make a very likable couple . de Oliveira is downright frightening as Mira . . . and the appearance of Death ( a man in a skintight black costume with a skull mask ) is actually quite frightening . But it's the music and dancing that propels this film . . . it takes up a great part of it and you can't take your eyes off the screen ! Towards the end I actually caught myself sort of " dancing " in my seat bopping to the music ! The film does drag down a little at the end when a character dies and a strange ( and dull ) voodoo ceremony is thrown in . . . but this is a small complaint . A riveting beautiful film - - I've been lucky enough to see it twice in a theatre . I give it a 9 .
Very entertaining	Danny Kaye plays Walter Mitty a meek , mild man who has been pushed around all his life by everybody . He takes refuge in elaborate daydreams where he is always the hero . Then he runs into beautiful Rosalind van Hoorn ( Virginia Mayo ) who is involved with spies and secret codes . He gets involved . . . but starts to wonder . . . is she real or just another day dream ? I'm never seen a Danny Kaye movie in my life and he seems to be forgotten today . If this movie is any indication of his talent he deserves to be rediscovered . He was very good in his role - - the one liners came fast and furious and he was also a very good physical comedian . I admit I didn't find everything funny but I was never bored . Mayo was undeniably a very beautiful actress with limited acting ability . Still she was OK . Boris Karloff pops up as one of the bad guys and gently kids his bad guy image . Very quick-moving movie , quite funny at times and ( in the print showing on TCM ) in just beautiful , bright Technicolor . Unfortunately they're doing a remake with ( God help us ! ) Jim Carrey ! See this - - avoid the remake ( if it's made ) . The author of the short story this was based on ( James Thurber ) HATED this movie . Too bad he was wrong . The only debit for me were two LONG songs by Danny Kaye . There was nothing very wrong with them but they come out of nowhere and bring the movie to a screeching halt . For that I'm only giving this film a 9 .
It's Judy's show all the way	The story is familar - - a washed out , alcoholic star ( James Mason ) discovers a rising new talent ( Judy Garland ) and watches while his career is destroyed and hers rises . Still , the film is sensational . At almost three hours , it's never boring and the acting is good . Also , great direction by George Cukor . However , it's all about Garland . She's simply great - - she looks good and sounds fantastic - - her rendition of " The Man That Got Away " had me in tears ! She even takes the minor songs - - one that she does in various accents , for instance - - and makes them good . Many people think " The Wizard of Oz " is her best movie - - I think this is much better . Why isn't this film better known ? God knows it's better than the horrible Streisand remake ! Also , see it on a big screen if possible . No TV , no matter how big , can do this film justice . A must see !
Just fantastic ! ! ! !	Incredible 3 hours + double feature by Robert Rodriguez and Quentin Tarantino with fake coming attractions mixed in . First up is " Planet Terror " by Rodriguez which has a hot shot guy ( Freddy Rodriguez ) and his tough as nails girlfriend ( Rose McGowan ) fighting flesh eating zombies with others . Among other cast members are Michael Biehn and Josh Brolin . It successfully imitates a stupid sleazy grind house horror film with large does of ( purposefully ) fake-looking gore and plays it straight while poking fun of itself . And wait for when McGowan gets the weapon for a leg ! Next is Tarantino's " Death Proof " with Kurt Russell as a stuntman who uses his indestructible car to kill people . It starts off slow but all leads up to a climatic battle which is just incredible and had my audience cheering and yelling along ! In between there are fake trailers for movies such as " Werewolf Women of the SS " ( great to see Sybil Danning again ) and others . These movies were supposed to look cheap . Rodriguez ' does with rips and tears ( and a whole missing reel ) but Tarantino's doesn't . It's virtually crystal clear with shots that no grind house movie would ever have . Still all is forgiven with that incredible final battle . I can't remember the last time I've seen an audience so whipped up by a movie ! The cast for both movies play there roles completely straight . McGowan ( who's in both ) is lots of fun and Russell is a scream in his role - - I LOVED it when he winked at the camera ! Also Rodriguez was really good ( and very attractive ) in his role . Nobody is bad but those three stand out . I can only give this a 9 for a few reason - - " Planet Terror " does have its slow spots and " Death Proof " starts off very slow . Also one of the coming attraction done by Eli Roth ( " Thanksgiving " ) was overly gory and just sick ( it had to be cut to get an R rating ) . Roth obviously doesn't know how to do comedy . . . or movies for that matter . Still this is a fun and rousing film . The 3 hours + plus just flew by . Highly recommended .
Not funny but a great movie	Fictionalized look about the 1950s blacklist . Woody Allen ( in a rare dramatic role ) plays a man who sells the scripts of blacklisted writers under his name . He splits the proceeds with the writers . He's apolitical - - he's just doing it to help friends . Then he starts to see how horrible the blacklist is and how it's destroying people and careers . He wants to take a stand - - but how can he ? This is often mentioned as being a comedy . In that respect , it fails . There was nothing funny about the blacklist . But , as a drama with light moments , it works . It moves quickly , is well written ( by a former blacklisted writer ) , well-directed ( by another blacklisted man ) and stars two blacklisted actors ! Basically these people know what happened so that actually helps . Allen is surprisingly good in a dramatic role - - who knew he had it in him ? He tones down all his mannerisms and delivers a very controlled , nicely done job . Andrea Marcovicci ( whatever happened to her ? ) is also good playing his girlfriend . And Michael Murphy is excellent as one of the blacklisted writers . And Zero Mostel is just superb as a blacklisted actor . The pain and confusion shows plainly on his face . This was also one of his last films - - - he died 2 years later of a heart attack . Also look for Danny Aiello in a small role . The 1950s era is captured beautifully , the film looks great and they have Frank Sinatra singing ( ironically ) " Young at Heart " at the beginning and end of the film . Great final line too . But I'm only giving this a 9 . The script is good but a little too simplistic and painted in very broad strokes . The bad guys are evil to the core and all the blacklisted people are shown as being victims . That's NOT how it was . They were probably writing down to appeal to a mainstream audience but went too far . This bombed badly back in 1976 - - it's easy to see why . The subject matter is too strong for most audiences and the movie company ( I heard ) was completely at a loss on how to deal with this . Just a year before an entire blacklisting sequence was cut from " The Way We Were " . Sadly Hollywood was STILL touchy about this subject in the 1970s . This should be seen by more people - - it really deserves to be discovered . A lot of people don't even KNOW about the blacklist . Well worth seeing .
Almost a classic	First pairing of Katharine Hepburn and Spencer Tracy . She plays a political columnist , he plays a sports writer . They meet , bicker , fall in love , get married . But is she ready to be a wife ? What starts off as a comedy quickly changes into drama but still manages to work . The writing is great - - full of great lines and intelligent dialogue . Hepburn and Tracy have great chemistry together - - it's easy to see why they were reteamed again and again . A definite highlight of the film is when Tracy tries to teach Hepburn about how baseball is played . SPOILER ALERT But it falls apart to the end . First Hepburn ( unbelievably ) adopts a Greek child . The kid is just used as a plot device to drive Hepburn and Tracy apart and show that Hepburn is an unfit mother - - also the way she just wants to leave the kid alone for the night is totally out of character and not even remotely believable . Also , at the end , she tries to cook Tracy breakfast and " hilariously " everything goes wrong . It's really sad seeing such a good actress as Hepburn doing such low slapstick . This may have been acceptable humor in 1942 , but it isn't today . Those two things stop the film just short of getting a 10 . That aside though , the writing and acting keeps this going . Worth seeing for Tracy + Hepburn .
Classic ghost story	Dr . Markaway ( Richard Johnson ) studies ghosts and wants to investigate Hill House who is reportedly haunted . Alsong with his is a Theo ( Claire Bloom ) who has ESP and Nell ( Julie Harris ) who has had poltergeist activity . Tagging along is Luke ( Russ Tamblyn ) who doesn't believe . Soon things are banging on the wall , voices are heard , someTHING grabs Harris ' hand and then there's the infamous " breathing " door sequence . Something is in there . . . and it seems to want Nell . Excellent ghost story beautifully photographed in black and white and directed by Robert Wise . You NEVER once see the ghosts . . . you just hear them and your mind basically really works on you . The sounds are terrifying , the images are frightening ( the " breathing " door won't leave me and there's a terrifying bit on a spiral staircase ) and there are superb performances by the entire cast . This is an example of subtle horror . It also has a downright chilling ending . The house itself LOOKS horrifying - - it's big and monstrous inside and out . They shot it in England - - - I'd love to know where . The opening prologue telling you the history of Hill House is pretty strong stuff . This only gets a 9 for a few reasons . Some of the dialogue was awkward ( especially Harris ' lines ) and everyone is basically unlikable . Dr . Markway is ALWAYS babbling on about ghosts and such ( although some of it is interesting ) ; Theo is pretty callous and cruel ; Luke is just a jerk and Nell is constantly whining or breaking down in hysterics . Seriously you don't care about any of them . Still the movie worked . Also Bloom plays a lesbian in a matter of fact manner - - a rarity in that day . This is 100 times better than the pathetic 1999 remake ( which will have you in stitches ) . Well worth catching . Wide-screening viewing is essential but seeing it alone late at night is NOT a good idea - - I had to sleep with my bedside light on all night ! Most chilling line comes at the end - - " . . . we who walk here walk alone . " Gives me goosebumps just typing it !
Epic silent film	Story takes place in France before and after the Revolution . Louise ( Dorothy Gish ) and Henriette ( Lillian Gish ) are brought up together but are not really sisters - - Louise was left on church steps as a baby and Henriette's parents took her in . Both are orphaned when their parents die and Louise is struck blind . Henriette takes her to Paris in hope of finding a cure . There they are separated - - Louise is forced to work with villainous beggars and Henriette falls in love with Chevalier de Vaudrey ( drop dead handsome Joseph Schildkraut ) . The story is wildly implausible with some twists that had me smirking . It's also overlong and VERY melodramatic . . . but it still works . It was made on a large scale with beautiful settings , costumes and a cast of hundreds . D . W . Griffith did a wonderful job of directing - - especially when the peasants revolt and overthrow the government . I usually hate historical movies but I loved this one ! The cast overacts wildly ( especially Monte Blue as Danton ) except for Schildkraut who underplays - - and it works . Throroughly engrossing and highly recommended . Also , on a personal note , my birthday is on July 14 which is Bastille Day and is recreated in this movie . I guess I have to like this ! I saw the two hour version ( this supposedly runs 2 hours ) but didn't notice any gaps .
Lesser known but still great Hitchcock	An innocent man named Robert ( Derrick De Marney ) is accused of murder . The constables daughter Erica ( Nova Pilbeam ) believes him but nobody else does . He escapes from the police and , with Erica's help , tries to find the murderer before the police catch him . The plot is familiar ( and a partial reworking of Hitchock's earlier " The 39 Steps " ) but this one is very fast-moving and short ( about 85 minutes ) . It's full of some very great sequences - - a mineshaft accident and the climatic dance are easily two of Hitchcock's best set pieces . There's also a lot of charm and some very welcome humor . Most importantly you like and care for Robert and Erica . It's made clear from the very beginning that he's innocent and you're on his side hoping he'll catch the killer . Also De Marney and Pilbeam are good actors and play very well off each other . Their romantic scenes are completely believable . The only sour note is a band in black face at the finale . That was perfectly acceptable back then but , in this day and age , it comes across as incredibly racist . Still this is a great Hitcock movie and deserves more recognition . I give it a 9 .
Funny if dated	Mike ( Michael Brandon ) and Susan ( Bonnie Bedelia ) are getting married . The movie deals with them and their various families preparing the wedding . Bedelia's parents are played by Gig Young and Cloris Leachman - - and Young is sleeping with a cousin played by Anne Jackson . Mike's parents are played by Beatrice Arthur and Richard Castellano who hate each other . Also Mike's brother Richie is divorcing his wife played by Diane Keaton ( in her film debut ) . There's also Jerry and Brenda who just date for the wedding - - and fall in love and Anne Meara and Harry Guardino as a couple constantly bickering over who's the boss . Meara's husband Jerry Stiller also appears unbilled and her daughter Amy ( who is billed ) . As you can see there's a LOT going on in this film - - you're never bored . It is very dated - - the talks about sex , marriage , relationships and male and female roles are VERY 1960s . . . but they are quite interesting . The script is sharp and the characters believable and there are funny lines flying nonstop throughout the movie . It's also amusing to see how Mike and Susan are living together before they get married - - but can't tell any of their parents as it would kill them ! Some of the sexual stereotypes get to be a bit much ( Guardino especially is just appalling ) but that's a sign of the times . A song in this movie ( " For All We Know " ) won the Academy Award for Best Song at the Oscars but it's sung by a man here not the Carpenters ( who had a BIG hit with it ) . This was originally rated R for the frank ( for the time ) sex talk , a flash of nudity and some mild swearing . It's PG now but I wouldn't let kids watch it - - it's not too dirty they just wouldn't understand it . Bssically a fun movie with an outstanding cast . Worth seeing .
Classic silent film	Quasimodo ( Lon Chaney ) is the hideously deformed bell ringer for Notre Dame . Esmeralda ( Patsy Ruth Miller ) is a beautiful dancing gypsy . She loves high and mighty Phoebus ( Norman Kerry ) but is loved by evil , scheming Jehan ( Brandon Hurst ) . All this comes to a head at the end with a revolution . This is not a horror film as many believe . It's a strong , exciting and epic drama . This was a huge production for Universal pictures - - the sets themselves covered acres and acres of land . Notre Dame itself is especially impressive . They also got Chaney and Kerry who were both big stars at the time and a supporting cast of hundreds ( that's no exaggeration ) . The movie itself is just great - - all the money and effort that went into it pays off . It moves at a brisk pace and the numerous subplots always keep you interested . All the acting is good with top honors going to Hurst , Miller and Kerry . Best of all is Chaney - - he's just superb . His acting beneath all that makeup is nothing short of miraculous . In some ways this is almost better than " Phantom of the Opera " ( which is considered his best movie ) . I still like " Phantom " more but this one is great on its own . A must-see . I saw the uncut 2 hour version on TCM . It's not in the best of shape but is still OK .
Excellent film noir	A dead mobsters wife ( Marie Windsor ) is going to testify against the mob . Detective Sergeant Water Brown ( Charles McGraw ) is hired to take her from Chicago to Los Angeles by train and protect her . There are bad guys on the train - - but they don't know what she looks like . Can Brown keep her a secret all the way ? Fast ( 70 minutes ) , tight B film . A perfect example of how to shot an exciting movie in a small setting - - 95 % of the film takes place in small train compartments . Director Richard Fleischer deserves a lot of credit for this . The script moves quickly and there's a great twist at the end ( I'm almost ashamed to admit I didn't see it coming ) . Also a very violent fight in a compartment is a highlight . Windsor and McGraw are fine in their roles - - no Academy Award performances here but they are as good in their roles as is possible . A classic B film noir . Well worth catching . Avoid the terrible 1990 remake .
Top notch film noir	Scott Henderson ( Alan Curtis ) is unjustly accused of killing his unfaithful wife . The night she was murdered he was out with a mystery woman who refused to give him her name . After accused of the murder , the police visit all the places he had been with her , but people only remember him being alone . He's sentenced to die and his secretary ( Ella Raines ) sets out to find the murderer herself because she loves him . This was made as a B film from Universal ( look at the cast - - all character actors and one star - - Franchot Tone - - on the decline ) . The budget was small and the cast mostly unknown but what came out is one of the best film noirs of the 1940s . It's beautifully directed by Curt Siodmak and has a fantastic script that came from an excellent book by William Irish ( a pen name for Cornell Woolrich ) . It moves quickly and just looks fantastic . And there's the infamous jam session with Raines and Elisha Cook Jr . which just comes off the screen with incredible sexual energy ( I'm surprised the censors didn't cut it ) . There are only a few flaws that prevent this from being perfect . Tone gives a dreadful performance . He looks ghastly and he's just horrible . Also Curtis is stiff and bland as Henderson . You really wonder why Raines loves him - - he's so unemotional . But Raines is pretty good in the lead role . She's pretty and full of life . Also the last scene when the murderer is after her never rings true . He's hardly a threat physically and her reactions just seem overstated . Still I'm giving this a 9 . A really great film - - flaws aside .
Old and overdone but still a great movie	Medical student Frankenstein ( Augustus Phillips ) wants to create the perfect human being . Instead what he comes up with is an ugly monster ( Charles Ogle ) . Frankenstein runs off to marry his sweetheart Elizabeth ( Mary Fuller ) but the monster visits him on his wedding night . . . A VERY loose adaptation of Mary Shelley's novel . I expected the worst from this . I knew it was made in 1910 and was only 16 minutes long . The surviving print is in pretty dreadful shape too and Phillips extreme over acting had me rolling my eyes . Still , I DID like it . This was considered lost for decades until a print was found in the 1970s . For whatever reason it wasn't released on video and the DVD issue was just a few years ago . Historically this is important as being ( as far as we know ) the first cinematic version of Frankenstein . It also works very well on its own terms . Phillips broad over acting aside , the rest of the performers give good performances . Ogle especially conveys all his emotions through his gestures without overdoing it . Also the special effects showing the creation of the monster are ( for their day ) pretty impressive . The ending was a little too silly for me ( true love conquers all ! Sheesh ! ) but I still enjoyed this . Try to forget the classic 1931 version and watch this with an open mind . A must for any fan of cinema .
OK it makes no sense . . . but boy is it FUN ! ! ! ! ! ! !	The plot is incomprehensible , characterizations are nonexistent and Ellen Barkin's character makes no sense . Still I LOVE this film . It never stops moving ( heck , who needs to understand things ? ) , is VERY colorful and has some incredible lines ( " Wherever you go . . . there you are " , " The Duece you say " , " Cursa you monkey boy ! " ) . Also this is an instant cult classic . . . it demands multiple viewings to figure out what's going on ( it took me 3 viewings ) ! Peter Weller ( whatever happened to . . . ) is great as Banzai - - he's handsome , square-jawwed and doesn't take anything seriously . The rest of his crew doesn't make much of an impression ( except for Perfect Tommy and New Jersey ) . Lithgow , surprisingly , isn't good as Dr . Lizardo . He doesn't go all the way with the role . . . he seems to be holding back . Also , he's impossible to understand . Barkin is just wheepy , whiny and annoying . Still worth seeing . . . just don't expect a lot of logic . Great closing credits too .
Absolutely horrifying	The effects of a nuclear bomb exploding near London and how if affects a woman and her unborn child . It shows them before the blast and 20 years after . This wasn't the first movie I ever saw about nuclear holocaust . In 1983 US TV ran " The Day After " showing what might possibly happen if there were a nuclear holocaust . The movie disturbed and depressed me for days . . . but I forgot it pretty quickly . Years later I rented this from a video store . . . and was absolutely horrified . It's been 15 years ( easily ) since I've seen this and it has never left me . " Day After " was ( for American TV ) pretty graphic but not that bad . " Threads " however held nothing back . You see people incinerated , maimed or dying from radiation poisoning . A woman has to deliver her own baby by biting her own umbilical cord . A man sells dead rats for food . It goes on and on . It also shows how it would affect the environment - - totally demolishing the ozone layer and killing people ( slowly ) with ultra violet radiation . It doesn't flinch from anything and is EXTREMELY disturbing . The ending offers no hope . I'll probably never see it again because it was so horrifying but I think everyone should see this at least once . My one complaint - - it's a bit too long . Still - - highly recommended . Just brace yourself .
Disturbing to say the least	15 year old Angelique ( Caitlin Wachs ) is pregnant from - - she believes - - a demon from hell . She gets to an abortion clinic where doctors try to figure out if she's crazy and what to do about her baby which is growing extremely quick . Her anti-abortion father Dwayne ( Ron Perlman ) wants to get her out of the clinic . . . and won't let anything stand in his way . Well-written and directed ( of course ) episode by John Carpenter . This is easily one of the most disturbing things he's ever done . It keeps you wondering and guessing , moves very quickly , has an extremely disturbing ultrasound sequence and some very gory and sick murders . Carpenter doesn't use the subtle approach to violence that he used for " Halloween " or " The Fog " - - he shoves the blood in your face ( like " The Thing " ) . Still it does work in the context of this story - - it's supposed to be disturbing and sick to get its point across . Also there are some pretty decent special effects at the end . The only problem with this is that the fate of at least five characters are left hanging at the end ( Perlman disappearing completely really bothered me ) and the point of the story is kind of vague . Also the acting is not that good - - except for Wachs and Perlman . And Wachs doesn't look even remotely 15 . Still this is a disturbing little film by Carpenter . A 9 .
Landmark of gay cinema . . . and a good drama too	Film takes place in Britain in 1961 . Back then you could be sent to jail if you were found to be a homosexual . A happily married successful barrister ( Dirk Bogarde ) is being blackmailed by a brief affair he had with another man years before . He doesn't want to pay . . . but if he doesn't his career and marriage will be over . What can he do ? When this came on TV originally all the scenes with dialogue about gays were cut out ( ! ! ! ! ) cutting the film by 10 minutes and making it incomprehensible . It wasn't until 1990 that complete versions started showing up and people realized how good this film really was . There's nothing explicit in it but the dialogue ( heard today ) comes across as incredibly homophobic and ignorant . Also homosexuality is presented as a disease that can be cured ! Still , for its time , that's how it was thought of and some of the characters make it clear that gays are just like anybody else . It tries to show both sides of the issue . The film is tight and quick - - it moves very quickly . It's shot in moody black & white which helps the atmosphere of the film . The writing is good and the acting is just great - - there's not one bad performance in this . The two leads are incredible - - Dirk Bogarde is just great as the barrister whose life is slowly becoming a living hell . You see him fighting to keep control . Even better is Sylvia Syms as his wife who struggles to understand what is happening . The sequence between the two of them when he tells her what happened is just great . Ironically star Bogarde was gay in real life - - but never came out even though he lived until 1999 . It's sad that decades after this film was made , gay people are still afraid to come out . As a film this is no ground breaker - - just a quick , very good thriller . For gay representation it's a milestone . It was the first time the word " homosexual " was used in a film ( I believe ) and showed compassion for its gay characters . A must for viewers of gay cinema and anyone who likes a well-done thriller . A 9 .
One of the best Marx Brothers films	The plot here is really secondary . It involves Captain Jeffrey Spaulding ( Groucho ) coming to a rich woman's ( Margaret Dumont - - as always ) house for the unveiling of a famous painting . Harpo and Chico are on hand as musicians and are hired to steal the painting . Zeppo is wasted ( as always ) and there's a groan-worthy romantic subplot between Lillian Roth and Hal Thompson . This isn't a perfect film . Ther are some problems - - it's based on a stage play - - and it shows ; the plot gets real silly ; some of the songs are terrible ; Chico and Harpo have their obligatory ( and dull ) piano and harp solos ; there's an incredibly fake-sounding thunderstorm and Roth is TERRIBLE . Also there's one sequence where Harpo keeps hitting Dumont in the stomach - - that's NOT funny . Still there's enough good material here to make it worth watching . There's a great poker game with Chico , Hapo , Dumont and another guest ; the " Hooray for Captain Spaulding " number ; Dumonts facial expressions are priceless and there are plenty of nonsensical conversations between Chico and Harpo - - even Zeppo gets into one ! This was out of circulation from the 1950s to the 1970s ( for some reason ) . When it came back out it was released to theatres and a big hit . Worth seeing .
Almost a 10	Autobiographical comedy / drama by Neil Simon . In it a recent widower George Schneider ( James Caan ) meets and falls in love with a recent divorcee Jennie MacLaine ( Marsha Mason ) . He marries her quickly , but realizes he hasn't gotten completely over his first wife . Is her love for him enough to see them through ? This was based on the real troubles Simon had when he married Mason in the early 1970s . He got over them ( not completely though - - they divorced in 1981 ) and wrote " Chapter Two " for the stage . I never saw it on the stage but I remember seeing this movie up the theatre back in 1980 . I loved it ( with reservations ) back then and I still love it ( with reservations ) now . The dialogue is virtual non-stop one-liners - - real people don't talk like that but it is fun and entertaining to listen to . The dramatic sequences work well especially with Mason giving her all to what must have been a very difficult role for her to play . She's just tremendous ( and drop-dead gorgeous ) and was understandably nominated for an Academy Award for Best Actress for this role ( she lost to Sally Field for " Norma Rae " ) . The film looks beautiful , moves fairly quickly and there's nice strong support from Joseph Bologna and ( especially ) Valerie Harper . . . but there's one big problem . James Caan . He's a wonderful DRAMATIC actor . . . NOT comedic . He seems very uncomfortable playing a mild-mannered grieving man , and the poor guy has no comedic timing and doesn't know how to tell a joke - - most of his lines fall flat . With a better leading man I might have given it a 10 . As it is this is a strong 9 . Worth catching . . . especially for Mason .
Great horror film , almost a 10	A nurse ( Frances Dee ) is assigned to the West Indies to care for the semi-comatose wife of a plantation owner ( Tom Conway ) . Over there she becomes involved with a very dysfunctional family and the realization that her patient may be a zombie - - one of the living dead . Eerie , poetic horror film - - one of the great ones producer Val Lewton made for RKO on no budget . There are many creepy sequences - - the crying and first meeting of Dee with her patient ; the constant pounding of the voodoo drums in the distance at night ; Dee being awakened by shadows outside her bedroom window ; the walk through the sugar cane field to the voodoo ritual and the guard they must pass . There's also a man with a guitar who pops up from time to time acting as a Greek chorus - - always commenting on the action . The script is very good and literate and the acting is actually not bad - - except for Conway ( who's lousy ) . But Ellison and Dee are good . I almost gave this a 10 - - but one thing kept me from doing that . The silly love story between Conway and Dee . It's not needed and is a great distraction from the plot . Also Conway's acting is so bad that it makes the scenes play even worse . Those aside though , it's a truly great horror film . A must see . Cute little trivia note : Look closely for the " Any characters and events depicted in this photoplay . . . " etc . etc . under the opening credits . Especially note this line : " Any similarity to actual persons living , dead , OR POSSESSED is purely coincidental . " Cute joke . . . wonder how many people caught it .
Silly but fun	Chucky ( the murderous doll from " Child's Play " and 2 crappy sequels ) is dead . But his ex-girlfriend Tiffany ( Jennifer Tilly ) gets his remains and ( using " Voodoo for Dummies " ) revives him . Then , through circumstances too convoluted to get into , SHE is killed and has her soul put into another doll ! Together they fall in love and kidnap a nice couple ( Nick Stabile , Katherine Heigl ) to take them to Chuck's coffin to get an amulet to make Chucky and Tiffany real people again . . . A lot better than it sounds . After the last two sequels to " Child's Play " ( both of which were horrible ) I was expecting the worst , but this actually was lots of fun . The movie doesn't take itself seriously for a second ( seriously - - how could it ? ) and the lines and situations are actually quite funny . Also there are a few VERY gory murders thrown in to satisfy us horror fans and the film never stops moving . The movie also has a few things usually not found in a horror movie - - a gay best friend ( Gordon Michael Woolvett ) who is intelligent and not played for laughs and a sequence in which Stabile has his shirt off just to show his muscular body . John Ritter has a nice cameo too as a sheriff . The acting is good - - Stabile is young , VERY handsome and likable ; Heigl doesn't have much to do but pulls it off and Brad Dourif ( the voice of Chucky ) and Tilly are hilarious as the murderous dolls . My favorite part is when the dolls have sex ( don't ask ) and she asks for a rubber and he responds , " But I'm MADE of rubber ! " The special effects are good ( no lousy CGI here ) and this is one of the few horror films to mix humor and violence in an entertaining way . Well worth seeing . I give it a 9 .
As good as " Charade "	Professor David Pollock ( Gregory Peck ) is kidnapped by Beshraavi ( Alan Badel ) to decipher some hieroglyphics that contain state secrets ( or something ) . Throw in sexy Yasim Azir ( Sophia Loren ) and the Arabian prime minster . . . and things get interesting . This was written for Audrey Hepburn and Cary Grant after " Charade " was a big hit . Like " Charade " this is a mix of romance , mystery , comedy and violence . Neither could do it so Loren and Peck were hired . They worked just as well as Hepburn and Grant did . I'm really surprised at Peck pulling this off - - he never did movies like this . The script is great with Peck and Loren throwing off one liners at ease . The plot is overly convoluted and I'm STILL not sure what was going on , but it's so entertaining I'm not complaining . This was also beautifully directed by Stanley Donen - - right from the colorful opening credits there are a number of truly astounding camera shots ( love how Loren is first shown ) . Like the previous film this plays like a Hitchcock movie - - a good one . The acting is great . Loren and Peck are lots of fun together ; Badel plays an evil slimy villain convincingly and Kieron Moore is very " interesting " as Yusser Kasim ( his dialogue especially - - " daddy-o " , " cat " , " cool it " , " bug me " , " sweet mama " ? ? ? ? ? ? ) . It dates the movie a little . Still this is a fun movie - - very entertaining full of great dialogue and adventure . Recommended .
What a dream !	A musical based ( very loosely ) on Diana Ross and the Supremes . It starts in Detroit in the early 60s when a black , all-girl trio sing at amateur night . They're called the Dreamettes ( Jennifer Hudson , Beyonce Knowles and Anika Noni Rose ) . A sleazy manager ( Jamie Foxx ) hires them as backup singers for James early ( Eddie Murphy ) . Eventually they get their chance at stardom but Hudson is told that Knowles will be the lead singer . . . and the band falls apart . The melodramatics are totally predictable and there's some so-so acting ( Murphy and Foxx walk through their roles ) but the three leading ladies keep this on track and the musical numbers crackle with energy and fire . All three can sing beautifully and dance too . When they're on stage the movie leaps to life . Even if the songs are just OK their performances lift them up . After the show-stopping " I Tell You I'm Not Going " belted out by Hudson the film does sort of meander and get oh so predictable but I still loved this . As I said the acting is OK by the guys - - the ladies hold this together . Rose doesn't have much to do but she's full of life and energy ; Knowles can really belt out the songs and is a VERY good actress but this is Hudson's movie - - and she knows it . She's just a mountain of strength and her voice is just beyond belief . She DOES stop the movie with " I Tell You . . . " My silent audience applauded out loud when she finished . Whenever she's on screen you can't take your eyes off her . I have only one real complaint - - the musical numbers are shot with that annoying MTV style - - cutting to a different angle endless times during the performances . There's some nice choreography going on during the numbers - - when you can see it . All they should have done was plant the camera and let the ladies and their magic carry the numbers through . Still I can live with that . I give it a 9 only because of the editing and the predictable melodrama - - but I still recommend this . A really good musical .
Who would've thought it ? A VERY GOOD horror film remake !	Tom ( Jensen Ackles ) returns to his home town of Harmony ten years after a mad miner went on a massacre and killed 22 people . When he returns the murders start up again . Sheriff Axel ( Kerr Smith ) who was once his friend thinks he's doing them . Meanwhile Tom's ex Sarah ( Jaime King ) , who's now married to Axel , thinks Tom is innocent . The original " My Bloody Valentine " came out in 1981 . It was a low-budget horror film that was cut to ribbons by the MPAA . Virtually all the killings were either shortened or eliminated entirely . ( The original director said it should have been retitled " My Bloodless Valentine " ) Nevertheless the film worked . I saw it opening night in 1981 and remember it scaring me silly . Now , 26 years later , we get a 3-D remake . I expected the worst but was surprised at how good it was ! The story was changed and is a little needlessly convoluted and Smith is a TERRIBLE actor . But , those two things aside , this was great ! The MPAA seems to be apologizing for what they did to the 1981 original . The gore in here is REAL extreme and over the top - - the most I've ever seen in an R rated film . Also in 3-D it's even more explicit ( the 3-D works incredibly well ) . Two murders cut from the original film - - a pickax through an eye and a woman killed in a dryer - - are recreated here and shown in full detail ! I personally found all the gore hard to take seriously and was actually laughing at the more over the top ones . Also this movie knows its audience - - it has all the slasher movie clichs and barrels through them at lightning speed ! There are no long boring searches through dark houses or rooms . The ones here are done quick and violent - - one in a supermarket actually scared me ! The killer runs after his victims at full speed too - - he doesn't just casually walk after them like Jason or Myers do . The ultimate solution seemed pretty stupid - - but I'm not complaining . Also there's good acting by Ackles ( who had a hard role ) and King was just excellent . Also a great scene , for some audience members , has a completely nude woman is chased by the killer . And yes - - everything is shown in detail . A kick-a , gory , strong and ( most importantly ) scary horror film ! I give this a 9 . A must for horror fans . The 3-D version is the only way to see it .
Very good but overpraised	Really strange mock documentray that takes place in America in the 1920s - - a man , Leonard Zelig ( Woody Allen ) is a human chameleon - - he takes on the physical characteristics of any man he is with . He's regarded as a freak but a caring doctor named Eudora ( Mia Farrow ) tries to cure him . This came out in 1983 and was a huge hit . With it's truly incredible trick photography ( inserting Allen and Farrow in actual newsreel footage of the 20s ) it was fascinating to watch - - and still is . But critics overpraised it ridiculously . It's a very good little comedy but no masterpiece . Some critics were comparing it to " Citizen Kane " ! As it is it's good but not totally satisfying - - there's just not enough material for a full-length film . Even at its short running time - - 79 minutes - - it feels too long . At about the 50 minute mark it should have ended . When it was over I was still " hungry " for another movie . So , it's worth seeing for its photography and a few hilarious moments , but it's not enough .
Harrowing and grim but fascinating	Movie about how the Great Depression affected kids . Teenagers Eddie ( Frankie Darro ) and Tommy ( Edwin Philips ) run away from home because they can't find jobs and their parents can't afford them . They travel on trains where they meet Sally ( Dorothy Coonan ) . Soon there's a huge gang of these homeless kids traveling the rails and stealing and begging to survive . SPOILERS ! ! ! Strong pre-Code film . It's pretty grim but ( I've heard ) very truthful of it's time . It moves like lightning and lasts only a little over an hour . In one very disturbing moment it's made pretty clear that a young girl is raped ! I can only imagine how this was taken in 1933 . The funny thing is that the police aren't made out to be villains . At one point they hose the kids down to push them out of town . One policeman says that it's a rotten thing to do . Another agrees pointing out that he has two kids at home . Also it doesn't offer any solutions to the problem . However it DOES have a happy ending ( that I didn't buy for a second ) . The acting is good across the board but Darro is the best ( even though he has a tendency to overact ) . He has a speech at the end that's just great and pretty much sums everything up . An excellent film showing a view of the Depression that is never talked about . I give it a 9 . I can't give it a 10 because of that ending .
Tragic silent film	Ulysses ( handsome Antonio Moreno ) owns a boat called the Mare Nostrum . He also has an uncaring wife but a son Estaban ( Mickey Brantford ) whom he loves . An evil , sexy German spy Freye ( Alice Terry ) seduces Ulysses and convinces him to help bring supplies to a German sub . He does and the sub ends up destroying a ship that Estaban is on . Ulysses vows to kill all the people responsible . This silent film was believed lost for many years . Thankfully it's been found and beautifully restored . Basically , this is a tragedy so it's hardly a happy film but still it's extremely well-made and directed by Rex Ingram , one of the best silent film directors . There are some very amusing miniature ships and subs in some sequences , but this WAS 1926 - - that's probably the best they had ! The acting is good too . Moreno was a very popular star in his day - - sadly , he's forgotten today . He's good-looking and gives one hell of a performance - - some of his reaction shots were incredibly good . Terry was obviously hired because she was married to director Ingram , but she was a good actress and she's good here . She was cast against type playing an evil woman ( she usually played the good girl ) and she pulls it off . Her scene in front of the firing squad is just great . And young Brantford is very good as Estaban . The only bad thing was Caragol ( Hughie Mack ) - - an obese man who provides unfunny comic relief . And it DOES have a silly ending . Still , a great silent film . Well worth catching .
Sci-fi masterpiece	Silent German film about a city of the future run by dehumanized workers who are sick of their lot and plan to stage a revolt . Kind , sweet , lovely Maria ( Brigette Helm ) stops them saying they should talk through their differences . However the evil head of the city wants a revolt so he can get rid of them and put in robot workers . He gets a mad scientist to help him . He kidnaps Maria and ( in a stunning sequence ) transforms the robot into her image . However this Maria is pure evil and sets the workers off . . . and things go barreling out of control . The original version of this was ( purportedly ) 5 hours long ! It has been cut drastically over the years and much footage was lost . Finally , 75 years later , we have a version that is complete as possible ( it runs a little over 2 hours ) , looks incredible and has a great reconstruction of the 1927 score . The film still holds up - - the special effects are still impressive and quite obviously influenced many sci-fi films of the future ( " Blade Runner " especially ) . The movie moves quickly and there is ( literally ) a cast of hundreds . Great sets , special effects , a beautiful music score . . . a definite must-see . Only debit - - the acting . It's VERY overdone especially by Helms . She's OK as the sweet Maria but is hopeless doing evil Maria . The audience I saw it with broke out laughing more than a few times at the expressions on her face . Also the actors must have been freezing doing this - - you can see their breath ! Also , there's a 1984 reconstruction which cut the film to 80 minutes , added tinting and ( briefly ) a color sequence and put in a rock score ( including Loverboy , Pat Benatar , Lyle Lovett etc etc ) . Sounds horrible but it works . It just doesn't make a lot of sense ( 40 minutes were edited out ! ) . That's worth seeing , but see this one first . Again - - a must-see !
Mostly historically important but moderately entertaining	This is obviously not a full adaptation of Charles Dickens story - - it only runs 17 minutes ! It assumes the audience knows the story and just basically gives us the highlights . It involves all 4 visits from the ghosts ( using some surprisingly good special effects for the time ) and flashbacks to Scrooge's life . And it shows his complete change . It's actually very well-done and , for what it is , entertaining . But where's Tiny Tim ? Nevertheless , recommended .
Not as good as the original but fun	First off , I could have lived without the little intros from an all-star cast ( Steve Martin , Bette Midler , James Earl Jones , Penn & Teller , Angela Landsbury , etc . ) and the movie was way too short ( 75 minutes ) . Still , the music was great ( of course ) and the animation fit the music perfectly . My favorites were the Tin Soldier one , the flamingo with the yo-yo and Donald Duck helping Noah get the animals on the ark . They stuck to classical music too . I heard they were considering using MODERN rock ' n'roll ! ! ! Thankfully that was no carried out . ( I can just picture animated figures dancing to " Like A Virgin " - - shudder ) . Not really for kids - - they'd be bored silly . But fun and entertaining for adults . Worth seeing - - couldn't it have just been a little longer ?
Really silly and very funny !	I was surprised at how much I liked this movie ! The basic plot has Boris , Natasha and Fearless Leader becomig humans and trying to take over the world through really bad TV . Rocky and Bullwinkle and an FBI agent try to stop them . Basically it's a bunch of bad jokes and adult references flying fast and furious ( just like the TV show ) . The thing is the movie KNOWS the jokes are bad and acknowledges it constantly - - and it's always funny ! The jokes are nonstop and were so knowingly dumb that I couldn't stop laughing . . . you're laughing WITH the movie not AT it ! The only real drawback was making Boris , Natasha and Fearless Leader humans . Jason Alexander , Rene Russo and Robert DeNiro are good actors . . . but not here . They LOOK the parts but they're portraying two-demensional characters ( in every respect ) and have NOTHING to work with . Other than that this is a very funny , very silly movie . . . SEE IT !
Excellent	Great documentary of the heavy metal scene of the late 1980s . Unlike the first " Decline . . . " this movie concentrates more on interviews than concert footage . There are just fascinating talks with old time performers ( Alice Cooper , Aerosmith , Ozzy Osbourne ) and newcomers ( Odin , WASP , Poison ) . The contrasts and their views on music , drugs and sex are very interesting and illuminating . The movie makes no judgments on the performers or their music . . . they leave that up to the audience . The whole feeling of the film is actually uplifting and very funny . The bands come across as very upbeat and accessible . The interviews with fans of the music are just as fun . Interesting to see Ozzy Osbourne years before that reality show he did for MTV . The only depressing footage is an interview with Chris Holmes of WASP . He's drunk out of his mind and makes it quite clear that he hates life , is an alcoholic , had a heavily dysfunctional childhood and will be dead soon . Very scary to watch and sad . That aside , this is a great , accurate documentary of heavy metal . A must-see .
Full of energy and fire	In 1962 Detroit overweight Tracy Turnblad ( newcomer Nikki Blonsky ) is in love with the Corny Collins Show on TV . It's basically just " American Bandstand " on a local level . She gets on the show and is a big hit . She then pushes for the show to be open to blacks and whites ( back in 1962 that was unheard of ) . She ends up in a battle with evil Velma von Tussle ( Michelle Pfeiffer ) and her equally evil daughter Amber ( Brittany Snow ) . VERY energetic ( to a fault ) adaptation of the 2002 Broadway hit which was in turn taken from a 1988 John Waters movie . The movie is full of life , the songs are great , the cast is energetic and this movie is just basically one of the most uplifting Hollywood musical I've seen in a long time . The movie never stops moving and the cast just carries it through full force . Blonsky is just great as Tracy - - she belts out the songs and is always on target and very good in her role . John Travolta plays her mother in a fat suit . It's . . . interesting casting but it doesn't work . He has a VERY strange accent and seems constricted by his fat suit . Christopher Walken plays her ( his ) husband . Now I've never liked Walken - - I always thought he was a one note actor BUT I do like him here . He seems relaxed and has fun with his role . Amanda Bynes is LOTS of fun as Penny Pingleton ; Pfeiffer and Snow are definitely having fun ; Queen Latifah barrels through with her role as Motormouth Maybelle ( she appears to be channeling Ruth Brown ) and James Marsden ( as Corny Collins ) and Zac Efron ( as Link Larson ) are just handsome and grinning nonstop through their roles . Basically this movie just keeps moving , is VERY funny and is actually better than the 1988 Waters original . And how can you hate a movie that shows us that integration is a GREAT idea ? A 10 all the way .
Just great	In 1951 two married people Doris ( Ellen Burstyn ) and George ( Alan Alda ) meet , fall in love and , despite their marriages to other people , have sex . After spending the night together and realize they can't go on not seeing each other again . So , once a year , they meet at the same place to celebrate . This movie follows them from 1951-1977 . Some people have complained that this movie celebrated adultery but COME ON ! It's just a movie ! This was based on a successful play ( which Burnstyn won the Tony for ) and the script is just wonderful - - full of funny lines , sharp observations and potent drama . It's incredible to see how these two characters change over the years - - how they reflect the values of their decades . Just fascinating . Burstyn is just phenomenal on this film - - you see her change from a weak woman to a strong one . She was understandably nominated for an Oscar for this . Alda I've never liked . He's pretty good at comedy but horrible at drama . He's not good but not bad enough to destroy the film . Also there's an Oscar-nominated song " Last Time I Felt Like This " which perfectly sets the mood of the film . A sweet , romantic , wonderful film . Highly recommended . Funniest sequence : Burstyn's pregnancy .
I love this movie - - and I HATE westerns !	An aging cowboy named Steve Judd ( Joel McCrea ) agrees to transport $20 , 000 in gold across some bad country . He asks old friend Gil Westrum ( Randolph Scott ) to help him . Westrum brings along young , hot-headed Heck Longtree ( Ron Starr ) . Along the way they meet lonely Elsa Kundson ( Mariette Hartley in her first role ) who wants to escape from her heavily religious father . I won't tell you anymore . You should see the movie yourself to find out . OK - - I never liked westerns . I found them long , boring and stupid . Also I never thought Joel McCrea was that good of an actor ( even he said he should have tried to be better ) . I have nothing against him but every performance seemed to be the same . I avoided this movie but all the good reviews got me thinking . . . so I took a chance . I'm so glad I did ! This movie is quite simply a masterpiece . For starters Scott and McCrea ( who were both well into their 60s when this was made ) played the characters as they should have - - two tired old men who can't really cope with aging and the way the West has changed . It doesn't glorify the cowboy - - it shows them as being real human beings . McCrea's character tries to be optimistic but Scott is negative from the beginning . Also Starr keeps calling them old men . Along the journey the characters develop and change in completely believable ways . The talks between Scott and McCrea are just priceless . These two had both made a large number of westerns by the time this was done so they were totally at ease with each other and the subject matter . Starr is given the unenviable role of the young kid who learns his lesson - - but he pulls it off . Hartley is so young and beautiful and completely believable in her role . Scott is just superb in his last role . As for McCrea - - he's OK . Again , I have nothing against him but I've seen this performance before . Still it doesn't destroy the movie . Add to that some beautiful wide-screen photography , a sweeping score and well-directed by Sam Peckinpah . It's hard to believe he did " The Wild Bunch " a few years later which is a very vicious , cruel and incredibly bloody movie . This one is the exact opposite ! This was thrown away by MGM when it came out but it's gone on to rightfully be regarded as a true classic . Don't miss this one - - even if you don't like westerns ! A 10 all the way .
Just great !	Film follows the life of David Copperfield ( Freddie Bartholomew as a boy , Frank Lawton as a man ) and all the colorful characters he meets in 1880s England . I've never read the book so I can't say how faithful this is , but as a movie it's just wonderful ! The sets are beautiful , it's very well-directed by George Cukor and there's some wonderful acting here . Special notice must be given to - - Bartholomew who is excellent as the young Copperfield ( he was only 11 when he did this ! ) ; Elizabeth Allen as his mother ; Basil Rathbone as the evil Mr . Murdstone ; Lionel Barrymore as Peggotry ; Edna May Oliver as Aunt Bessie ; Made Evans as Agenes Whitfield ; Hugh Williams as Steerforth and Roland Young as Uriah Heep . The only real bad acting was by Lawton ; Maureen O'Sullivan who's just awful as Dora and W . C . Fields as Micawber - - Fields was a wonderful COMEDIC actor but this was a dramatic role . Never boring despite the length and a perfect example of the kind of picture they just don't make these days . One of the best pictures of the 1930s - - a definite must-see !
Just great	Superb documentary on the making of " The Exorcist " . They go through EVERYTHING in this . They talk to all the actors , director William Friedkin , writer William Peter Blatty , assorted crew members and technicians - - even the three priest used as technical advisors in the film ! They go through it step by step - - the casting , show audition tests , cut sequences ( including the infamous " Spider Walk " which looks MUCH different than it appeared in the slightly reedited version released in 2001 ) and goes into detail about the more famous scenes . This is never dull for one second - - the amount of information they squeeze into 75 minutes is incredible . Most fascinating are the talks with Ellen Burstyn and Linda Blair and their thoughts about doing the movie and how they see it now . This is essential viewing for all fans of the film . Basically one of the best - - if not THE best - - horror documentaries ever done . A 10 all the way .
Excellent drive-in trash	Film focuses on two gangs - - the Silver Daggers lead by Dominic ( Asher Brauner ) and the Dagger Debs lead by Dominic's girlfriend , Lace ( Robbie Lee ) . A new girl in town Maggie ( Joanne Nail ) joins the Debs and becomes friends with Lace - - but Dominic wants Maggie . Evil Deb Patch ( Monica Gayle ) knows this and manipulates Lace into hating Maggie . Also there's a rival gang , the Crabs , who are trying to take over . Silly but very engaging trash movie - - it's really an excellent movie OF ITS TYPE ! There's prison fights , lesbian guards , rape , prostitution , feminism , politics , a black female gang and tons of violence and action . There's also a hilarious ( and exciting ) shoot out at a skating rink ! There was a twist halfway through the movie that I didn't see coming and it all ends up with a climatic switchblade fight . I can honestly say I was never bored and enjoyed this thoroughly . The script is terrible but it never takes itself too seriously . As for the acting - - Brauner is OK as Dom ; Nail is lousy as Maggie and Lee is TERRIBLE as Lace - - easily one of the worst acting jobs I've ever seen in a movie ( and that's saying something ) . Gayle was actually pretty good as Patch . Also of note is Kitty Bruce ( Lenny Bruce's daughter ) who's character ( Donut ) is treated like dirt . The is NOT a good movie but an excellent trash film . Next to " Coffy " and " Foxy Brown " probably director / writer Jack Hill's best film . . . although he DOES call this a piece of trash . He's right !
Superb . . . and frightening	Excellent documentary on the MPAthe company that rates movies . It has been accused of favoring major companies ( with less stringent ratings ) than independent companies . Filmmakers are interviewed about what they had to cut and why to avoid the dreaded NC-rating . Some of the revelations are at once funny . . . and shocking . To find out more about the board a lesbian detective is hired to find out who comprises the board - - - the results are interesting . They also talk about the appeals process - - when a filmmaker disagrees with the rating and files a complaint . A separate group of people are brought in to view the movie and give their opinion - - but it was never revealed who these people are . Here we find out who they are - - and the revelations are downright shocking . It shows that the MPAA is a censor board ( despite what it says ) and have a stranglehold on movies and what they're allowed to show . Basically , EVERYONE should see this film . Shocking , hilarious and thoroughly engrossing . HIGHY recommended .
An exhausting movie but fascinating	This is an adaptation of Alan Moore's great graphic novel . It takes place in an alternate universe in the 1980s when Richard Nixon is still president . Super hero groups have been outlawed by the president . The former Comedian ( Jeffrey Dean Morgan ) is savagely killed . Another hero named Rorschah ( Jackie Earle Haley ) investigates and notices former super heroes AND villains are being killed . Nite Owl II ( Patrick Wilson ) and Silk Spectre II ( Malin Ackerman ) also know something is up . And the blue ( and frequently nude ) Dr . Manhattan ( Billy Crudup ) sees something apocalyptic approaching . . . If you haven't read the novel you might have a problem with this . There's WAY too much happening in the book to cram into one movie so this moves through characters and situations at light speed . Some subplots are dropped completely and the depressing tone of the book is lightened . There's also some pretty funny lines added to lighten things up . My favorites came when the main villain says , " I'm not some comic book super villain " and someone says ( when it's mentioned Ronald Reagan might be running for president ) , " Nobody wants a cowboy as a president " . Even with the changes this might confuse people who haven't read the book . I've read it multiple times so I wasn't confused . I went with a friend who never read it and she wasn't confused either ! I guess it just depends on the person . The movie is 165 minutes - - it's long but I was never bored . The visuals are impressive and the special effects are just great . I was exhausted and depressed by the end of the movie but I love it . It's that rarity - - an adult film not dumbed down for teenagers . Yes , it involves super heroes in silly costumes ( Nite Owl II in particular ) but the fights aren't fun . They're violent , VERY bloody and brutal . . . especially when the Comedian gets involved . He enjoys the violence and the film shows him going full blast . There's also a rape scene which is actually more upsetting than the bloody battles ! The only fight sequence that wasn't too bloody or upsetting was when Nite Owl II and Silk Spectre II invade a prison and basically knock down about 30 or 40 prisoners in a few minutes ! Fights aside this is also a mystery about what's going on and why . It's well-done and keeps you guessing till the end . Then there's nudity - - there's plenty of nude full-frontal shots of Dr . Manhattan . But seriously - - what's the problem ? It's a penis . So what ? Every guy has one ! Supposedly this has upset people but the movie IS R rated and it fits the character . When I saw it my audience was dead quiet . Nobody seemed bothered or unnerved by it . If you're so prudish that a nude guy bothers you then perhaps you shouldn't see the movie . Great soundtrack too . The acting is excellent . Morgan has the hardest role but he pulls it off . Wilson and Ackerman are sympathetic and nice without becoming TOO syrupy . As for Crudup I can't say how good he is . It's his voice but Manhattan is all CGI . All I'll say is that his voice matches the character . Haley is good too but his voice was way too caustic for the character . Carla Gugino also shines in a supporting role . Only Matthew Goode ( as Ozymandies ) disappoints . He seems to be holding back for some reason . . . but he's not in the movie much . So a very violent , long and adult super hero movie . It's not for everybody but I was fascinated . A 10 all the way .
Dirty but funny	The lives and loves of three Britsh men and women . Sort of like a British version of " Friends " . I was surprised to see there's only a grand total of 28 episodes considering it ran 4 years ! I caught this on BBC America . The insertion of commercials hurt the shows a little - - it broke up the flow of dialogue and acting . Still it was always very funny . The shows have VERY explicit sexual talk ( for USA viewers at least ) and it shocked me a little . . . but I'd be lying if I said I didn't laugh . The cast were all attractive and young and were very good in their respective roles . Also there is some partial nudity ( both male and female ) in certain episodes . This isn't for everybody but if you would like a fun , sexually explicit ( mostly in talk ) British sitcom - - it's right here ! Well worth seeing .
A classic - - but not scary	Henry Frankenstein ( Colin Clive ) and mad Dr . Petorious ( Ernest Thesiger ) team up to make a mate for the monster . That's all you need to know really . This sequel to the 1931 " Frankenstein " is even better than the original ! This one has a bigger budget ( check out the enormous sets ) , some VERY elaborate costumes ( check out what Valerie Hobson is wearing in her first appearance ) , a script that moves like lightning and every cast member giving their all . Karloff appears again as the monster and he's fantastic - - you can see he isn't evil at all , just misunderstood . His attempts to make contact with people - - and the violence he's greeted with - - are heartbreaking . And there's a mock crucifiction sequence which must have been hell for Karloff . Clive is just OK as Frankenstein . Hobson is gorgeous and very good as his bride Elizabeth - - she only has a few scenes but she makes them count . Thesiger is WAY over the top ( and just great ) as Petorious - - he has some REALLY strange lines but he pulls them off . Una O'Connor as Minnie ( the maid ) is shrill - - but funny . And Elsa Lanchester is unforgettable as Mary Shelley and the bride . Her appearance has been copied and parodied endlessly - - and she's just great . The script has one classic line after another and many sequences have become folklore - - like the monsters meeting with the blind hermit ( parodied hysterically in " Young Frankenstein " ) , the creation sequence and the closing . Great direction by James Whale and a beautiful music score . My only real complaint - - would any scientist , however mad , have a lever that would blow apart his whole castle ? Now - - it is NOT scary . In 1935 this was strong stuff but it's VERY tame today . Still , this is a fast-moving , very entertaining movie - - definetely a prime example of the Universal monster movies of the 1930s . It works more as a comedy today than anything else . A perfect example of the kind of film " they don't make anymore " . Look for John Carradine in a very small unbilled role as a hunter .
Talk about warped !	Brilliant , scary , funny soap opera ( sort of ) of an extremely dysfunctional hospital in the Netherlands . Yeah , it's 4 hours and a half . . . yeah it's all subtitles . . . yeah , it has no ending . . . but who cares ? The film basically LOOKS different ! It always looks drab ( purposely ) , and some camera-work that's very shaky but it perfectly fits the tone of the film . It's basically a combination of all different genres - - horror film , love story , sex , blackmail , malpractice and two mildly retarted dishwashers who act as a Greek chorus . The acting ranges from OK to excellent . The plot twists and turns and weaves - - I was never bored ! One complaint - - reading subtitles for so long can strain your eyes . I first saw it at a revival theatre . They showed it straight through with NO breaks ! No one left and the audience applauded long and loud after the showing . I walked out exhausted and laughing at the same time . It's unlike ANYTHING you've seen before . This is continuted in " Riget 2 " which still has no ending . It was going to be wrapped up in a third miniseries but two of the main actors died and the director said he couldn't do it without them . So they'll never be an ending but you won't care . You'll just be astounded by what you do see . Highly recommended .
As good as the first	Actually , it's better than the first ! First off , see " Fellowship of the Ring " or you won't be able to make heads or tails out of this . It follows the fellowship being divided and facing evil on all sides . There's battles galore , tons of action , incredible sets and special effects , breathtaking scenery and the usual great direction from Peter Jackson . The acting is just so-so except for ( surprisingly ) Viggo Mortensen . I wasn't impressed with him in the first movie but he improved vastly in this one - - a very subtle but physical performance . His scenes with Liv Tyler were especially moving . It runs for 3 hours but it flew by and I was never bored . The battle at Helms Deep is easily among one of the most incredible action sequences ever caught on film . A definite must-see . I can't wait for " Return of the King " !
Davis ' best	I haven't seen every Bette Davis film , but I find it hard to believe anything can top this one ! Beautifully shot , wonderfully romantic score , interesting story , well-acted and Davis is breathtakingly beautiful ! She's never looked better ! It's one of the most romantic movies I've ever seen ( shipboard romance , TWO goodbyes at airports , everybody looks so handsome or glamorous ) , and has three classic sequences - - Davis telling a man she can't marry him by saying , " Let's not dwell on it . " ; Paul Henreid lighting two cigarettes in his mouth ( romantic , but they both smoke WAY too much ! ) ; and Davis ' line , " Let's not wish for the moon , when we have the stars " . A great movie all the way . Not to be missed !
Excellent documentary	Entertaining , thought-provoking and ( at times ) very funny documentary chronicling gay subject matter in motion pictures from the silents up to 1995 . The narration ( by Lily Tomlin ) is insightful and the cameos and comments by various stars who have played gay ( Tom Hanks , Whoopi Goldberg , Harry Hamlin ) or are gay ( Harvey Feinstein , the late Quentin Crisp , Paul Rudnick ) are very entertaining and in two cases ( with Susan Sarandon and Gore Vidal ) utterly uproarious . Special attention should be paid to the " Ben-Hur " segment when you realize Stephen Boyd was playing it gay and Charlton Heston was totally oblivious ! This is a very important film and should be seen by everybody gay OR straight . A must for film buffs . Don't miss this one ! My only complaint - - it's too short ! The DVD version has extra interviews that are just great .
Classic comedy	Hilarious movie about an unhappily married couple played by Joel McCrea ( unbearably handsome ) and Claudette Colbert ( unbearably beautiful ) . She goes to Palm Beach to get a quick divorce . While enroute she meets a shy , sweet millionaire played by Rudy Valle who immediately falls in love with her . But McCrea shows up in Palm Beach wanting her back . . . Lightning paced , very sweet , romantic and absolutely hysterical comedy . The script is packed full of great lines and ( with the exception of McCrea ) the cast give them their all . Colbert is delightful as the wife . McCrea , unfortunately , gives a stone-faced performance as her husband - - still , he is very good-looking and doesn't really hurt the movie . Also , as one previous poster noted , you get a quick look at his " best parts " near the beginning ! Vallee is pretty good too . Mary Astor is absolutely hysterical as Vallee's VERY talkative sister . And then there's the Wienie King and the Ale and Quail Club ! A definite must-see ! Best line : " The men most in need of a beating up are always enormous . "
Fascinating	Originally X rated this animated film follows a half-Jewish / half-Italian 22 year old man dealing with his battling parents and growing up in a tough section of NYC . He's a cartoonist and is trying to sell his stuff but only underground publications will take it . He gets a black girlfriend and things go totally out of control . Probably writer / director Ralph Bakshi's best work . The story is kind of vague but the set pieces themselves are just great . However , this is a very extreme movie - - the characters are vicious and violent , there's huge amounts of explicit violence and there's extremely strong sexual content . A definite one of a kind - - the many highlights include some very funny fights between his mother and father . Also there's lots of neat mixing of live action and animation . I originally saw this at a revival theatre back in the early 80s - - it really blew me away . It was depressing , funny , shocking and incredible . Seeing it again 20 years later it's not as shocking as it once was or as depressing . . . but it's still unbelievable . The original X rating has been lowered to an R - - purportedly it was edited to get that but I don't see any differences . I'm no prude , but I think this film deserves an NC-17 . It would get it if it was done with live actors . So - - I recommend it , but only if you can handle extreme content .
For a TV miniseries this is excellent	This follows two brothers ( Peter Strauss , Nick Nolte ) growing up - - one straight arrow ( Strauss ) the other a hell-raiser ( Nolte ) . They also love the same woman ( Susan Blakely ) . It starts off in the 1940s and follows them up to the 70s . Sure , it's a soap opera but it's fun ! Despite it's length it's never dull and the acting and production values are surprisingly good . There's also great supporting acting by Edward Asner ( as a rough , tough father ) and Robert Reed . I saw it back in 1976 when it originally back in 1976 . I had forgotten about it until it popped up on cable in the 1990s . The Family Channel showed it and edited out a few words and shots ( I distinctly remember a quick side view of Robert Reed naked that wasn't in that showing ) . This really deserves to be out on DVD . Judging by the votes and the reviews this has quite a following . No masterpiece but just engrossing and well-made .
Extremely unpleasant but fascinating	Jane Hudson ( Bette Davis ) a faded film star and her wheelchair bound sister Blanche ( Joan Crawford ) live together in a huge mansion . Jane is slowly but surely losing touch with reality and despises her sister Blanche . Jane starts to mentally and physically torture Blanche . How will Blanche escape ? I don't think this film is a camp classic - - there's nothing even remotely funny about it . It is basically a horror movie about two sisters . As we all know now , Crawford and Davis HATED each other and it actually helps the movie - - Davis ' hatred REALLY shows . Also the movie was wisely shot in black & white ( Davis said she insisted on that ) giving the film a very dark , gloomy tone and look . And Crawford and Davis are both great in their roles . Crawford has never been nicer and Davis never meaner . It's well directed by Robert Aldrich and there's an interesting supporting performance by Victor Buono . I love the film but I realize it IS unpleasant . The violence is ( by today's standards ) tame but it's shot in a way that puts you right there and it's not pleasant seeing Davis go after Crawford . So , I highly recommend this film but I can't see how anyone can call this camp . I'm giving it a 10 .
A classic	I never caught MTM when it was originally on . I didn't watch much television and the idea of a sitcom about a single woman had no interest to me . Then , after it was cancelled , a local TV station started showing two shows a night , back to back , and I started watching . At first I wasn't impressed . The early 70s fashions and hairstyles were horrific , the acting uneven , the topics dated and Moore occasionally overacted . But , as the series progressed , the writing got better , the cast got more comfortable with their roles and Moore toned it down a little . I still don't like the first season too much . It does introduce us to all the characters but it just seemed kind of forced . Also it was somewhat sexist . At one point Moore actually does Lou Grants ' laundry ! OK OK - - his wife had left him but still . . . After the first season though the series picked up speed and just got better and better . It also showed a single woman living alone and liking it - - a rarity for TV on those days . It even hinted that she had an off screen sex life . It also found humor in some taboo subjects . When Chuckles the Clown is inadvertently killed in one episode they actually made his death seem funny ! Supposedly ( according to Moores ' autobiography ) no one wanted to do it and some crew people were " sick " the week it was filmed . That episode went on the win a few Emmys and is considered a true classic . Also Moores ' character got more liberated - - especially during the last season . She got a steady boyfriend ( Ted Bessell ) and , at one point , gives him a long passionate kiss right in front of Lou Grant , Ted Baxter and Murray Slaughter . It all ends perfectly in the last episode . No one was killed but everybody ( except for Ted Baxter ) is fired and they all leave the office singing ! A true classic of TV . Well worth seeing .
A gay classic	The " story " involves a young marine ( Brian Thompson ) on leave . He goes to visit friends and treks through a forest . There he meets a hunky forest ranger ( Bill Henson ) who supposedly watches over the entire forest ! Surprisingly they DON'T have sex ! He reaches his friends and experiences sex with them . THEN he goes back through the forest and meets Henson again and they enjoy each other . OK - - this is amateur night in terms of plot and acting . . . but who watches a gay porno for those ? You watch for hot guys with nice bodies . This is an early one ( it was shot in the late 1970s ) so none of the guys are muscular ( except for Henson ) but they are young , good-looking ( in a 70s sort of way ) and rearing to go ! The sex is very erotic and exciting and no condoms ( this was pre-AIDS ) . I personally thought Thompson was hot and he's in almost every sex scene ! Henson is tall and muscular . . . but that accent of his ( vaguely Southern ) makes him sound like an idiot . Still u sort of forget that when he's nude . This won numerous awards at adult film ceremonies and is rightfully considered a gay porn classic . A must see for gay porn viewers .
Fluffy but lots of fun	A rarity - - a remake that's better than the original . 11 men led by Danny Ocean ( George Clooney ) prepare to rob a vault linked to 3 casinos in Las Vegas . His partners in crime include Brad Pitt , Carl Reiner , Elliot Gould , Casey Affleck , Matt Damon and Scott Caan . Also , the casinos are owned by Tery Benedict ( Andy Garcia ) who is romancing Ocean's ex-wife Tess ( Julia Roberts ) . Fun , engrossing , just simply the most enjoyable film of 2001 . It moves smoothly , the entire cast plays it cool and easy and Steven Soderbergh directs it with flair and intelligence . Yes , it's light ; yes , it's a trifle but it's so FUN ! I really loved this film . Affleck and Caan are hilarious as bickering brothers . My only complaint - - Julia Roberts ( the only woman in the cast ) is shot very cruelly . She's beautiful so why does she look so bad ? Aside from that this is a fun movie . Just sit back and enjoy .
An exceptional documentary for anyone with even a passing interest in movies	Back in 1974 a pay TV station was started in Los Angeles . It was the Z channel - - it showed movies uncut with no commercials . It was a pioneer - - years before Showtime , HBO and Cinemax . But Z channel showed films no one else would air - - foreign films , independent features . A lot of important film were discovered ( or rediscovered ) on this channel . It ran the uncut " Heaven's Gate " after the disastrous cut version was released ; the same with " Once Upon A Time In America " ; it introduced " Bad Timing " to an audience after it's minor theatrical release ; " McCabe and Mrs . Miller " found its audience here ; the complete 9 hour version of " 1900 " was shown here and on and on . Also , some of these films had X ratings - - but Z didn't cut them . MANY clips of the various films are shown here . It's also about it's owner and programming director - - Jerry Harvey . It explains what drove him and how he singlehandedly found these films and showed them . Unfortunately he was also suffering from personal demons which ended up killing him . I didn't know anything about this station - - and I'm upset that I grew up on the East Coast and not the West Coast . The programming this station had was fascinating and is inter cut with people who worked there and directors it helped . This is an absolutely fascinating look at the kind of pay TV station we'll never see again and the men and women who ran it . Just great - - a definite must-see ! A 10 all the way .
Energetic , interesting version of the Bible	I know some Catholics HATE this movie , but only because they think it's wrong to set the Bible to rock music . If you can ignore that , you'll see a film shot in Israel , with a pretty good cast , excellent score and some superb photography . It just stops short of being a great movie for a few reasons - - primarily Ted Neeley as Jesus Christ . Yeah he can sing , yeah he looks the part but his acting is lousy . From the expressions on his face , I was wondering if he was aware of WHAT he was singing ! The early 70s costumes and " hairstyles " are NOT easy on the eyes . Some of the outfits on the cast were ugly and the hairstyles - - God ! Why did every guy have to hair running down his back in the early 70s ? It looks ridiculous in this day and age . Those few complaints aside the movie is great . The songs are wonderful and the dances are energetic ( to say the least ) . And this film is NOT anti-Catholic . It also has three GREAT performances - - Yvonne Elliman as Mary Madgalene , Barry Dennen as Pilate and Carl Anderson as Judas . Elliman's beautiful rendition of " I Don't Know How to Love Him " is haunting and her reaction when Jesus is being whipped is shattering . Dennen plays Pilate as a tormented man who doesn't want to crucify Jesus but has no choice . Anderson is basically good during the entire movie . I do question , however , why he's played by a black man . Other than this , a great performance . Worth seeing any time of the year .
WAY ahead of its time	If you liked " Soap " you'll like this . It's about a crazy family with evil sister Denise Sandler ( Teri Garr ) and good sister Charlotte . It just involved Denise trying to get everything her way and will do anything to get it . Naturally they have some very unusual family members and friends . This aired for only a few months in 1991 . In fact it was the first new show that was cancelled ! I never figured out why . It was funny , racy ( for 1991 ) and kept pushing the envelope every chance it got . Garr was just great in her role - - she was clearly relishing every moment she was on screen . Also it had a blind character ( played by Mark Blankfield ) who accidentally destroys a laboratory completely while trying to help Charlotte . That came under attack by a group for blind people but it was repeated again a week or two later ! I have to admit I was in hysterics both times I saw it . He also accidentally kisses another man on the lips - - pretty risky for 1991 . It was WAY ahead of its time and was probably too much for 1991 audiences . I think it would be a hit today . Where's the DVD release ? I give this a 10 .
A rarity - - a horror comedy that is funny AND scary !	It all starts out with a beautiful black & white prologue at Corman ( nudge nudge ) University in 1959 . Some " creeps " ( disgusting little things ) come to Earth and attack a young man ( they get in through your mouth , turn you into a zombie and plant other " creepers " that shot out of the mouth to infect people ) . He is caught and frozen solid and ( for some reason ) kept at the university . Then , in 1986 , two friends Chris Romero ( nudge , nudge ) ( Jason Lively ) and J . C . ( Steve Marshall ) unwittingly revive him . He wakes up and attacks the university . Soon , it's overrun by the things - - it's up Chris , J . C . , Cynthia Cronenberg ( nudge nudge ) and Detective Cameron ( nudge nudge ) to battle them . As you can see this movie doesn't take itself seriously for one moment . Heck , there's even a cameo from Dick Miller ! And it IS very funny ( especially some of J . C . ' s lines ) . But it doesn't shy away from blood and gore - - there's PLENTY of that . And it is creepy ( sorry ) more than once . They even break one of the rules of horror films - - POSSIBLE SPOILER AHEAa sympathetic character ( I won't say who ) dies and it's actually one of the film's more unpleasant moments ( you don't see it but you HEAR it ) . As 83 minutes it doesn't overstay it's welcome and ends with an all out massacre ( I'm REALLY surprised - - and pleased - - that this got an R rating ) . There are some gaps in the plot ( things happen way too quickly and characters just automatically correctly guess what's going on ) but this is a small quibble . I saw this back on video in 1986 after Fangoria magazine raved about it . I loved it - - then it disappeared . I never even saw it again until today ! Here's another great movie awaiting rediscovery . From what I heard Sony owns the rights - - hopefully we'll see the DVD someday . A fun , scary , gory movie . A 10 all the way ! " The good news is that your dates are here . The bad news is they're dead ! "
Great forgotten comedy	Rich , scatterbrained Emily Kilbourne ( Billie Burke ) has the habit of bringing in down-on-their-luck , homeless men to help them much to the disgust of her husband and children . They usually rob her blind and leave . Then Wade Rawlins ( Brian Aherne ) who just LOOKS down and out enters her life and she invites him in and he starts to change the whole family . . . for the better . The plot IS predictable but this is still a very funny screwball comedy . The script is great with one liners flying fast and furious . The entire cast is up for it - - Burke is just great and received an Oscar nomination for her performance ; Aherne is just OK ; Constance Bennett is wonderful as Jerry who falls for Rawlins and Alan Mowbray has some very funny sequences as the family butler . Catchy title tune too ( also nominated for an Oscar ) . The romance between Bennett is Aherne is a bit too predictable and there's a very rushed ending . Also an offensive black stereotype is thrown in at the end . Still this is a fast , funny , wonderful film that deserves to be better known . Recommended . Good luck finding a good print - - the only one available is in terrible condition .
Chilling	I caught this documentary at a small art house cinema back in 1981 . There was no rating but you had to be over 18 to be admitted . I have never forgotten it . It's about pornography and how it degrades women . They specifically target porno films where women are tied up and used . To make their point they do have to show clips from these films - - and they're just revolting . I have nothing against porn - - but not when it's violent and people are being tied up or forced . They also talk to people who run porno shops and women who perform sex acts live . The most interesting interview I remember was when they talked to a wife and husband who preformed live sex acts to each other on stage ( she's white , he's black ) . She actually defends what she's doing quite well and had me believing her ! Just fascinating with hardcore sex - - but it IS necessary for the integrity of the film . It's also horrifying that some people enjoy this sort of " entertainment " . Hard to find - - it deserves wide distribution . A 10 .
One of the best haunted house films ever !	Four psychic investigators ( Roddy McDowall , Pamela Franklin , Clive Revill , Gayle Hunnicutt ) are to spend a week in the Mount Everest of haunted houses to see if life does exist after death . They are given only a week and , in that time , have all the ghosts attack full force . Next to the 1962 version of " The Haunting " this is the best haunted house flick ever made . It starts up and never stops . There's no humor and it's beautifully atmospheric . Also creepy sound effects and eerie music help keep up the mood and director John Hough shoots the film from weird angles keeping you off balance . Good performances help especially by Franklin and there's one harrowing sequence in which she " offers " herself to the spirits of the house . Not for the blood and guts crowd ( this is PG rated ) . A very scary movie . The book is much better and a LOT more graphic but there was no way they could have shot the book faithfully - - it would have had an X rating ! For instance when Franklin has sex with a ghost - - in the movie she looks into the camera and screams . In the book she finds a rotting corpse forcing itself on her ! This seems to have disappeared off the radar - - even the 2003 DVD release is pretty bad . The colors are faded , there's only a trailer as an extra and there was no big publicity campaign for it . Still you should seek it out if you haven't seen in - - it's worth it . I give it a rare 10 !
One of the all-time best	Superb boxing film - - the only one to come close is " Raging Bull " . John Garfield ( in an excellent performance ) plays a poor young man who quickly becomes a world class champ only to find corruption at the top . Film is well-directed by Robert Rossen and contains exquisite cinematography by James Wong Howe . All the acting is good except for Lilli Palmer . She tries , but she seems totally lost in her role . It moves quickly , is never boring and has some very brutal ( for 1947 ) fight scenes . Only main complaint I have is about the ending - - MAJOR SPOILER AHEAD . He's supposed to throw a fight , but at the end doesn't and gets out of boxing alive . In real life he probably would have been gunned down . But there was a Production Code to follow in 1947 , so it had to have happy ending . Aside from that , it's a great film all around . Don't miss this one !
Just great	Fascinating documentary with the actors and actresses of Broadway's " Golden Age " ( late 1940s-late 1960s ) talking about their experiences on stage , who influenced them , how they got into the business etc etc . What's truly incredible is when they compare and contrast how Broadway was back then and how it is now . They were a close-knit family back then ; they didn't need mikes to project their voices throughout the theatre ; the incredibly low ticket prices back then as compared to now . . . The picture isn't perfect . . . it's not done chronologically and there's no historical or sociological perspective . Still there's rare live footage of some of the Broadway shows and all the stories are just incredible . It makes one feel sad to realize we'll never see a world like that again . Everybody is good but Elaine Stritch is an absolute howl ! A must see for all Broadway fans . A 10 all the way .
Just stunning	This silent film focuses on a small Ukranian village in 1930 . It's about small independent farmers working against a " collective " - - a state run collaboration of farms . The film ( kind of ) is about their conflict . To be truthful there isn't much of a story - - that's secondary in this film . The imagery is what counts and it's truly stunning . It contains some of the most gorgeous footage I've ever seen of nature and , in images , clearly documents man's love of the earth . There are characters and a minor story but they're actually pretty bad - - the story is painfully slow , the acting horrendous ( one very good-looking actor just stands there with a big beautiful grin on his face no matter WHAT the scene is about ) and has some of the most laughable dialogue cards I've ever seen ( I'm assuming it doesn't translate well from Russian ) . Also the " restored " print looks pretty terrible . Still the images are incredible and there's a beautiful music score going along with it . Historically and visually this is a landmark of world cinema - - a definite must-see . Try to see the unedited prints which contain surprising ( for 1930 ) female nudity .
So bad it's good !	I think some people have seen too much into this movie - - a satire ? ? ? ? Come on people ! It's a RUSS MEYER film ! They were made to show tons of young , beautiful , big-breasted girls and that's about it . According to Erica Gavin ( who gives the one good performance in the film ) , Meyer filmed this dead seriously - - he actually thought he was making an insightful expose on rock music ! What he made is a camp classic - - it contains some of the worst dialogue ever uttered . . . but it's never boring , is always moving and has some surprisingly good songs . Also the direction is uproarious . Note the times when the band is playing who's popping up on either side of the screen - - talk about clichd ! The acting ( with the exception of Gavin ) is pretty bad , but it fits the silly dialogue perfectly . Tons of female nudity , no male nudity and a sudden swing into bloody , disgusting violence at the end . Still , it's a laugh a minute . . . especially it you see it with an audience . A definite must see ! A 10 from me ! See it letter-boxed - - the pan and scan version is unwatchable . This originally had an X rating - - when it was released on video in the mid 90s , Warner Bros tried to lower it to an R - - but couldn't . The ratings board said one sequence was too explicit - - a long , beautiful lesbian sex scene which SHOWS NOTHING except the girls kissing ! ! ! ! To Warner Bros credit , they didn't cut it and just released it with an NC-17 . Don't be fooled - - it's an R rating all the way . " This is my happening and it freaks me out ! "
A one of a kind	Nuns led by Sister Clodagh ( Deborah Kerr ) attempt to establish a hospital and school in the Himalayas . They find themselves having to deal with physical , emotional and sexual hardships . The story here is secondary - - this film is one of the most stunning color films ever made ( try to see a good color print ) . It contains breathtaking visuals , great direction ( particularly fine use of color , light and shadow ) and great performances all around . The only fault I had was with the two main male characters played by Sabu and David Farrar - - they were both annoying ( especially Farrar ) and ( in the case of Sabu ) not really necessary to the plot . However , that's a small complaint . This is a must see film . Best acting comes from Kerr and Kathleen Byron ( especially at the end ) .
Very dated but a classic nonetheless	Richard Dadier ( Glenn Ford ) starts teaching at an inner city NY school and has to deal with hostile kids who don't give a damn about school . He tries to reach out and deal with them but they resist - - lead on by Artie West ( Vic Morrow ) who is one step short of a psychopath . He keeps trying and then things get violent . . . Yes , it's very dated now . . . we have kids shooting teachers and other students dead nowadays , but in its time this was considered a truly shocking film . It was accused of provoking violence in schools ( which is ridiculous - - the film is anti-violence ) and was the first Hollywood film to use rock'n'roll in its soundtrack . All that aside it's still a good movie . The script is as explicit as Hollywood would let it be ( the kids don't swear but they come close ) and it was shot in gritty b & w . The performances are almost all uniformly excellent - - especially Sidney Poitier as Miller ; Margaret Hayes as a teacher who is almost raped and especially Morrow who is downright horrifying as West . It's hard to believe this was his first film . The only so so performances were by Ford ( too grim-faced ) and Anne Francis who has the hopeless role of his pregnant wife . I first saw this on TV when I was in high school ( 1976-1980 ) . I remember when " Rock Around the Clock " started blasting out during the opening credits I really felt a jolt go through me ( I can only imagine the effect in 1955 ) . I loved the movie but I realized it was probably toned down by Hollywood ( I found out later it was ) and I've never believed the " happy " ending . Still this is undeniably a powerful film and a definite must-see . Also , historically , it's an important film . A classic . A definite 10 .
Like it or not , it's powerful	A bunch of gay men ( and one straight guy ) get together for a birthday party . Things slowly barrel out of control , the men attack each other and " The Truth Game " tears them apart . I'm an out , proud gay man and I love this movie . Yes , it's a downer - - yes , they all hate themselves - - yes , they tear each other apart . But you know what ? Those men EXIST ! I met them when I came out in the 80s and they're still around now almost 20 years later . Go to any popular gay bar on a Saturday night and you'll find plenty of Michaels in full voice . Also , this film was made in 1970 when homosexuality was still considered a mental illness and was against the law in many states - - no wonder these guys were miserable . Also , it was a milestone in Hollywood - - the first movie which dealt with all gay characters and not one of them killed himself ! I saw it unedited on TV when I was closeted and it didn't depress me at all . It was uplifting ( in a strange way ) . Even though these men are clawing at each other , they're still friends and they are there for each other . Also , the " Truth Game " has never been played at parties I've gone to . So , you may not like it , but gay men like this do exist . Avoid at all costs the cut TV version . It's 13 MINUTES shorter and is incomprehensible .
Excellent	Charlie ( Dan Futterman ) wanders around NYC one night looking for another man who ( might ) have something he is looking for . That's all I'm going to say about this - - you have to see the film to understand it . The film starts off slow ( and surreal ) but quickly draws you in with fast , incredible images and a plot that becomes clearer as the movie goes on . Dan Futterman is just superb in his role . . . this had to have been a difficult part to play but he pulls it off . Actually no one is bad but Matt Keeslar ( as his lover Chris ) and Samuel Bell ( as Dean ) deserve special mention . This film is not for everybody . It challenges you and makes you think ( how many films nowadays do that ? ) and is very dark , disturbing and depressing . It also demands multiple viewings ( I had to see it twice to actually understand it ) . Also there is some violence that is jarring . But , at the end , I was in tears - - I've seen this movie at least seven times and I STILL cry at the ending . It's actually a happy ending ( sort of ) but really hits hard . Basically this film deals with love , loss and coming to terms with it . Also there are urban legends played out during the film - - they DO fit in . It deals with gay relationships primarily and there's plenty of kissing and flashes of nudity . Easily one of the best films of 2000 and it's in my list as one of the ten top films ever made . Just great - - I highly recommend this . Try to see it on DVthe commentary and extras really explain the story and themes more .
Very violent , bloody and sick - - but you can't stop watching	Harrowing series about life in Oz - - an experimental prison where they try to rehabilitate prisoners . There's gay sex , rape , torture , mutilation , killings , humiliation , tons of male nudity . . . all in your face and going full force . It also is easily one of the best written dramas ever put on TV and almost all the actors are just great . Since this was on cable there were no restrictions on what they could say or show . There's plenty of racist comments flying in here but it's for all races . In fact the white characters come off pretty badly ( especially the Aryans ) and the black characters come off better ( the peace-loving Muslims ) . The Hispanics don't have a strong role and there are NO Asian prisoners at all . All the prisoners seem to be back-stabbers and willing to kill anyone at a moments notice - - - but you still find yourself sympathizing with some of them . Even the guards , counselors and doctors at the prison have serious issues . I heartily recommend this BUT rent it - - don't buy it . I have the whole collection and , to be totally honest , I don't think I ever want to see it again . It's incredible TV but so grim , dark and depressing . Guess I gotta sell it all online . I give it a 10 .
One of Lynch's best	Betty ( Naomi Watts in a fantastic performance ) tries to help an amnesiac " Rita " ( Laura Elena Harring ) find out who she is . There's a lot more than that to the plot , but you should see the film yourself to find out . Almost as good as " Blue Velvet " , this is David Lynch's newest mind trip . It makes sense for an hour and 45 minutes ( it was originally a pilot for a TV series that was rejected by ABC ) but then things change drastically and images ( and characters ) go barelling out of control . . . but that's expected from Lynch . Characters and things change in very unexpected ways . . . alternate realities seem to step in . Or do they ? This last section is wide open to interpretation - - like the best Lynch films this demands multiple viewings . If you're a Lynch fan ( like me ) or if you like films that are adult and challenge you , go see it . If not , stay away . Also , there's a not so explicit lesbian love scene .
Depressing and disturbing but just great	This takes place in a small French town in 1943 . Someone called " The Raven " is sending poison pen letters to various people in the town . They're filled with half-truths or outright lies but it begins to affect people . Quickly the whole town falls apart - - relationships are destroyed , mistrust and suspicion are all over and it finally leads to suicide and a murder . Plotwise this may seem familiar to many but it's beautifully done . The film moves quickly , is well-acted and director Henri-Georges Clourot ( who also directed the classic " Diabolique " ) does a wonderful job of visualizing the paranoia and hatred of the townspeople . The best sequence has a nurse running away when she thinks she is being chased by a crowd . Also this deals with sex outside marriage , pregnancy and abortion - - taboo subject in 1943 . Believe it or not this was seen as Nazi propaganda in its day ! It was shot while France was being occupied and shows a town full of violent , suspicious and angry people . French people thought it was a slap in the face to them - - showing them as ignorant people who let lies destroy them . That seems pretty silly now . It's now rightfully regarded as a classic . Well worth catching . I give it a 10 .
Just simply a masterpiece	Story of a weak-willed Italian man ( Jean-Louis Trintignant ) who is ordered , in 1938 , to assassinate his one-time professor . He is ordered by a Fascist organization he joined to become normal , to conform ( he's gay and ashamed of it ) . He takes his annoying wife ( Stefania Sandrelli ) with him . . . only to find his professor has married a former love of his ( Dominique Sanda ) . Can he kill them both ? This film is just riveting . The story is never boring and full of some very intriguing people . The acting is superb - - especially by Trintignant who you see holding his fear and indecision inside and Sanda who is unbelievably sexy . . . and dangerous . I don't know much about politics so I'm not going to discuss that . But this film is a must-see for the incredible cinematography by Vittorio Storano and masterful direction by Bernardo Bertolucci . The sets are exquisite - - every single one looks incredible and is beautifully lit and shot for maximum impact . Sometimes I was just so caught up in the visuals I lost track of the story ! Every shot is filled with rich symbolism . My favorite sequence was at a dance hall when Trintignant is " caught " in the dance . Also some prints are missing a 10 minute " Dance of the Blind " that was cut from original prints . It's no loss - - it adds nothing to the story . Quite simply one of the most beautiful films I've ever seen with a strong , intriguing plot . A powerful must-see film . A 10 all the way .
Quite simply a classic	Gripping , powerful drama of corrupt unions for dock workers and how one man Terry Malloy ( Marlon Brando ) fights back . This movie is a definite must-see . The story is pretty simple and has been done before but the script is superb and all the actors are at the height of their powers . Brando is unbelievable as Malloy - - he portrays his innocence and hurt so easily - - I actually started to get a lump in my throat when he comes to grips about the corruption . Rod Steiger is great in a small role as his brother . The taxicab sequence between him and Brando has become a legend - - rightfully . Lee J . Cobb is frightening as the leader of it all . Eva Marie Saint ( in her first theatrical role ) is gorgeous and just great as a woman who falls in love with Brando . The scenes between them are incredible . There's also superb direction by Elia Kazan - - this is possibly his best work . The only debit here is Karl Malden as the priest - - he overplays it way too much and got on more nerves . But that's about it . This movie is one of those rare instances where everything clicked together perfectly . A HUGE hit in its day . Don't miss this one !
Excellent silent movie	Movie follows the story of Jesus Christ ( H . B . Warner ) starting with Mary Magdelene ( Jacqueline Logan ) and ending with his resurrection . While not exactly accurate ( Magdalene was Judas ' lover ? ) to the Bible this is actually an excellent movie . It's very reverent to the story and doesn't preach to the audience like other Biblical movies did . Some of the shots of Jesus were stunning - - he ( literally ) GLOWS . It's all done with lighting but it looks realistic . And since it's directed by Cecil B . DeMille it's a spectacle - - this movie is BIG ! The sets are colossal , there's a cast of hundreds and a big huge Crucifiction sequence that is quite impressive . There's also some nice special effects - - surprising in a movie that's over 70 years old . Also , it's well-cast . The standouts are Warner as Jesus ; Logan making a very impressive Magdelene and Joseph Schildkraut playing a very young and handsome Judas . Also his father Rudolph Schildkraut plays Caiaphas . And the Resurrection sequence at the end is in two-color Technicolor . This is a much better than the 1961 remake . That one was badly cast ( Jeffrey Hunter was way too young for the role ) , too long ( almost 3 hours ) and dragged . This one is barely 2 hours and moves very quickly . A very impressive silent film - - well worth catching .
Depressing but excellent	Young , handsome , muscular Joe Buck ( Jon Voight ) moves from Texas to New York thinking he'll make a living by being a stud . He gets there and finds out quickly that it isn't going to be easy - - he goes through one degrading experience after another . At the end of his rope he hooks up with crippled , sleazy Ratso Rizzo ( Dustin Hoffman ) . Together they try to survive and get out of the city and move to Florida . But will they make it ? Very dark , disturbing yet fascinating movie . Director John Schelsinger paints a very grimy portrait of NYC and its inhabitants . In that way it's dated - - the city may have been this bad in 1969 but it's cleaned up considerably by now . He also uses every camera trick in the book - - color turning to black & white ; trippy dream sequences ; flash forwards ; flash backs ( especially involving a rape ) ; shock cuts ; weird sound effects . . . you name it . It keeps you disoriented and off center - - but I couldn't stop watching . There isn't much of a story - - it basically centers on the friendship between Rizzo and Buck . There is an implication that they may have been lovers ( the final shot sort of shows that ) . It's just a portrait of two damaged characters trying to survive in a cold , cruel , urban jungle . This was originally rated X in 1969 - - the only reason being that the MPAA didn't think that parents would want their children to see this . Nevertheless , it was a big hit with high schoolers ( back then X meant no one under 17 ) . It also has been the only X rated film ever to win an Academy Award as Best Picture . Hoffman and Voight were up for acting awards as was ( mysteriously ) Sylvia Miles who was in the picture for a total of ( maybe ) 5 minutes ! It was eventually lowered to an R ( with no cuts ) when it was reissued in 1980 . Also the excellent song " Everybody's Talkin ' " was introduced in this film - - and became a big hit . A great film - - - but very dark . I'm giving it a 10 . DON'T see it on commercial TV - - it's cut to ribbons and incomprehensible .
Still scary and shocking	Angelic little 12 year old Regan ( Linda Blair ) is possessed by the devil . Her mother ( Ellen Burnstyn ) tries every medical cure to no avail . She finally tries exorcism with Father Merrian ( Max von Sydow ) and helper ( Jason Miller ) performing it . This film was considered the most horrifying film ever made back in 1973 . It's still horrifying to this very day . Blair screaming out obscenities , finding new uses for a crucifix and doing projectile vomiting are still hard to watch - - this film is NOT for children ! I saw the new version this weekend . With the addition of the now infamous " spider walk " and another doctor visit , the footage added nothing new to the film . In fact , it made the film a bit too long . It does have great acting , especially from Blair , Burnstyn and von Sydow . Also the special effects still hold up today . Well worth seeing . A very scary , graphic horror film .
A classic	Classic gangster film showing how a young man ( James Cagney ) becomes a gangster and killer . This film made Cagney and deservedly so . It moves quickly ( it's 82 minutes long ) , is never dull , has good acting and contains many classic sequences : Cagney smacking Mae Clarke in the face with a grapefruit ; a massacre that you hear but don't see ; Cagney stumbling through a rainstorm . The film also opens and ends with a silly statement condemning gangsters - - it was probably put in to pacify censors - - this film was considered extremely violent for 1931 . Also the ending is horrifying , even by today's standards . A must see . Also a nice showcase for a very young Jean Harlow .
Fascinating and disturbing	Superb documentasry about the Rolling Stones free concert at Altamont Speedway in 1969 that resulted in a murder . As a concert film , the Stones are at their best - - the footage is excellent , Mick Jagger is young and vibrant and they perform their best songs . As a documentary it shows the Altamont concert , which was all about peace and love , slowly turning violent . For some reason , the Hells Angels were hired as security and their behavior turned the mood violent and ugly . At one point Jefferson Airplane ( performing before the Stones ) had their lead singer knocked unconscious by the Angels . In a chilling scene you see an Angel angrily threatening the other members and Grace Slick doing her best to calm everyone down . We briefly see Ike and Tina Turner perform too . When the Stones came on , everything fell apart . There was rampant violence ( especially when they started to do " Sympathy for the Devil " ) , beatings and a fatal stabbing was caught on camera ! Just simply a wonderful , if scary film . Not to be missed .
Depressing but brilliant	The life and times of Bob Fosse - - oops ! sorry ! - - Joe Gideon ( Roy Scheider ) . He directs , choreographs and writes Broadway musicals and the occasional movie . He also has sex with every woman he can , is a chronic smoker . . . there's more but I don't want to ruin it . Basically , this is a character study and an absolutely fascinating one . This is Bob Fosse doing a movie about himself and showing his life in an extremely negative light . I saw this movie when it first came out in 1980 . I thought it was one of the most depressing things I had ever seen - - but went back to see it three additional times . The acting is just great all across the board - - Scheider is cast against type . . . and pulls it off . In fact he was nominated for an Academy Award for this performance ( he lost to DeNiro for " Raging Bull " ) . Jessica Lange is playing . . . let's call her Our Lady of the Oxygen Tank ( you'll see what I mean ) . Seriously , she has a difficult role and plays it beautifully . The direction is superb , mixing fantasy with reality seamlessly . The songs are good and the dancing is just great ( especially in one VERY erotic number about casual sex ) . This movie is not for everyone - - I know of one theatre in which half the audience walked out demanding their money back - - but , if you're game , you probably won't be able to take your eyes off the screen . Depressing but just great . Fosse's best film ( even better than " Cabaret " ! )
Easily Hitchcock's best	Businessman Roger O . Thornhill ( Cary Grant ) is mistakenly thought to be a Federal agent . He is kidnapped by an evil man ( James Mason ) . They soon realize they've captured the wrong man and try to have him killed . But it doesn't work and Thornhill finds himself a hunted man . . . OK - - this is not perfect . There's some lousy back projection ( but all Hitchcock films have that ) and I was never really sure WHAT the bad guys were doing ( something to do with microfilm ) . Also I've never believed Grant's actions when someone is killed in front of him ( WHY did he grab the knife ? ) . But the film is so incredibly entertaining no one has ever cared . This has some of Hitchcock's most famous scenes - - the infamous " crop dusting " sequence and the climax on top of Mount Rushmore - - but the whole film is just as good . There's a tense auction sequence and Grant's harrowing car ride down a treacherous road while dead drunk . There are some amusing parts in the film : Grant's mother appears to be a few years YOUNGER than him ; the main villains last name is Vandamm ; the romantic sparring between Grant and Eva Marie Saint is full of sexual innuendo ; Martin Landau ( one of Vandamm's henchman ) is gay ( he says he has a woman's intuition and has slightly exaggerated mannerisms - - but it's not offensively done ) and get a load of Vandamms mountain house at the end ! Grant appears a bit old for this but he pulls it off ; Eva Marie Saint is incredibly beautiful and pretty good as the love interest ( sort of ) ; Martin Landau is so young and handsome with blazing blue eyes and James Mason is just perfect as the evil Vandamm - - his lines seem to come so effortlessly and he's so suave . . . but you also see the cruelty hiding underneath . Probably one of the best Hitchcock villains ever . So - - excellent script with incredible dialogue ; rich , bright Technicolor ; shot in VistaVision ( a wide screen process ) ; great score and Hitchcock's always great direction with several astounding camera shots . Never boring - - even at 136 minutes . A true classic . Don't miss this one ! I give it a 10 . " That's funny . That plane is dusting crops where there ain't no crops . "
Cold but impressive	Black BLACK satire by Stanley Kubrick about nuclear war . I hated this the first time I saw it - - but I've since revised my opinion . I can see why I didn't like this at first . Even though it's a satire it's full of very unlikable , totally crazy characters . It's shot in stark black & white and I still don't find the idea of nuclear war very funny . Also Kubrick has always been a very ' cold ' director - - he seems very cynical in all his movies and they have a cruel , detached view to them ( especially " 2001 " ) . This is no exception but I have to admit it is ( in its way ) a masterpiece . It's never dull , has some incredibly funny moments ( Sellers conversations with the Russian premier are hysterical ) and moves like lightning . The cast is just great - - George C . Scott enjoyably goes barreling out of control as the military leader ; Sterling Hayden is just great as the guy who starts the war ; even Slim Pickens was good ! And this was James Earl Jones ' first film . But this film belongs to Peter Sellers - - he plays three different roles and he's magnificent in all of them . He plays each one completely different and does a great job constantly . Just unbelievable . So . . . I still find the film a little too cold and don't find it particularly funny but it IS a masterpiece . I give it a 10 .
Another nightmare from David Lynch	Sick , disturbing and surreal short from David Lynch . A man and a woman get married and have a son who they don't really want . The child grows up being horribly abused by his parents . Then , in a dark sinister room , he plants a seed who sprouts into a grandmother . She , in a way , shows him the affection his parents never gave him . There's more but I won't spoil it . The film mixes live actors with animation seamlessly . It has sound but no dialogue - - the actors just make sounds somewhat like human speech . It's in washed-out color which certainly fits the subject matter . Also you see Lynch using odd noises on the soundtrack which he perfected years later with " Eraserhead " . I'm giving this film a 10 but it is VERY disturbing . It's definitely not for everybody . The abuse scenes are horrible to watch and the nonstop morbidness did start to wear on me , but I couldn't stop watching . It all leads to a very sad ending . Sick , troubling and ( at times ) horrifying movie but just incredible . A 10 but only for those who can stand extreme subject matter .
Short and hilarious	Stephen ( Brian Palermo ) and Martin ( Mitch Silpa ) are on their third date . They're having dinner at Stephen's apartment . They start talking and quickly some very amusing truths come flying from their mouths . . . A perfect gay date movie ! The leads are charming and the dialogue is very witty and right on target . They capture exactly what it's like on the all important third date . It all leads to a happy conclusion . I saw this at a gay and lesbian film festival and the mostly male audience went wild ! Straight audiences might not get it - - as I said the dialogue is exactly what you would hear on a date . Gay men will identify with it completely . A 10 for gay men .
Tough , quick melodrama	Barbara Stanwyck plays a night nurse at a very strange household where some children may be in serious danger . Strong pre-Code film has ( for 1931 ) strong dialogue , Stanwyck and Joan Blondell in their underwear , alcoholism , nymphomania , attempted rape , child abuse and Clark Gable ( without his mustache ) slugging Stanwyck unconscious . The plot is kind of silly but the film moves so quickly ( 72 minutes ) that you sort of disregard it . There are also some nice directorial touches from William Wellman . The whole cast is great : Stanwyck is just superb in the title role - - smart , strong and has no fear - - she almost manages to stare Gable down in one of their fights . Gable is incredible as the bad guy - - violent , brutal and very scary . There's great support from Blondell as Stanwyck's best friend and Ben Lyon as a bootlegger with the hots for her . A really great film - - don't miss this one ! Two of the many great lines : " I'm a nymphomaniac . . . and I'm proud of it ! " " You MOTHER ! "
Just great ! ! ! ! !	This was put together in 1994 to celebrate the first 100 years of the movies . It starts with the silents and moves all the way up to 1994 ending with " Schindler's List " . For a movie fan like me it's pure magic and loads of fun figuring out which clips come from what movie ( I'm proud to say I got 95 % of them ) . They reference and show classic clips from just about every famous film in Hollywood . Some go by a little TOO fast but I can understand that . Also the clips of music from various movies is fantastic . My favorites are the title music from " Gone With the Wind " and " Rocky " and " We're in the Money " from one of the Gold Diggers films . My only complaints ( and they're tiny ones ) - - some of the clips are WAY out of place . I caught " American in Paris " in the 1940s section ! And where was " Gigi " ? It was one of the few musicals to win an Academy Award as Best Picture . There were other omissions but these stood out . Still it's a great short . Anybody who has even a passing interest in movies will love this . A 10 all the way !
Bleak but powerful	This takes place in Britain in 2027 . The world has been hit by a plague or something ( we never find out ) that makes women unable to give birth . Society begins to crumble . Theo ( Clive Owen ) is a bureaucrat who distances himself from it all - - but he was once an activist . He's drawn back into it all by a former lover ( the always great Julianne Moore ) . There is one pregnant woman ( Clare-Hope Ashitey ) who they have to smuggle out of Britain and Theo gets involved . The story is somewhat vague and I'm still not sure what all these characters were about ( I'm STILL at a loss to figure out what Michael Caine was doing here ) but I was fascinated from start to finish . It is bleak and depressing with no humor or lightness to help you along . There are bloody gunfights and a nonstop air of depression surrounding everything . Still it's not THAT grim . I was able to distance myself from it - - I was always aware I was watching a movie . Some people may not be able to do that ( a few people were crying when I went ) . The acting is superb - - Moore is never bad and Owen has never been better . His acting anchors the whole movie . You see his character go from unfeeling and uncaring to the other extreme . Even Caine was fun ( sort of ) . I'm not going to get into the politics of the movie - - but this seems to be the kind of future President Bush would love . Big Brother is always watching you here - - illegal immigrants are routinely caged and brought to camps , people have to carry identity cards and the government has total control over everything . I don't think it could ever happen but it's terrifying to think that it could . A bleak , depressing but just great movie . A 10 all the way .
Just great	Based on the " Dark Shadows " TV show which was a Gothic soap opera than ran from 1966-1970 . Basically this just takes most of the plots from 1966-1967 and crams them into 90 minutes . Vampire Barnabas Collins ( Jonathan Frid ) is accidentally released from his coffin after being chained in there for over 100 years . He poses as a cousin from England and gets friendly with the present Collins family . He quickly falls in love with beautiful Maggie Evans ( Kathryn Leigh Scott ) and Dr . Hoffman ( Grayson Hall ) tries to discover a cure for his vampirism . But things start to fall apart when Hoffman falls in love with Barnabas . . . . This was made when the TV series was at the height of its popularity . It was shot in two weeks VERY quickly with most of the original cast ( while the TV show was still in production ) . You really don't have to know the original series to enjoy this movie . . . the characters are all introduced ( very quickly ) . It's pretty obvious this movie was edited severely - - the story moves VERY quickly and you're playing catchup most of the time . Still , I had no trouble following it . Also they pour on the blood here - - throats are torn open , vampires are staked all with plenty of gushing red blood ( this would NOT get a PG today - - it would probably get a hard R rating ) . Producer / director Dan Curtis decided he would show everything he couldn't get on TV - - and he did ! The story moves quickly , the violence and gore is strong , the locations are just gorgeous , there's tons of atmosphere , all the acting is good and there are quite a few nice jolts . Frid is just great as Barnabas , John Karlen is good as his servant Willie , Scott does wonders with the thankless victim role she's given and Roger Davis plays the hero very well . SPOILER ALERT ! ! ! ! Nancy Barrett especially is sexy and terrifying as a vampire - - her staking is a definite highlight of the film . END SPOILER ALERT ! ! ! ! So . . . where's the DVD version with the edited footage ? It was announced back in 2001 . . . it's now 2003 ! A strong , tight horror film . Perfect viewing for Halloween night . Highly recommended !
Hysterical	Katharine Hepburn and her pet leopard make life miserable for professor Cary Grant . This was a major bomb in 1938 . Audiences probably couldn't accept Hepburn in a screwball comedy . Today it's considered one of the best films of the 1930s . It's a true classic - - jokes come fast and furious and Hepburn's nonstop talking is just uproarious . Her and Grant play off each other very well - - much better than they did in " Sylvia Scarlett " . Actually the entire cast is great . The script is just wonderful - - fast , very funny and piling one mishap on another . Also Grant also says the classic line - - " Cause I've gone GAY all of the sudden " . ( Since we now know Grant was gay it makes that line even funnier ) . Basically this is a true comedy classic . A definite must-see ! I give it a 10 .
One of the best Superman cartoons	Mt . Monokoa ( located on a nice little island ) seems like it's about to erupt . Naturally there's a town right at the base of the mountain . Reporters Clark Kent and Lois Lane are sent to cover the story for the Daily Planet . While there Lois hides Clark's press pass so she can see the mountain for herself and " scoop " him on the story . While Lois is at the top of the mountain it explodes ! She's trapped up there with the lava flowing all around . Superman is around but how can he save her and the entire town ? Very good cartoon - - quick-moving , beautifully animated and some very nice sequences when the volcano explodes . Never a dull moment - - I especially like how Lois tries to escape from the lava ! Worth catching .
A GREAT horror film	Vampires vs . werewolves . Sexy vampire woman ( Kate Beckinsale ) saves a muscular good-looking human ( Scott Speedman ) who is being chased by the werewolves . But why ? There's a LOT more going on there but I'll let you find out for yourself . Basically this movie is VERY loud , full of ferocious gun fights ( don't ask me why the wolves and vampires fight it out with guns - - it just works and Beckinsale looks GREAT firing off a gun in each hand ) , washed out color , dark atmospheric sets , tons of fog , loud music on the soundtrack , plenty of blood , a very deep plot ( for a horror film ) , some scary looking werewolves that can run along the walls and ceilings ( ! ! ! ) and all done at a breathless pace . The damned movie only stops occasionally for the plot and then zips ahead full speed . The acting doesn't really matter - - this movie is all about violence and visuals . That being said , Beckinsale ( and the other vampires ) look great in leather and I LOVE the long leather coats they wear when going to battle . Speedman is bad but , seriously , the poor guy has NOTHING to work with ! The only other notable is Shane Brolly who basically sneers his way through his role . . . but it works . Next to " House of 1000 Corpses " this is one of the best horror films released this year . It looks like a masterpiece compared to crap like " Cabin Fever " and " Cold Creek Manor " . Also there's a thankful lack of humor and camp in this film . It takes everything dead serious and plows ahead . I sat there totally engrossed during the entire film and grinning like an idiot because it was so GOOD ! Basically a must-see for all horror fans . Also there's a set-up for a sequel . . . let's hope that DOESN'T happen . No horror film has ever had a good sequel .
A classic - - maybe the best film noir ever	Jeff Bailey ( Robert Mitchum ) runs a small gas station in a little town in CA . He's in love with a beautiful girl . But he has a past which is about to catch up with him involving gangster Whit ( Kirk Douglas ) and evil Kathie Moffat ( Jane Greer ) . . . MANY twists and turns happen . The plot is very complicated but this is a prime example of film noir . It's beautifully directed using darkness in almost every shot and has all the ingredients of a good noir - - an innocent man ( Robert Mitchum ) in over his head , a bad guy ( Kirk Douglas ) and a totally amoral woman ( Jane Greer ) . What makes this stands out ( beside the incredible cinematography and direction ) is a wonderful script . It's full of some truly incredible lines and delivered dead pan by the cast ( as it should be ) . If any of them had winked at the camera once this would have failed . Mitchum plays it very stone-faced but Douglas is great and Greer is just fascinating as a totally evil , beautiful woman . Basically a must-see film .
First rate	Combination murder mystery / comedy with lighthearted couple of Nick ( William Powell ) and Nora Charles ( Myrna Loy ) solving the disappearance of inventor Clyde Wynant ( Edward Ellis ) - - he is tall and thin , hence the title . And they have an adorable dog named Asta ( who does help solve the case ) . The legendary movie that was shot in 2 weeks and turned into a huge hit . It moves VERY quickly . . . there's TONS of exposition in the first 45 minutes , was made on the cheap ( it shows ) and has mostly terrible acting - - surprisingly even Maureen O'Sullivan and Cesar Romero are terrible in this . BUT the script is incredible - - very smart and very funny . And Powell and Loy are in top form - - they're really enjoying themselves and it rubs off on the audience . The movie also moves so fast you can ignore the bad acting - - especially by Minna Gombell ( she's truly horrendous ) . And it's beautifully shot too . My only complaint - - the constant drinking by Nick and Nora . It's portrayed as cute and charming . . . back then it was . Today it makes them look like severe alcoholics . That aside this is a GREAT film . A 10 all the way !
Classic	This 1988 Italian film ( released in the US in 1990 ) , is back with a full 51 minutes added on . This seemed like a stupid idea . . . there was nothing wrong with the original . The directors cut ( which was hour longer ) was considered a mess . Also , for this release , an extra hour was added ! I expected the worse . Well , I was pleasantly surprised that this 3 hour version is better than the 2 hour one . This story follows the life of Salvatore . He's born in a tiny Italian village and we see him as a little boy in the 1930s , an adolescent in the 40s-50s and an adult in the 80s . It basically is about his love of movies and the one true love of his life - - Elena . They are in love but she comes from a rich family and he lives in poverty . How can they be together ? POSSIBLE MINOR SPOILER IN NEXT PARAGRAPH ! ! ! ! The cut movie in the US excised a lot of the Elena subplot and concentrated on Salvatore's love of movies . There's nothing wrong with that , but Elena disappears quite suddenly . This full version explains what happened between them and fleshes out the characters more . It also reveals a crucial surprise at the end . The performances are all fantastic - - especially by the gorgeous young actor playing Salvatore as a teenager . Elena is also stunning . The film has beautiful cinematography and a haunting music score . The 3 hours flew by for me . I didn't want it to end ! So . . . beautiful music , attractive stars , good acting , compelling story and some incredible romantic sequences . A must-see ! ! ! ! Bring plenty of Kleenex though - - I cried a least 5 times !
A classic of gay cinema	Two HIV + men go on a road trip . Basically that's about it . It's not as depressing as it sounds . There's lots of humor in the movie but no pulling back on the anger they feel . The camera-work is shaky , the sound goes from audible to inaudible more than once and there really is no plot . Also , must we have the tired old stereotypes of two lesbians being psychopaths ? But the dialogue contains more truth than any Hollywood movie I've seen . For instance , at one point , one of the guys goes " Let's go to Washington and inject our blood in the President . Want to bet they'll find a cure in 30 seconds ? " Sadly , I believe they would . This was WAY ahead of its time in 1992 . It was angry , in your face and catch a look at a little message after the closing credits , . Grim , funny , powerful with a sad ( but truthful ) ending . Also Mike Dytri is one of the most beautiful , hunky men I've ever seen . A must-see for gay men .
Just great and VERY adult	Tarzan and Jane are living happily in the jungle . Some men come looking for ivory and to take Jane back to civilization . But Jane loves Tarzan and refuses to leave . One of the men falls in love with Jane and is determined to take her back . . . even if that means killing Tarzan . This is a rarity - - a sequel that's better than the original . " Tarzan , the Ape Man " of 1932 was good but had some dreadful special effects and sort of dragged . This one has MUCH better effects and is a lot more adult . There is tons of blatant racism ( a black man is shot to death point blank - - and no one really cares ) but this was 1934 . There's also plenty of blood , gore and violence ( for a 1934 movie ) and uncut prints have Jane doing a lengthy underwater swim totally nude ! There's also obvious sexual content and Tarzan and Jane are wearing next to nothing and ( it's implied ) they sleep together and have sex - - without being married . This wouldn't bother anyone today but in 1934 this was pretty extreme . That aside , the movie is well-directed , very fast-moving and full of adventure and excitement . Seeing Weissmuller in that skimpy lion cloth is certainly a treat for the eyes and Jane's outfit is pretty revealing too . I still think Maureen O'Sullivan is bad as Jane but Weismuller is perfect as Tarzan . Everybody else is OK . This is easily the best Weismuller - - O'Hara Tarzan out there . WELL worth seeing but not for kids !
In a way this IS a classic	I caught this " special " on TV back in 1976 . I had VERY vague memories of it - - I only remembered Kiss and the title . Now that it's out on DVD I can see why I forgot it ! It opens with Lynde dressing as Santa , then the Easter Bunny THEN in a red outfit for Valentine's Day . It seems he's forgotten what holiday it is ! Brace yourself - - that's as funny as it gets . Margaret Hamiltion pops up as his housekeeper . He then does an unfunny monologue which leads to a truly dreadful song and dance number with him " singing " " Kids " - - but changing the lyrics to fit Halloween . Also Donny and Marie do a quick cameo at the end . Next Hamilton has Lynde drive her to her sisters house - - Gloomsbury Manor ( ho ho ) . Her sister is none other than Wichiepoo ( Billie Hayes ) from the H . R . Pufanstuf TV series . Billy Barty also pops up for tons of unfunny midget jokes . Hamilton then changes into her wicked witch getup from " The Wizard of Oz " - - and remains in it for the remainder of the show . Betty White pops up as Miss Halloween on 1976 for another unfunny sketch . Then the show hits his nadir ( and that's saying a lot ) when Lynde plays the Rhinestone Trucker ( sigh ) competing with Tim Conway ( ! ! ! ) for Roz Kelly ( anybody remember her ? ) . This leads to another bad song / dance sequence . The ( blessedly ) Kiss comes out and performs " Detroit Rock City " . It's not over . There's another lame comedy sketch with Lynde playing a sheik ( ! ! ! ) romancing Florence Henderson ( ! ! ! ! ! ! ) . This leads to a disco number , more unfunny comedy and then Henderson comes out signing a discofied version of " That Old Black Magic " . This sequence isn't half bad because Henderson can sing . Kiss then performs " Beth " and have a bit with Lynde - - he cracks jokes and they stand there in total silence . Considering the material you can easily agree with them . Then Kiss really rocks out with " King of the Nighttime World " . Then it mercifully ends with everyone doing " Disco Baby " . Hearing Roz Kelly sing is truly - - - interesting . OK this is bottom of the barrel . The material is horrendous and it reminds me WHY disco died - - but this is a one of a kind . It's a perfect example of the variety show - - a type of TV program that we'll never see again . They were expensive ( too expensive for today ) and full of bad jokes and unbelievable ( in a bad way ) signing and dancing . Still these shows were popular . Also this is one of the few chances to see Lynde at work . Yes , the jokes are groaners ( I literally rolled my eyes a few times ) but Lynde gives this his all and actually manages to make some of the jokes amusing . Not funny mind you - - but amusing . Also Hamilton and Hayes are enjoying themselves and this is the first prime time appearance of Kiss . Yes - - it's horrible but also fascinating in a " so bad it's good " sort of way . A must see ( in a way ) .
Just great	The best ever adaptation of a Stephen King work ( " The Body " from his book " Different Seasons " ) . In 1959 Maine , 4 12-year-old boys go to find a dead body . It's a 2 day journey and , along the way , one of them Gordy ( Will Wheaton ) , grows and realizes things about himself . Yes , it's a coming of age story , but very well written , directed ( in Oregon ) and with mostly great performances . Corey Feldman and Jerry O'Connell are just OK as two of the boys . Wheaton is very good as Gordy and River Phoenix is exceptional as Chris - - it's sad that he ODed at such a young age . Also Keifer Sutherland is chilling as the head of a teenage gang . Also John Cusack has a good small role and Richard Dreyfuss narrates the story . This movie perfectly captures what it's like to be a 12 year old boy growing up - - the dialogue is just perfect . Some people complained about the excessive profanity in this ( it IS R rated ) , but swearing did exist back in 1959 . Well worth seeing . Don't see this on commercial TV : that version edits the language out and renders parts of the film incomprehensible .
Excellent comedy	1939 : the Nazis invade Poland . Joseph Tura ( Jack Benny ) and his theatrical troupe fight them . That's the bare bones - - there's a lot more but see the movie to find out . A very intricate , funny script and excellent performances keep this going . Benny is funny in the lead , but Carole Lombard is letter-perfect as his wife . Also it's fun to see Robert Stack so young and handsome with gleaming white teeth as a lieutenant helping them . Some may find it hard to laugh at considering the subject matter ( the film was a bomb in 1942 ) , but it works .
Excellent animated film - - more for older children and adults	British animated film about a bunch of rabbits leaving their old warren ( which one psychic rabbit can tell is going to be destroyed ) and searching for a new one . The movie recounts their adventures searching for one . It may sound like a movie ideal for little kids - - but it really isn't . It's an excellent adaptation of Richard Adams book which was written more for teenagers and adults . It's an ecological tale of how men are destroying the earth and ( inadvertently it seems ) killing innocent wildlife . It's also a very interesting story about how a group of rabbits survive on their own . The animation is excellent - - right up there with Walt Disney . The score is great , the script intelligent and the voices used perfectly match the characters . However , as I said , this isn't really for little kids . The story is dead serious and the only humor is provided by the bird Kehaar ( who I personally found very annoying although Zero Mostel DOES have fun with the voice ) . Also , at the end , it gets very violent and quite bloody . When I saw it in a theatre in 1978 one small kid was in tears by the conclusion . So , use your own judgment but I would never let a small kid see this . This is perfect for teenagers and adults . A 10 .
Disturbing but a must-see	A guy in his thirties Jeff ( Patrick Wilson ) meets teenage Hayley ( Ellen Page ) online . They agree to meet . They get along and she goes to his house with him . Then she drugs his drink . He wakes up tied to a chair and Hayley calling him a pedophile and prepared to teach him a lesson . But is he ? Basically just a 2 person movie and mostly all talk but absolutely fascinating . The will of wits between the two characters is just stunning and has you questioning if Hayley is right or if Jeff is innocent . It's incredible how the movie has you feeling pity for BOTH of the characters at different times . You're never sure who's right and how it will end up . The acting is superb . I must say Patrick Wilson shocked me . I saw him in " Angels in America " and " Phantom of the Opera " . I thought he was a very handsome man but a bland actor . This movie changed all that . He's just brilliant ! The agony and terror his character goes through seems all too real . This part demands a LOT out of any actor and he pulls it off . Very brave . Page is downright terrifying . Her character is ( obviously ) unstable and you're never sure what she'll do next . Again . . . a very difficult role but she pulls it off . Also the direction is great . Everything is done in closeups of the actors faces . At first it annoyed me - - then I realized it works in the movies favor giving it a very claustrophobic , uneasy feeling . This is not for everybody . It's grim and explicit ( in terms of dialogue ) and I'm sure there are moments which might have some guys bolting for the exits . I found it unsettling and fascinating . If you can handle the subject matter I strongly recommend this . A 10 .
Fascinating , exhilarating	Documentary about a late 1960s-early 1970s San Francisco theatre group called the Cockettes . They all lived together in a commune and were quite a mix . . . gay , straight , bi , men , women . They all wore incredible , colorful costumes ( most of the guys were in drag ) and put on musicals that were very mean , vicious , explicitally sexual . . . and hilarious ! This is a truly incredible movie about an unjustly forgotten group . The movie includes some footage of the actual stage shows they put on along with interviews of the surviving cast members . It gives a view of the 1960s in San Francisco that I've never seen . Just absorbing from the word go . A must see ! Highlight - - their parody of Tricia Nixon's wedding is hysterical . See it ! ! ! ! !
A true Hollywood horror story	Hack screenwriter Joe Gillis ( William Holden ) accidentally falls in with faded screen legend Norma Desmond ( Gloria Swanson ) . She lives in a crumbling old mansion with her butler Max ( Erich von Stroheim ) . She refuses to believe that she's no longer remembered and will never make another movie . She gets Gillis to stay with her and rewrite " Salome " which she thinks will be her comeback . Gillis has no other choice and things slowly get out of hand . A VERY cynical view of Hollywood - - especially for 1950 . It shows what Hollywood does to people like Norma - - it makes them stars , tells them that they're great and dump them coldly when they're no longer needed . It also takes swipes at directors , agents , screenwriters , even entire studios ! It has a tight quick script , is appropriately filmed in gloomy black and white and is masterfully directed by Billy Wilder . Everybody thought this was a bad idea when it was being made . It was believed to be too cold and vicious for the public . Also Holden was warned it would ruin his career by playing a younger man kept by an older woman . But it turned out great and is now rightfully considered a classic . The acting is almost all good . I never thought Nancy Olson was that good . Her character is too pure and sweet to be believable . Everybody else is right on target though . Holden is just great in his role . You see the pity , anger and helplessness on his face when he realizes Norma is falling in love with him - - and he's trapped . von Stroheim was equally good as Max who encourages Norma's delusions . Swanson however is just magnificent ! She has a very showy role and could have overplayed it - - but she doesn't . She's mad for sure - - but you only see it peeking through every once in a while . When she loses it completely at the end it's frightening . If she had played it like that all through the movie it never would have worked . How she lost the Oscar that year to Judy Holliday for " Born Yesterday " is beyond me . This is a must see and a true Hollywood classic but VERY cold and cynical . A 10 all the way . " I am big - - it's the pictures that got small " . " All right Mr . deMille - - I'm ready for my closeup " .
Romantic , intelligent , colorful , adult movie	Lesley Ann Warren owns a bar in LA . She has the habit of sleeping around with almost any man - - she's just looking for love . Genevieve Bujold plays a radio relationship talker , Dr . Love . She has severe issues herself with love and sex . Keith Carradine is a drifter who enters their lives . . . and things go barreling out of control . Very strange but great movie . It's shot mostly at night in beautiful film noirish settings ( look at all the smoke in the bar and at a card game ) . It's also one of the most romantic films I've ever seen . There's a virtually nonstop score by Teddy Pendergrass - - soft romantic songs that perfectly set the mood . All the dialogue is about love , sex and relationships but on a very adult , intelligent level . It's full of great lines and sharp insights . It all leads up to a happy ending ( sort of ) . The cast is just excellent . Warren is fascinating - - sexy and beautiful but deeply damaged . She shows it through her face and expressions extremely well . Carradine plays the whole role with a blank face - - but that fits his character ( a compulsive lair ) . He is so many things to himself and everybody else that he has no identity . Best of all is Bujold in a very difficult role - - she has the play a sex radio therapist who is perfectly in control and a woman who has NO control over her life and loves . Everything about her ( especially her voice ) changes between the characters and you always see both inside her at the same time . She also has a few monologues that are fascinating and funny at the same time . Rae Dawn Chong is pretty good in a supporting role - - love her apartment ( check out the posters on the wall ) . Patrick Bauchau is pretty bad in another supporting role - - but not enough to destroy the movie . Direction by Alan Rudolph is great . He bathes many scenes in red lights and I LOVE how the camera moves back and forth during a conversation between Bujold and Carradine . He also wrote the great script . One minor complaint - - Bujold has a few short , dark fantasies which are never explained . What was all that about ? This was a big art house hit back in 1984 and deservedly received a cult following . But it seems to have disappeared since then ( the DVD was released with no fanfare at all ) . Still it's well worth seeing .
Touching and powerful drama	Brandon Theis ( Gregory Harrison ) and Nick Stark ( Eric Roberts ) have been lovers for years . Then Nick is diagnosed with HIV . Brandon promises to not leave him - - - but eventually does . He can't handle The HIV . A year later Nick is told he will die very soon of lesions in the brain . Rather than slowly become a vegetable and wither away , Nick decides to commit suicide . He invites all of his friends to a 2 day party - - at the end , he'll take the pills and die . Brandon finds out and attends the party . But does Nick want him there and will Nick be able to forgive him before he goes ? Strong , powerful movie . I saw it in a theatre in 1996 and cried my eyes out . I saw it 2 years later with a friend and we BOTH cried our eyes out ! Saw it again tonight - - cried again . This drama is harrowing at times and brings about questions about love , death with dignity , suicide , HIV . . . etc etc . But it never gets too maudlin and is always fascinating . Roberts is just superb as Nick . Strong , handsome , refusing to wither away . He also approaches his HIV condition with strength and humor - - as he should . Lee Grant is ( sadly ) wasted as his mother . Harrison is so-so as his boyfriend . Usually he's sort of stone-faced but there were a few moments that the looks on his face made me break down . There's one scene of him and Roberts just looking at each other across the room - - you can see the love , fear and hatred in their faces - - it's just great . And Harrison really delivers during the last 30 minutes of the movie . There's a huge cast in this movie - - Margaret Cho ( hilarious ) ; Marlee Matlin ( wasted ) ; Olivia Newton-John ( just great ) ; Bronson Pinchot ( overdoing the bitchiness a bit ) ; Bruce Davison ; Roddy McDowall . There's the problem - - there are too MANY characters ! I'm still not sure who McDowell was and Sally Kellerman shows up looking great but - - who is she ? We're never told . Also , the party scenes are scattershot - - the camera seems to linger around catching certain characters and snatches of their conversations . I also have a hard time believing that anyone has this many friends and they all keep quiet about him committing suicide . Still - - problems aside this works . I think this film hit too close for director / writer Randal Kleiser . Supposedly he went through the same things with his lover . When this movie was released he couldn't promote it . It came ( and went ) very quickly . That's really a shame . It's a strong , powerful movie that should be seen by everybody . And Roberts gives out one of his best performances . The scene when him and Harrison kiss is heart-breaking . Well worth catching - - an excellent drama . Just bring plenty of tissues - - you'll need them !
Grim , powerful	A young girl ( Lana Turner in her first role ) is killed in a small Southern town . A Northener , Robert Hale ( Edward norris ) is accused of it . . . but is he guilty ? It doesn't seem to matter because everybody uses his accusation for their own gain . Fast moving , still relevant ( sadly ) look at prejudice , gossip , mob rule and media manipulation . Occasionally the characters give out unmotivated speeches ( especially Hale's wife ) , but the movie is very well-written and acted with Claude Rain chewing the scenery again and again . A must see . . . don't miss this one !
Very of its time but still wonderful	Harold ( Bud Cort ) is in his 20s . He's always depressed , has no friends and , for fun , attends funerals . At one he meets Maude ( Ruth Gordon ) who's almost 80 . She loves life and she brings Harold out of his shell . They quickly fall in love . A deserved cult film . This ( understandably ) bombed as a mainstream movie ( it was considered too dark ) but was a big hit when it started playing the midnight movie circuit in the 1970s . This is VERY 70s in terms of style , music ( Cat Stevens ) and its general laid-back attitude but it still works wonderfully . I never found Cort that good ( he's TOO blank-faced ) but Gordon brings the movie to life . She sparks every scene she's in - - she seems to be having a whale of a time in her role . She's helped by a wonderful script that has some of the best observations on life that I've ever heard . My favorite is , " Everybody's allowed to make an a out of themselves once in their life " . The movie is very quiet and laid-back and the black humor ( which is actually pretty mild ) may turn off some viewers . Still I love this movie ! I've seen it multiple times and never get tired of it . A 10 all the way . Also the dates Harold's mother sets up for him are hilarious !
Just great	A recently widowed woman ( Elizabeth Perkins ) tries to cope with the help of her baby sister ( Gwyneth Paltrow ) , ex-stepmother ( Kathleen Turner ) and best friend ( Whoppi Goldberg ) . Talky but fascinating . All the actresses give great performances with Perkins getting top honors - - she's just fantastic in a difficult role . All the characters come across as believable and interesting . The script is great too - - they talk and act like real people . Nice soundtrack too . Some may deride this as a " chick flick " , but I'm a guy and I loved it ! Two ( minor ) quibbles - - Jon Bon Jovi is pretty bad as a painter . He's unattractive , not in shape and pretty wooden . It's no surprise his acting career has gone nowhere . And the ending at the cemetery seemed a little overdone but it still works . But , like I said , these are minor complaints . Well worth seeing .
Just great	A sequel to the 1995 film " Before Sunrise " . Jesse ( Ethan Hawke ) and Celine ( Julie Delpy ) meet 9 years after their initial meeting . They've changed - - originally they were in their 20s and full of idealism . Now they're in their 30s - - and their lives have changed in ways they didn't predict . Like the first movie they walk around Paris this time and talk about love , life , reality , what might have been - - and it's all fascinating . Like the first film this is basically a character study and ( like the first ) just incredible . It's like catching up with old friends after 9 years apart ! They've aged a lot - - Hawke looks TERRIBLE but Delpy looks OK - - and life has thrown both a few hard knocks but hearing how they survived and what they went through is just incredible . This is NOT for everybody ( four people walked out when I went to see it ) but , for people who can deal with nonstop talk for 80 minutes it is just great . Every single line rings true and is delivered full force by Hawke and Delpy . The acting varies - - Hawke is good ( but he smiles WAY too much ) - - Delpy is just superb all the way through . This is easily one of the best films of 2004 . Highly recommended .
Offbeat and very creepy	Spooky film about a young woman getting involved with a group of devil worshippers in NYC . In terms of subject matter this is ahead of its time - - it was probably the first film to deal seriously with cults . The film also is the film debut of Kim Hunter ( later to win an Oscar for " A Streetcar Named Desire " ) and has an early performance by Hugh Beaumont ( later on " Father Knows Best " ) . Also Tom Conway was in this and two other top horror films of the 40s - - " I Walked With A Zombie " and " Cat People " . This is one of the very low-budget horror films that producer Val Lewton made for RKO in the 1940s . He was given only " B " actors to work with and zero money , but he turned in some true classics . He used darkness and shadow very effectively making some of the creepiest-looking sets on film . Also he NEVER showed anything explicitly - - he always kept the monsters or violence off screen and just suggested at it . It works beautifully . This movie is the least known of all of them ( probably because of the subject matter ) , but it's probably the best one . The plot and themes are handled matter-of-factly and the sets are truly eerie . The performances are all low-key perfectly fitting the script . Even the obligatory love story shoehorned in works . There's also a VERY bizarre shower sequence and a grim ending . Definitely worth seeing . . . a must for horror fans . A 10 all the way !
Just superb	Biopic of Dr . Kinsey ( played by Liam Neeson ) who , in the 1950s , wrote two groundbreaking books on male and female sexuality . The books were met with shock back then and the movie chronicles how Kinsey got his material , deals with the responses and how his research absorbs his life and basically starts to kill him . Totally absorbing from start to finish . The entire cast is excellent - - its one of those rare movies where NOBODY is bad ! Even Chris O'Donnell ( who is usually handsome and annoyingly bland ) is good ! Standouts are Neeson , Laura Linney as his wife , Peter Sarsgaard as one of Kinsey's helpers and Lynn Redgrave who only has a short part at the end but is just stunning . This movie pulls no punches - - the dialogue is very sexually frank and graphic . Also there are pretty explicit sexual scenes and Sarsgaard has full frontal nudity at one point . Writer and director Bill Condon deserves credit for not pulling back once . Also the movie looks just beautiful . This is not for people who are offended by graphic material and definitely not for children ( they wouldn't be shocked just bored ) . It is an adult film made for intelligent , open-minded people and gives us a look at what the 1950s were like in terms of sexual material and how Kinsey was a pioneer in the field of sexual behavior . One minor complaint - - the movie ends without telling us when Kinsey passed away and if he ever got his third book published . Exceptional adult film . I give it a 10 !
Fun gay screwball comedy	Bob ( Alexis Arquette ) and Brendan ( Christian Maelen ) were college roommates who are both gay and attracted to each other but never came out while in school . Years later they meet at a reunion where a straight friend of theirs is getting married . Bob has a boyfriend - - hunky Sterling ( Tuc Watkins ) but still has feelings for Brendan . And Brendan still wants Bob . . . I caught this back in 1997 at a small independent theatre . I loved it so much I went back to see it again the same week ( something I never do ) . The picture was very low budget - - and it shows . The threadbare sets are a distraction . Arquette said the production kept running out of money . Also the cast mostly consisted of unknowns . Still this has a good script , energetic performances and complications spinning out of control . It's also very tame in terms of gay sex - - there's no nudity ( the closest we get is seeing Maelen in his underwear ) and kisses are done off screen ( when Watkins kisses Arquette you hear it but don't see it ) . Usually that makes me angry but this was made to appeal to all audiences . A fun light-hearted movie . Well worth seeing . Also interesting to see Marni Nixon on screen and not dubbing somebody's singing voice !
One of the best horror comedies ever	Dracula ( Bela Lugosi ) wants to transfer the brain of Wilbur ( Lou Costello ) into Frankenstein ( Glenn Strange ) but Lawrence Talbot , the Wolf Man ( Lon Chaney ) , is out to stop him . This isn't as bad as the title suggests . By the time this was made in 1948 the Universal monster movies were dying . . . and so were Abbott & Costello's movies . So Universal decided to combine them and give them a big send-off . This is ( obviously ) a big-budget production with great special effects ( Lugosi turning into a bat ) and settings ( LOVE the castle on the island ) . They also got Chaney and Lugosi to recreate their most famous roles - - only Boris Karloff refused to play Frankenstein . The best thing about this movie is they DON'T make fun of the monsters - - they're all played straight and treated with respect . Abbott & Costello are there to provide the comedy and they do just great . The script was full of hilarious routines and one-liners that they pull off . Also there's a GREAT music score and it's very well-directed too . Acting is good all around . Abbott & Costello by that point had been together many years and worked well together . Lugosi is obviously enjoying playing Dracula again - - and he's just great . Chaney's performance is routine but he pulls of some lines that might have sounded silly otherwise . Also beautiful Jane Randolph is good in a supporting role . And listen for Vincent Price's voice at the end ! A great horror / comedy WELL worth seeing . I give this a 10 .
Just great	Superb comedy / drama about a theatrical boarding house and its tenants ( all women ) focusing primarily on Katherine Hepburn and Ginger Rogers . A once in a lifetime cast , all of them in top form . The movie moves VERY quickly with non-stop wisecracks flying across the screen and a very depressing turn at the end . Also , there's no sappy romance subplot - very unusual for a 1930s film . The interplay between Rogers and Hepburn is incredible - - they're both holding their own against each other . Nominated for 7 Academy Awards ( including Best Picture and Best Supporting Actress - - Andrea Leeds ) . A must-see . " The calla lillies are in bloom . . . "
Excellent comedy mystery	Mysterious Lionel Twain ( Truman Capote ) invites five of the world's greatest detectives to his huge estate on a dark and stormy night ( of course ) . All the detectives are parodies of famous literary characters : Maggie Smith and David Niven are doing Nick and Nora Charles ; Peter Sellers is doing Charlie Chan ; James Coco is spoofing Hercule Poirot ; Peter Falk does Sam Spade and Elsa Lancaster does Jessica Marple . Also add a blind butler ( Alec Guinness ) , a mute and deaf maid ( Nancy Walker ) and others - - throw in a murder and set things going . Hilarious Neil Simon movie . The movie looks just great and there's non-stop one liners - - almost every single one is great ! The cast is obviously enjoying themselves ( especially Guinness and Smith ) and the mystery itself is very interesting and complex . It all ends very strangely ( I can honestly say I never got the VERY end ) but it moves quick , is consistently entertaining and there are plenty of in joke references for mystery film buffs . A great film - - highly recommended . A definite 10 .
Gory , funny - - - a GREAT horror film for horror fans	This review is based on the unrated version . A bunch of people are in a bar in the middle of nowhere . They're all introduced by their stereotypes ( the film does a freeze frame on their faces ) - - the jackass , the Harley mom , the grandma , the kid , the cripple etc . etc . They also list their life expectancies . Then creatures attack - - and the film kicks into high gear . Characters who you expect to live are killed , body parts and blood go flying ( in the unrated version ) and there's nonstop humor - - most of it black but pretty funny . Basically this is a film made by horror fans for horror fans . They give you the expected characters then toss all your expectations out the window . A big strong handsome guy appears ( he's called " The Hero " ) and is killed off almost instantly ! Also the story has strong intelligent female characters , NO gratuitous nude scenes ( a plus in my book ) and sets up scare scenes that - - in an amusing way - - never have a payoff . It's all played totally straight with the actors going all out ( Balthazar Getty especially is having fun ) . There is some strong upsetting gore and killings but this IS a horror film . Basiaclly this is funny , fast-moving , well-acted and EXTREMELY gory . Do NOT see this film if you have trouble with gore . But , for horror fans , this is a must-see . I give it a 10 .
Just great	Funny , absorbing and smart movie about a no-budget film and the people trying to make it . The movie plays around with reality and dreams without getting too obscure or serious . It's well-done , well-acted ( one of those rare movies where the entire cast is great ) , very funny and very smart . Naturally , this bombed . . . it was TOO intelligent for mainstream audiences and how do you market a film like this . But it plays on IFC all the time and it's basically one of the best films of its year and one of the best on the art of films and filmmaking . If you even slightly like movies , you have to see this . Don't miss it !
Powerful but bleak and depressing	A young man in WWI has his arms , legs and face blown off , but he can still think , if not talk . We hear his thoughts while he's in a hospital bed all bandaged up . Most of the movie is flashbacks to who he was and why he was in the war . Dated , very 70s ( the conversation with God played by Donald Sutherland should tell you that ) anti-war movie . . . but , despite everything , it still works incredibly well . The low budget shows , and hurts , at times but this film still packs a wallop . Good acting , great script but a VERY depressing tone and an incredibly downbeat ( but truthful ) ending . Very upsetting but a definite must-see . Also the opening good-bye sequence involves nudity ( male and female ) . It's cut from some prints so beware .
Exhausting but great	Movie musical takes place in France in 1900 . Teenage tomboy Gigi ( Leslie Caron ) is madly in love with an adult man ( Louis Jourdan ) but he just sees her as a little girl . Her aunt ( Hermione Gingold ) is trying to bring her up to be a proper lady . Jourdan does start to realize Gigi is a woman . . . but doesn't want to marry her . Very colorful and energetic MGM musical - - easily one of the best musicals of the 1950s . The costumes and settings are wonderful ( and won Academy Awards ) and makes you believe that you are in 1900 ! In fact it received nine ( I believe ) Academy Awards - - among them best director and best picture . The songs are great - - there's not really a bad one among them ( although the title song is kind of dull ) . The acting is great too - - Caron is full of life and her transformation from teenager to woman is totally believable . Gingold is great as her aunt and Jourdan is tall and VERY handsome . Also Maurice Chevalier pops up to instruct Jourdan every once in a while . I do have a few minor quibbles - - Chevalier ( who was 70 at the time ) singing " Thank Heaven For Little Girls " while leering at some teenage girls - - I realize this was done in a more innocent era but it comes across as pretty unsettling today . There's totally dreadful back projection when Jourdan and Chevalier are talking ( and singing ) in a carriage . And the RED walls of Gingold's apartment really were getting to me . Also this movie gets too lively at times - - I was exhausted just watching some of the numbers ! Still , this is a lively fun movie . Highly recommended .
Absolutely amazing	In 1963 14 British children , all age 7 but of varying classes , were interviewed about a variety of subjects . Thereafter they were interviewed every seven years . This is the seventh installment . By now only 12 are left ( 2 dropped out ) . This may be deadly boring to some but I found it fascinating - - you see the most recent interviews along with clips from all the previous shows . You literally see these people grow up before your eyes - - you share their struggles , dreams and triumphs . This was originally done to trace something about social classes - - but that seems to have been dropped . There's nothing extraordinary about these people - - they're mostly plain , average men and women just doing their best to get through life . Sounds dull but I was spellbound throughout . I saw 28 , 35 and 42 Up also and , in a strange way , seeing this was like having a class reunion ! You get in touch with people you haven't seen in a number of years and catch up on them . I remember all of these people from the previous episodes and I loved seeing them again and how most have happy content lives . Not for everybody but I couldn't stop watching . This should really be the last one . One woman makes it clear that she won't do another one and all of the participants comment on how the show negatively affected their lives . So maybe it's time to let them go . Not for everybody but I give it a 10 .
Great Val Lewton film	A pressman ( Dennis O'Keefe ) hires a leopard for a publicity stunt for his client ( Jean Brooks ) in New Mexico . The leopard accidentally escapes and a rash of gruesome murders happen that look like the work of the leopard . . . or are they ? Not really a horror film as many believe . It's a murder mystery with horrific touches . It contains two very frightening sequences - - one in which a young girl is locked out of her house while the leopard is after her ; the other is one of the scariest locked in a cemetary after closing sequences I've ever seen . The movie is short ( 59 minutes ) and interesting and one character ( Raoul ) has some of the most beautiful face shots at the end - - hard to explain , you have to see it . The dialogue is intelligent and the characters have depth and you're kept guessing up to the very end what is going on . Well worth catching .
Loved it but WAY too short !	Christopher Lee discusses some of his films and his approach to acting . He covers one of the Draculas ( " Dracula , Prince of Darkness " ) and a few other horror films ( " Devil Rides Out " , " The Wicker Man " ) . But the most interesting parts are about films that aren't that well-known ( like " I , Monster " ) or are from other genres other than horror - - westerns ( " Hannie Caulder " ) , historical ( " Rasputin , the Mad Monk " ) , adventure ( 3 and 4 Muketeers ) , his visit to Saturday Night Live and even a music number from " The Return of Captain Invincible " . I'm giving it a 10 but it's too short ! One hour is hardly enough to cover Mr . Lee's career - - more time should have been spent . Still this is , so far , the only filmed document of some of his career . The DVD version of this contains two amusing music videos he did with someone named Gary Curtis - - " It's Now Or Never " and " She'll Fall For Me " . They're certainly interesting . Lee isn't much of a singer but he's obviously enjoying himself .
Scary	TV news anchorman Howard Beale ( Peter Finch ) is being fired off the UBS network after 11 years on the air . He basically cracks on camera and starts swearing and ranting . He's obviously having a breakdown and his best friend and news director Max Schumacher ( William Holden ) wants to commit him . But the ratings are huge and network execs Diana Christensen ( Faye Dunaway ) and Frank Hackett ( Robert Duvall ) will do anything to keep him on the air - - despite his sanity . Paddy Chayefsky's attack on the TV industry seemed like a wild black comedy / fantasy back in 1976 . Chayefskey was warning us what TV was becoming and doing to society . Over 25 years later virtually everything he shows us has actually happened - - it's very scary to realize how correct he was . Also there's assured direction by Sidney Lumet ( one incredible shot shows Finch raving on TV in the foreground and Duvall in the background ) and an incredible cast . William Holden gives one of his best performances ever - - you see his pain and confusion as he tries to deal with the insanity all around him . Dunaway ( won an Oscar for this ) chews the scenery again and again as a network exec who will do anything for big ratings . Duvall and Ned Beatty explode ( and yell a LOT ) as execs . Beatrice Straight ( also Oscar winning ) gives a fantastic 5 minute performance as Holden's wife ( she won a Best Supporting Actress for being on screen FIVE MINUTES ? ? ? ) . And Finch ( his last role - - he died before he was awarded the Oscar ) goes barreling out of control beautifully . The dialogue is great - - people don't talk that way but who cares when the script is this good ? Great direction , script , acting in a movie years ahead of its time . Spellbinding from start to finish . A definite must-see . Try to see it uncut ( TCM - - bless their hearts - - shows it that way ) . The edited for TV versions are horrible .
If you like Madonna . . .	Technically this isn't a movie . It's just all of Madonna's MTV music videos strung together from the earliest ( 1985 I believe ) to 1990 . If you hate Madonna there's no point in even considering looking at this . But if you're a fan this is a must have collection . The video images are crisp and clear and the sound is nice and strong . Not every video works - - I've NEVER liked " La Isla Bonita " but the highlights outnumber the bad ones . The best are " Borderline " , " Express Yourself " ( some STRONG homoerotic imagery in this one ) , " Oh Father " , " Material Girl " ( her Marilyn Monroe imitation is incredible ) , " Papa Don't Preach " and " Open Your Heart " ( this one is pretty sleazy - - even for Madonna ) . I do have a few complaints . Where's " True Blue " and " Crazy For You " ? And do we REALLY need to see " Vogue " twice ? The video itself is fine but her appearance at the MTV video awards is bewildering and has the WORST lip syncing I've ever seen . Still this is a fun DVD . Recommended .
Disturbing but powerful	A young farm boy ( Emile Hirsch ) is dealing with his mother's death and a father who acts like he doesn't even exist . He also begins to realize he's gay and attracted to another guy . How does he handle all this at once ? This is basically a character study - - very quiet and slow but absolutely fascinating . You really get into this young boy's head and understand the pain he's going through . There are some very disturbing scenes ( a rape and the ending ) but they ARE necessary for the story . Also there's some beautiful photography and great performances by the entire cast . Highly recommended but not for everyone .
A GREAT musical !	Like the previous two posters I think this is one of the most overlooked films of the 1980s . The dialogue with Eddie O'Connell's ( whatever happened to him ? ) thick London accent is a bit hard to understand at first , but the musical numbers are all great ( especially Ray Davies ' number ) and the direction by Temple is truly staggering . Unfortunately , it's not letterboxed on video so , basically , you're only seeing half the movie . I was lucky enough to see it opening week on a big screen in Boston . It blew me away ! Too bad this was never even a cult film - - then maybe it would get a decent video release . Well worth seeing but only on the letterboxed DVD .
I'm REALLY shocked this isn't in IMDb's top movies	Exceptional musical about the gangs - - the Jets ( Americans ) and Sharks ( Puerto Ricans ) battling it out for a small section in the west side on NYC . Tony from the Jets ( Richard Beymer ) falls in love with Puerto Rican Maria ( Natalie Wood ) whose brother Bernardo ( George Chakiris ) belongs to the Sharks . Can their love survive ? You probably know the answer but I won't give it away . An incredible musical - - the songs have become legendary and the dance numbers are easily the most energetic and incredible ones ever caught on the film . The film was ( partially ) shot on location in NYC which helps and the film is full of color and life . Unfortunately there are problems here : Natalie Wood hated Richard Beymer - - and it comes through loud and clear . There's a unbelievable lack of sexual chemistry between them and Wood gives a rare bad performance . Beymer is tall , handsome , muscular - - and a total blank as Tony . The poor guy is trying but Wood's attitude obviously bothered him . Still everything else about the movie is great . I have a few minor quibbles : How did Tony know where Maria's apartment was ? ; " I Feel Pretty " is actually hilarious - - check out Wood's " dancing " ; the " Cool " number is great to look at but brings the movie to a screeching halt . But everything else works . Chakiris and Rita Moreno are just fantastic as Bernardo and Anita - - their dancing and acting is just perfect - - they richly deserved those Academy Awards they won . Russ Tamblyn is also very good as Riff ( leader of the Jets ) and shows some incredible dance moves . And look for John Astin in a hilarious bit at the dance . All the dances and numbers are good and the lip syncing is pulled off by Beymer and Wood pretty well . But the show stopper is " America " - - that number comes right out of the screen at you full force . The lyrics are sanitized from the Broadway but who cares ? It still works . This won 10 Academy Awards - - including Best Picture and Best Director ( s ) . A true classic musical . I've seen it tons of times and I never get tired of it . A must-see . I give it a 10 all the way .
One of the best courtroom dramas ever	A man ( Tyrone Power ) is accused of allegedly murdering a woman . His wife ( Marlene Dietrich ) also believes he did it and testifies against him in court . A powerful , brilliant lawyer ( Charles Laughton ) believes Power is innocent and does his best to prove it . Sounds dull but it's not . I caught this on TV way back in the 1970s . I started watching it casually but very soon was caught up in it . The script is smart and , even though it's over 2 hours , it never feels too long . There are many ingenious twists and turns and an ending that ( I have to admit ) I didn't see coming at all . I've seen it many times since and never tire of it . The acting is great . Power is good in one of his last roles ; Laughton is just superb as the lawyer - - he throws out one liners or insults so casually that it's hard to believe he's just acting . I never found Dietrich that good of an actress - - I hate to admit this , but her accent always made me giggle . However she's great here - - especially at the end . Also Elsa Lanchester is a scream as Laughton's by the book nurse . Her and Laughton had a marriage of " convenience " for many years and their fondness for each other comes through making their verbal fights even funnier . A wonderful , exciting , fun courtroom drama - - one of the best ever made . Well worth catching . I give this a 10 .
Ahead of its time	Harrowing drama of a married woman ( Elizabeth Montgomery ) who is raped twice by the same man . She is treated like a piece of meat in the hospital ( the scene where someone photographs her bruises is unbelievable ) and , in court , they act like she deserved it . I saw this on TV when I was 12 and have never forgotten it . Before this there was never any talk ( on TV at least ) about this subject . Also , back then , rape was considered an act of lust ( ! ! ! ! ) . This haunted me for days after the initial showing . What really got to me was the uncompromising , realistic ending - - TV , at that time , always had pat , happy endings . Not this one . Montgomery was absolutely superb in her role and the rapes were presented tastefully . This movie was a HUGE hit in its first two showings . I believe it was instrumental in changing the publics perception of how rape is a disgusting act of violence and how it can destroy a woman's life . This isn't available in any form that I know of , and that's a shame . It's now 30 years old and deserves a release on DVD . If you can see it , do so . A definite must-see .
Still works after over 70 years !	A bunch of young enthisiastic German schoolboys volunteer for WWI believing it to be a noble and fun thing to do for their country . They quickly find out that war is a living hell . One of the first ( and best ) anti-war films ever made . It has problems - - the sound recording is not that good and the acting is bad - - the guys are either overacting or pretty wooden and there is some howlingly bad dialogue . But it still works . Lewis Milestones ' direction helps . The battle scenes are long , vicious and pretty graphic ( for 1930 ) and he really makes you feel all the pain and agony the soldiers endure . There are many unforgettable scenes : a young man , his eyes shot out , screaming and stumbling in a battlefield ; a young soldier trapped in a crater with a corpse of the enemy , the sequence where the soldiers are being driven mad by nonstop bombing from the enemy and a final scene that packs a real wallop . It's also interesting to see flashes of male nudity ( this was pre-Code ) and Lew Ayres so young and full of life . It's hard to believe such an old film can still work so strongly but this does . I can imagine the impact this had in 1930 . See the full 130 minute version . . . avoid the edited 105 minute one . Good luck finding a clear print with good sound .
No longer timely but still great filmmaking	TV newscaster Kimberly Wells ( Jane Fonda ) and her radical camerman Richard Adams ( Michael Douglas ) are at a nuclear power plant when a serious accident happens . The plants managers play it down but Adams has filmed it all . Wells and Adams try to get it on the air but the corporation that runs the plant prevents it . Plant executive Jack Godell ( Jack Lemmon ) realizes there are serious problems and tests have been falsified . He tries to get executives to believe him - - only they know it . Wells , Adams and Godell find all their lives are in danger . I saw this in a movie theatre in 1979 . I was only 17 and it scared me silly . To make matters worse the Three Mile Island accident happened around this time making the movie all that more real . Seeing it over 20 years later it doesn't scare me but it still is an excellent film - - it works as a mystery , a gripping drama and an expose on the nuclear power industry . Fonda ( with red hair ) has one of her best roles as Wells - - she perfectly conveys her character's growing suspicion and horror when she realizes a nuclear disaster could happen . Lemmon is ( as always ) excellent . He starts out believing in his company and the job and slowly starts to unravel when he starts finding things out . He was rightfully nominated for an Academy Award for this . Douglas is good but he has a small part and is completely overshadowed by Lemmon and Fonda . A really great film - - one of the best of the 70s . Don't miss this one !
Horrifying but fascinating	The film opens with the director talking to the camera and saying he is going to show a story about Brazilain street kids whose families live in poverty and must steal and kill to survive . In fact the main character ( Pixote ) was played by an actual street kid only 11 years old . What follows was one of the most brutal , depressing and horrifying film I've even seen . I saw it about 17 years ago ( on a double bill with " Black Orpheus " ) and have never forgotten it . I don't think I ever want to see it again - - it was just too much . SPOILER AHEAD ! ! ! ! The scene which will not leave me is when Pixote meets a prostitute who has to abort her own fetus . You don't see her do it . . . but you get a quick glance at what she got out . It's almost 20 years later and just recalling that scene upsets me . SPOILER END ! ! ! ! ! The movie gets more brutal as it goes along and ends the only way it can . What's all the more harrowing is stories like this really did happen in Brazil in 1981 . . . and are STILL happening today . A harrowing brutal film . . . but it should be seen if you can handle it . I'm surprised this got an R rating - - I've seen X rated film that are less graphic . A 10 .
Scares me again and again	The plot is simple - - a crazy man hides in a mostly empty sorority house Christmas Eve . He begins to stalk and kill the remaining girls . This sounds like just another slasher thriller , but it's not . For starters , it came out 4 years before " Halloween " started the slasher craze and it's an intelligent , very scary movie - - how many slashers can you say that about ? The film was shot in Canada on a low-budget . With the exception of John Saxon , everybody was basically unknown ( Margot Kidder made this before " Superman " ) . There's no sex , no nudity and very little blood and gore . Still , I've seen this movie at least 8 times and it scares me each and every time . All during the movie , even when the characters are inside , you hear the wind blowing through the soundtrack . It makes you feel the cold and chill the characters feel . Also there are the obscene phone calls the girls in the sorority house are getting - - they're deeply disturbing and the frightening music playing during them makes them worse . A truly scary horror film - - back in 1978 NBC cancelled a showing of the film - - even edited they thought it was too disturbing to air ! That should tell you something . SPOILERSThe most terrifying moments in the movie - - the phone calls ( especially when you hear the killer pleading to be stopped ) ; when Olivia Hussey is grabbed by her hair ; the opening murder and Margot Kidder's murder . Only complaint - - the ending . It was original back in 1974 but it's an overused cliche now . A definite must-see . DON'T see it alone . A commercial bomb when released this has deservedly acquired a cult following .
Fascinating but VERY depressing	Film depicts life in the small Texas town of Anarene in the early 1950s . It follows three high school teenagers - - Sonny Crawford ( Timothy Bottoms ) , Duane Jackson ( Jeff Bridges ) and Jacy Farrow ( Cybill Shepherd ) - - from their senior year to a few years after . Some people said this is like a soap opera . That is true , but it's a GOOD realistic soap opera . The script is just wonderful ( Larry McMurty adapted from his book along with dir . Peter Bogdanovich ) and the characters are like real people . It deals with all three of them coming of age , their first sexual encounters ( all of which are played awkwardly - - as they should ) and dealing with a dying town . It's ( appropriately ) filmed in beautiful black and white - - the cinematography by Robert Surtees is exceptional - - it brings the whole film to life . This would never have worked in color . The acting varies . Bottoms , Bridges and Shepherd are just OK - - but that's understandable . It was one of Bridges ' first films , it was Bottoms ' second and Shepherds ' first ! They were all still learning . Everyone else though is great . Ben Johnson as Sam the Lion is just wonderful and won a Best Supporting Actor for this . Cloris Leachman is heart-breaking in her role and won Best Supporting Actress . Ellen Burstyn has the best lines and is also very good ( and was nominated for Best Supporting Actress also ) as Cybill's mother . And Timothy Bottoms ' brother ( Sam Bottoms ) has a small part as Billy . It works in the films favor - - Sonny and Billy are supposed to be best friends and the affection the two brothers had for each other comes through on the screen . I'm giving this a 10 . It's just great - - I didn't want it to end . But it is VERY depressing . You probably won't notice until the film is over . A must-see . Avoid the commercial TV print - - it's cut to ribbons .
Just great - - better than the overblown 1959 movie	Ben-Hur ( Ramon Novarro ) , a Jew is put into slavery and his family jailed by a childhood friend Messala ( Francis X . Bushman ) , a Roman . However , Ben-Hur escapes , becomes successful and plots his revenge and also searches for his lost mother and sister . This has it all over the better-known 1959 Charlon Heston version . For one thing the ' 59 epic goes on for 3 hours and is very dull in spots . This is only 2 hours . Heston isn't very good in the ' 59 version - - Novarro is just perfect in this one . Like wise with Stephen Boyd and Bushman . Granted , Novarro and Bushman overact at times but that's how all silent movies were done . Also , the battle at sea in this one is superior to the later one and the chariot race sequences are equally good . This one is shot in black & white with some tinted reels and some truly great sequences in early Technicolor . Great score too . Basically though , this one is quicker , better-acted and better-directed . Skip the Heston one and see this . By the way , when is TCM going to release this on DVD ? Waiting for it to show up on the station is annoying .
One of Verhoeven's best	In Holland a gay writer Gerard ( Jeroen Krabbe ) gives a lecture . He stays overnight with a beautiful woman Christine ( Renee Soutendijk ) and has sex with her ( by imagining she's a boy ) . He plans to leave the next day , but gets a look at a picture of Christine's hunky boyfriend Herman ( Thom Hoffman ) and decides to stay to have a try at him . Then things get strange . A big X-rated art house hit in the US in 1983 . Why was it X rated ? Let's see . . . there's strangulation , full frontal male and female nudity , castration , mutilation , simulated sex , a scene in a church with a cross that will shock most people , a gay sex scene in a crypt . . . and it's all a comedy ! ! ! ! ! Paul Verhoeven made this after " Spetters " . " Spetters " was attacked by the critics for it's extreme sexual sequences and denounced as trash . So , Verhoeven filled this film with very obvious symbolism thinking the critics would think it was art and praise it . He was right ! Critics loved the film not realizing that Verhoeven was playing a big joke on them . Still , it's a great film . It's beautifully shot by Jan de Bont ( now a director himself ) and there's so much symbolism and obvious " hidden " layers in the dialogue that you're never bored . All the acting is great - - Krabbe plays a thoroughly despicable character but ( somehow ) has you rooting for him ; Soutendijk is just stunning to look at and plays her part to perfection - - the little smile she gives when Gerard agrees to stay with her is chilling ; Hoffman is extremely handsome with a great body - - he deserves credit for doing the church sequence and going at with Krabbe in the crypt . This is not for people easily offended or the weak of heart , but if you like extreme movies that playfully challenge you ( like me ) this is for you ! A 10 all the way .
Excellent Holmes movie	Sherlock Holmes ( Nicol Williamson ) is deep in the grip of cocaine addiction . His best friend Dr . Watson ( Robert Duvall ) and brother Mycroft Holmes ( Charles Grey ) get him to Vienna to receive treatment for his problem by Dr . Sigmund Freud ( Alan Arkin ) . While there a mystery pops up involving a beautiful red-haired woman ( Vanessa Redgrave ) . . . Just great . I caught this in a revival theatre back in 1979 when it was playing with " Murder By Decree " ( Holmes vs . Jack the Ripper ) . I just loved it - - and it still holds up . The film never takes itself too seriously ( during the opening credits there's a note saying the whole picture is true " only the fact have been made up " ! ) This was beautifully filmed with exquisite costumes and production design . Also director Herbet Ross does a great job - - everything moves at a brisk pace - - he even makes a tennis game look exciting ! It's 2 hours long but I was never bored . The first hour deals with Freud dealing with Holmes ' cocaine addiction - - the second hour the mystery comes in . During the final 30 minutes it turns into an action adventure flick - - but it always stays on track . There's also a lot of amusing visual or verbal references to other Holmes ' adventures - - we even get to see Toby from " Sign of the Four " ! But you don't have to know the references to enjoy them - - this film works so everyone can enjoy it . The story mixes Holmes ' deductive reason with Freud's psychological reasonings in an interesting and very entertaining way . It also explains why Holmes doesn't like women , why he became a detective and why he hates Moriarty . Acting is ( mostly ) good . Williamson is just great as Holmes - - he perfectly captures the detective under the grip of cocaine . . . and the recovery . Duvall is surprisingly bad as Watson - - he seems constrained by the costumes and unsure of how to play the role . Arkin ( a REAL strange choice ) is actually pretty good as Freud sporting a believable accent . Grey is just great in his small role as is Samantha Eggar ( who disappears much too quickly playing Mrs . Watson ) . And it's amusing to see Laurence Olivier play Professor Moriarty ! Redgrave is hardly in this but she's amusing . Basically one of the best Sherlock Holmes pictures ever ! I heard this didn't do well at the box office . . . that's a shame . It is out on DVD but Universal released it in a hideous full frame transfer ( which makes no sense ) that completely destroys the film . Try to see it on TCM where it's shown letter-boxed . A GREAT film - - lots of fun . I give it a 10 .
Depressing but complex and riveting	A murder mystery set in 1930s Los Angeles . Jack Nicholson plays a private detective named Jake Gittes . Evelyn Mulwray hires him to discover if her husband is cheating on her . What starts off as a simple cases quickly snowballs into an intricate and complex scheme involving a mysterious and possibly deadly woman ( Faye Dunaway ) and her very rich father Noah Cross ( John Huston ) . I caught this originally at a revival theatre in the mid 1980s . I was fascinated but the downbeat ending depressed me incredibly . I've seen it multiple times since then . I STILL think the ending is not necessary ( screenwriter Robert Towne complained a lot that director Roman Polanski changed his happy ending into a horrifying one ) but I find the entire movie fascinating . It catches the 1930s perfectly down to the clothes , the houses , the cars - - everything . The script is very involved - - you have to pay strict attention or you'll miss some of the many twists . The script deservedly won an Academy Award . The acting is just great - - Nicholson , Dunaway and Huston are just perfect in their roles . It runs over two hours but I was never once bored . The cinematography and music just add to the 1930s mood . Also this was the last film Roman Polanski directed in the USA before leaving to avoid being jailed on rape charges . Beautifically directed , acted and shot . A 10 all the way .
Intelligent and incredibly suspenseful	Drama about two magicians in England in the 1800s - - Robert Angier ( Hugh Jackman ) and Alfred Borden ( Christian Bale ) . They perform together and Angier's wife ( Piper Perabo ) is accidentally killed during an act - - or maybe not . Angier blames Borden - - Borden denies it . They then start competing acts and try to sabotage each other - - and things get deadlier and the stakes higher . This was a box office bomb and that's a shame . It is a little too long and it keeps you guessing - - that's why people probably stayed away . This isn't a movie you can relax with - - you have to pay strict attention to figure out what's going on . The movie has many ingenious twists and turns and constantly keeps pulling the rug out from under you . You always think you know where it's going - - but then it veers off completely in another direction . Some people hate challenging films like this but I was fascinated . The acting is just superb across the board . Jackman and Bale have never been better - - they come tearing out of the movie at you . Even the supporting roles are well done . Michael Caine ( playing sort of a Greek chorus ) pops up and Rebecca Hall and Scarlett Johansson are also very strong . And wait till you see David Bowie as Tesla ! Also the direction by Christopher Nolan just adds to the film immensely . He was one of the co-writers so he knows what he wants . Ingenious drama - - beautifully acted and directed and full of twists and turns . One of the best movies of 2006 . A definite must-see !
Powerful , moving	Excellent cable movie dealing with the horrendous murder of gay Matthew Shepard in 1998 in Laramie , Wyoming . A theatre group went to the town and interviewed the citizens and came back with 400 hours of material . This became a play with actors playing the towns citizens . It's now been done as an HBO film with a top-notch cast playing the citizens . There are also reenactments of the trial of the two murderers and their convictions . This is definetely a strange film but totally fascinating with many powerful moments . The scene where Matthew Shepard's father addresses one of the killers of his son is gut-wrenching - - it's hard to believe it's just an actor reading dialogue . Previous posters have complained about not using the real townspeople talking . I don't think that's a valid argument - - many of these people probably wouldn't want to appear on film and would they really want to go through recreations of the trial and the protests outside ? Also , there's not one bad acting job from anybody in the cast but special honors go to Camryn Manheim , Christina Ricci and Amy Madigan . A powerful , painful film . A definite must-see for everybody .
Superb documentary	Oscar-winning documentary on the 3 day long concert back in 1969 . Despite more people showing up than was expected and running out of food , water and medical supplies and dealing with a torrential downpour everything went fine . There was no rioting , no violence . . . just people helping each other out . The film beautifully captures all this . It contains interviews with the kids attending the concert ( their views are absolutely incredible ) , people in the surrounding town , the police , media . . . all viewpoints are presented . Everything that comes through is tolerance , peace and love . The musical acts are varied - - you'll love some and hate others . For me the definite highlights were Joan Baez ; the Who ; Sha-Na-Na ; Joe Cocker ; Crosby Stills & Nash ; John Sebastian ; Country Joe McDonald ; Sly and the Family Stone and Jimi Hendrix . Also the sound is great and there is superb editing during the sequences with excellent use of multiple screens . I saw the directors cut with adds 40 minutes of music ( bringing the running time up to 3 hours and 40 minutes ) . They add Canned Heat , Jefferson Airplane , Janis Joplin and another number by Hendrix . Except for the Joplin footage none of it is really good or needed . The original 3 hour cut is fine . Warning - - there's lots of swearing , nudity , sex and drug taking . It didn't bother me , but it might bother others - - originally this got an X rating because of it ! A great one of a kind movie . Don't miss it !
In it's own way , a horror classic	Two orphaned boys , Mike ( Michael Baldwin ) and Jody ( Bill Thornbury ) notice some strange things happening at Morningside Mortuary . Bodies are disappearing from coffins ; a lady in lavender has sex with men in the graveyard and then stabs them to death ; little midgets in brown cloaks ( making sounds like lions ) are roaming about and there's a flying silver orb with spikes that embeds itself in people's heads ! And then there's the Tall Man ( Angus Scrimm ) overseeing it all . . . Soon Mike , Jody and their friend Reggie ( Reggie Bannister ) are fighting for their lives . . . The story is pretty thin ( and REALLY out of whack at the end ) , the acting dismal , there's no characterizations or depth and some of the special effects are horrible but . . . this is STILL a classic horror film . It takes a while to get going ( nothing much happens in the first half hour ) , but when it does there's scarcely a letup . Action leaps into high gear , there's some fairly graphic gore ( including the now infamous flying sphere killing ) , there are plenty of scenes guaranteed to make you jump and the music score is very spooky . . . right up there with " Halloween " . Also some of the special effects are impressive ( considering there was no budget ) . Also Michael Baldwin was a VERY attractive man and there's gratuitous male and female nudity . What's even more surprising is Don Coscarelli wrote , produced , directed AND edited this at the age of 24 ! He's never matched it since and all the sequels really suck . . . but this stands alone as a classic . A must-see for all horror fans . Also Scrimm is EXCELLENT ( and damn scary ) as the Tall Man . Trivia : This was awarded an X rating FOUR TIMES because of the sphere killing . . . Coscarelli went all the way to the head of the ratings board who overturned it and gave it an R - - a rare occurrence that the ratings board kept in a gore scene !
Exceptional but NOT a horror film	A police sergeant ( Edward Woodward ) goes to a remote island near Scotland hearing that a young girl is missing . When he gets there it seems no one has ever heard of her . . . and most say she never existed . He continues to search and the mystery gets deeper and deeper leading up to a very disturbing conclusion . I saw this during it's theatrical reissue in 1980 - - it was the cut 88 minute version . I was disappointed . It was advertised as a horror film and the edited version leaves gaping plot holes . I just saw the extended version on the DVD and loved it ! For one thing , as I said , it is NOT a horror film . I went in expecting that and didn't get it . It's actually a thriller with strong religious and sexual overtures . There's WAY too much to get into about the religious views in this film , and the sexual element is STRONG ! There's a whole circle of nude young women dancing around a fire , and an exceptional sequence in which a very erotic song is sung by a nude Britt Ekland . The mystery itself is fascinating but I really got caught up in the religious and social aspects presented in this film . Credit writer Anthony Shaffer for his script . Also the acting is great on all counts . Woodward deserves credit for playing such an unlikable character - - and STILL getting you to sympathize with him ! Also Hammer stars Christopher Lee and Ingrid Pitt ( whose part is brutally reduced in the short version ) are just great ! For one thing it's interesting to see them playing fairly " normal " people ( instead of vampires ) and they give out excellent performances . Lee especially is enjoying himself - - he did the film for free ! To this day he said it's his best movie - - he's right . An excellent , haunting thriller but it might be too much for some people . There's next to no blood or violence , but I do know some people who just found the ending a bit too much to handle . Still , it's a definite must-see . A deserved cult classic .
A masterpiece	A very strange movie but incredible . A young man ( Kyle MacLaclan ) comes home to help care for his sick father . Soon he's in love with a detective's daughter ( Laura Dern ) and mixed up in a mystery involving Dorothy Valdes ( Isabella Rossellinni ) and psycho Frank Booth ( Dennis Hopper ) . Probably David Lynch's best film . The story has gaps in logic , but it's secondary to some incredible wide screen imagery ( this has to be seen letter-boxed . . . no two ways about it ) . Lynch has said in interviews that he thinks of the image first then works it into the movie . You can tell . . . things that make no sense at first gradually make sense later on . This movie also demands multiple viewings . . . I was so shocked the first time I saw it , I couldn't concentrate on it . . . it took THREE viewings to finally get it . As to what the movie is about . . . it depends who you ask . Some people said it's the Hardy Boys on drugs . . . others say it's about a boy's sexual awakening . . . others see it as good vs . evil . . . each one is a valid statement ! To me , that's a true art film . . . one that means multiple things all at once . The performances are top-notch . This film made MacLachlan . . . him and Laura Dern work well together and give nice low-key performances . Dern is just great . . . but she does look pretty silly when she tries to cry . Rossellinni is nowhere near as good as her mother ( Ingrid Bergman ) was , but she deserves credit for taking such a risky role . She's pretty good . Hopper is WAYYYYYYY over the top as Booth . . . he's both horrifying and hilarious . . . a great performance . And let's not forget Dean Stockwell as " suave Ben " . His " performance " of " In Dreams " is a definite highlight . Be warned - - the film is very extreme . There's explicit violence , plenty of nudity , sex and tons of profanity . Not for the squeamish . Still , I loved it from beginning to end . One of my favorite films of all time .
